-- Congress Should Avoid Government Budget Fight, Reid Says
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-26T18:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/congress-should-avoid-government-budget-fight-reid-says.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
said he wants to pass a stopgap funding measure to fund U.S.
government operations through the beginning of 2013.  “My preference is to do something that would alleviate
this spending issue,” the Nevada Democrat told reporters today.
He said conversations were taking place “at a high level in the
House and Senate” over how to fund the government.  The Democratic-led Senate and Republican-led House face the
prospect of extending government funding with a stopgap measure,
known as a continuing resolution, because Congress hasn’t agreed
on any spending bills for the 2013 fiscal year that starts Oct.
1.  In the House, a group of Republicans is calling for Speaker
 John Boehner  to schedule a vote next week to fund federal
government operations through March, while others want a shorter
measure.  Reid didn’t specify the length of a stopgap measure he
would favor.  Representative  Joe Walsh  of  Illinois  said today that he
supports a six-month funding measure because it would deny
Democrats who control the Senate “a cudgel” to use against
Republicans in a post-election, lame-duck session. Walsh is
among the Republicans who asked Boehner to schedule a vote next
week.  “Just move it beyond the lame duck, move it into the next
administration,” Walsh, a freshman, said at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast. “It would certainly be my hope, and I
think the hope of a lot of House conservatives, that we avoid
the danger of a lame-duck session.”  Lower Spending  Walsh said that to pass a funding measure now, he and other
Tea Party-backed Republicans would be willing to drop demands
for a spending level lower than the $1.05 trillion in the 2011
law that raised the federal debt ceiling.  Representative Tim Huelskamp, a freshman Republican from
 Kansas , said some  House Republicans  are willing to surrender
their long-standing demands for an additional $19 billion in
discretionary spending cuts.  “We can stomach that,” Huelskamp said. “Let’s get the
budget done for six months and then see what happens in the
election. To have a lame-duck Congress and, potentially, a lame-
duck president deciding that -- I think most Americans would say
‘No.’”  A budget blueprint that House Republicans passed earlier
this year calls for an additional $19 billion in discretionary
spending cuts, complicating efforts to complete the annual
spending bills.  No Decisions  No final decisions have been made about when the House will
consider a stopgap funding bill or the length of a funding
measure, Boehner told reporters today.  “We’re considering lots of things,” the Ohio Republican
said.  South Carolina Senator  Jim DeMint , a co-founder of the
Senate’s Tea Party caucus, said yesterday that it would be “an
extreme failure of leadership” if the House doesn’t pass a six-
month spending bill next week.  “The levels are not as important now,” DeMint said. He
said it was more important to deprive Senate Democrats of
leverage in using a stopgap funding bill during the lame-duck
session as a vehicle for “a lot of other bad legislation.”  Not all Republicans support a stopgap plan. Some members of
the House Appropriations Committee, which has crafted
legislation establishing budget levels for individual programs,
oppose putting the government on autopilot for half of its
fiscal year.  Appropriations Cycle  “I don’t think agencies like it and we don’t like it,”
said Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican and
chairman of the spending subcommittee that oversees farm
programs. Kingston prefers a measure lasting until December and
said an extension through March “cuts into next year’s
appropriations cycle.”  “If you have a long, lingering, leftover budget issue then
that slows everything up,” he said.  Walsh said today that acting now would let lawmakers try to
bridge a partisan divide over extending the George W. Bush-era
tax cuts, which expire Dec. 31, before the November election.  “If that means that even people like me, who are in a
pretty contested race, have to work in September and October and
some of the senators in tough races have to work in September
and October, so be it,” he said.  Tax Cuts  The House will vote next week on legislation that would
extend the expiring tax cuts for all income levels for one year,
and on a measure that would set up a process for overhauling the
 tax code  in 2013. Boehner said today the House will also vote on
a Democratic tax-cut proposal.  “I don’t know that there’s a consensus among House
Republicans to extend them for a year,” Walsh said, adding that
he and other Republican lawmakers are “pretty tired” of
yearlong extensions of  tax policy .  The tax provisions are part of the $607 billion so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to take effect in January 2013. If Congress doesn’t
act, the combination of those fiscal changes would probably push
the  U.S. economy  into a recession, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Walsh said he would be “surprised” if lawmakers don’t
strike a deal to avert the automatic cuts.  Farm Programs  Also, rather than pass a multiyear bill setting farm
policy, Walsh said the House probably will pass a one-year
extension before farm programs expire Sept. 30.  “That seems to be where people are lining up,” he said.  The five-year farm bill that the Senate passed in June has
been criticized by House Republicans who say it includes too
much money for  food stamps  and doesn’t do enough to overhaul
farm policy.  Walsh said he would support including emergency assistance
for farmers affected by this year’s drought in the stopgap
funding measure he wants the House to take up next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  