-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Draghi Signals Commitment to Euro
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-26T21:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-draghi-signals-commitment-to-euro.html
A gauge of U.S. speculative-grade
corporate debt risk fell the most in almost a month after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers
will do whatever is necessary to preserve the euro.  The Markit CDX North America High Yield Index, a credit-
default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on high-
yield debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, declined 18.2
basis points, the biggest drop since June 29, to a mid-price of
594.7 basis points at 4:43 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts tied to  The New York Times Co. (NYT) ,
dropped the most since October and those on  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  fell
the most since January.  Record Spanish bond yields this week and  Greece ’s struggle
to meet deficit reduction targets tied to its bailout have
stoked investor concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening
and may hinder companies’ ability to repay borrowings. Draghi
said today in a speech in  London  that it’s within the mandate of
the central bank to temper the “premia” on  government bonds 
when they hinder monetary policy.  “To really solve the problem, you’ve got to have some
pretty significant action,” Edward Meigs, a high-yield
portfolio manager at First Eagle Investment Management LLC, said
in a telephone interview. “There are some pretty deep problems
that need to be addressed and that, we really haven’t seen
yet.”  The  yield  on Spanish 10-year notes fell 45 basis points to
6.93 percent, the lowest level this week, at 12:04 p.m. in New
York, Bloomberg data show.  Claims Drop  The number of Americans filing first-time claims for
 unemployment benefits  dropped more than forecast last week,
decreasing by 35,000 to 353,000, Labor Department figures showed
today. Economists had called for a decline to 380,000, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A separate report from the Commerce Department showed
orders for U.S. durable goods rose a more-than-forecast 1.6
percent in June, the second monthly gain. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.3 percent
climb.  The default premium on the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index decreased 4.2 basis points, the biggest
drop since June 29, to 111.3 basis points at 4:30 p.m. in New
York, Bloomberg prices show. The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of
125 companies with investment-grade ratings declined 9 basis
points to 170 basis points.  Digital Subscriptions  Credit-default swaps on Times Co., the newspaper publishing
company, fell 27.4 basis points to 279.9 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show, after the company said digital subscriptions to the
 New York  Times and International Herald Tribune rose 81 percent
in the second quarter from the year-earlier period and 12
percent from the first quarter. That’s the biggest drop since
the contracts fell 43 basis points on Oct. 27.  PulteGroup, the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, said
today second-quarter net income was $42.4 million, or 11 cents a
share, beating the average estimate of 6 cents a share called
for by 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of PulteGroup
fell 18.4 basis points, the biggest drop since January, to a
mid-price of 322.9 basis points, Bloomberg data show.  “There’s a lot of positive buzz about homebuilders,”
Meigs said. “A lot of sort of less-bad earnings. That’s
certainly being construed as a positive.”  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  