-- Cuomo’s Con Ed Deal Adds More Fuel to Presidential Speculation
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-07-26T22:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/cuomo-s-con-ed-deal-adds-more-fuel-to-presidential-speculation.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s role in
ending a two-week lockout of utility workers in  New York City 
adds to a list of accomplishments that may bolster his image as
a potential presidential candidate.  Cuomo had stayed out of the contract dispute between
Consolidated Edison Inc. and Local 1-2 of Utility Workers Union
of America until yesterday, when he jumped in to get more than
8,000 workers back in the field to prepare for a band of
thunderstorms targeting the biggest U.S. city. Within a few
hours, a deal was struck, ending a lockout that started June 30.  “When people are far apart, at times you need somebody who
has that personality and that charisma that the governor has,”
said Harry Farrell, president of the union chapter. “That was
the key.”  The victory is the latest for Cuomo, a 54-year-old
Democrat, who has been riding approval ratings near 70 percent
since he took office in January 2011. He pushed through a
divided Legislature a law legalizing same-sex marriage, a
pension overhaul that raised the  retirement age  to 63 from 62
and the first consecutive on-time budgets since 2006.  “He’s developing a reputation of being effective at
politics and getting things done, in contrast to what’s
happening at the national level,” said  Robert Shapiro , a
political-science professor at  Columbia University  in New York.
“It’s a boost to his stature as governor and beyond, and to the
idea of him running for president.”  War Chest  Cuomo, who has amassed $19.3 million for his 2014 re-
election campaign, according to campaign filings, is planning a
policy summit next month that will probably include veterans of
President  Bill Clinton ’s administration, where Cuomo served as
secretary of Housing and Urban Development, said  Josh Vlasto ,
the governor’s spokesman.  “We will have state and national experts because we want
the best information, advice and exchange of ideas to solve
these complex problems facing New York,” Vlasto said in an e-
mailed statement. “It has absolutely nothing to do with any
other office than governor of the State of New York. Sometimes a
policy forum is just a policy forum.”  A poll released July 25 by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,
Connecticut, found that Cuomo still has work to do if he wants
the public to support a bid for the presidency four years from
now. Only 36 percent of New York voters want Cuomo to run for
the White House in 2016, and less than half, 40 percent, said
he’d be good at the job.  Not Ready  By contrast, 61 percent said Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , a former New York senator who battled President  Barack Obama  in 2008 for the Democratic party’s nomination, would make
a good president.  “New Yorkers clearly aren’t ready to talk about Andrew
Cuomo and the White House in the same breath,”  Maurice Carroll ,
director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, said in
a statement.  Cuomo himself has been reluctant to jump into the fray,
saying at an April press conference that talking about political
aspirations only makes his work more difficult.  “All I’m working on is being the best governor I can be,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  