-- Con Ed, Union Reach Agreement as Storm Approaches NYC
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-07-26T20:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/cuomo-says-3-000-con-ed-workers-return-to-prepare-for-storm-1-.html
Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  and its
biggest union reached a contract agreement that ended a 26-day
lockout at  New York ’s largest utility as severe weather
threatened the state.  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  announced the deal, reached after
five hours of talks at his office today, between leaders of Con
Ed and Utility Workers Union of America Local 1-2. The four-year
contract must still be ratified by the union’s 8,500 Con Ed
members, Mike Langford, president of the national union, told
reporters at a press conference today.  Cuomo brought the parties to his New York City office as
severe thunderstorms accompanied by heavy rain, hail and
possible tornadoes are forecast to reach the state. A similar
storm in the mid-Atlantic last month caused 4.3 million
customers to loser power.  “The storm brought us together this morning,” said Cuomo,
who activated the state’s emergency operations center in
preparation for the weather today. “You don’t want a storm
hitting  New York City  without Con Edison at full force. That
changed the tone.”  Con Ed rose 1.5 percent to $64.42 at the close, the biggest
increase since Feb. 24 and its highest price since the shares
started trading in 1980.  The  National Weather Service  predicts a possible derecho
will sweep from New York City through the southern areas of the
state. A derecho has wind gusts of at least 58 miles (93
kilometers) per hour and leaves a swath of damage for a minimum
of 240 miles, according to the storm center’s website.  Worker Lockout  A similar storm that struck last month left 4.3 million
people without power from  New Jersey  to  North Carolina  as it
unleashed winds of as much as 91 miles per hour, as powerful as
a Category 1 hurricane. Twenty-four deaths were linked to the
storm and its aftermath, according to the  Associated Press .  Con Ed locked out workers on July 1 after their contract
expired and used management employees to keep its system
operating. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Kevin Burke
participated directly in talks for the first time today.  The two sides had been unable to agree on wages, health-
care and retirement benefits. The union and the company declined
to provide terms of today’s agreement. Langford said he hoped
for “fast ratification.”  Union workers had picketed Con Ed’s New York City
headquarters and protested outside of Burke’s Upper East Side
home. They started to return to work with the 4 p.m. local time
shift, said  Josh Vlasto , a spokesman for Cuomo.  “The storm did have a silver lining,” said Cuomo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  