-- TD Bank Seeks Additions to $25 Billion U.S. Bet, Johnston Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/td-bank-seeks-additions-to-25-billion-u-s-bet-johnston-says.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  said it will
consider buying assets similar to its purchase of Chrysler
Financial Corp. to bolster U.S. operations amid signs of a
“modest” turnaround in the world’s largest economy.  The $6.3 billion purchase of auto loans from Cerberus
Capital Management LP last year is “a great example of an asset
class that we really like,” Chief Financial Officer Colleen
Johnston said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s  New York 
headquarters. “We’re continuing to think about acquiring assets
and we continue to look.”  Canada ’s second-largest bank is betting on a recovery in
the U.S., which  accounted  for about a quarter of the bank’s
revenue last year. The lender has spent more than $25 billion on
U.S.  acquisitions  since 2004, building a series of branches
that’s bigger than its Canadian network, spanning from  Maine  to
 Florida .  “I think some of the legacy issues that have been plaguing
the U.S. are actually starting to become a bit more positive,”
Johnston said. “You think about tighter credit, you think
about the housing market being relatively weak -- we’re starting
to see some modest recovery in all of those areas.”  The lender is unlikely to stray from the U.S. Northeast,
with branches that offer free coin-counting machines, treats and
water bowls for dogs. The Toronto-based bank said it will become
the third-largest lender by branches in  New York City  in the
next four years by adding about 50 more locations.  U.S. Potential  “We’ve got huge potential in the  United States  if you
think about the major markets of New York, Philadelphia,
 Washington ,  Boston , Miami,” said Johnston, 54. “We think
there’s lots of potential to intensify our presence in these
major markets.”  Toronto-Dominion began its U.S. expansion by buying a stake
in  Portland , Maine-based Banknorth Group Inc. and has made six
additional purchases since then.  “We’ve only been in the U.S. for seven years,” said
Johnston. “We don’t have aspirations to grow the bank on a
national scale. We think this footprint makes sense for us.”  Asset purchases such as Chrysler Financial help to narrow
the gap between Toronto-Dominion’s U.S. deposit base and its
assets. Toronto-Dominion would also consider credit-card
portfolios, Johnston said.  Faster Growth  “We’re still growing our balance sheet at a rate much
faster than U.S. banks,” she said. “So organic growth is still
in the double-digit territory; we’re growing our assets and our
deposits currently by about 10-plus percent.”  Toronto-Dominion forecast profit of C$1.6 billion ($1.57
billion) by 2013 from its U.S. businesses, which include
 consumer banking ,  investment banking  and a stake in TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. The bank had U.S. consumer-banking
profit of C$1.27 billion in 2011.  Johnston, named in March Canada’s CFO of the Year by
Financial Executives International Canada,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and Robert Half International, said
the lender will have to “work hard” to reach the lower end of
a 7 percent to 10 percent profit growth target this year.  The bank said it plans to reach its profit goals by
continuing to slow the rate of expense growth, a strategy
Johnston began last year.  “The reality is that revenue growth is clearly slowing
down,” said Johnston. “What that means is we need to be able
to slow down our rate of expense growth to something in the low
single digits, but still invest for the future.”  Raise Dividend  Toronto-Dominion is expected to increase its quarterly
dividend 4.2 percent to 75 cents a share, according to Bloomberg
Dividend Forecasts. The bank is scheduled to report fiscal
third-quarter results on Aug. 30.  Johnston, a triathlete who  joined  Toronto-Dominion in 2004,
said the bank has “room to move” within its projected dividend
payout ratio of 35 percent to 45 percent of earnings. The bank’s
dividend yield, or the dividend relative to stock price, is the
lowest of the country’s six biggest banks, at about 3.8 percent.  “In an ideal world, we do like to think about dividend
increases every couple of quarters,” Johnston said. “Our
investors like more regular increases.”  Johnston disagrees with Sanford “Sandy” Weill, the former
Citigroup Inc. chief executive officer who said yesterday it’s
time to dismantle the nation’s largest lenders.  “We are believers in the universal banking model, and we
think there’s lots of value,” she said. “Having said that, we
are definitely fans of a safer business model that is more
customer and client driven.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 