-- Democrats Exceed Republicans in Optimism for Record 18 Weeks
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-07-26T20:35:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/democrats-surpass-republicans-in-optimism-for-record-18-weeks.html
Consumer confidence  has been higher
among Democrats than Republicans for a record 18 straight weeks,
indicating that politics are driving perceptions of well-being.  Confidence among Republicans fell to minus 45.1 in the week
ended July 22, 47.9 points below their long-term average,
according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index. Among
Democrats, confidence was at minus 27.8, two points lower than
their long-term average, although it did fall 4.2 points from
the previous week.  The current stretch of Democratic optimism surpassing that
of Republicans is triple the previous record -- a six-week
period encompassing the re-election of President  Bill Clinton  in
November 1996. Republicans have been more hopeful than Democrats
in data going back to 1990, in part because they tend to be more
affluent, according to  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates in  New York , which compiles the index for Bloomberg.  “Historically voters have looked at politics through an
economic lens,” said  Dan Schnur , director of the Jesse M. Unruh
Institute of Politics at the University of  Southern California 
in  Los Angeles . “Now they’re looking at the economy through a
political lens.”  Regardless of political affiliation, tepid job growth and
unemployment stuck above 8  percent  since February 2009 are
hurting confidence, making consumers less likely to spend. The
overall Consumer Comfort Index last week declined to minus 38.5,
a two-month low, from minus 37.9, the survey showed.  “Household opinion on the state of the American economy
remains mired in a deep funk that does not bode well for the
spending outlook for the remainder of the year,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York.  Jobless Benefits  A separate report from the Labor Department today showed
fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week, extending a period of
volatility typically seen in July.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 35,000 in
the week ended July 21 to 353,000. Economists forecast 380,000
claims, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. Changes in the annual auto plant shutdowns that occur
this time of year have made it difficult to adjust the data for
seasonal variations, the Labor Department has said.  U.S. stocks snapped four days of losses after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to preserve the euro
and companies including 3M Co. and Visa Inc. posted better-than-
estimated quarterly results. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 1.7 percent to 1,360.02 at the close of trading in New
York for the biggest gain in almost two weeks.  Especially Gloomy  Republicans are especially gloomy about the economy now
because of their unhappiness with the way President  Barack Obama 
has handled it, Langer said. At the same time, Democrats are
showing greater confidence because of their support for the
president and his policies.  That’s not unusual, according to Langer. Democrats tend to
be more cheerful during Democratic administrations, while
Republicans are more hopeful when a member of their own party is
in power.  Even so, the level of optimism among members of the two
parties has tended to move in tandem. What has changed now,
Langer said, is that the correlation has disappeared.  Since June 1990, the earliest breakdown available, the
correlation has been 0.69, where 1 shows movement in lockstep
and zero shows no relationship. Since Obama was elected in
November 2008, the correlation has plunged to minus 0.11.  Partisan View  “It just seems like everything now is viewed more in
partisan terms than in the past,” Jeff Jones, managing editor
of the Gallup poll, said in a July 24 phone interview.  In the last two weeks, Democratic consumers’ optimism has
outweighed Republicans by 17.3 and 18.4 points -- record gaps in
the history of the data going back to 1990.  Democrats are likely to rally behind their party in public
opinion surveys on concern that Republicans in control of the
White House and Congress would dismantle social programs, said
Steve Jarding, a professor at Harvard University’s Kennedy
School of Government.  “There’s still a large segment of voters out there that
want to believe government can be a good thing in your life,”
Jarding, a former Democratic consultant, said in a July 23 phone
interview.  Ballot Box  Less than four months before the presidential election,
Democrats are using questions on economic outlook, buying
climate and personal finances -- which are used to calculate the
Bloomberg index -- as a proxy for the ballot box.  “We wouldn’t see as strong a relation with consumer
confidence and party in non-election years, but you definitely
see it every four years,” Jones said.  The polarization also may be driven by the contrast in the
presidential candidates’ platforms.  Obama and RepublicanMitt Romney are promoting “two very
different schools of economic thought,” said Schnur, an adviser
to Senator  John McCain , the 2008 Republican presidential
nominee. “Almost everyone is unhappy with the current state of
the economy, but they have dramatically different opinions on
what it’ll take to improve matters.”  Independents, a group that both Romney and Obama have been
competing for, have been more pessimistic than Democrats. The
comfort index for that group was minus 45.1 in the week to July
22 and has averaged minus 39.2 in the past 18 weeks.  Ronald Reagan  Reducing unemployment may be the key to broadening Obama’s
support. Only one U.S. president,  Ronald Reagan , has been re-
elected since World War II with a jobless rate above 6 percent.
On Election Day 1984, the rate was at 7.2 percent, having
dropped almost three percentage points in the previous 18
months.  While the jobless rate declined to 8.2 percent in June from
its peak during Obama’s term of 10 percent in October 2009, the
drop has been slow and halting. It was stuck at about 9 percent
through the first three quarters of last year.  “Obama’s very vulnerable on the economy,”  Bruce Buchanan ,
a political scientist at the University of Texas-Austin who
studies voter behavior in presidential elections, said in a July
19 telephone interview. “And yet we have some models where
vulnerable presidents have managed to survive.”  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses is subtracted from
the share of positive views and divided by three. The most
recent reading is based on the average of responses over the
previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  