-- Deutsche Boerse’s Second-Quarter Profit Gains on Eurex
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-07-26T15:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/deutsche-boerse-s-second-quarter-profit-gains-on-eurex.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the German
exchange blocked from buying NYSE Euronext by European
regulators in February, said second-quarter profit rose 3.2
percent, buoyed by revenue from its derivatives business.  Net income climbed to 186.2 million euros ($229 million)
from 180.5 million euros in the same period a year earlier, the
exchange said in an e-mailed statement today. Earnings before
interest and taxes at  Europe ’s largest exchange by market value
were 278.8 million euros compared with 279 million euros a year
earlier. Revenue increased 5 percent to 555 million euros.  Deutsche Boerse is moving its Eurex futures exchange to a
new trading system as it develops a standalone strategy after
the European Commission vetoed the NYSE merger. The Frankfurt-
based company completed the acquisition of Eurex, Europe’s
largest derivatives exchange, from SIX Group AG in April.  “A major contributing factor was the full acquisition of
Eurex, which has proved to be a strategically sound step,”
Gregor Pottmeyer, chief financial officer of the exchange, said
in the statement. “However, it will be increasingly challenging
to generate growth in the current fiscal year because of the
weaker market environment and the ongoing uncertainty amongst
market participants.”  Deutsche Boerse  shares rallied 1.03 euros, or 2.6 percent,
to 41.03 euros at 5:02 p.m. in  Frankfurt , even as the exchange
said net revenue for 2012 will probably fall short of its
forecast range.  Blocked Merger  NYSE Euronext, which reports earnings next week, and
Deutsche Boerse are focusing on expanding current operations
after regulators blocked their merger, partly because of concern
the combination would hurt competition in derivatives and
clearing. Deutsche Boerse has asked a European Union court to
overturn a ban on its takeover, saying regulators made errors
when reviewing the deal that would have created the world’s
biggest exchange. NYSE hasn’t joined Deutsche Boerse’s appeal.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy its New York-based rival in a
deal valued at $9.53 billion when it was announced in February
2011.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., the second-largest U.S. equity
exchange operator, yesterday rallied the most since November
after quarterly earnings beat analyst estimates and the company
lowered its 2012 expense forecast. CME Group Inc., the world’s
largest futures market, said today that second-quarter profit
fell 17 percent from a year earlier as  interest rates  near zero
reduced trading in the company’s biggest contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  