-- Dollar Trades Near 2-Week Low Versus Euro Before U.S. GDP
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-07-27T12:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/dollar-trades-near-2-week-low-versus-euro-before-u-s-gdp.html
The dollar fell against higher-
yielding currencies before a U.S. report forecast to show
economic growth slowed to the least in a year, fueling bets the
 Federal Reserve  will resume its stimulus program.  The euro swung between gains and losses as investors
considered the responses suggested by policy makers to the
region’s debt crisis. U.S. gross domestic product growth slowed
to an annual rate of 1.4 percent in the second quarter, from 1.9
percent in the previous three months, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “There has been a significant slowdown in the second
quarter and that will drag GDP growth closer to stall speed,”
said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “The dollar is trading
lower, reflecting building investor expectations of further
policy actions to try to alleviate the downside risk to global
growth.”  The U.S. currency weakened 0.1 percent to $1.2286 per euro
at 7:55 a.m.  New York  time, having dropped 1.2 percent this
week. The greenback was little changed at 78.17 yen. The euro
gained 0.1 percent to 96.13 yen.  The dollar depreciated the most against the South Korean
won, and the New Zealand and Australian currencies among its 16
major counterparts.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that policy
makers are “looking for ways to address the weakness in the
economy should more action be needed to promote a sustained
recovery in the labor market.” The Fed will hold a two-day
policy meeting starting July 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  