-- Don’t Like Asian State Capitalism? Blame the West
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-07-26T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/don-t-like-asian-state-capitalism-blame-the-west.html
State capitalism, according to
Bloomberg Businessweek, is a serious rival to U.S. and European
businesses, which face being excluded from some markets.  “Instead of trying to prevent -- or worse, dismiss
altogether -- the rise of state-capitalist systems,” the
magazine argues, “U.S. and European companies and governments
would do better to learn from them.”  A similar case was made in the 1980s, when  Japan ’s  state-
supported  conglomerates briefly threatened to take over the
world. For a moment -- as I noted in my previous column --
Japan’s promotion of its technology industries through
protectionism and careful targeting of open foreign markets
seemed to affirm the superiority of state-supported capitalism.  The apparent success of  China  and Brazil’s own versions of
state capitalism has now stoked fresh anxiety in Anglo-America.
But most  reckonings  with it are still bogged down by questions
about efficiency: For instance, is state capitalism more or less
innovative or competitive than its free-market rival?  Opium Wars  Such essentially technocratic arguments scant the long
history of economic nationalism: the time, for instance, when
many in Asia bristled at the power of state-backed capitalists
and economic nationalists of Europe and the U.S.  The West’s own rivalries set the tone for Asian countries.
Writing to the directors of the  United East India Company  in the
early 17th century,  Jan Pieterszoon Coen , the pioneering Dutch
colonizer of Java, was revealingly blunt: “We cannot carry on
trade without war or war without trade.”  Fighting off rival European colonialists as well as the
Javanese, Coen would have had no time for soggy Scottish notions
about the  invisible hand . Nor indeed did his competitors in the
British East India Company as they repeatedly sought their
government’s diplomatic and military support in Asia.  The nexus between government and business reached its high
point during the  Opium Wars  of the 19th century, when British
merchants craving new markets in the Chinese hinterland
repeatedly lobbied their country’s politicians into punitive
assaults on China.  Nurturing local industries under highly protectionist
regimes, U.S. leaders, too, had absorbed Europe’s lessons by the
end of the 19th century.  Woodrow Wilson  no less than  Theodore Roosevelt  knew that American goods and capital must urgently
find markets beyond national borders. “Since trade,” Wilson
argued in 1907, “ignores national boundaries and the
manufacturer insists on having the world as a market, the flag
of his nation must follow him, and the doors of the nations
which are closed must be battered down.”  Wilson sounds as if he wanted to make the world safe for
American goods and capital rather than democracy. But he was
only being brutally realistic. The influential German-American
economist  Friedrich List  had already rejected Adam Smith’s free-
trade theory as unsuitable for the 19th century conditions of
rivalry and inequality between nation-states.  List, who may have been influenced during his stint in the
U.S. by  Alexander Hamilton ’s economic nationalism, had also
spotted laissez faire’s built-in bias in favor of the trading
interests of Britain, which had industrialized ahead of all
other countries, and now threatened to undermine their nascent
factories.  Late Starters  Certainly, there were few alternatives for Asian countries
entering -- very late in the game -- the race to industrial
modernity. Visiting the U.S. in 1903,  Liang Qichao , China’s
foremost modern intellectual, came to fear its industrial
trusts, which he claimed were more powerful than Alexander the
Great and  Genghis Khan  could imagine, and which would soon cross
the Pacific to prey upon a weak China.  To withstand the growing power of U.S. economic imperialism
and hold its own in the international jungle, argued Liang,
China’s agrarian society needed not socialism but industrial
production through capitalist methods carefully regulated by the
state. He knew that Japan, coerced into the international
economic order by the mid-century arrival of America’s “black
ships,” had already embarked on a similarly ambitious program of
state-led modernization to catch up with the West.  Two generations of Japanese had already absorbed List’s
economic nationalism, which went on to survive the devastation
of the World War II and an eccentric bout of New Deal welfarism
under U.S. occupation.  Japan’s example was then followed by  South Korea ,  Taiwan 
and Singapore. All these Asian state capitalists ironically
received much assistance from the U.S. as it pursued its
geopolitical interests, boosting local economies through wars in
Korea and Vietnam, foreign aid, and its open markets.  Finally in the late 1970s, China, after a long spell with
rigid central planning, started to look to Singapore for
ideological guidance. Since then China’s careful adaptation of
certain capitalist practices, and the creation of a native class
of global businessmen, has periodically sparked optimism that it
would follow Anglo-American neoliberalism in all its
particulars.  This has proved to be a fantasy, based on a misreading of
Chinese motives. The Chinese government’s encouragement of
state-owned enterprises and control of strategic industries is
at least partly rooted in the fear of a local entrepreneurial
class that might challenge the Communist Party’s monopoly on
power. Given the preponderance of various “princelings” in the
country’s economic life, China’s state capitalism can seem
merely a euphemism for crony capitalism.  Moreover, economic nationalism largely explains China’s
increasingly mercantilist trade and investment policies.  Deng Xiaoping  spelled out its imperatives even as he broke with the
disasters and crimes committed by  Mao Zedong  trying to make
China catch up with the West. “Our country must develop,” Deng
famously warned, “if we do not develop then we will be bullied.
Development is the only hard truth.”  Neoliberal Tyranny  Liang Qichao as well as Deng would have heartily approved
of this week’s proposed $15.1 billion acquisition of the
Canadian energy giant Nexen Inc. by Cnooc Ltd., which will make
the latter a competitor to  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  in  North America .
For Liang’s preferred economic policy was one that helped
Chinese capitalists “best to engage in external competition. To
this policy all other considerations are subordinate.”  Certainly, Friedrich List seems more prescient than  Adam
Smith  in having recognized that the enlightened self-interest of
individuals cannot be a useful principle for national economies
that have to compete with one another even in an era of
unrestricted trade and capital flows.  As we recover from the baleful intellectual tyranny of
neoliberalism, we can see more clearly the many forms of market
economies, shaped by historical context and specific political
trajectories. This reminder of diversity itself opens up the
space for some fresh remedial thinking.  But learning from other examples of capitalism, as
Bloomberg Businessweek exhorts, might be more difficult than it
seems. The biggest beneficiaries of globalization in the West
today embody the Ayn Randian ideal of the profit-maximizing,
self-seeking capitalist. A small global elite of businessmen and
investors has come to depend more on supply-chain manufacturers
in Taiwan and bankers in the Cayman Islands than on workers
within any given national borders.  That elite can afford to forgo any sense of national
solidarity or a shared economic fate with its fellow citizens.
And in the current U.S. ideological climate, advocacy of
collective effort or responsibility is quickly stigmatized as
the harbinger of Stalinism.  Such is the impasse, political as well as socioeconomic,
into which laissez faire ideologues have led entire nations. It
won’t be easily overcome.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt Against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
London and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a special signed editorial,  Michael R.
Bloomberg  on the long road to  sane gun policies .  Also, the editors on  bringing back earmarks  and on  easing
austerity  in the U.K.;  Jonathan Alter  on the collective effort
to  “build that” ; Stephen L. Carter on why all  NCAA punishments 
should be as harsh as  Penn State ’s;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on why
 Obama would be better than Romney  on Iran; William Pesek on
 U.S.-China relations ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  conflicts of interest 
at  Freddie Mac ; Kim Schoenholtz and Lawrence White on  remaking
Libor .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 