-- Dow Chemical Profit Trails Estimates on ‘Bleak’ Demand
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-07-26T20:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/dow-chemical-profit-trails-estimates-as-plastics-drop.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the biggest U.S.
chemical company, reported larger-than-estimated declines in
second-quarter earnings and sales and said the outlook for
global demand for the rest of the year is “bleak.”  Net income fell to $734 million, or 55 cents a share, from
$1.07 billion, or 84 cents, a year earlier, Midland, Michigan-
based Dow said today in a statement. The average of 15 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was for 64 cents. Revenue fell 9.6 percent
to $14.5 billion, trailing the $15.6 billion average estimate of
10 analysts.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  is
struggling to increase earnings as contracting economies in
Europe and slower Chinese growth curb demand for products such
as plastics used in packaging and autos. Sales fell around the
world, led by a 15 percent decline in Europe, the Middle East
and  Africa , Dow said. Liveris plans to boost cost-reduction
efforts by $500 million to counter weaker global economies.  “These are about the worst operating conditions we have
seen since 2009,” Liveris, 58, said today in a telephone
interview. “That gives you a fairly bleak outlook, and it’s a
weak one for the rest of 2012.”  Dow fell 3.6 percent to $29.18 at the close in  New York ,
paring its gain this year to 1.5 percent.  Profit Declines  Dow’s factories ran at 78 percent of capacity, down from 84
percent a year earlier. Profit fell in four of  six divisions ,
including a 21 percent decline in plastics, Dow’s largest
business. Profit rose in the agriculture unit on sales of
genetically modified seeds and earnings in the electronics unit
were unchanged.  Average prices fell 5 percent in the quarter and sales
volumes excluding divestitures declined 1 percent, Dow said.
Most of the price decrease was due to a weakening euro and other
currencies, reducing revenue by more than $400 million, Dow
said.  “This quarter really illustrates the tie between economic
growth and commodity chemical demand,” Jeff Windau, a St.
Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who recommends selling
Dow shares, said today in a phone interview. “It really took a
toll on Dow.”  Weak economies in  Europe  are reducing demand around the
world, including in  China  where many export factories aren’t
running, Liveris said. China’s actions to boost domestic demand
should improve that economy in the second half, he said.  ‘Poster Child’  Still, global demand will remain “choppy” for the next 12
to 24 months, partly because democratic institutions aren’t
implementing “growth policies,” he said.  “You can’t get there just cutting all the time,” Liveris
said. “Europe is our classic poster child.”  The U.S., where economic growth is slower than anticipated,
isn’t sliding into recession, he said.  Slower global growth will delay Dow’s ability to reach its
earnings targets, Liveris said today on a conference call with
analysts, without specifying how long the delay will be. He
forecast in October that earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization would climb to $10 billion in the
next one to two years. Ebitda declined 14 percent in the first
half to $3.67 billion from $4.27 billion a year earlier.  Cost Reductions  Dow plans to increase its cost-cutting program to $1.5
billion a year, from $1 billion now, by limiting  capital
spending  and cutting expenses, particularly in Europe, Liveris
said on the call. The cuts won’t affect Dow’s expansion plans
for the U.S. Gulf Coast and  Middle East , he said.  Dow and Saudi Arabian Oil Co. are spending $20 billion on
factories for making petrochemicals from low-cost oil and
natural-gas derivatives at the Saudi port of Jubail starting in
2015. Dow plans to spend $4 billion to expand production of
ethylene and propylene in  Texas , including construction of its
first U.S. ethylene plant since 1995.  In May, Dow was awarded $2.16 billion in damages to be paid
by Kuwait’s Petrochemical Industries Co. because it canceled a
2008 agreement to buy a stake in Dow’s plastics business. Kuwait
has asked the London  High Court  of Justice to reconsider the
award without contesting the ruling that the contract was
breached, Liveris said on the call.  Dow, founded in 1897 as a bleach maker, is the world’s
biggest producer of chlorine, epoxy resins and polyethylene
plastic. It’s the world’s second-biggest chemical maker behind
 Germany ’s  BASF SE. (BAS)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  