-- Draghi Says ECB Will Do What’s Needed to Preserve Euro: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-07-26T13:50:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/draghi-says-ecb-to-do-whatever-needed-as-yields-threaten-europe.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers will do whatever is needed to
preserve the euro, suggesting they may intervene in bond markets
as surging yields in Spain and Italy threaten the existence of
the 17-nation currency bloc.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” Draghi said in a speech
at the Global Investment Conference in  London  today. “Within
our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it takes to
preserve the euro,” he said, adding: “believe me, it will be
enough.”  Financial markets surged on speculation the ECB will act to
lower Spanish borrowing costs after yields on the nation’s bonds
rose to levels that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland. The ECB reluctantly started buying Spanish and Italian
debt in August last year as part of its bond purchase program.
The buying had little lasting effect and the ECB suspended the
program in March.  “His comments certainly suggest that ECB purchases of
Spanish and Italian bonds are back on the table for
discussion,” said Chris Scicluna, head of economic research at
Daiwa Capital Markets  Europe . “But -- just like last summer --
we would expect any new ECB bond purchases to be temporary and
limited until other policies are put in place.”  Slumping Yields  Spanish yields slumped after Draghi’s remarks, with the
rate on the 10-year bond dropping as much as 39 basis points to
6.91 percent. It touched a record 7.69 percent earlier this
week. The euro jumped and stocks rose. The single currency
climbed as high as $1.2318 after trading at $1.2118 before
Draghi spoke. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 2 percent.  The euro may have been buoyed by traders cutting bets on
the shared currency falling against the dollar, or so-called
short positions. Last week futures traders increased net bets
the euro would fall against the greenback to 167,249 contracts,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  “There is finally light at the end of the tunnel,” said
 Chris Rupkey , Chief Financial Economist at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd in  New York . “When the ECB is done there
won’t be a short against the euro left on the planet.”  Other economists said it’s unlikely that the ECB will take
large-scale action soon, pointing to Europe’s two bailout funds.  ESM Banking License?  “The ECB wants to see government money used first,” said
 Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist at UniCredit Global
Research in Milan. “If that doesn’t work, they will put at
stake ECB money.”  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny yesterday pushed
up the euro and stock markets after saying in an interview that
there are arguments in favor of giving Europe’s permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, a banking
license. That would enable it to refinance with the ECB,
boosting its firepower.  Draghi has rejected that proposal in the past and didn’t
refer to it today. Instead, he clearly signaled that ECB bond
purchases are back on the agenda by referring specifically to
the disruption of policy transmission on markets, said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam.  “The ECB has always argued that the rationale behind its
Securities Markets Program is to improve the functioning of its
monetary policy, so there is little doubt that this is the tool
he is referring to,” Kounis said.  Market Expectations  After buying around 220 billion euros ($270 billion) of
government debt, the ECB shelved its purchase program amid
mounting resistance from some of its policy makers, particularly
those from  Germany .  Draghi has swollen market expectations before.  On Dec. 1 last year, he appeared to suggest to the European
Parliament that the ECB would ramp up its government bond
purchases if European leaders agreed on the then-novel idea of a
fiscal compact.  Italy ’s 10-year bond yields fell 37 basis points after
those comments, only to rise 44 basis points a week later when
Draghi downplayed the speculation. The ECB subsequently
implemented two three-year loan programs that pumped more than 1
trillion euros into the financial system, helping to ward off a
credit crunch.  Draghi said today that markets have underestimated the
progress that’s been made in the euro area and that the monetary
union is “irreversible.” Leaders have this year inked
agreements that aim to push the single currency toward tighter
joint budgetary surveillance and a so-called banking union.  “The progress in undertaking deficit control, structural
reforms has been remarkable,” Draghi said. “They’ll have to
continue doing so, of course, but the pace has been set.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  