-- Draghi Boxes Himself Into a Corner With Bond Signal: Euro Credit
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-07-27T10:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/draghi-boxes-himself-into-a-corner-with-bond-signal-euro-credit.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  has boxed himself into a corner.  Spanish and Italian bond markets rallied yesterday as
investors cheered Draghi’s signal that the ECB is prepared to
intervene to reduce soaring yields. Now he has to deliver, or
face deep disappointment on financial markets, analysts said.
The risk in doing so is alienating key policy makers on the ECB
council, such as Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann. The
Bundesbank reiterated its opposition to bond purchases today.  “Draghi is damned if he does and damned if he doesn’t,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“He maneuvered himself into an extremely difficult situation.
Expectations are very high.”  The ECB is under pressure to lower borrowing costs after
three interest-rate cuts since November failed to stop bond
yields soaring in  Spain  and  Italy , threatening the survival of
the euro. The Frankfurt-based central bank shelved its bond-
purchase program in March as dissatisfaction with it among
council members grew, and some economists doubt it will be
revived any time soon.  “I don’t believe you will see government bond purchases
yet,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . “But there are other things they
can do that will help, such as lowering the haircut on sovereign
bonds they accept as collateral or buying private sector
securities.”  Rate Cuts  ECB policy makers next meet on Aug. 2. They cut the
 benchmark rate  to a record low of 0.75 percent this month and
took the rate on overnight deposits to zero.  Since then, Spanish debt fell 3.2 percent, the biggest
decline after  Greece , while French and Austrian bonds delivered
the best returns in the euro area. Yields on Spanish securities
that mature between two and 30 years rose above the 7 percent
level that prompted bailouts for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal ,
before plunging after Draghi’s speech yesterday.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” Draghi said in a speech
at the Global Investment Conference in London. “Within our
mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it takes to preserve
the euro. And believe me, it will be enough.”  Euro Jumps  The euro jumped almost 2 cents against the dollar on the
comments and stocks rose. Spain’s 10-year bond yield fell as
much as 45 basis points, dropping below 7 percent for the first
time since July 19, and Italy’s sank 41 basis points to 6.03
percent. The rally continued today, with Spain’s 10-year yield
down a further 12 basis points to 6.81 percent, helped by a
report from Le Monde newspaper saying the ECB is preparing to
intervene. An ECB spokeswoman declined to comment.  “It will be difficult to hold these gains without any
actual action,” said Christoph Kind, head of  asset allocation 
at Frankfurt Trust, which manages about $20 billion. “There’s
still pressure on the spreads of the peripheral countries and I
fear this is only a temporary narrowing.”  The ECB is drawing up plans to buy Spanish and Italian debt
in the secondary market in the coming weeks to be followed by
purchases in the primary market by government-financed bailout
funds, Le Monde said, without citing anyone.  The Bundesbank said restarting ECB bond purchases is not
the best way to address the debt crisis.  “The Bundesbank has repeatedly expressed in the past that
it views bond purchases critically because they blur the line
between monetary and fiscal policy,” a spokesman said.  Limited Success  The ECB had limited success the last time it waded into the
market to help Spain and Italy. As bonds tumbled in an earlier
phase of the crisis in August last year, the central bank
started buying their debt for the first time and initially
succeeded in stemming the immediate turmoil.  Less than three months later, Spanish and Italian yields
were hitting new euro-era records as some governments dragged
their feet on pushing through new measures to get their budgets
under control.  That forced the ECB to turn to unlimited three-year cash
offerings as a tool to fight the crisis and it mothballed the
bond-buying policy, called the Securities Markets Program.  Spain’s two-year yield fell to as low as 2.15 percent on
March 1 as banks used some of the 1 trillion euros ($1.21
trillion) of three-year cash to buy debt, while Italy’s reached
1.68 percent. It proved a short-lived respite.  On July 24, investors demanded 3.69 percent to lend to
Spain for six months. Meanwhile, two-year yields in  Austria ,
 Germany ,  Finland  and the Netherlands fell below zero this month.  ‘Bazooka’  “We still don’t think policy makers have done enough to
make the market sit up and take note,” said Richard Urwin, head
of investments at BlackRock Inc.’s Fiduciary Mandate Investment
Team in London. That has left bond yields in weaker countries
“too high to be sustainable,” he said.  “The ECB appears to be running out of conventional
ammunition,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income
strategist at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “What is left,
however, is the ‘bazooka’,” he said, referring to large-scale
interventions in troubled bond markets.  Renewed bond purchases may buy European crisis-fighters
time as they face months of political limbo.  With a Dutch election due in two months and a German court
decision holding up the start of the permanent bailout fund
until at least September, leaders will find it difficult to make
decisions on issues such as giving Spain a full bailout or
finding more money for Greece.  Bundesbank Stance  Still, government bond purchases have seen two German
policy makers quit the ECB.  Vocal opponent  Axel Weber  stepped down as Bundesbank
president last year and ECB chief economist  Juergen Stark 
retired at the end of 2011. Both complained that the bond
program blurred the line between fiscal and monetary policy and
relieved pressure on governments to enact reforms.  “The Bundesbank has historically been resisting the
reactivation of the SMP,” said  Julian Callow , chief
international economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “In the
view of most economists, the ECB is justified in reactivating
the SMP.”  Other Options  Other options may include allowing the region’s bailout
fund to borrow from the ECB to buy the bonds of distressed
governments. ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said in an
interview published July 25 that there are arguments in favor of
giving the European Stability Mechanism a banking license.  The Bundesbank reiterated its opposition to that proposal
today and Draghi, who has also rejected it in the past, didn’t
refer to it yesterday.  Either way, “the crisis response looks likely to focus on
direct intervention in the government bond market,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “We
have some doubts about whether the interventions will be of the
required scale. It therefore seems likely that the bond
purchases will just allow policy makers to muddle through unless
much more financial firepower is put on the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net . 