-- Drought Tightens its Grip on Midwest, U.S. Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-26T13:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/drought-tightens-its-grip-on-midwest-u-s-says.html
At least 63.9 percent of the
contiguous 48 states is now affected by moderate to severe
drought, up from 63.5 percent last week, according to the  U.S.
Drought Monitor .  Conditions in the week ended July 24 worsened across the
Midwest, including in  Iowa ,  Nebraska , Illinois and  Indiana , the
Lincoln, Nebraska-based center said in  its weekly report .  “Temperatures reached 100 degrees Fahrenheit or hotter
across parts of the Great Plains to Midwest every day this week,
and some locations have not had significant rain for the last 30
days,” Richard Heim of the  National Climatic Data Center  in
Asheville,  North Carolina , said in an analysis. “Corn, soybean,
sorghum, alfalfa losses continued to mount, ponds dried up, and
wells failed in several of the states.”  The drought has left corn and soybean crops in the worst
condition since 1988. Ninety percent of topsoil in six Midwest
states was considered short or very short on moisture. In
Missouri and  Illinois , 99 percent reached that level.  More than 80 percent of pasture and rangeland from  Kansas 
to Indiana was in poor or very poor condition, Heim wrote. All
categories of drought expanded across the Midwest last week, he
said.  Measuring Drought  Drought is measured on a four-step scale from exceptional
down to moderate. Extreme and exceptional, the two worst
categories, now cover 20.6 percent of the contiguous 48 states,
up from 13.5 percent last week.  A year ago, 18 percent of the U.S. was affected by extreme
and exceptional drought, according to monitor statistics.  The monitor also tracks “abnormally dry” areas, which are
often a precursor to drought. Only 20 percent of the contiguous
states are now free of drought or abnormally dry conditions.  A year ago, 62.8 percent of the country was free of dryness
or drought, according to monitor statistics. For the U.S. as a
whole, including  Puerto Rico , 53.44 percent of the land is
affected by drought.  “In the Plains and Midwest states, crop losses mounted,
ranchers liquidated herds, and trees continued to drop leaves
and branches,” Heim wrote.  Heim said more than 2 inches (5 centimeters) of rain fell
from southern  Wisconsin  to Indiana, serving only to “maintain
the status quo.” Two more inches may fall across the region
from scattered showers this week, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  