-- Durable Goods Orders in U.S. Probably Slowed as Demand Weakened
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/durable-goods-orders-in-u-s-probably-slowed-as-demand-weakened.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably cooled in June, a sign some companies are holding back
on  capital spending  as the global outlook dims, economists said
before a report today.  The projected 0.3 percent gain in bookings for goods meant
to last at least three years would follow a 1.3 percent increase
in May, according to the median forecast of 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Separate figures may show claims for
jobless benefits remained elevated and contracts to purchase
previously owned homes rose at a slower pace.  Corporate spending is contributing less to the expansion as
cooler demand from U.S. consumers and weaker overseas sales
crimp profits at companies such as  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last week manufacturing
has slowed and that policy makers stand ready to employ more
stimulus if needed to help spur the world’s largest economy.  “Manufacturing is taking a bit of a hit,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James Financial Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . “Firms are going to stay cautious about
investment. There’s just a lot of uncertainty. Europe is a big
concern.”  The Commerce Department data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop
of 1.4 percent to an increase of 2.1 percent. Bookings e xcluding 
the volatile transportation category may have climbed 0.1
percent after a 0.7 percent gain in May, economists predicted.  Also at 8:30 a.m., a Labor Department report is projected
to show applications for jobless benefits fell 6,000 last week
to 380,000, according to the Bloomberg survey  median . The
figures reflect volatility induced by the annual auto-plant
retooling period, making it difficult to determine whether the
job market is improving or deteriorating.  Regional Reports  Regional reports indicate a mixed picture for factories in
July. Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank for the
third consecutive month, while New York-area factories grew at a
faster pace than anticipated.  At the national level, the Markit Economics preliminary
index of U.S. manufacturing decreased to 51.8 in July from 52.5
a month earlier, the London-based group said this week.  Xerox, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based provider of printers
and business services, cut its full-year profit forecast as the
economic slump in Europe crimped demand for technology.  “The economic uncertainty has created more pressure
especially in Europe and especially in our technology
business,”  Ursula Burns , chief executive officer, said on a
July 20 conference call with analysts.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index, which
includes companies like Deere & Co., has fallen 2 percent this
year, while the broader S&P 500 gauge has gained 6.4 percent.  Auto Sales  The  auto industry  remains one of the economy’s few bright
spots. Vehicle purchases accelerated in June from the prior
month, with  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler
Group LLC reporting sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Also, a pickup in  home construction  has helped some
manufacturers. Caterpillar Inc., the largest maker of
construction and mining equipment, yesterday raised its full-
year profit forecast on increased demand from North American
builders.  Bernanke told lawmakers last week the risks from  Europe ’s
debt crisis and impending changes in U.S. fiscal policy are
challenges for the economy, and manufacturing has “slowed in
recent months.”  “Economic activity appears to have decelerated somewhat
during the first half of this year,” he said in testimony to
Congress. The Fed is “prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery.”  Figures due at 10 a.m. today from the National Association
of Realtors may signal that housing, while stabilizing, will
take time to strengthen. The group’s index of  pending  home sales
rose 0.3 percent in June following a 5.9 percent jump the prior
month, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  