-- Earmark Ban Fails to Stop Lawmaker Requests for Spending
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-07-26T18:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/earmark-ban-fails-to-stop-lawmaker-requests-for-spending.html
The House last week more than
tripled funding for an updated version of a Cold War-era tank
the U.S. Army says it doesn’t need. If the vote made
questionable sense to some watchdogs in an era of tightening
military spending, it made a lot of political sense to lawmakers
seeking to preserve jobs in their districts.  Even with a two-year ban on earmarks, or pet projects that
often can’t be justified as national priorities, the action was
the latest evidence that members of the U.S. Congress are still
finding ways to deliver the goods for their constituents.  In addition to approving $255 million for the Abrams battle
tank, the House added hundreds of millions of dollars to the
Pentagon’s $606 billion annual spending bill for items the
military didn’t request, including health programs with little
connection to national defense and a National Guard anti-drug
program that the Drug Enforcement Administration also performs.  More than 100 lawmakers, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio, support continued production in Lima, Ohio, of
the most advanced version of the Abrams tanks built by Falls
Church, Virginia-based  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  The facility is in
the district of Representative  Jim Jordan , leader of the
Republican Study Committee composed of fiscal conservatives, and
is in a neighboring district to Boehner’s.  “Modest and continued Abrams production for the Army is
necessary to preserve the industrial base,” Jordan, among more
than 100 lawmakers, wrote in an April 20 letter to Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta .  Watchdog Groups  Watchdog groups are critical of the process of loading up
the Pentagon’s spending bills with lawmakers’ special requests,
along with unrelated items such as the health funding.  “Under the guise of national security a lot of lawmakers
stuff funding into defense bills that could benefit their
district,” said  Steve Ellis , vice president of Taxpayers for
Common Sense, a Washington-based group that tracks federal
spending. “The defense bills are the biggest honey pots for
these type of shenanigans because there is so much more money to
play with.”  The Abrams tank program also would preserve jobs in
Michigan, Pennsylvania and Florida.  The Army wants to cut spending on upgrading tanks to $74.4
million in fiscal 2013, a decrease of $362 million, or 83
percent, from this year, and to suspend work for several years
after that to save money as it resizes its fleet of combat
vehicles after the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  6,000 Tanks  The Abrams is the Army’s main battle tank. Designed more
than 30 years ago to defeat Soviet forces in a land war, the
tank weighs almost 70 tons in the most advanced M1A2 version,
and advances half a mile per gallon of fuel. The Army has about
6,000 Abrams tanks.  “This is all about the  jobs ,” said  Gordon Adams , a
professor at American University in Washington and a former
Office of Management and Budget official in President  Bill Clinton ’s administration. “It is unnecessary spending and in
that sense wasteful. We are in an era of declining resources.”  As part of a shift in strategy, the U.S. is realigning
forces in the Asia Pacific region with less reliance on heavily
mechanized armored divisions. That change should be reflected in
the Pentagon’s budget priorities, according to  Todd Harrison , a
senior fellow with the Center for Strategic and Budgetary
Assessments in Washington. The Abrams tank “is not a
priority,” he said in an interview.  Closing Production  Army Secretary John McHugh said it would cost $600 million
to $800 million to close and later reopen the production line,
compared with more than $3 billion to keep it running until
2017.  Jordan has maintained that more money would be saved by
continuing production of the tank instead of suspending
production for several years.  General Dynamics has about 450 employees in Lima; 150 in
Scranton, Pennsylvania; 125 in Tallahassee, Florida; and about
700 in Sterling and Shelby, Michigan. Lawmakers from those
states, including Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, and Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican, have pushed
for funding for the tank.  Suspending tank production as the Army proposed “isn’t
good military policy,” Levin said in an interview. “If it’s a
bad idea and it hurts jobs, then it’s a doubly bad idea.”  In the Senate, those backing continued production of the
Abrams tank include  Rob Portman , an Ohio Republican and a
potential running mate to Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , and Ohio Democrat  Sherrod Brown , who is running for re-
election this year.  Industrial Base  “It is an industrial base issue, a national security
issue, of course it’s jobs too,” Brown said in an interview.
“I think it’s about our national defense, I don’t see it as an
earmark, but I do not outright oppose earmarks,” as other
lawmakers do, he said.  Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, said he supported increased
funding for the tank earlier this year because “it is a
congressional effort to be smart with the taxpayers’ money.”  “I consider it the smart thing to do,” Levin said.  The House and Senate enacted the earmarks moratorium in
2011, responding to criticism of wasteful spending illustrated
by the “bridge to nowhere” in Alaska. Before the ban,
lawmakers were required to publicly disclose each project
request in a spending bill. Now, the requests for extra funding
have no names attached.  Showing Results  Citizens Against Government Waste, a Washington group that
seeks to eliminate waste in government spending, said the ban is
showing results. It said the number of earmarks dropped by 98.3
percent, from 9,129 in fiscal 2010 to 152 in fiscal 2012, and
the cost of such projects fell by 80 percent, from $16.5 billion
to $3.3 billion, the lowest amount since 1992.  A clear line can’t be drawn between what’s considered a
special member project or spending that has a legitimate public
purpose, said Representative  Peter Welch , a Vermont Democrat.  “For many members they might support a weapons system
because they think it is in the national security interest;
others may have as a primary goal all the jobs in that
district,” Welch said in an interview.  Appropriators can add extra money for weapons programs as
part of the congressional authority to write spending bills and
decide funding levels.  ‘Another Name’  “Members on some bills will submit programmatic requests
that some will say are just earmarks by another name,” said
Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican who has waged a
war on earmarks.  This year, the Democratic-led Senate and Republican-led
House face the prospect of extending government funding with a
stopgap measure, known as a continuing resolution, because
Congress hasn’t agreed on any spending bills for the 2013 fiscal
year starting Oct. 1.  Lawmakers turn to the Pentagon spending bill to seek
hundreds of millions of dollars for non-military projects,
including drug enforcement and research into bone marrow
disease, autism and  breast cancer .  Funding for an anti-drug program that had been apportioned
to states through the National Guard is now bundled with no
names attached. An additional $130 million would be spent on
that project in 2013 to use military personnel in drug
enforcement operations in the states.  Drug Enforcement  The Drug Enforcement Administration already handles that
work, according to Citizens Against Government Waste. The group
highlighted the National Guard funding in the 2012 defense bill
and hasn’t yet tallied projects for 2013.  Among lawmakers who requested money for this program are
Representative Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican who leads
the House Appropriations Committee; Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat; Senate Appropriations Committee
Chairman Daniel Inouye, a Hawaii Democrat; and Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, according to
Citizens Against Government Waste.  In a report accompanying the House defense appropriations
bill for the next fiscal year, lawmakers criticized the Defense
Department for a “misguided effort to produce savings” by
reducing the budget for the program by 50 percent. The Pentagon
requested almost $1 billion for the National Guard effort.  Medical Research  Funding allocated for medical research with little
connection to defense receives the same treatment: no disclosure
of states, recipients or requesters.  Almost all of the $550 million added by the House as part
of the defense health program goes toward research into breast,
prostate, ovarian and lung cancer, as well as for muscular
dystrophy and bone marrow failure. Though few lawmakers question
the need for such funding, some say it shouldn’t be included in
the defense spending bill.  The National Institutes of Health “doesn’t have funding
for breast cancer research but defense does,” Flake said in an
interview. “Nobody wants to vote against the defense bill. If
we just keep loading up the defense bill with certainly worthy
items that should be done elsewhere, then we just have bills
with spending that you can never cut.”  Citizens Against Government Waste maintains that health
research projects in the defense bill are redundant. A separate
measure in 2012 provided $5.1 billion for the National Cancer
Institute, according to the watchdog organization’s website.  Bone Marrow  Only a few projects in spending bills being considered this
year have a request tied to a lawmaker who can be identified.
Representative Bill Young, a Florida Republican and longtime
appropriator, would continue funding his namesake bone-marrow
donor program through $31.5 million he secured in the House-
passed defense spending bill. The initiative began about 25
years ago at the behest of a St. Petersburg doctor in his
district.  The bone marrow registry is now a national program and
includes more than 10 million potential volunteer donors for
civilian and military patients, according to the report
accompanying the House defense bill.  While it doesn’t carry a lawmaker’s name, the Defense Rapid
Innovation Program is the brainchild of Representative  Norm Dicks , the top Democrat on the appropriations panel. It received
$250 million in the defense bill to help encourage small
business innovation through a competitive process.  ‘Special Interest’  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican, criticized it
as a “special interest” effort that the Pentagon doesn’t
include in its yearly budget requests.  Flake said while the earmark ban has been beneficial, it
has driven waste “more towards the margins.”  Several lawmakers said the earmark ban leads to poor
decision making on spending projects.  “It’s a bad idea,” Senator  Mark Begich , an Alaska
Democrat, said in an interview. “It’s taking away the
legislative prerogatives on what we think is important to our
communities based on community input.”  Scott Lilly, a senior fellow at the Center for American
Progress and a former Democratic staff director of the House
Appropriations Committee, said lawmakers’ influence on special
projects is often hard to detect and prove.  He said a Republican on the House Appropriations Committee
once explained how he dealt with an agency he oversaw. The
lawmaker never told the agency what he wanted, Lilly said -- he
“just gave them hell until they figured it out on their own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  