-- Congress Likely to Delay Russian Trade Bill for a Month
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-07-27T04:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/eased-u-s-trade-limits-with-russia-approved-by-house-committee.html
Congress probably will delay action
on legislation to ease U.S. trade relations with  Russia  until
after that country joins the  World Trade Organization  next
month.  The measure, sought by U.S. companies such as  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) , was approved by the House Ways and Means Committee on a
voice vote yesterday. House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio
Republican , told reporters he doesn’t plan a vote next week on
the measure because the House has a full schedule of other
issues to consider.  With lawmakers scheduled to leave  Washington  next week for
a monthlong recess, the delay would preclude enactment before
Congress returns in September.  If President  Barack Obama  wants speedy action by Congress,
then “he ought to be out there, making the case for it,”
Boehner said.  The delay was prompted by questions from Republican members
unfamiliar with the legislation and objections by organized
labor that are eroding Democratic support, a House Republican
leadership aide who isn’t authorized to speak publicly said on
condition of anonymity.  Russia’s refusal to support United Nations peacekeeping
efforts in  Syria  also “remains a concern” among Democrats and
is a “big hurdle” to passage, said Representative John Larson
of  Connecticut , chairman of the House Democratic Caucus.  ‘Visceral Feeling’  “There is a feeling on both sides of the aisle of anger at
Russia,” said Representative Eliot Engel, a  New York  Democrat
who supports normalized trade relations with Russia. House
passage next week would be difficult because “people’s visceral
feeling would be to strike back at the Russians,” he said.  Opposition from unions such as the  International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers  only compounds
the measure’s difficulty in winning support among Democrats
because “labor is a strong ally,” said Representative William Lacy Clay Jr., a Missouri Democrat.  The Obama administration, inactive on the issue for many
months, has “significantly picked up the pace” of its lobbying
for the measure in the last month, said Representative Kevin P. Brady, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and Means
trade subcommittee. Still, that hasn’t translated yet into a
vote count among Democrats, he said.  “It’s always difficult to move a bill unless you know
where the votes are going to be,” Brady said.  Expanding Exports  Enactment of the measure, lifting a 1974 curb on full  trade 
relations with Russia, is necessary under WTO rules before theObama administration grants the country permanent normal trade
status. The Senate Finance Committee unanimously approved its
version of the bill on July 18.  “With unemployment stuck above 8 percent, we cannot miss
any opportunity to help create jobs and expand our exports,”
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a  Michigan 
Republican, said. “This bill is such an opportunity.”  Russia, the world’s seventh-largest economy, will join the
WTO on Aug. 22. Companies including Caterpillar of Peoria,
 Illinois , and Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  have expressed concern
that their international competitors will face lower tariffs and
gain an advantage in doing business in Russia. The Obama
administration also supports swift action by lawmakers.  ‘Fair Chance’  Without a vote in Congress, the U.S. wouldn’t gain
intellectual property protection, adoption of food-safety
regulations on Russian products or have the ability to resolve
trade disputes through the Geneva-based WTO, according to the
Coalition for U.S.-Russia Trade, a Washington-based group
representing U.S. companies and industry groups.  Lawmakers should have a “sense of urgency on this issue,”
Boeing Chief Executive Officer  James McNerney  and Caterpillar
CEO Douglas Oberhelman, members of the Washington-based  Business
Roundtable , said in a letter to House and Senate leaders. Votes
by the full House and Senate “next week would help ensure
American companies, workers and farmers have a fair chance to
compete and to sell their goods and services to Russia.”  Representative Jim McDermott of Washington, the top
Democrat on Brady’s trade subcommittee, said there was “a lot
of grumbling” over lost U.S. business opportunities in South
Korea because the European Union implemented a trade deal with
that country before Congress approved a U.S.-Korean agreement.  WTO Entry  With Russia scheduled to enter the WTO next month, U.S.
companies want to start making deals under the global trade
organization’s rules “before somebody else gets there,”
McDermott said.  The Senate version of the legislation imposes travel and
financial restrictions on human-rights violators in Russia and
any other country. House lawmakers plan to link a similar
measure, already approved by the Foreign Affairs Committee, to
their trade bill before the full chamber votes.  “The bill cannot go forth without” the rights legislation
being attached,” Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the
top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, said after
yesterday’s hearing.  Camp said lawmakers will look for a “commitment” from the
Senate to act before the House considers the legislation. Senate
Democratic leaders haven’t scheduled a vote on the measure and
have expressed doubt that it would be before the August recess.  The bills are H.R. 6156 and S. 3406.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  