-- Egypt Keeps Benchmark Rate Unchanged as Currency Weakens
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-07-26T14:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/egypt-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-as-currency-weakens.html
Egypt ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a fifth consecutive time
today, as pressure on the currency and borrowing costs at near-
record highs overshadowed a slowing of inflation.  The Monetary Policy Committee, headed by Governor Farouk al-Okdah, held the overnight deposit rate at 9.25 percent,
according to a statement on its website. All seven economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast no change.  “Lowering interest rates at the moment could add pressures
on the domestic currency, especially given that external
pressures continue to exist,” Nada Farid, a Cairo-based
economist with investment bank Beltone Financial, said in e-
mailed comments.  Egypt has staved-off depreciation of its currency with the
pound, subject to a managed float, losing 4 percent since the
start of last year’s revolt. The country started a repurchase
facility for  government securities  in March to ease funding
pressure on local banks that became the biggest buyers of its
debt as foreign investors withdrew. Sales of seven-day
 repurchase agreements , or repos, more than tripled last quarter
from a year earlier, allowing holders of the debt to sell it
back to access funds temporarily at 9.75 percent.  “Growth conditions are still too weak for a rate hike,
while a cut would further exacerbate the differential between
government borrowing costs and the  base rate ,” Elizabeth Martins, senior economist with HSBC in Dubai, said in response
to e-mailed questions.  Yields Surge  Economic growth is expected to slow this year to less than
2 percent this year, from 2.5 percent in 2011, according to al-
Okdah. Annual inflation in urban areas, the gauge monitored by
the central bank, slowed to 7.3 percent in June from 8.3 percent
a month earlier.  The yield on the government’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due
April 2020 has surged 84 basis points to 6.5 percent since the
start of last year’s revolt that ousted  Hosni Mubarak , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stalled growth comes amid a political power struggle
between President Mohamed Mursi and the country’s generals.  The military council, which took power after the overthrow
of Mubarak, stripped Mursi’s office of some of its powers while
giving itself broad, albeit temporary legislative authority.  Mursi, who is from the ranks of the Muslim Brotherhood,
appointed the country’s little-known irrigation minister Hisham
Qandil as prime minister on July 24, prompting criticism from
some secular groups that Qandil fell short of the national-unity
figure the president had pledged to name to steer the country
forward.  “The persistent uncertainty on the political and
macroeconomic outlook in the short to medium-term is still a
drag on economic recovery,” Alia Moubayed, senior economist
with  Barclays Capital  in  London , said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  