-- Heineken Extends Asia Pacific Breweries Offer by One Week
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-07-26T23:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/heineken-extends-asia-pacific-breweries-offer-by-one-week.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-
largest brewer, will extend its offer for  Fraser and Neave
Ltd. (FNN) ’s stake in  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  by a week after a
request from the Singaporean food and property group.  The offer initially set to expire today will run until Aug.
3, Heineken said in a statement. The Amsterdam-based company
said it “is keen to agree a consensual deal with F&N, however
if Heineken is denied the ability to extend its offer to all APB
shareholders it will review all options available to protect its
commercial interests.”  F&N’s 40 percent stake in APB is a key target for Heineken,
which owns 42 percent and said on July 20 it will offer as much
as S$7.5 billion ($6 billion) for the rest. The Dutch company
has been involved with APB since 1931 and seeks to protect its
position after companies controlled by billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi and his son-in-law agreed to acquire stakes in
F&N and APB. Brewing assets in faster-growing  emerging markets 
are drawing global bids after a decade of consolidation in the
industry.  F&N hasn’t received other offers for the APB stake, it said
in a statement to Singapore’s stock exchange today.  The S$50 a share bid is 19 percent above APB’s closing
price of S$42 on the day before Heineken announced its plan and
more than the S$45 that Charoen’s company is paying for a stake.
The average premium paid in 45 takeovers of beermakers announced
in the last two years was 25 percent before Heineken’s
announcement, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The purchase would add to consolidation among brewers that
have in the past relied more on joint ventures.  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer with an 18 percent share of
the market, bid $20.1 billion for the remaining 50 percent of
Grupo Modelo SAB last month, tightening its hold on the Mexican
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  