-- Telenet Keeps Forecasts as Second-Quarter Sales Growth Slows
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-07-26T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/telenet-keeps-forecasts-as-second-quarter-sales-growth-slows.html
Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the
Belgian cable operator controlled by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) ,
maintained its forecasts for the full year as revenue growth
slowed and first-half cash generation fell amid a push to
migrate remaining analog viewers to digital television.  Second-quarter sales rose 7.3 percent to 363 million euros
($447 million) after a 9.8 percent increase in the preceding
three months, the company said today in a statement. Earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization climbed 8.1
percent to 194.4 million euros in the latest quarter. Analysts
had projected revenue and Ebitda of 363.9 million euros and
190.7 million euros, respectively.  Telenet migrated 14 percent of its remaining analog cable-
TV customers to the digital platform in the first half. The
campaign drove up expenses for set-top boxes and installation
costs and also led 28,500 clients to cancel their basic cable-TV
subscriptions, leaving less cash available for future payouts. A
deceleration in revenue growth stemmed mostly from lower handset
sales due to iPhone 4S inventory shortages and the increased
take-up of triple play products, which give consumers discounts
compared to stand-alone products.  Revenue growth will continue to slow in the second half as
the effect of last year’s price increases and a boost from
first-time subscribers of sport broadcasts fades, Telenet said,
reiterating its forecast for a 5 percent to 6 percent increase
in sales this year. The cable operator also maintained its
forecast for stable cash generation less  capital spending  this
year after free  cash flow  fell 15 percent to 117.4 million euros
in the first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Mechelen, Belgium at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  