-- Emerging Stocks Rise Most in Week on Earnings, Stimulus
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-26T21:44:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/emerging-stocks-rise-first-time-in-five-days-on-stimulus-hopes.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in five days as  China  announced measures to bolster
growth in the world’s second-largest economy and investors bet
central banks will take more actions to stimulate spending.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 1.2 percent to
916.44 as of 5:10 p.m. in  New York .  Brazil ’s Bovespa index
advanced as pulp producer Fibria Celulose SA jumped after
reporting a quarterly loss that was narrower than forecast.
Mexican equities rose after  Mexichem SAB (MEXCHEM*)  reported earnings that
beat estimates. Russian  stocks  gained 1.2 percent as oil, the
nation’s chief export earner, rose for a third day.  Local Chinese governments are expanding efforts to
stimulate their regional economies after the country’s  gross
domestic product  fell to a three-year low in the second quarter
while growth in industrial production and retail sales slowed in
June. Stocks extended gains after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said the ECB will do whatever is needed
to preserve the euro.  “These are indications that China’s government is going to
stimulate, and they are in a better fiscal position than anyone
to step on the gas,”  Kevin Carter , co-founder and chief
executive officer at Baochuan Capital Management LLC, where he
helps oversee about $282 million, said by phone from Walnut
Creek,  California . “There’s been a lot of negativity in the
market lately, and while sentiment could get worse, this is at
least a short-term bounce.”  Gauges of telecommunications services, materials and energy
companies led gains in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index today.  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s fourth-largest cellular-phone
maker, led gains by consumer discretionary companies, after
saying mobile shipments may improve in the third quarter.  Technology, Consumer Shares  The broader index is little changed this year, compared
with a 3.8 percent gain in the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The developing-
nations measure trades at 10.1 times estimated earnings,
compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 12.4, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  rose for the first time in five days as
optimism that policy makers will contain  Europe ’s debt crisis
boosted commodities, lifting Brazilian producers. Fibria jumped
7.5 percent while Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the second-worst
performer among major oil producers this year, followed crude
higher.  Russia’s Micex Index climbed as crude rose for a third day
after U.S. reports on durable goods and jobless claims reduced
concern that economic growth is slowing in the world’s largest
economy.  South Africa ’s FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index gained 0.6
percent for its third consecutive advance. Anglo American Plc,
which makes up more than 7 percent of the index, rose 1.2
percent.  Turkey, Hungary  Turkey ’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  jumped 3.5 percent, the
biggest gain in six months.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , the
nation’s largest mobile-phone operator, surged 4.3 percent, the
most in eight months, after second-quarter profit beat
estimates.  Hungary’s BUX Index advanced 1.2 percent and the PX index
in the  Czech Republic  added 1 percent, both rising for a third
day.  Central bank officials in Japan and Thailand indicated
yesterday that they are ready to ease monetary policy if
necessary as  Spain ’s borrowing costs rise and  Greece  risks
exiting from the euro. HSBC Holdings Plc forecasts that  South
Korea  will cut  interest rates  further this quarter after
Governor Kim Choong Soo said yesterday that  Asia ’s fourth-
largest economy is losing steam faster than expected.  Central Banks  Policy makers from the U.S. Federal Reserve, the ECB and
the  Bank of England  all meet next week before the fifth
anniversary of the financial crisis in August. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s Federal Open Market Committee meets July 31 and
Aug. 1, a day before ECB President Draghi’s Governing Council
and BOE Governor  Mervyn King ’s Monetary Policy Committee.  The institutions’ last meetings ended with the Fed
extending its Operation Twist program, the ECB cutting its
benchmark rate to a record-low 0.75 percent and the Bank of
England restarting bond buying.  ‘Bold Actions’  “Monetary policies haven’t produced significant results
yet, so politicians need to take bold actions,” Jeffrosenberg Tan, who helps manage about $500 million at PT Sinarmas Asset
Management in Jakarta, said in a phone interview. “Governments
are still in an accommodative stance monetary and fiscally.”  The 21 countries in the developing-nation gauge send about
30 percent of their exports to the European Union on average,
data compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  rose 0.7 percent. The  Bank of
Korea  said it expects economic growth to improve in the second
half. Gross domestic product increased 2.4 percent in the three
months through June from a year earlier, the least since the
third quarter of 2009, data showed today. China’s Shanghai
Composite Index fell 0.5 percent to the lowest level since March
2009.  LG Electronics rose in  Seoul  after Chief Financial Officer
David Jung said yesterday mobile-phone shipments may improve in
the third quarter.  Hyosung Corp. (004800) , a South Korean chemical and trading company,
surged 7.7 percent after KTB Investment & Securities Co. said
the company’s second-quarter operating profit may be more than
double the brokerage’s previous estimate.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 359, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  