-- Louis Vuitton to Gucci Ease Luxury Concern With China Growth
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-07-27T07:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/emerging-market-boom-fuels-luxury-gains-for-gucci-louis-vuitton.html
Booming demand for  luxury goods  in
 emerging markets  such as China fueled sales and profit growth at
 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,  PPR SA (PP)  and  L’Oreal SA (OR)  in
the first half of 2012, helping ease concern about a slowdown.  LVMH, owner of the Givenchy and Fendi brands, said
expansion in developing nations spurred a 20 percent gain in
earnings in period. Emerging-market revenue at Gucci owner PPR
rose 17 percent, helping profit beat analysts’ estimates, while
L’Oreal said the region has become its biggest division as the
cosmetics maker reported second-quarter sales growth that also
topped estimates. All three companies are based in Paris.  “In a world where companies are struggling with diving
European demand and media are awash with bad news, luxury-goods
companies like LVMH and PPR seem to be coming from another
planet,” said  Luca Solca , global head of European equities at
CA Cheuvreux. “The revenue and profit performance of PPR and
LVMH are very satisfying.”  The luxury market in Asia-Pacific will expand as much as 16
percent in 2012, according to Bain & Co estimates. The forecast
excludes China, which is expected to grow as much as 22 percent.
 Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury company, this
month reported sales that missed analysts’ estimates, causing
concern that Europe’s debt crisis and slowing growth in China
may be hurting demand for high-end goods.  PPR Gains  PPR said it got almost 38 percent of  sales  from emerging
regions in the first half, while L’Oreal said so-called new
markets comprised 35 percent of first-half revenue. About 27
percent of LVMH’s sales last year came from  Asia , making the
region its biggest in terms of revenue.  Mainland  China  is the “growth engine” of the Gucci brand
in the Asia-Pacific region, PPR Chief Financial Officer Jean- Marc Duplaix said on a conference call.  PPR  gained  as much as 7.7 percent to 122 euros in Paris
trading, the steepest intraday advance since May 10, 2010, after
reporting first-half estimates the beat estimates. Recurring
operating income at the owner of sporting-goods maker Puma SE
rose 20 percent to 815.3 million euros ($1 billion) in the six
months ended June 30, compared with the 785 million-euro median
of seven analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  PPR “saw a sustained high pace of growth” in emerging
markets, the company said after markets closed yesterday.  LVMH Slips  “We are confident that we will be able to continue growing
our revenue in the second half of 2012 and that our full-year
financial performance will outstrip that of 2011,” PPR Chief
Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said in a statement.  LVMH is also approaching the second half with confidence,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  said.  Still, an increase in first-half profit from recurring
operations to 2.66 billion euros missed the 2.71 billion-euro
median of six estimates compiled by Bloomberg. LVMH  fell  as much
as 3.7 percent to 120.25 euros in Paris trading today.  A declining profit margin in the company’s fashion and
leather unit was “the main negative surprise,” Deutsche Bank
AG analyst Warwick Okines wrote in a note. Profitability was
affected by higher marketing costs at  Louis Vuitton , he said.  Sales at LVMH rose 26 percent to 12.97 billion euros, or 12
percent excluding currency swings and acquisitions.  “Asia continues to be a region of substantial
opportunity,” Chris Hollis, LVMH director of financial
communications, said on a conference call with analysts.  L’Oreal Growth  Second-quarter revenue at L’Oreal climbed 12 percent to
5.57 billion euros, the Paris-based company said after markets
closed, topping the 5.47 billion-euro median of eight analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The shares rose 0.5 percent to
97.82 euros as of 9:26 a.m. in Paris.  Excluding acquisitions and currency shifts, sales rose 5.7
percent, L’Oreal said, led by the Asia-Pacific and Africa and
 Middle East  regions. The luxury division was the best-performing
unit for sales growth, the company said.  “The rise of the new markets, now our number one
geographic zone, is continuing, driven by the dynamism of Asia
and Africa, Middle East,” L’Oreal Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Paul Agon said in a statement.  Still, L’Oreal saw a slowdown in the luxury market in the
second quarter, which included China,  Korea  and  Taiwan , as well
as the U.S., Agon said on a conference call.  The maker of Biotherm Aquasource moisturizer repeated it’s
confident it can outperform the global cosmetics market, which
it estimated in April will grow about 4 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  