-- Energy Department Grants Made Despite Conflicts, Report Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-07-26T16:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/energy-department-grants-made-despite-conflicts-report-says.html
A U.S. Energy Department program
designed to promote use of alternative fuels for vehicles gave
out about $5 million in grants to individuals with conflicts of
interest, the agency’s inspector general said.  The department’s Clean Cities program made an award to an
individual who in turn gave money to a family member’s company,
Rickey Hass, the Energy Department’s deputy inspector general,
told a House Science subcommittee in testimony today. In another
case, a coalition the government entrusted to distribute federal
money gave 40 percent of its available funds to entities
associated with board members, Hass said.  The hearing is the latest by House committees looking into
the Energy Department’s alternative-energy grant and loan
programs following last year’s collapse of solar-panel maker
Solyndra LLC. Critics have said the administration was wrong to
try to pick winners and losers among emerging energy companies.  “We are spending taxpayers’ money,” said Representative
Andy Harris, a Maryland Republican who is chairman of the Energy
and Environment Subcommittee. “We should all remember that.”  The Solyndra loan has become a focus on the presidential
campaign trail, with Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  charging
that President  Barack Obama ’s attempts to use government funding
to jump-start green-technology industries have been marred by
backroom deals with politically connected companies. Solyndra
received a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee before going out of
business.  The  Clean Cities program  was given $300 million to
distribute to companies and local coalitions through the
economic stimulus package Congress approved in 2009.  The Energy Department requires all grant recipients to
undergo audits, Kathleen Hogan, the department’s assistant
secretary for  energy efficiency , told the House subcommittee. If
conflicts are substantiated, the department will “take
appropriate actions to resolve the issue,” Hogan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  