-- Ethiopia Bans Newspaper After Stories on Meles Illness, Protests
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-07-26T08:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/ethiopia-bans-newspaper-after-stories-on-meles-illness-protests.html
An Ethiopian court banned
distribution of a newspaper that published front-page articles
about Prime Minister Meles Zenawi’s health and protests by
Muslims in the capital, Addis Ababa, the government said.  Editors from the weekly  Feteh  newspaper may face criminal
charges because of national security concerns, State Minister of
Justice Berhanu Tsegaye said in a phone interview today. Last
week, Ethiopian authorities seized 30,000 copies of the
newspaper containing the stories about Meles and the protests,
Hailemeskel Beshewamyelhu, a deputy editor, said July 24.  “The court has approved our decision,” Berhanu said of
the Federal First Instance Court’s ruling. “We have not
finalized the charges.” A decision is expected within five
days, he said.  Ethiopia ’s government has been criticized by the U.S. and
the  United Nations  for using laws including counter-terrorism
legislation to stifle critics including politicians and
journalists. The court’s decision was made under Article 42 of
the Freedom of the Mass Media and Access to Information
Proclamation that allows distribution to be blocked if it
presents “a clear and present grave danger to the national
security,” according to the UN refugee agency’s  website .  “The ban on Feteh’s latest issue illustrates the depth of
repression in Ethiopia today, and authorities’ determination to
suppress independent coverage of the prime minister,” CPJ East
Africa Consultant Tom Rhodes said July 23.  Meles has taken a leave of absence from his official duties
to recover from an unspecified illness after he failed to attend
the African Union summit earlier this month, the government said
on July 19. Anti-government groups including the U.S.-based
Ethiopian National Transitional Council have said he’s seriously
ill.  Ethiopian police on July 20 arrested an unspecified number
of Islamic leaders involved in protests in  Addis Ababa . Muslims,
who make up 34 percent of the country’s population according to
the CIA World Factbook, have been protesting for eight months at
mosques about alleged government interference in elections of
Islamic leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  