-- Euro-Area Lending Contracts for Second Month Amid Crisis
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-07-26T08:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/euro-area-lending-contracts-for-second-month-amid-crisis.html
Lending to households and companies
in the 17-nation euro area contracted for a second month in June
and at a faster pace as the sovereign debt crisis intensified.  Loans to the private sector  declined 0.2 percent from a
year earlier after dropping an annual 0.1 percent in May, the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today. That was the
first contraction since March 2010. Lending remained unchanged
in June from a month earlier after contracting for four
consecutive months, the ECB said.  The euro this week dropped below its lifetime average
against the dollar and Moody’s Investors Service cut the outlook
on  Germany ’s Aaa credit rating to negative amid “rising
uncertainty” about the crisis. Banks expect loan demand to
decline in the third quarter and they tightened credit standards
in the three months through June, the ECB said yesterday.  “The big question mark is how much of the financial stress
we’re seeing will translate into a credit crunch down the
line,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at
Nomura International Plc in  London . “So far, the ECB has
prevented it with liquidity provision and credit growth is hurt
primarily by a recessionary environment where demand isn’t
there.”  The euro dropped after the report and traded at $1.2128 at
10:15 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Funding Conditions  Policy makers have injected more than 1 trillion euros
($1.21 trillion) in cheap three-year loans into the banking
system in an effort to keep credit flowing during the debt
crisis. Banks’ access to retail and wholesale funding
deteriorated in the second quarter, while tensions on sovereign-
debt markets impacted funding conditions “substantially,” the
ECB said yesterday.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
a sixth month in July, adding to signs of a deepening economic
slump. The  International Monetary Fund  predicts the euro economy
will shrink 0.3 percent this year before expanding 0.7 percent
in 2013.  “Growth dynamics for the  euro zone  as such are tending to
be lower than we had been expecting at the start of the year,”
ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said in an interview
published yesterday. “Inflation also tends to be lower.”  The rate of growth in  M3 money supply , which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, increased to 3.2 percent in June
from 3.1 percent in the previous month, the ECB said.  M3 grew 3 percent in the second quarter from the same
period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of  money supply 
and includes cash in circulation, some forms of savings and
money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  