-- Euro Strengthens as Draghi Promises to Preserve It; Rand Climbs
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-26T21:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/euro-strengthens-after-draghi-says-currency-is-irreversible.html
The euro climbed against the dollar
by the most in almost a month after  European Central Bank 
President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers will do whatever is
needed to preserve the 17-nation currency.  The greenback remained lower versus most of its major peers
after initial claims for jobless benefits fell more than
forecast and durable-goods orders rose, damping demand for
safety. The dollar fluctuated between gains and losses versus
the yen, trading at almost an eight-week low.  South Africa ’s
rand and New Zealand’s dollar gained as riskier assets rallied.  “Draghi’s comments were a surprise, as was their
forcefulness,”  Andrew Busch , a global currency strategist at
Bank of Montreal in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “It
appears that the ECB is willing to take additional steps to ease
the funding problems of its members. We may be able to get three
to four days of stabilization for the euro out of it.”  The shared European currency advanced 1 percent to $1.2283
at 5 p.m.  New York  time. It rose as much as 1.4 percent, the
most since June 29, after touching $1.2043 on July 24, the
lowest since June 2010. The euro appreciated 1.1 percent to
96.07 yen. The dollar was little changed at 78.21 yen, after
falling to 77.94 yen on July 23, the least since June 1.  The euro’s advance pared its losses for July to 3 percent
against the dollar and to 5 percent versus the yen.  The common currency fell 4.5 percent over the past three
months, the worst performance among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The yen gained 7 percent, and the dollar rose 4 percent.  Risk Rally  Canada’s currency reached a two-month high versus its U.S.
counterpart as risk appetite increased. It appreciated 0.5
percent to C$1.0102 and reached C$1.0063, the strongest level
since May 16.  “The Canadian dollar is reacting to Draghi’s very strong
comments,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of
Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “There’s
a significant short covering in euro. Other markets are
following suit on reduced  risk aversion .” Short covering refers
to buying a security to square earlier bets that it would fall.  South Africa’s rand was the biggest winner among major
currencies. It gained 1.9 percent to 8.2375 per dollar after
falling earlier as much as 0.7 percent on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis was worsening and  China ’s growth was slowing.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, climbed 1.6
percent to 80.19 U.S. cents and touched 80.30 cents, its highest
level in almost a week. Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard
earlier left the country’s benchmark  interest rates  on hold and
said the economy should grow “modestly.”  The Australian dollar appreciated for a second day,
advancing 0.9 percent to $1.0397.  Volatility Eases  Implied  volatility  on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies declined for a second day, touching 9.31
percent, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index . It rose
to 9.83 percent on July 24, the highest level this month. The
average over the past five years is 12.4 percent.  Lower volatility makes investments in currencies of nations
with higher benchmark interest rates more attractive because the
risk in such trades is that market moves will erase profits. Key
rates are 5 percent in South Africa and 3.5 percent in
 Australia , versus zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S. and 0.75
percent in the euro region.  The ECB chief’s pledge spurred speculation policy makers
may be preparing to unveil new measures to fight the region’s
debt crisis as potential bailouts for economies the size of
Spain and Italy threaten to overwhelm Europe’s rescue funds. ECB
council member Ewald Nowotny said this week there were arguments
in favor of giving the region’s rescue fund a banking license,
which would provide it with greater firepower.  Surging Yields  Draghi spoke today at the Global Investment Conference in
 London , saying surging sovereign-bond yields may fall within the
ECB’s jurisdiction. Spanish yields have exceeded the 7 percent
level that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland.  “The Draghi remarks seem to imply that the ECB could soon
take measures to help alleviate the selling pressure on the
bonds of the weak peripheral countries in the euro zone,”
 Valentin Marinov , head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy
at Citigroup Inc. in London, said in an interview. “More action
in that direction ahead of the ECB meeting on Aug. 2 could be
very beneficial for the single currency.”  Market expectations for central-bank action could push the
euro up further against the greenback in the near term, Marinov
wrote in a note today.  Yields on the Spanish government’s 10-year  bonds  declined
to 6.93 percent today after climbing to a euro-era record of
7.75 percent yesterday.  Euro Decline  While the shared currency will probably trade at current
levels through August, it may fall to between $1.15 and $1.20 in
September, according to Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research at Societe Generale SA.  “The central bank is doing everything it can; the
challenge is with the politicians,” London-based Juckes said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “What we need to solve is the crisis of
financing the banking system and the governments.”  Lending to households and companies in the 17-nation euro
area contracted for a second month in June and at a faster pace
as the sovereign debt crisis intensified.  Loans to the private sector declined 0.2 percent from a
year earlier after dropping an annual 0.1 percent in May, the
Frankfurt-based European Central Bank said today. That was the
first contraction since March 2010.  U.S. Data  The dollar remained lower against the euro after Commerce
Department data showed orders for U.S. durable goods increased
more than forecast in June, rising 1.6 percent. A surge in
demand for aircraft and military hardware overshadowed a slump
in business equipment spending. Fewer Americans than forecast,
353,000, filed initial claims for  unemployment benefits  last
week, a Labor Department report said.  U.S. economic growth slowed to an annualized 1.4 percent in
the second quarter, a Bloomberg survey forecast before the
Commerce Department reports the data tomorrow. The pace for the
first quarter was 1.9 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers will open a two-day meeting
on July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  