-- Evercore Profit Rises 19% on Investment-Banking Revenue
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-26T20:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/evercore-profit-rises-19-as-investment-banking-revenue-climbs.html
Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , the advisory
firm founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman , said second-quarter profit rose 19 percent as
investment-banking revenue climbed.  Net income excluding certain items climbed to $21.2
million, or 49 cents per share, from $17.8 million, or 43 cents,
in the year-earlier period, the New York-based firm said in a
statement today. That beat the 48-cent  average estimate  of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Altman, 65, chairman of the firm, has said that the
ingredients for an upturn in merger-and-acquisition volume are
in place, including improving business conditions, higher equity
prices and the availability of credit. That will help to
overcome impediments such as uncertainty over the European
sovereign-debt crisis and the looming U.S. fiscal cliff of
spending cuts and tax increases, Altman has said.  “The financial market environment is a challenging one,
but our own backlog is strong,” Altman said in today’s
statement.  Evercore rose 4.9 percent to close at $21.98 in  New York .
The firm’s stock has declined 17 percent this year.  Adjusted net revenue rose 23 percent to $172.1 million in
the second quarter from the same period a year earlier. The
increase was driven by a 35 percent jump in investment-banking
adjusted net revenue. The investment-management unit had a 25
percent decline in adjusted net revenue from a year earlier.  Revenue ‘Sustainable’  Evercore earned advisory fees from 137 clients in the
second quarter, compared with 77 in the same period last year
and 104 in the first quarter. The firm earned advisory fees in
excess of $1 million from 30 transactions, compared with 21 a
year earlier and 17 in the first quarter.  The company had assets under management of $11.8 billion at
June 30, an 8 percent decline from the first quarter due to net
outflows and market depreciation, according to the statement.
Assets under management fell by 27 percent from the second
quarter last year.  Adjusted net revenue for the first half of 2012 climbed 13
percent to a record $277.6 million from the same period last
year. That revenue level is “sustainable” for the rest of the
year if  Europe  remains stable, Chief Executive Officer Ralph Schlosstein, 61, said today on a conference call.  New Director  “As we look at our business today, it looks very promising
but certainly the rest of the world has some clouds over it,”
Schlosstein said. “Longer-term, there are very good reasons to
be optimistic about our business.”  Evercore’s adjusted compensation expense rose 24 percent to
$102.8 million from $82.8 million a year earlier. The adjusted
pro forma compensation ratio was 60 percent of net revenue,
compared to 59 percent for the same period last year.  Evercore said last month it added Greenhill & Co.’s George Estey as a managing director in its investment-banking unit to
build its business in  Canada . The company plans to announce
three more managing director hires by next quarter’s results,
Altman said today on the call.  The firm expanded its board to nine members and appointed
Robert B. Millard as a director, according to a regulatory
filing today. Millard, 62, is a managing partner of Realm
Partners LLC and serves as chairman of the MIT Investment
Management Co., according to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  