-- Evita to Emblazon New Peso as Argentines Hunt Dollars
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-07-26T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/evita-to-emblazon-new-peso-as-argentines-hunt-dollars.html
Argentina ’s government will issue a
new 100 peso ($22) note bearing an image of former first lady
Eva Peron to mark the 60th anniversary of her death today.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, an admirer of the
woman known to Argentines as Evita, said the template for the
new bill was rescued from a  1952 design  of a 5-peso note that
was hidden for years at the country’s mint. The note was banned
from ever circulating by the military junta that toppled Evita’s
husband, former President Juan Domingo Peron, in a 1955 coup.  “Eva wasn’t perfect, she wasn’t a saint, but rather a
woman of humble origin who found herself with a man and with a
people,” Fernandez, whose own rise to power began alongside her
deceased husband, former President  Nestor Kirchner , said
yesterday.  The government’s unveiling of the Evita peso bill comes as
Argentines have been dumping their currency in favor of the  U.S.
dollar  to ward against stalling growth in  South America ’s
second-biggest economy and inflation that private economists
estimate at 24 percent.  Since her re-election in October, Fernandez has imposed
foreign exchange limits to stem capital flight that last year
doubled to $21.5 billion. Her ban on most foreign currency
purchases by individuals has forced argentines to turn to the
unregulated market, driving up the dollar to 6.79 pesos, a 48
percent premium over the official rate.  Peronist Icon  Evita remains an icon of the ruling Peronist party,
emblazoning banners at pro-government rallies where Fernandez
frequently invokes her legacy as a champion of the poor.  To mark the anniversary of her death from cancer at the age
of 33, Fernandez last year  inaugurated  a 15-ton, 100-foot iron
portrait of Evita that hangs from the side of the Social
Development ministry along  Buenos Aires ’ busiest avenue.  Speaking yesterday from the presidential palace with a
scale model of that mural behind her, Fernandez said that
authorities had first wanted to honor Evita with a commemorative
issue of banknotes worth 20 million pesos. The idea caught on
and Fernandez said that she’s now ordered authorities to use her
likeness to replace that of former President Julio Argentino
Roca on all future printings of the 100-peso bills.  Roca served two terms as president after leading an 1878
military campaign of extermination against Indian groups known
as the Conquest of the Desert, which cleared the way for
settlement of the country’s hinterland.  “Eva Peron gives a sense of peace and tranquility,”
Fernandez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  