-- Ex-NYC Police Officer Gets 2 Years in Prison for Gun-Running
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-26T21:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/ex-nyc-police-officer-gets-2-years-in-prison-for-gun-running-1-.html
A former  New York  City police
officer was sentenced to two years in prison today for his part
in a plan to illegally transport guns, cigarettes and slot
machines across state lines.  Marco Venezia, a 20-year veteran of the NYPD according to
U.S. District Judge Sidney H. Stein, pleaded guilty in February
to illegally transporting about $1 million worth of guns and
merchandise. He was one of 12 men, including eight active-duty
and retired police officers, charged in the scheme last October.  In  Manhattan  federal court today, Stein called Venezia’s a
“troubling case” and said he was surprised that the Probation
Department recommended Venezia be sentenced to less than the
term of 2 1/2 provided for in federal guidelines.  “It really undermines people’s respect for the police
force in general, which is a dangerous thing to happen,” Stein
said. “You have a number of excellent qualities, but a message
does have to be sent that the police cannot violate their
oath.”  Before the sentence was imposed, Venezia told the court he
is “ashamed and disgraced” by his conduct, and apologized to
his family and fellow officers .  FBI Informant  Conversations recorded by an FBI informant revealed the
conspiracy, according to court records. Venezia and his alleged
co-conspirators transported M-16 rifles, a shotgun, 16 handguns,
six  slot machines  and thousands of cartons of cigarettes, U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement.  Venezia already has forfeited $8,000 to the government. He
will be subject to two years of supervised release after his
prison term.  Venezia was ordered to report prison on Sept. 28.  “Use the time in prison as effectively as you can,” Stein
told Venezia. “Use it to try to figure out what went wrong and
why. When you get out, you can rebuild your life.”  The case is U.S. v. Venezia, 12-cr-00156, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  