-- Exxon Profit Profit Rises as Asset Sales Offset Prices
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-07-26T20:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/exxon-profit-profit-rises-as-asset-sales-offset-prices.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the world’s
biggest oil company by market value, earned less than expected
as oil demand stalled in the world’s largest economies and U.S.
natural-gas prices dropped.  Second-quarter net income was $15.9 billion, or $3.41 a
share, compared with $10.7 billion, or $2.18, a year earlier,
Irving, Texas-based Exxon said in a statement today. Excluding
one-time gains that accounted for almost half of the quarter’s
profit, per-share income was $1.80, or 15 cents lower than the
average of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Exxon  fell short  of estimates for the second straight
quarter amid a widening production decline that Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  is attempting to reverse
with $37 billion in  capital spending  this year. The company
pumped the equivalent of 4.15 million barrels of crude a day
during the April-to-June period, the lowest in two years.  “It was another sub-par quarter for Exxon,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward Jones  in  St. Louis , who has a
hold rating on Exxon’s shares. “They are struggling to grow
production and commodity prices are working against them.”  Sales rose 1.5 percent to $127.4 billion. Exxon rose 1.5
percent to $86.52 at the close in  New York  amid a broader market
rally.  Items Guidance  Exxon initially announced during a conference call with
news organizations that its per-share profit of $3.41 didn’t
include any special or one-time gains. An e-mailed statement
released within minutes of the call showed the $7.5 billion in
gains that accounted for 47 percent of the per-share figure.  “Asset divestment and acquisitions have become a normal
part of our ongoing operations,”  David Rosenthal , an Exxon
spokesman, said during a later conference call with analysts
today. “This is an ongoing piece of the business for us.” The
U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission’s criteria for what
qualifies as a special item has evolved in recent years, he
said.  Brent crude futures, the benchmark for two-thirds of the
world’s oil, averaged $108.76 a barrel during the quarter, a 7
percent decline from a year earlier. Oil demand in the U.S. and
China, which together consume almost one-third of the world’s
crude, stagnated at 28.2 million barrels a day, little changed
from a year earlier, according the  International Energy Agency .  Gas futures traded in New York fell 46 percent compared to
a year earlier to average $2.354 per million British thermal
units, the lowest quarterly average since 1999, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Tillerson warned last month that
Exxon and other gas producers have been “losing our shirts”
amid a glut of North American supply.  Losing Bet  Gas, the most-widely used U.S. furnace fuel and the
nation’s second-largest source of electricity, has been a losing
bet for the biggest energy explorers. Innovations in drilling
and cracking subterranean rock formations allowed explorers to
flood the U.S. and  Canada  with supply, pushing prices to the
lowest in a decade earlier this year.  Exxon spent $35 billion on the 2010 acquisition of XTO
Energy that enabled it to surpass  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  as the
largest U.S. gas producer. Since that deal closed, gas has
fallen 33 percent to about $3.08 per million Btus.  Paul Cheng , an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in New
York, told clients in a July 9 note that other major  oil
companies  are more compelling investment opportunities because
of concern “that the XTO operation will remain a drag on the
company’s performance.”  Gas Glut  Exxon boosted U.S. gas production by 1.4 percent to 3.9
billion cubic feet a day even as a glut of North American supply
depressed prices for the fuel, according to  a filing  made after
its earnings release today. U.S. wells accounted for one-third
of the company’s global gas output.  Profit from U.S. oil and gas wells plunged 53 percent to
$678 million, according to the filing. Outside the U.S., oil and
gas production income rose 8.3 percent to $7.68 billion.  Refining profit quadrupled to $6.65 billion after the
company sold part of its Japanese business to  TonenGeneral
Sekiyu KK. (5012)  Chemical profit jumped 9.7 percent to $1.45 billion.
The Japanese sale contributed $5.3 billion to second-quarter
results. On a per-share basis, the entire $7.5 billion in one-
time gains accounted for $1.61 of net income.  “Those one-time gains were the swing factor,” Chris Kettenmann, chief energy strategist at Phoenix Group Partners LP
in New York, said today in a telephone interview. “Liquids
production was down and they were impacted like everybody else
by lower global liquids prices.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  earlier today said second-quarter
profit fell 13 percent, excluding one-time items and inventory
changes, to $5.7 billion, missing the $6.3 billion average of 10
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
Exxon’s largest U.S.-based rival, is scheduled to report results
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  