-- Facebook Widens ‘Bug Bounty’ Program to Combat Internal Breaches
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/facebook-widens-bug-bounty-program-to-combat-internal-breaches.html
Facebook (FB)  Inc.’s computer-security
team faced a quandary after getting an unexpected tip in May.  An outside researcher unearthed a weakness in the company’s
network that left internal communications vulnerable to
eavesdropping.  Facebook  engineers quickly fixed the bug.  Then came a bigger dilemma: whether to reward the tipster,
who by using information for good is known in  hacking circles  as
a “white hat.” The team made an unheard-of choice. Facebook
would offer a bounty to anyone who finds a hole in its corporate
network and then opts to report -- and not exploit -- it.  “If there’s a million-dollar bug, we will pay it out,”
said Ryan McGeehan, who  manages  Facebook’s security-incident
response unit.  Facebook is becoming the first big technology provider to
reward hackers who uncover vulnerabilities on its own corporate
network -- a risky proposition considering that’s where the
company stores data on its more than 900 million users.
Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , plans to announce the
broadened program this week at the  DefCon Hacking Conference  in
 Las Vegas .  Facebook was already one the few large companies, besides
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , that pays a “ bug bounty ,” or cash reward, to
outside hackers who report weaknesses in its products -- say, e-
mail or profile pages. Many companies shun the practice, saying
it provides incentives for possibly nefarious deeds.  Bug bounties are a way for companies to make products more
secure while engaging with hackers, many of whom would be
looking for the vulnerabilities anyway -- whether for fun or
research or to sell into a  thriving black market .  Facebook Risks  Facebook, which later today is scheduled to report  second-
quarter results , has an added incentive to try new ways to
protect itself: as the owner of the world’s largest social
network, it’s responsible for one of the richest repositories of
personal data. A large breach could damage faith in its ability
to serve as custodian for private information.  More than  563 million records  have been compromised in
about 3,200 data breaches since 2005, according to the Privacy
Rights Clearinghouse, a sign that security breakdowns in a few
key places can do harm on a much wider scale.  As part of its existing program, Facebook has paid $500 to
$10,000 per bug, and researchers have claimed about $400,000 in
total rewards, said Fred Wolens, a spokesman for Facebook. The
company has created  added allure  by distributing the payments on
 Visa Inc (V) .-branded  debit cards  that look like  American Express
Co. (AXP) ’s invitation-only Centurion cards.  Paying Up  Facebook says there’s no limit to what it will pay to catch
weaknesses in internal networks.  Google has paid more than $1 million through its  programs ,
including payments as high as $60,000 for bugs in the Chrome
browser, according to  Chris Gaither , a Google spokesman. Mozilla
Corp., which makes the Firefox Web browser, had paid more than
$600,000 through its  program , said spokeswoman Gretchen Bender.
And the  Zero Day Initiative , which collects vulnerabilities on
multiple vendors’ products, has paid more than $5.6 million
since 2005, said Scott Lambert, director of  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s  DVLabs , which runs the Zero Day Initiative.  Facebook’s proposition comes as the newly public company
grapples with concerns over user-data protection and its ability
to boost sales growth.  Until now, Google and Facebook’s bounties have prohibited
the submission of network vulnerabilities. Google said that the
company has no plans to expand its program to the corporate
network.  Hacker Sensibility  While Mozilla doesn’t specifically exclude attacks on its
network, it also doesn’t actively encourage them. The Zero Day
Initiative has paid for a range of vulnerabilities -- though it
focuses on applications, not entire networks.  Facebook’s decision to expand grew out of the success of
the bounty program for products, said Joe Sullivan, Facebook’s
chief security officer. The company’s hacker culture,
promulgated by Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg , helped
the idea win broad support internally, he said.  The hacker ethic has deep roots in Facebook’s history.
Zuckerberg invoked the idea in his letter to investors before
the company’s initial public offering, describing Facebook’s
culture as centered around the “Hacker Way.”  “Hackers believe that something can always be better, and
that nothing is ever complete,” Zuckerberg wrote in the letter.
“They just have to go fix it -- often in the face of people who
say it’s impossible or are content with the status quo.”  ‘Poking’ Risk  There are risks for Facebook painting a bull’s-eye on its
network. Hackers who otherwise wouldn’t have considered it will
likely begin probing the network, and service could be
disrupted. By the same token, corporate networks are attacked
constantly anyway, so engaging outsiders who are willing to
report bugs instead of selling them to criminals is wise, said
Tom Cross,  director of security research  at Lancope Inc.  “It’s a positive step, and it’s a bold step,” he said.
“It puts researchers in a position where they’re a little more
comfortable, knowing that the organization anticipates receiving
these kinds of disclosures and is not going to turn around and
accuse them of doing something wrong. But on the other hand, it
opens up the prospect that people are going to think they’re
authorized to go poking at the network and poking at the site,
and if they knock something over, so be it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  