-- Farmers May Gain Amid Drought With U.S.-Backed Insurance
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-07-26T16:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/farmers-may-see-gains-amid-drought-with-u-s-backed-insurance.html
This year’s once-in-a-generation
drought may leave many crop farmers largely unscathed as they
are protected by taxpayer-subsidized insurance, a program
Congress is moving to make more generous.  With prices for corn, soy and wheat escalating along with
estimates of the drought’s severity, government-backed revenue-
insurance policies offered through units of companies such as
 ACE Ltd. (ACE)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  probably will be paying out
billions of dollars in claims. And the program is designed so
that the larger the losses for insurers, the greater the share
of the payouts the government will pick up.  Farmers “are laughing all the way to the bank,” Bruce
Babcock, an Iowa State University economist and critic of the
insurance program, said at a  presentation  in  Washington  July 19.
“If the price goes up, you could end up better off than
anticipated if you have a crop loss.”  “I’m not saying this is anything illegal, or immoral,” he
added. “It’s just the way it is.”  In 2011, with a drought in  Texas  and other weather woes,
government-run crop-insurance programs paid out a record $10.8
billion. Of premiums paid in 2011, farmers chipped in $4.5
billion, while the government paid $7.4 billion, according to
data  published  by the department.  Because of the program’s reinsurance rules, insurers made a
$1.7 billion profit even with those record payouts, while the
government took an underwriting loss of about $500 million, Pat
Engel, a spokeswoman for the USDA Risk Management Agency, said
in an e-mail.  ‘Never Whole’  Jeff Scates, who farms corn and soybeans on 15,000 acres in
Shawneetown,  Illinois , said this year demonstrates the need for
an effective insurance program. He said he may lose as much as
80 percent of his crop because of the dry conditions. With
insurance, he said he can recoup 75 percent of his potentially
lost revenues.  Even with insurance, “you’re never whole” as farmers must
pay for seeds and fertilizer, he said in an interview. “I’m
definitely in favor of the crop-insurance program. It gives us
skin in the game. If everyone buys it, everyone is in the
game.”  Like auto, fire, and other forms of insurance, farmers pay
into the program each year, collecting only when they suffer
losses. In each of the previous 10 years insurance companies
made more in premiums than they paid out to farmers.  Dust Bowl  Federal crop insurance dates to the Dust Bowl droughts of
the 1930s. The program and subsidies were boosted in 2000 as
lawmakers sought to use it as a way to avoid what by the 1980s
had become near-annual disaster payouts. Those payments cost
taxpayers $68.7 billion from 1989 to 2009, according to the
 Congressional Research Service .  When the last major drought hit in 1988, 25 percent of
farmers had crop insurance, while this year 85 percent do,
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said today on Bloomberg
Television. “We’re fortunate,” he said.  The program reflects a long-standing desire in Congress to
protect farmers, who are considered essential to the economy and
at unusual risk of losses because of weather, said Keith Collins, a former chief economist for the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  who is currently a consultant for the crop-insurance
industry.  The share of government support for crop insurance could
rise by the time the next disaster hits, as lawmakers are
working on a new agriculture-policy law that would expand
support both for farmers and the insurers. The Senate has passed
a bill with a provision that reduces premium costs for new
farmers, expands insurance for cotton growers and allows farmers
to buy a supplemental policy.  ‘Good Example’  The Senate changes would cost the government an additional
$5 billion over the next decade, according to the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office . The House Agriculture Committee has
approved a similar measure.  That expansion partly compensates for the proposed
elimination of another form of subsidy, direct payments, which
growers can receive regardless of crop prices.  Lawmakers have moved “substantially in the direction of
having risk management be the farmers’ safety net,” David
Graves, manager of the  American Association  of Crop Insurers in
Washington, said in an interview. The droughts last year and
this year show the program is working, he said. Farmers will
“have a loss, but they’ll be able next year to ante up and go
at it again.”  Crop Threat  The threat to crops is high.  The U.S. Drought Monitor today said moderate to severe
drought expanded to 64 percent of the lower 48 states in the
week ended yesterday, up slightly from the previous week.
Yesterday, the Department of Agriculture  designated  76 more
counties as natural-disaster areas, bringing the total to 1,369
in 31 states -- 44 percent of those in the entire country. The
USDA last week said 88 percent of the nation’s corn crop and 87
percent of soybeans were in  drought -stricken areas, making the
conditions the worst for farmers since 1988.  Higher commodity prices mean higher insurance payments to
farmers, who are able to buy policies that are linked to the
price of their crops at harvest time. Theoretically, that means
growers, who often insure 70 percent to 75 percent of their
crop, can end up with a bigger payday if their crop fails and
prices rise than if they harvest their full expected crop while
prices are stagnant.  Corn Prices  The price of corn, the biggest U.S. crop, closed yesterday
at $7.88 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, up 20 percent
from March 1, as the planting season was getting under way.
Soybeans gained 22 percent in that period and wheat 36 percent.  And the higher the indemnities, the greater the share that
the government chips in, protecting the companies such as ACE
and Wells Fargo from overwhelming losses. The government also
takes a share of underwriting profits.  Insurers aren’t protected from all losses.  “Drought conditions in the U.S. are impacting our crop-
insurance business and will affect our earnings in the second
half of the year,” Evan Greenberg, chairman and chief executive
of ACE, said in a statement July 24.  Gabriel Boehmer, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said “it’s
‘‘premature to speculate on the effects the drought will have’’
on the company” He said Wells Fargo recognizes “the vital role
crop insurance plays in helping our country sustain an
agricultural industry that delivers a stable, affordable  food
supply .”  Farmer groups say criticisms of the program are misplaced,
because crop insurance has achieved its goal of reducing risk
and lessening dependence on emergency bailouts that also cost
billions.  After last year’s drought in Texas and flooding in the
Midwest, “for the first time in my memory, we did not have any
serious legislative effort at an ad hoc disaster bill,” Bob
Young, the chief economist of the  American Farm Bureau
Federation  in Washington, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ; 