-- Federer Plays Falla, Djokovic Starts Against Fognini at Olympics
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-26T13:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/federer-plays-falla-djokovic-starts-against-fognini-at-olympics.html
Wimbledon champion  Roger Federer 
will start his quest for a first singles gold medal against
Alejandro Falla at the Olympic tennis event.  The  All England Club , which organizes the annual Wimbledon
championships, will host the sport at the  London Games  for the
second time in its 135-year history. The competition, won by
 Rafael Nadal  of Spain and the now-retired  Elena Dementieva  of
Russia four years ago in Beijing, starts in two days.  Nadal
withdrew last week because of injury.  Although 17-time Grand Slam champion Federer of Switzerland
leads Falla 5-0, the Colombian took him to five sets at
Wimbledon in 2010 and even served for the match.  Women’s top seed  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus was drawn
against Irina-Camelia Begu of Romania in the opening round.  Second-seeded Novak Djokovic of Serbia, who won the singles
bronze medal four years ago, plays Italy’s Fabio Fognini. Third-
seeded Andy Murray of Britain, beaten by Federer in the
Wimbledon final earlier this month, plays  Stanislas Wawrinka ,
who will carry the flag for Switzerland at tomorrow’s opening
ceremony. Djokovic and Murray have been drawn in the same half.  Four-time Wimbledon singles champion Serena Williams of the
U.S. faces former top-ranked Jelena Jankovic of Serbia, while
her sister and former gold medalist Venus plays French Open
finalist Sara Errani of Italy. The Williams sisters won doubles
gold in Beijing and at Sydney in 2000. French Open champion
 Maria Sharapova , the flag-bearer for Russia, faces Israel’s
Shahar Peer.  Forty-four countries will be competing at Wimbledon.
There is a draw of 64 for the men’s and women’s singles, with 16
players seeded in each event, and a draw of 32 for the men’s and
women’s doubles, with eight teams seeded in each. Mixed doubles
is making a return to the Olympics as a medal sport for the
first time since 1924.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Olympic Park through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  