-- New York Fed Asks Judge to Toss Starr’s Lawsuit Over AIG Bailout
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/federal-reserve-bank-of-n-y-seeks-starr-aig-lawsuit-dismissal.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
urged a federal judge to dismiss Starr International Co.’s
lawsuit over the government bailout of  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)   Starr, an AIG shareholder that is headed by AIG’s founder,
 Hank Greenberg , claims the government used its 2008 bailout of
New York-based AIG to channel money improperly to the insurer’s
trading partners.  John Kiernan, a lawyer for the New York Fed, yesterday told
U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer in  Manhattan  that Starr
failed to make a demand on AIG’s board before filing the suit
and that the board’s decisions about terms of the bailout loans
aren’t subject to court review under state law.  Starr sued the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in
November, saying it breached its duty to AIG shareholders by
loaning $85 billion at 14.5 percent while offering better terms
to banks in a “backdoor bailout.” AIG almost collapsed after
bets tied to the housing market soured, and the bailout was
revised at least four times before reaching $182 billion.  David Boies , a lawyer for Starr, said yesterday that Starr
correctly seeks compensation for the New York Fed’s breaches of
fiduciary duties it owed both to AIG and to AIG’s shareholders,
including Starr.  ‘Millennial Situation’  Engelmayer questioned Boies on the timeliness of the filing
of the suit and whether any statute of limitations had expired.  “I have a great deal of difficulty understanding why you
aren’t sunk by the timing of your lawsuit,” the judge said.  Engelmayer also asked if what occurred at AIG was a
“millennial situation” and whether the actions by AIG’s board
were consistent with “finding a creative way to grant headroom
for terms that saved its life.”  Starr said in the complaint that the bank coerced, induced
and required AIG directors and officers to “violate their
duties” to Starr International and AIG. Beginning in 2008 and
continuing until at least January 2011, the federal government
“imposed a series of transactions” that “resulted in
depriving” AIG and its shareholders of tens of billions of
dollars, Starr said.  The reserve bank said in a court filing that AIG sought and
freely accepted the government bailout.  “No cognizable cause of action arises from FRBNY’s
decisions regarding specific proposed terms for its rescue or
from the AIG board’s decision to accept those terms,” the bank
said.  Starr filed a related complaint in November against the
federal government in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in
 Washington .  The New York case is Starr International Co. v.  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , 11-8422, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  