-- FIFA Provisionally Bans Mohamed Bin Hammam Amid Investigation
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-26T16:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/fifa-provisionally-bans-mohamed-bin-hammam-amid-investigation.html
Soccer ruling body  FIFA  said it
provisionally banned former Asian soccer chief Mohamed Bin Hammam for a maximum of 90 days from any activity related to the
sport.  FIFA said it took the action to prevent any interference
with an investigation into Bin Hammam by the organization’s
ethics committee. Last week he was provisionally suspended by
the Asian Football Confederation after an audit of the governing
body’s accounts.  Former AFC President Bin Hammam was suspended for 30 days
following a forensic audit that centered on contract
negotiations and payments to and from AFC bank accounts.   Bin Hammam’s FIFA-imposed life ban from soccer was
overturned by sport’s top court on July 19. It ruled that a
FIFA-ordered inquiry by former FBI head  Louis Freeh  failed to
find enough evidence that the ex-head of Asian soccer was the
source of envelopes stuffed with $40,000 and handed to Caribbean
officials before a vote on the FIFA presidency.  Qatari Bin Hammam challenged Sepp Blatter for the
presidency last year but withdrew from the race.  He has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing and said the
charges against him are politically motivated. A text message
sent to Bin Hammam wasn’t immediately returned.  FIFA said it’s looking into the AFC audit report as well
as “assessing the prospects of collecting further evidence
relevant to the recently closed Court of Arbitration for Sport
proceedings.”  On July 17, FIFA named former U.S. attorney Michael J. Garcia as head investigator for its ethics committee and German
judge Hans-Joachim Eckert to lead the adjudicatory branch. It
said today that Eckert provisionally banned  Bin Hammam  at
Garcia’s request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  