-- Ford Is Recalling 484,600 Escape, Maverick SUV Models
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-07-26T21:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/ford-is-recalling-484-600-escape-maverick-suv-models.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is recalling 484,600
Escape and Maverick sport-utility vehicles because a cruise
control defect may cause the throttle to stick, leading to
unintended acceleration.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
announced it was investigating the safety defect July 17, based
on 99 complaints, including 13 involving crashes, one of which
killed a 17-year-old  Arizona  girl.  The worldwide recall covers SUVs from the 2001 through 2004
model years, Marcey Zwiebel, a Ford spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview.  Almost 424,000 U.S. vehicles with three-liter, six-cylinder
engines will be covered under the recall, according to documents
Ford provided to NHTSA. There’s inadequate clearance between the
engine cover and a control cable in those models, Ford said.  Affected owners will be notified by mail and instructed to
take their SUVs to a Ford or Lincoln dealer, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said. The notices will go out beginning
August 6, Ford said.  The U.S. safety regulator’s investigation remains open,
pending the agency’s review of the documents provided by Ford in
its recall action, Karen Aldana, a NHTSA spokeswoman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Continued Monitoring  “NHTSA will continue to monitor any future issues
involving a stuck throttle or unintended acceleration in these
vehicles to ensure there are no additional safety risks that
warrant further action,” Aldana said.  The U.S. investigation followed a July 10 letter from
 Clarence Ditlow , executive director of the Center for Automotive
Safety in  Washington , to Ford Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , asking him to recall all Escapes from model years 2002
to 2004 for what he called a “lethal cruise-control cable
defect.”  NHTSA should reject the fix Ford is proposing as
inadequate, Ditlow said today in a statement. The agency should
also impose the maximum $17 million penalty against the company,
because it has known about the problem since 2005 but is only
proposing a recall now, he said.  “Rather than replace the defective cruise-control cable,
Ford uses a cheap fastener to raise the engine cover to try to
provide enough clearance so the cable doesn’t jam,” Ditlow
said.  High Mileage  Ford hasn’t noted an unusual number of reports about non-
functioning speed controls, which aren’t a safety issue, said
Zwiebel, the company spokeswoman.  The throttle in the affected cars can stick only when the
speed control cable has been bent or moved out of position,
Zwiebel said. Many routine service procedures require the
cable’s removal, so there isn’t any one reason it can be moved,
she said.  “We can’t ignore the fact that the affected vehicles are
9-to-12 years old and generally have accumulated high
mileages,” Zwiebel said. “The important thing is that Ford is
addressing the potential safety issue with this recall by
raising the engine cover and providing additional clearance
under all conditions.”  Escapes from the 2002 model year have been the subject of
eight previous NHTSA investigations, according to the agency’s
database. Some of the vehicles have been recalled for engine
stalling, an electrical short in the antilock brake system and
leaking brake fluid.  Ford recalled 11,500 new Escapes July 19 because fuel lines
were at risk of leaking, causing an engine fire.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Japan ’s largest carmaker, recalled
millions of U.S. autos in 2009 and 2010 for unintended
acceleration, replacing floor mats at risk of jamming
accelerators and sticky gas pedals. The Toyota City, Japan-based
company paid a record $48.8 million in fines for how some of the
recalls were conducted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  