-- France Telecom Revenue Exceeds Estimates Amid Iliad Rivalry
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-07-26T07:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/france-telecom-revenue-exceeds-estimates-amid-iliad-rivalry-1-.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , the country’s
largest phone company, reported a smaller-than-estimated decline
in first-half revenue after price cuts helped slow customer
defections to discounter  Iliad SA (ILD)  in France and on market-share
gains in Spain from  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   Sales fell 3.2 percent to 21.8 billion euros ($26.5
billion) from a year earlier, the Paris-based operator said
today. That compares with the 21.7 billion-euro average of
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  France Telecom’s French wireless market share stabilized at
about 38 percent last quarter. Iliad, which began selling
mobile-phone subscriptions under the Free brand in January,
scooped up 4 percent of the market in its first 80 days by
distributing solely over the Internet and offering phones
separately from contracts. Even in crisis-stricken Spain,
 France Telecom  boosted revenue by 2.3 percent in the period.  “We’ve been progressively winning market share in Spain
for a few quarters with prices about 15 percent lower than our
rivals and a sophisticated marketing strategy,” Chief Financial
Officer Gervais Pellissier said on a conference call.  France Telecom climbed as much as 3.2 percent to 10.59
euros and traded 1.5 percent higher as of 9:20 a.m. in Paris.
The stock has lost 15 percent this year through yesterday,
compared with a 7.7 percent decline of the 23-company Bloomberg
 Europe  Telecommunication Services Index.  Targets Confirmed  Telefonica yesterday reported a 13 percent slump in second-
quarter revenue. Spain’s largest phone company suspended its
dividend, cut a revenue forecast and slashed compensation for
top executives.  France  Telecom confirmed its target to generate an
operating cash flow of about 8 billion euros this year after 4.5
billion euros in the first half. It also confirmed its plan to
pay 40 percent to 45 percent of its 2012 operating cash flow as
dividend.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization dropped 8 percent to 7 billion euros, meeting
analysts’ estimates.  “They’re really good numbers across the board,” said Will
Draper, an analyst at Espirito Santo in  London  who recommends
buying the shares. “They prepared better and earlier than
people expected to face Iliad.”  Roaming Agreement  France Telecom is betting that consumers will pay a premium
of 14 euros on average for its packages to receive handset
subsidies and gain access to 1,200 stores as well as  customer
service . The unit makes 75 percent of its sales through two-year
contracts.  The company has signed a six-year roaming agreement with
Iliad, which France Telecom said would bring 1 billion euros in
revenue in the first three years.  France Telecom has said it will continue subsidizing
handsets to keep consumers. Elsewhere in Europe, rivals are
reconsidering. In Spain, Telefonica stopped subsidizing mobile
phones in March, while  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has said it will do
the same in the country.  The French operator isn’t considering any major
acquisitions, though it would look at opportunities if the
Spanish market were to consolidate, Pellissier said.  TeliaSonera
AB (TLSN)  CEO Lars Nyberg said as recently as on July 18 that its
Spanish unit Yoigo was for sale.  “If Yoigo was for sale, obviously we’d look at this
opportunity,” Pellissier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  