-- Gaz Metro to Buy Quebec Biogas, Canada Government Backs Project
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-07-26T19:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/gaz-metro-to-buy-quebec-biogas-canada-government-backs-project.html
Gaz Metro Inc.,  Quebec ’s largest
natural-gas distributor, agreed to purchase and inject bio-
methane into its pipeline system from a citywide waste treatment
project in Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec.  The company, based in  Montreal , will buy the city’s surplus
biogas produced by a project that will treat 132,000 wet tons of
organic waste a year, the Canadian government said today in a
statement.  As much as 6 million cubic meters of biogas may be produced
in the first year, and the amount may increase to 13 million
cubic meters a year, according to the statement.  The project is part of a Quebec government initiative to
recycle 60 percent of the province’s organic waste by 2015,
which will reduce the amount of material sent to landfills while
increasing renewable energy production.  The Quebec government previously invested C$5.67 million
($5.62 million) in the Saint-Hyacinthe project and today said
it’s contributing an additional C$14.4 million. The federal
government may also provide as much as C$11.4 million if the
project meets the conditions of its  Green Infrastructure Fund ,
according to the statement.  The investments will enable Saint-Hyacinthe to install new
infrastructure to handle and process waste and produce biogas,
including two anaerobic digesters. Anaerobic digestion
technology use naturally occurring microorganisms to break down
organic waste. The resulting biogas can be burned to generate
power or steam, purified into pipeline-quality natural gas, or
processed further into other fuels for vehicles.  Gaz Metro will install the infrastructure needed to inject
the biogas into its distribution network, it said today in a
separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  