-- Geithner Tells Senate He Was Concerned About Libor in 2008
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-07-26T16:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/geithner-tells-senate-he-was-concerned-about-libor-in-2008.html
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, responding to a second day of questions by lawmakers,
said he was concerned when he heard about potential weaknesses
in the London interbank offered rate in 2008 and repeated that
he moved quickly to alert regulators in the U.S. and U.K.  “I absolutely thought this was a problem,” Geithner told
the Senate Banking Committee today. Geithner, who was president
of the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  at the time, said he
discussed Libor with officials at the Treasury Department,
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for securities worldwide,
was hurt by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s admission that it submitted false
rates. A probe by U.K. and U.S. authorities cost the London-
based bank a record 290 million-pound ($449 million) fine and
led to the ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond .  Senator  Richard Shelby  of  Alabama , the top Republican on
the banking committee, said in a statement that news reports on
Geithner’s handling of concerns about Libor manipulation
“suggest that he, too, may have tempered his response to what
can be characterized as a significant problem within the banking
industry.”  The Libor issue is about fraud, said committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat.  “There are some who seek to put the entire blame on the
cops instead,” Johnson said in a statement. “But it would be a
mistake to shift the focus away from the continued effort to
hold the companies and individuals who committed fraud
accountable.”  U.S. Banks  Geithner said he didn’t know whether the U.S. banks
reporting Libor were involved in manipulation. Geithner also
said he doesn’t yet know how Libor manipulation affected U.S.
markets.  Geithner said he took the “necessary and appropriate”
steps in responding to Libor concerns by notifying U.K. and U.S.
regulators. His testimony follows a House Financial Services
Committee hearing where lawmakers also pressed him about his
role in the Libor investigation.  “I thought the concerns themselves were sufficiently
troubling to justify a very substantial response,” Geithner
said.  “Given what we all now agree is very substantially
troubling information about Libor, why was it allowed to be
essentially the repayment metric for” the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, Senator  David Vitter , a Republican of  Louisiana .  Geithner said Libor was the best available rate at the
time. While “we knew the rate was vulnerable,” he said, “what
we don’t know is whether we were disadvantaged by that choice.”  Senator Patrick Toomey, a Republican from  Pennsylvania ,
said Geithner should have been more active using the “bully
pulpit” to draw attention to Libor concerns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  