-- Geithner Drops ‘F-Bombs,’ U.S. Blows $400 Million an Hour
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/geithner-drops-f-bombs-u-s-blows-400-million-an-hour.html
If you harbor any doubts about how
dysfunctional  Washington  has become, add two books to your
reading list: “Bailout” by  Neil Barofsky  and “Red Ink” by
 David Wessel .  Each describes a federal government incapable of taking
steps vital to America’s future. And each leaves you wondering
if the system is too broken to mend.  Start with “Bailout,” Barofsky’s angry memoir of his
stint as the special inspector general policing the $700 billion
bank bailout Congress passed after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  Barofsky, who had hunted down Colombian drug lords and
predatory lenders as a federal prosecutor, took his independence
seriously. Though he worked inside the Treasury Building -- he
was allotted a barren “suite” of rooms reeking of a “musky,
socklike odor” -- his mandate was to root out waste, fraud and
abuse in the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  His assignment put him on a collision course with Treasury
secretaries  Henry M. Paulson Jr . and  Timothy F. Geithner , who
were feverishly shoveling billions of TARP dollars at banks well
before Barofsky reported for duty on Dec. 15, 2008.  The last thing Treasury wanted, judging from this account,
was a nosy cop scaring bankers away from TARP funds. In one
memorable scene, Geithner explodes in expletives when Barofsky
presses his case for requiring banks to report how they were
using the money. He was “dropping f-bombs on me,” we read.  ‘Blank Check’  Paulson had sold TARP to Congress partly as a way to
increase lending and help struggling homeowners avoid
foreclosure. Instead, the program became a “blank check” for
propping up a financial industry whose interests conflicted with
those of ordinary Americans, says Barofsky, a Democrat.  The first major TARP outflow was a direct equity injection
of $125 billion into nine banks, including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank
of America (BAC)  Corp. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The Treasury imposed
few restrictions on how the money could be used, Barofsky says.
Before long, TARP funding bailed out General Motors Corp. and
Chrysler Corp. as well as  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   “Not exactly what Congress had envisioned,” Barofsky
says.  Picking up where Paulson’s “On the Brink” left off, this
memoir suggests that President  Barack Obama  made a grave error
in choosing Geithner, who comes across here as a shell-shocked
crisis veteran bent on helping banks, not homeowners.  “Paulson and Geithner hadn’t just saved the banks,”
Barofsky writes. “They’d also preserved a status quo that was
dangerously broken,” rendering too-big-to-fail banks even
bigger and “setting the stage for the next crisis.”  ‘Red Ink’  In fiscal 2011, the federal government spent $3.6 trillion,
or about $400 million an hour.  Where did the  money  come from? Where did it all go? And how
long can this continue?  These are the questions Wessel addresses in the five easy
chapters of “Red Ink,” a slim primer on the people and
politics driving the America’s budget war.  Wessel, the Wall Street Journal economics editor and
columnist who brought us “In Fed We Trust,” has an insider’s
grasp of the players, issues and argot surrounding the budget.  Yet he writes with an outsider’s eye, distilling his tale
of the fiscal monster into about 150 pages of simple prose and a
smattering of charts. Along the way, he introduces the political
operators who shape the budget, from Jack Lew -- the White House
chief of staff and former Office of Management and Budget
director -- to  Paul Ryan , the Republican chairman of the House
Budget Committee.  ‘Autopilot’ Spending  The unpalatable truth, of course, is that much of the money
the government spends goes to highly popular programs: About $1
out of every $4 pays for federal health-care under Medicare and
Medicaid, he says. Defense spending consumes $1 out of every $5.
An additional one-fifth goes to the national pension system,
Social Security.  Almost two-thirds of all federal spending runs on
“autopilot,” as Wessel puts it. Social Security checks are
cut; Medicare bills get paid; interest payments on  government
bonds  are made -- all without a congressional vote.  Easy fixes are hard to find, as I discovered myself by
playing one of the online games Wessel cites, “ Budget Hero ,”
which invites you to slay the deficit dragon by raising taxes
and cutting spending.  Beyond Means  Wessel closes with an analysis of why the country can’t
live beyond its means forever. The U.S. government now owes
$11.1 trillion to others -- or $11,065,934,893,561.99, to quote
the precise figure on the Treasury’s “ Debt to the Penny ”
website yesterday morning.  Given our polarized political system, we may end up kicking
the debt can down the road. Unfortunately, bad things happen to
countries whose debt loads get too high.  “Think  Argentina , circa 2001,” Wessel writes. “Think
 Greece , circa 2012.”  “Bailout: An Inside Account of How Washington Abandoned
Main Street While Rescuing  Wall Street ” is published by  Free
Press  (270 pages, $26). “Red Ink: Inside the High-Stakes
Politics of the  Federal Budget ” is from  Crown Business  (204
pages, $22). To buy these books in  North America , click  here  for
“Bailout” and  here  for “Red Ink.”  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 