-- Genzyme, Apple, Royal Worcester: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-26T11:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/genzyme-apple-royal-worcester-intellectual-property.html
Shelbyzyme LLC, the owner of a
patent used to treat organ-destroying Fabry disease, won
$50 million from Genzyme Corp. after a  jury trial .  Shelbyzyme filed the infringement suit in federal court in
 Delaware  in October 2009.  Genzyme, a unit of France’s  Sanofi (SAN)  based in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, encouraged and contributed to the infringement of
Leonia, New Jersey-based Shelbyzyme’s 2006 patent 7,011,831,
jurors in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware, found on July
17, according to court documents.  Genzyme was “not licensed or otherwise authorized” to use
the recombinant DNA therapy for Fabry patients and used it
anyway, Shelbyzyme said.  Fabry disease affects 1 in as many as 60,000 males and
fewer females, according to the  National Institutes of Health 
website on  genetic conditions . The inherited disease results
from a buildup of fat in organs and cells, causing pain,
splotching, digestive distress and potential organ failure.  “We disagree with the jury verdict,”  Bo Piela , a Genzyme
spokesman, said in an e-mail. The company may appeal, he said.  Charles Emanuel, an attorney for Shelbyzyme, didn’t
immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment on the verdict.  The technology in the patent was developed by David Calhoun
and George Coppola, researchers at  City University  of New York,
according to court papers.  The case is Shelbyzyme v. Genzyme, 09-cv-768, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Apple Patent Trial Jury to Learn Samsung Destroyed E-Mails  Apple Inc. persuaded a federal judge to let jurors hear
about document destruction by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  in a
patent trial scheduled to begin July 30 in San Jose,  California .  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul S. Grewal in  San Jose  yesterday
agreed with Apple that jurors should be told they can draw an
“adverse inference” from Samsung’s failure to avoid auto-
deleting e-mail that Apple later sought as evidence. The
“rolling basis” Samsung used for deletions resulted in a
similar ruling against the company seven years ago, he said.  “Rather than building itself an off-switch -- and using it
-- in future litigation such as this one, Samsung appears to
have adopted the alternative approach of ‘mend it don’t end
it,” Grewal wrote. “Samsung’s mend, especially during the
critical seven months after a reasonable party in the same
circumstances would have reasonably foreseen this suit, fell
short of what it needed to do.”  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, and Suwon, South
Korea-based Samsung, the world’s two biggest makers of high-end
mobile phones, accuse each other of copying designs and
technology for mobile devices. The companies are fighting patent
battles on four continents to retain their dominance in the $219
billion global smartphone market.  Grewal’s proposed instructions for the jury begin by
saying, “Samsung has failed to prevent the destruction of
relevant evidence for Apple’s use in this litigation.” It adds
that Apple has proved that “the lost evidence was favorable to
Apple.”  The instructions concluded by saying that jurors must
determine for themselves whether to make the evidence
destruction a factor in their verdict.  “You may choose to find it determinative, somewhat
determinative, or not at all determinative in reaching your
verdict,” according to the instructions.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Rambus Loses to LSI, STMicroelectronics in U.S. Patent Case  Rambus Inc., a computer-memory chip designer that has been
fighting patent cases in court for a decade, lost a case against
LSI Corp. and  STMicroelectronics NV (STM)  over controllers used in
electronics including GPS devices and computers.  The U.S. International Trade Commission said the companies
and its customers didn’t violate Rambus patent rights, upholding
a judge’s findings from March. Notice of the decision was posted
on the agency’s website, with a full opinion to be made public
after both sides have a chance to redact confidential
information.  Rambus, which got 96 percent of its $312.4 million in 2011
revenue from royalties, claimed the companies incorporated into
their chips inventions Rambus scientists developed to speed the
transfer of data. The memory controllers are used in networking
gear, televisions, set-top decoders and other devices.  The patents were either invalid or not infringed, the
commission said, agreeing with the trade judge’s findings that
some of the patents were unenforceable because Rambus destroyed
documents related to the litigation.  The dispute in this case centers on a type of dynamic
random access memory called SDRAM that acts as the main memory
in computers.  ITC Judge Theodore Essex found in March that all five
Rambus patents were infringed, yet invalid because they sought
to cover inventions already protected by other patents. The
commission agreed on the invalidity of four patents, while
saying the fifth wasn’t infringed.  The judge said separately that three patents, named after
lead inventor Richard Barth, are unenforceable because Rambus
purposely destroyed evidence needed by companies to defend
themselves against Rambus’s infringement claims. The commission
upheld that finding.  Both Rambus and the staff of the ITC, which acts as a third
party on behalf of the public, asked the commission to overturn
that finding because it was inconsistent with a decision the
agency made in the Nvidia case.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc., which has been battling Rambus in
courts since 1999, urged the commission to uphold the judge’s
findings on document destruction because it’s trying to overturn
a $397 million judgment won by Rambus after a 2006 trial.  A federal judge in California is considering whether Rambus
should be precluded from enforcing some of its older patents
against Hynix because of the document destruction.  A U.S. appeals court ruled last year that Rambus destroyed
documents relevant to patent-infringement trials with Micron
Technology Inc. and Hynix.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor Chips
and Products Containing Same, 337-753, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  Lundbeck Gets EU Antitrust Complaint on Pay-to-Delay Drug Deals  H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , the Nordic region’s second-largest
drugmaker, was sent a complaint by European Union antitrust
regulators over agreements with rivals that may have held back
sales of cheaper generic drugs.  Pfizer Inc.’s Alpharma unit, Merck’s German subsidiary,
 Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  and other generic drugmakers were also
sent EU complaints for agreeing to pay-to-delay deals with
Lundbeck that may have delayed generic versions of its
antidepressant citalopram, marketed as Celexa, for as long as
two years, the European Commission said in a statement
yesterday. Les Laboratoires Servier will soon get a similar EU
antitrust complaint over a separate probe, the EU’s antitrust
chief said.  “Lundbeck vigorously opposes any allegation of wrongdoing
and does not believe its practice has violated European
competition law,” the Copenhagen-based company said in a
statement.  Servier hasn’t yet received the EU complaint, the French
company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Xellia Pharmaceuticals, Resolution Chemicals, AL Industrier
ASA, Watson Pharmaceutical Inc.’s Arrow unit and Generics UK,
now known as Mylan Inc., were also sent statements of objections
over Lundbeck’s agreements with competitors who subsequently
held back sales of generic versions of citalopram, the
commission said.  Lundbeck’s deals included direct payments to generic
competitors, guaranteed profits in a distribution agreements and
the purchase of generic versions of citalopram to be destroyed,
the EU said.  Andrew Ridger, a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, said
the company received a complaint relating to a business its
Alpharma unit sold before it was bought by Pfizer’s King
Pharmaceuticals subsidiary.  The complaint against  Merck KGaA (MRK)  related to an agreement
made in 2002 by its former British subsidiary, Generics UK,
Phyllis Carter, a spokeswoman for the company, said by
telephone. Merck sold its generics business in May 2007 to Mylan
for $6.7 billion. The company will analyze the statement and
consider its next steps, she said.  Jen Lewis, a spokeswoman for Xellia in Congleton, England,
said the EU probe related to a 2002 agreement between Lundbeck
and Alpharma. Xellia was spun out from Alpharma in 2008 and it
doesn’t manufacture or supply citalopram or other
antidepressants, she said.  Watson, which owns Arrow, has received the complaint and is
currently reviewing it, said Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for the
Parsippany, New Jersey-based company.  Ranbaxy spokesman Krishnan Ramalingam had no immediate
comment. Calls and an e-mail to Resolution Chemicals weren’t
immediately answered. Calls to Mylan’s U.S. press office and to
AL Industrier weren’t immediately returned.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Could Face More Antitrust Probes, EU’s Almunia Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may face further antitrust probes by the
European Union, the bloc’s competition chief said, even as the
owner of the world’s biggest search engine works to resolve an
existing investigation.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said the
current investigation doesn’t cover areas such as applications
for mobile phones. Regulators will review the “solutions that
Google will present to us and hopefully we will reach a
settlement” for the existing investigation, he said.  While “we have not opened any other investigation, I don’t
exclude in future” that further probes will be started, Almunia
told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  Almunia asked Google in May to make an offer to settle
concerns that it promotes its own specialist search services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and that its
agreements with websites and software developers stifle
competition in the advertising industry.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Google continues “to work cooperatively” with the
commission, said Al Verney, a spokesman for the company in
Brussels.  Regulators asked Google to extend an initial offer to
modify its search engine to cover mobile applications for
smartphones and tablet computers, two people familiar with the
negotiations said last week.  In 2010, the EU’s antitrust agency began investigating
claims Google discriminated against other services in its search
results and stopped some websites from accepting competitors’
ads. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Megaupload Founder’s Website Opposes U.S. Copyright Policy  Kim Dotcom, who is fighting extradition from New Zealand to
the U.S. in a criminal copyright-infringement case, has set up a
website asking  Internet users  to vote against President Obama in
the November elections, Wired News  reported .  He said in a posting on his kim.com website that the U.S.
government “has declared war on the Internet” through
copyright-enforcement efforts, according to Wired News.  He claims his Megaupload company was “a good corporate
citizen” that cooperated with content owners and legal
authorities, Wired News reported.  Dot.com has also posted a video to YouTube’s video-sharing
site in which he addresses President Obama, asking “whatever
happened to change, Mr. President?” according to Wired News.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Antique Diary Reveals Early Day Trade-Secret Theft From France  A diary recently belonging to Royal Worcester and Spode
Ltd.’s Worcester Porcelain Museum makes it clear that the
secrets of the famous porcelain ware was stolen from French
potters, the U.K.’s  Daily Mail   reported .  John Flight, who then ran Royal Worcester, wrote in his
journal that he stole secrets for the manufacturing of porcelain
during the French Revolution and brought them home to England,
according to the Daily Mail.  At that time Flight’s factory was trying to deal with
technical problems involved in the production of high quality
bone china, and was also facing competition, both from Europe
and Asia, the newspaper reported.  His company, which was established in 1951, put the diary
on display at the Antiques for Everyone Fair in Birmingham in
the U.K., according to the Daily Mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 