-- German GfK Consumer Confidence to Gain in August on Rising Wages
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-07-26T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/german-gfk-consumer-confidence-to-gain-in-august-on-rising-wages.html
German  consumer confidence  will
climb to a five-month high in August as rising wages outweigh
growing concerns that the sovereign debt crisis is damping
economic growth,  GfK SE (GFK)  said.  The Nuremberg-based market research company today forecast
that its consumer-sentiment index, based on a survey of about
2,000 people, will increase for a second straight month to 5.9
from 5.8 in July. That would be the highest since March.
Economists predicted an unchanged reading, according to the
median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Governments and households across Europe are cutting
spending, curbing demand for German goods and hurting growth.
German business confidence fell more than economists forecast
this month and Moody’s Investors Service on July 23 lowered the
outlook on Germany’s Aaa credit rating to negative. At the same
time, rising wages and unemployment at a two-decade low are
bolstering domestic spending in  Germany , helping to counteract
waning export demand.  “Rising employment and significantly improved income
increases in comparison with previous years due to better wage
agreements are providing a considerable boost to the mood in
relation to income,” GfK said in a statement. Still,
“consumers are increasingly fearful that the German economy
will now also be drawn into the crisis,” it said.  Willingness to Spend  While an index measuring willingness to spend rose to 35.8
in July from 32.7 in June, a gauge of economic optimism fell to
minus 5.6 from 3, GfK said. A measure of income expectations
dropped to 36.3 from 40.1.  The Bundesbank last month raised its 2012 growth forecast
for Germany to 1 percent from 0.6 percent, citing domestic
consumption driven by  low unemployment . This week it said the
economy probably grew moderately in the second quarter, aided by
domestic demand. Still, latest data show the manufacturing and
service industries are contracting.  The auto market in Germany is set to slow this year, as the
effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis show signs of spilling over into
the region’s biggest economy, the VDA auto industry group said
July 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  