-- GM Joins Walgreen in Splitting With ‘Stand Your Ground’ Group
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-26T20:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/gm-joins-walgreen-in-splitting-with-stand-your-ground-group.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG) 
are the latest companies to end their membership in the American
Legislative Exchange Council, a public policy organization that
championed “Stand Your Ground” gun laws that gained public
attention after a Florida killing.  More than two dozen other companies previously said they
were stopping their support of ALEC, including  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   “We routinely evaluate our support for a variety of
organizations,” said  Greg Martin , a GM spokesman. “As such, we
have decided to discontinue our support and funding of ALEC.”  “We recently informed ALEC that effective immediately
Walgreen Co. will not be renewing its membership in their
organization,” said James Graham, a company spokesman.  ALEC’s corporate dues of as much as $25,000 a year allow
company representatives to help draft bills that the Washington-
based group’s members then try to enact in their home states.  The group has come under criticism for advocating the
“Stand Your Ground” laws that allow individuals who feel
threatened in a public space to fight back rather than retreat.
A state version of the law was cited by authorities in Sanford,
Florida, when they didn’t initially arrest George Zimmerman, who
claimed self-defense in the killing of teenager Trayvon Martin
in February. Zimmerman, a community watch volunteer who had a
confrontation with Martin, later was charged with second-degree
murder and pleaded not guilty.  Voter Identification  ALEC also has pushed for voter-identification laws, which
the U.S.  Justice Department  has blocked from taking effect in
 South Carolina  and  Texas , saying they discriminate against
minorities.  Rashad Robinson, executive director of New York-based
 Colorofchange.org , which has been lobbying companies to quit
ALEC, said the moves by GM and Walgreen are “further proof that
everyday people working together to hold corporations
accountable can achieve tremendous change.”  “More and more companies are getting the message that they
cannot in good conscience market products to our communities
while handing over customers’ dollars to an organization that
suppresses the rights and endangers the safety of people of
color,” said Robinson.  ‘Corporate Intimidation’  The announcements by Detroit-based GM and Deerfield,
Illinois-based Walgreen came as the group is holding its annual
meeting in Salt Lake City. Kaitlyn Buss, an ALEC spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail.  Earlier this month she decried “this corporate
intimidation and bully campaign” to get companies to exit ALEC,
saying it was “politics at its worst and should be ignored.”
She also said membership was up by 20 percent over last year.  ALEC has disbanded the  task force  that drafted the “Stand
Your Ground” and voter-ID legislation, and said it would focus
exclusively on economic issues.  A Pennsylvania voter-ID law is being challenged in state
court. State officials have suggested that as much as 9 percent
of voters do not have the kind of identification required under
the new law. The Justice Department is investigating the statute
under the Voting Rights Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 