-- Gold Fields Halts Ghana Plant After Environment Agency Order
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-07-26T15:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/gold-fields-halts-ghana-plant-after-environment-agency-order-1-.html
Gold Fields (GFI)  Ltd., the fourth-largest
producer of the precious metal, halted a gold-recovery plant at
its Tarkwa mine after  Ghana  said water discharged from the site
required additional treatment.  “Gold Fields believes Tarkwa was complying with the
prescribed conductivity levels in its water discharges, but is
nonetheless conducting further investigations to validate
this,” the company said in a statement today. The plant was
stopped July 16 after a directive from Ghana’s Environmental
Protection Agency, it said.  Gold Fields sprays chemicals over some of the ore extracted
at Tarkwa to liberate gold in a low-cost process known as heap
leaching. The plant, 185 miles west of the capital, Accra,
accounted for 28 percent of the mine’s 717,000 ounces of 2011
production. Tarkwa is Gold Fields’ second-largest mine by output
after the Kloof-Driefontein complex in  South Africa , and has the
third-lowest costs of all its operations.  Ghana’s EPA ordered the company to stop discharging water
from the heap-leach site and to build treatment plants to reduce
conductivity levels, the company said. Gold Fields will build
the plants by the end of the year, it said.  “We’re talking to the EPA,” company spokesman Sven
Lunsche said today when asked about resuming production at the
plant. “We’re confident we can reach an agreement with them,
hopefully within the next week or two, but it’s not
guaranteed,” he said by mobile phone.  Gold Fields gained for a fifth day, adding 0.2 percent to
104.45 rand by the close in in Johannesburg for its longest
winning streak since November.  Conductivity is a measure of the amount of dissolved salts
in discharged water, Gold Fields said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  