-- Gold Climbs on Draghi’s Euro Pledge, U.S. Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-07-26T18:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/gold-climbs-in-new-york-as-draghi-comments-give-boost-to-euro.html
Gold rose for a second day after the
European Central Bank president said policy makers will do
whatever is needed to preserve the euro and amid increasing
expectations of further stimulus measures in the U.S.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  said today. Orders for U.S. durable goods excluding the
transportation category unexpectedly dropped 1.1 percent in
June, the most in five months, a Commerce Department report
showed, boosting speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will step
up measures to stabilize growth.  “Prices are up today because of what we heard from Draghi
and as investors are getting more confident that some form of
easing will be announced in U.S.,” Jeffrey Christian, the
managing director at New York-based CPM Group Inc., said in a
telephone interview.  Gold futures for December delivery advanced 0.4 percent to
settle at $1,619.80 an ounce at 1:39 p.m. on the Comex in  New
York . Prices have gained 3.4 percent this year.  UBS AG said there was “some physical buying” of gold from
 Europe  this week, while the amounts have been “quite small” so
far, according to a report e-mailed today.  The metal surged 70 percent from the end of December 2008
to June 2011 as the Fed kept borrowing costs at a record low and
bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing. Policy makers are scheduled to announce a
rate decision on Aug. 1.  Silver futures for September delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$27.446 an ounce in New York.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery climbed 0.4 percent to $1,405.60 an ounce.
Palladium futures for September delivery increased 0.8 percent
to $569.90 an ounce.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  