-- Greek Budget Talks Stumble as EU Urges Samaras to Deliver
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-07-26T17:52:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/greek-budget-talks-stumble-as-citigroup-sees-euro-exit-at-90-.html
Greek political leaders struggled to
clinch agreement on an 11.5 billion-euro ($14 billion) package
of budget cuts, as international creditors began a review of
 Greece ’s progress that may determine its future in the euro.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his coalition partners,
 Evangelos Venizelos  of Pasok and Fotis Kouvelis of Democratic
Left, are to meet again on July 30 to determine the savings
required to receive the funds pledged under Greece’s two rescue
packages totaling 240 billion euros. European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  urged Samaras to make good on promises.  “The key word here is deliver,” Barroso said after
meeting the premier, the first visit to Greece by a senior
European Union official in more than a year. “Deliver, deliver,
deliver. The delays must end. Words are not enough.”  Greece, which held consecutive elections in May and June as
public opposition to spending cuts grew, risks running out of
money without the disbursement of 4.2 billion euros due last
month as the first instalment of a 31 billion-euro transfer.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  said there’s now a 90 percent chance Greece will
leave the euro in the next 12 months to 18 months.  The coalition government leaders met after Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras held his first talks of the review with the
“troika” of officials representing the euro area, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .  ‘Extremely Difficult’  “We are not done,” Kouvelis told reporters after the
meeting. “The economic situation is extremely difficult but
society on the other hand can’t stand being bled any more.”  Since forming his coalition government, Samaras has
promised more asset sales to pay down debt and help finance an
additional two years to the program agreed with creditors to
restore economic health. He and his partners are trying to avoid
the across-the-board pay and pension cuts that have driven the
country into the worst recession since World War II.  Greece’s two elections in six weeks derailed planned
reforms, halted state-asset sales and fanned concerns over
whether the country can remain in the 17-nation euro bloc.  “All want to contribute to achieving fiscal targets,”
government spokesman Simos Kedikoglou told reporters in  Athens .
“Everyone is seeking in this negotiation alternative choices so
that this happens with a sense of social justice and without
further recession.”  ‘Worse Hardship’  Failure to satisfy the troika on budget cuts and other
reforms promised under the two packages may threaten Greece’s
place in the euro.  Barroso said he was encouraged by Samaras’s pledges to step
up state-asset sales and to keep to promises made under a 130
billion-euro second rescue package earlier this year. Sticking
to commitments would ensure the country’s place in the euro, he
said.  “Staying in the euro is the best chance to avoid worse
hardship and difficulties for the Greek people, mainly for those
in vulnerable positions.” he said. “Greece is part of the
European family and the euro area and we intend to keep it that
way.”  Citigroup updated its forecast for a Greek exit from the
currency area from a previous estimate of 50 percent to 75
percent, and said it would most likely happen in the next two to
three quarters. The bank assumes a Greek exit would occur on Jan.
1, 2013, while saying that isn’t a forecast of a precise date.  Robert Mundell , a Nobel Prize-winning economist, said the
Citigroup report doesn’t help the situation.  Debts in Euros  “In Greece, getting out of the euro doesn’t change the
fact that the debts are in euros,” Mundell said in Athens today.
A euro exit and devaluation of a new currency could lead to a
doubling of Greece’s existing debt, he said. If Greece defaults,
it would make more sense to do it within the euro area, Mundell
said.  Venizelos, the head of Greece’s Pasok party and a former
finance minister who negotiated the second bailout earlier this
year, said the continuous speculation of a Greek exit is
undermining the country’s attempts to reform its economy as well
as hurting other nations.  “Sacrificing Greece will prove suicide for the euro
area,” Venizelos said. He said it was imperative that the
current bailout plan be extended to the end of 2016.  Greece has to reduce its  budget deficit  to 7.3 percent of
output this year from 9.1 percent in 2011. With the economy
shrinking about 7 percent, more than forecast, Stournaras has
said the goal is to reach the nominal target of 14.8 billion
euros for this year’s deficit, not the ratio.  Second Restructuring  The ECB holds the lion’s share of Greece’s residual debt
after private bondholders forgave 100 billion euros in the
biggest debt restructuring in history in March.  Euro-zone governments are weighing options including asking
the ECB to accept losses from Greek bonds and coaxing private
creditors who didn’t take part in the March writedown to do so
now, German newspaper Die Welt reported today, without saying
where it got the information.  “I cannot understand why anybody should be talking about
restructuring or any other such measures,”  Thomas Wieser , head
of the group that prepares meetings of euro-area finance
ministers, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  “I would regard any question of what should be changed
with the program as being completely premature” until the
troika’s assessment is complete, Wieser said. “There is very
strong political will to do whatever it takes to bring the
program back within the parameters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling  at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  