-- Greek Banks Follow Euripides to Help Borrowers: Mortgages
-- B y   R o b   U r b a n   a n d   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-07-27T11:56:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/greek-banks-follow-euripides-to-help-borrowers-mortgages.html
Greek banks  faced with mounting
mortgage delinquencies are following the advice of 5th-century
BC playwright Euripides: Time heals.  Banks restructure loans rather than foreclose, extend terms
to as long as 45 years, grant payment holidays of up to a year
when borrowers are only required to make interest payments, or
add guarantors to loans, often children who will eventually
inherit the property.  Lenders see foreclosures as the worst way to collect, and
so far  Greece  has avoided the price declines that result from
vacant, bank-owned properties that destroy values of whole
communities and flood the market, said Andreas Athanassopoulos,
general manager of mortgage and retail banking for the National
Bank of Greece, the country’s biggest lender with about 30
percent of all home loans. While Euripides was known as a
tragedian, modern Greek bankers believe borrowers given a chance
to remain in their homes will end up making good on their debts.  “There is a lot of stickiness in the market as people tend
to buy their home, live there a lifetime and pass it on to their
children,” Athanassopoulos said in an interview at his office
in  Athens . “The best way to get money from delinquent mortgage
holders is to give them time, that’s the only doctrine, to help
them pay their loans while minimizing the bank’s losses.”  International Bailout  At the moment, banks have little choice. In 2010, after
Greece became the first euro nation to receive an international
bailout, with an initial 110 billion euros ($135 billion), the
government suspended foreclosures on primary residences with
outstanding mortgage debt of 200,000 euros or less until June
2011. The measure was subsequently extended twice until the end
of 2012 and is likely to be extended again in 2013, according to
the National Bank of Greece.  By doing so, “the government can give comfort to borrowers
and at the same time help the banks by delaying the registration
of losses on their balance sheets,” said Theodoros Skouzos, an
Athens-based tax lawyer. “It cannot go on forever, though, and
when the measure is repealed, there will be foreclosures.”  Non-performing mortgages in Greece, in recession for its
fifth year with a record  unemployment rate  of about 23 percent,
reached 17.2 percent of the total outstanding in the first
quarter, according to the Greek central bank. That’s up from 15
percent in the previous three months. Also contributing to the
rising delinquencies are government pay cuts of public
employees’ salaries by as much as 45 percent.  Support People  In the U.S., where there were 4.7 million  foreclosures 
between January, 2006 and June, 2012, according to data seller
RealtyTrac Inc.,  prices  have fallen 34 percent. In  Spain , where
Tinsa, the country’s largest home appraiser estimates prices are
down by a third, there have been about 330,000 foreclosures,
according to PAH, a group that supports people who have lost
their homes to lenders.  “We have learned a lot from what happened in the U.S. --
foreclosures pull down the value of properties in surrounding
areas, and prices so far in Greece have not collapsed,”
Athanassopoulos said. “The idea here is to support people
repaying and to minimize losses.”  In Athens, prices have only fallen about 20 percent from
the peak in the second quarter of 2008, central bank data show.
In Thessaloniki, Greece’s second largest city, they’re 18.8
percent lower than the high point that year, according to Bank
of Greece data. In other cities, they’re down 11.6 percent.  Potential Repossessions  What’s good for Greek mortgage holders and  home prices  may
not be as beneficial for holders of about 3.5 billion euros of
loans packaged inside mortgage bonds, said Dipesh Mehta, a
London-based analyst at Barclays Plc. The government and banks
may be “kicking the can down the road” until the suspension of
foreclosures is finally lifted, when an “avalanche” of
repossessions could flood the housing market, he said.  Investors demand 22 percentage points above interbank rates
to buy five-year senior bonds backed by Greek mortgages,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. data. Spreads have widened
from 10 percentage points a year ago, as investor concern grew
that the country would need to leave the euro and return to the
drachma. That compares with a 1.2 percentage points spread for
U.K. prime residential mortgage-backed securities.  “Investors will be holding extremely long bonds especially
as they will not be called,” Mehta said in a telephone
interview. “They’ll be concerned over the tail risk especially
for holders of junior notes about what will happen if
repossessions do start to come through.”  Delinquent Borrowers  In addition to those suffering hardships such as lost jobs
or reduced pay, banks must also deal with delinquent borrowers
who could pay yet prefer not to sacrifice their lifestyles, as
well as those who have transferred cash out of Greece and filed
for personal bankruptcy. Negotiating with those two groups,
which represent about 20 percent of those seeking relief, is
complicated by the legal prohibition on foreclosures.  “The problem with laws encouraging foreclosure forbearance
is that they can encourage people who can pay not to, leaving
the banks with no muscle to force people who take advantage of
the law to pay,” said Ivan Zubo, an analyst at BNP Paribas SA
in  London .  Foreclosure “is not a strategic option for us,” said
Athanassopoulos. “We want the law changed to give us more
discretion and flexibility. I would never foreclose on a person
who has lost his job but we need more discretion with people who
are taking advantage.”  Euro’s Benefits  The Greek mortgage market had annual growth of 82 percent
in the early 2000s when first-time buyers took advantage of
easier financing and interest-rate reductions as the country
joined the single European currency.  Home loans expanded to 80.5 billion euros by the end of
2010, and home prices in Athens increased more than 170 percent
from 1997 through the end of 2008, according to data from the
country’s central bank.  Even now, Greece’s household mortgage debt as a percentage
of gross domestic product is among the lowest in developed
countries, at 36 percent, and less than half the level in the
U.S., Ireland and U.K, according to Deutsche Bank AG analysts
Conor O’Toole and Rachit Prasad. “It ranks second lowest only
to  Italy  among the selection of European peripheral states and
far lower than the U.K. and the U.S.” they wrote in a May
report.  Government Debt  The biggest delinquent debtor in the country is the Greek
government, which has 6.8 billion euros in arrears to companies.
That’s also a drag on the economy, which contracted more than 6
percent last year. Mortgage lending has ground to a halt as the
banks deal with rising delinquencies and potential buyers wait
to see whether the country will be able to negotiate an
agreement with its international creditors that will allow it to
get further bailout funds and stay in the 17-member European
currency.  Greece’s so-called troika of creditors -- the  European
Central Bank , the European Commission and the  International
Monetary Fund  -- are in Athens this week to review the country’s
progress on implementing budget cuts.  Also dependent on further agreement with the troika is an
additional 23 billion euro payment from a recapitalization fund
for Greek banks that is part of a broader delayed second tranche
of emergency funding for Greece. So far, 25 billion euros of
recapitalization funds have been paid.  Core tier 1 capital at the National Bank of Greece is at 8
percent after receiving 7.4 billion euros in the first round of
recapitalization. Like all other Greek lenders that must rise to
9 percent by the end of September and 10 percent by July 2013.  More Liquidity  “If the state is given the thumbs up for its progress, the
disbursement from the troika will come and the state will pay
its arrears and there will be liquidity,” while the bank
“recapitalization will also boost liquidity,” said  Petros Christodoulou , National Bank of Greece’s deputy chief executive
officer. “Unless you have liquidity nothing can function.
Liquidity is like blood, nothing can function without blood. I
hope that from September onwards this will happen.”  Citigroup Inc. this week updated its forecast for a Greek
exit from the euro, saying there is now a 90 percent chance,
probably in the next two or three quarters. Previously it said
there was a 50 percent to 75 percent likelihood, and said it
would most likely happen in the next two to three quarters.  Greece, which has struggled to meet targets for narrowing
its  budget deficit , has more ground to make up after holding
elections in May and June that highlighted voter anger over the
bailout terms. An inconclusive May 6 vote led to a June 17 rerun
in which the New Democracy party of Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, finished first with almost 30 percent of the vote.  Austerity Measures  Samaras formed a government with the Socialist Pasok party,
which came in third, and the sixth-place Democratic Left with
pledges to keep Greece in the euro while fighting for looser aid
conditions from the region and the IMF.  The Greek public remains divided about the austerity
measures, with polls showing a majority favor a renegotiation of
bailout terms. Alexis Tsipras, head of Greece’s biggest
opposition party Syriza, on July 23 called on the government to
refuse talks with the troika.  “There are opportunists sitting on the sidelines saying,
‘Let’s leave  Europe , let’s not pay a penny, let’s blackmail
them,’ but any technocrat knows that is certain death,” said
National Bank of Greece’s Christodoulou. “I for one believe in
the opportunity of staying in the game, and that is the
opportunity we give to homeowners. Taking away the home of a
particular family tears apart the social fabric of an already
stressed society,”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Athens at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in Athens at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  