-- Libor Crime Probe in U.K. Starts as U.S. Readies Indictments
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-07-27T09:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/libor-criminal-probe-in-u-k-starts-as-u-s-readies-indictments.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  is
preparing to file charges this fall against traders from several
banks in the global probe of interest rate-rigging. Meanwhile,
U.K. prosecutors haven’t even decided whether they have a case.  The U.K.  Serious Fraud Office  opened a criminal
investigation this month after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined a record
290 million pounds ($450 million) by U.K. and U.S. authorities.
Politicians including U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  and  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition Labour Party,
called for a criminal probe, and the agency was told it would be
given a budget to take on the case.  The SFO had declined to get involved in the investigation
for more than a year, despite briefings with the U.K. Financial
Services Authority and a compilation of findings from U.S.
enforcement agents. The U.S. evidence was provided as early as
late last year, according to a person familiar with the case who
wasn’t authorized to discuss it.  “It’s partly the difference in culture,” said Andrew
Haynes, a law professor at the University of Wolverhampton in
England. “In America, economic crime is something that’s
regarded as desperately serious. In this country it is regarded
as a problem, but there’s sometimes a slothful response.”  Dozen Banks  The U.K. joins the U.S. in criminally investigating how
derivatives traders and rate submitters colluded to rig the
London Interbank Offered Rate, or Libor, and other  interest
rates . At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are among banks awaiting their fate
as regulators from Tokyo to London to New York investigate.  “Now the priority is to come to an assessment whether the
available offenses are there for us to prosecute in a criminal
court,” SFO spokesman  David Jones  said. If “the answer to that
is yes we can, then we start going hell for leather and putting
together a formal investigation team,” he said.  Regardless of the detailed findings involving manipulation
of Libor, the SFO didn’t express any interest in the matter
until recently, the person said. The agency appointed a new
director,  David Green , in late April.  “We were in constant liaison with the SFO, and have been
throughout, but ultimately the SFO’s decisions as to what they
do are matters for the SFO,” Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting
head of enforcement, told British lawmakers July 16.  Barclays Apologizes  Barclays today apologized for its role in the Libor scandal
as it posted first-half profit that beat analyst estimates and
disclosed that it was target of more Libor-linked lawsuits.  “We are sorry for what has happened,” Chairman Marcus
Agius said. “However, our leadership continues to focus on the
delivery of our financial performance targets.”  Credit Suisse has said that it doesn’t see evidence
suggesting it might have “material exposure” in connection with
Libor probes.  Barclays employees tried to manipulate Euribor and Libor
for profit, while managers instructed rate-setters to make
artificially low submissions to avoid the perception the lender
was under stress amid turmoil in credit markets in 2007 and
2008, according to the settlement.  As part of the U.S. and U.K. settlements, Barclays admitted
rigging rates as early as 2005. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier resigned
over the scandal.  Rate Fixing  The U.S. charges against individuals, which would probably
be filed by October, center on alleged rate-fixing activity that
goes beyond the conduct described in last month’s settlement
between Barclays and regulators, according to the person
familiar with the case.  Initially prosecutors aimed to bring charges as soon as
Labor Day, the U.S. holiday on Sept. 3, against traders who
illegally manipulated Libor rates. The eruption of political and
public anger following the Barclays settlement captured the
attention of other regulators in the U.S. and U.K., as well as
lawmakers in Congress and Parliament.  Wider Interest  The wider interest in the Libor case in turn has altered
the trajectory of the criminal probe, changing the timetable of
criminal charges, the person said.  The Justice Department investigation of criminal activity
related to Libor is moving on a parallel course with civil
probes of the banks being conducted by the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and U.K. regulators, including the Serious Fraud
Office.  The Barclays settlement required approval of the CFTC, the
Justice Department and the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.
Future civil settlements will also require agreement from the
SEC and the Serious Fraud Office.  U.S. prosecutors have been criticized for failing to bring
any “meaningful” cases against individuals stemming from the
financial crisis, said  Michael Perino , a law professor at  St.
John’s University  in New York.  “A lot of what led to the financial crisis was reckless
behavior that might not have been criminal,” Perino said.
“There is this remaining pent-up anger that a different set of
rules seems to apply to banks and  Wall Street .”  Barclays is assisting the investigation into other firms
and individuals and was the first to provide “extensive and
meaningful cooperation,” the Justice Department said.  Outside Investigators  The SFO is likely to hire outside investigators to assist
with the case if they decide it’s likely they’ll be able to
bring charges, Jones said. They may ask the FSA for two or three
secondees to help them, and the Treasury may provide more than 3
million pounds.  The case is currently being handled by division heads
Satnam Tumani and Jane de Lozey, and the agency has hired the
senior barrister  Mukul Chawla  to be their lead external lawyer
on the investigation.  “Has the Serious Fraud Office got the message loud and
clear that if it is possible to get a charge on these people,
the public want that?”  Andrew Tyrie , the chair of the U.K.
Parliament’s Treasury Select Committee, asked the FSA’s
McDermott at the hearing on the Libor case.  The SFO was criticized under its previous director,  Richard
Alderman , for taking on high-profile investigations, including
ones into  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Financial Products
unit and convicted swindler  Bernard Madoff ’s London operations,
only to close them later without charges, citing a lack of
evidence. The agency has also faced a shrinking budget, a fight
with the  Home Office  to save it from dissolution, and a staff
exodus prior to Green’s arrival.  “They don’t have a glorious history in terms of getting on
top of these things,” Wolverhampton’s Haynes said. “It could
be partly that it falls into the cracks between the SFO and the
FSA, and doesn’t clearly land on anyone’s lap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  