-- Illegal Hiring Found in Justice Department Management Unit
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-07-26T16:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/illegal-hiring-found-in-justice-department-management-unit-1-.html
The management arm of the U.S.
 Justice Department  conducted illegal hiring and is plagued by a
“pattern of fundamental misconduct,” according to a report
today by the department’s inspector general.  Employees in the Justice Management Division including
senior officials advocated for, and in some cases “undertook a
sustained campaign,” to secure employment for family members
inside the Justice Department, according to a report by
Inspector General Michael Horowitz.  “Most of the misconduct described in this report -- the
nepotism, the Prohibited Personnel Practices, the ethical
lapses, the false and misleading statements -- was the result of
bad behavior by individuals insufficiently impressed with the
principles of fair and open competition,” according to the
report.  The inspector general’s office began an investigation into
the division’s hiring practices as a result of information
provided by a former employee to Representative Frank Wolf, a
Virginia Republican, the inspector general’s office wrote in the
report. The report was the third since 2004 to identify
misconduct in the department’s management division.  The Justice Department is “moving immediately to address
the report’s findings,” said  Gina Talamona , a spokeswoman.  “The department must maintain a zero-tolerance policy,”
she said, adding that “swift and decisive action must be taken
to deal with those involved in these activities.”  Seeking Employment  The report identified eight people in the division who
violated statutes and regulations as they sought employment for
relatives or the relatives of colleagues. In one case, the
report alleges Pamela Cabell-Edelen, the former assistant
director for human resources, changed an existing vacancy
announcement to improve her daughter’s chances for a position.
She also “improperly advocated” for her daughter’s appointment
to positions, according to the report.  Her daughter was eventually hired by Edward Hamilton, the
director of the management division’s Facilities and
Administrative Services Staff, to be his secretary, according to
the report. Hamilton’s son was later hired by Cabell-Edelen
through an internship program.  Report’s Details  Cabell-Edelen “involved herself extensively in her
daughter’s efforts to be hired” and advocated on her daughter’s
behalf to department officials, the report said. Cabell-Edelen,
who retired from the Justice Department in 2011, also “made
multiple false statements under oath in a deliberate attempt to
deceive” the inspector general, according to the report.  Reached by phone today, Cabell-Edelen said she hadn’t seen
the report and declined to comment on its contents. Hamilton
didn’t immediately respond to a message left with his office
seeking comment on the report.  “While it was a small number of JMD staffs and individuals
implicated in the investigation, the report was particularly
troubling as it identified hiring improprieties for the third
time in eight years,” Lee J. Lofthus, assistant attorney
general for administration, said in a July 23 letter to Horowitz
responding to report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  