-- IMF Stands by March Comments Greece May Need More Aid
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-26T15:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/imf-stands-by-march-comments-greece-may-need-more-aid.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
stands by comments made in March, when it said that  Greece  may
need more aid from Europe or further debt restructuring if the
country’s loan program goes off track, a fund spokesman said.  “Assessing debt sustainability is always part of our work
and our discussions with any countries where a program is in
place,” IMF spokesman  David Hawley  told reporters at a press
conference today. “That is work that continues in Greece.”  Greece is seeking to secure more time to implement reforms
and budget cuts under a second, 130 billion-euro ($160 billion)
bailout after holding elections in May and June amid growing
public opposition to austerity. As international creditors meet
authorities in  Athens  this week, some euro-region countries
including  Germany  have signaled reluctance to put up more funds
should Greece fail to meet its targets.  Hawley said that the discussions on the Greek program would
continue into September. When asked about the IMF position on
Greece compared with the March report, he said it “has not
changed.”  “In the event of slower progress in policy implementation,
or failure of the economy to respond rapidly enough to reforms,
completion of reviews may require additional support from
Greece’s European partners on yet more concessional terms than
currently envisaged, and/or another restructuring of bonded
debt,” the IMF staff wrote in the report published March 16.  Implementation Delays  IMF spokesman Gerry Rice earlier this month had indicated
the program had fallen behind, mentioning “policy
implementation delays in a number of areas.”  Asked about comments by European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  today, who said policy makers will do whatever is
needed to preserve the euro, Hawley said they are “a welcome
reiteration of the ECB’s well-known commitment” to support the
region.  Financial markets surged on speculation the ECB will act to
lower Spanish borrowing costs after yields on the nation’s bonds
rose to levels that prompted bailouts for Greece,  Portugal  and
Ireland. The ECB started buying Spanish and Italian debt in
August last year as part of its bond purchase program.  The IMF still sees a need for further rate cuts in the 17-
country euro region and “unconventional support,” Hawley said.  In Spain and Italy, the IMF’s “main message is that in
both countries important policy measures have been announced and
implementation is key,” Hawley said. The IMF’s annual
assessment of  Spain ’s economy will be published tomorrow, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  