-- IMF Urges Hungary Overhaul for Growth as Talks Resume
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-07-27T09:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/imf-urges-hungary-to-overhaul-economy-after-constructive-talks.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
urged  Hungary  to step up efforts to boost growth and make budget
financing sustainable as part of a week of “constructive” loan
talks that the Cabinet said will resume in September.  Hungary needs to move away from “ad hoc” taxes to plug
budget holes and should create a more “business friendly”
environment, the IMF said in a statement late yesterday. Hungary
is ready to compromise on some policies, including a financial-
transaction tax criticized by the  European Central Bank , and the
chances for an IMF accord rose after the talks, government chief
negotiator Mihaly Varga told HirTV yesterday.  Hungary resumed negotiations with the IMF and the European
Union after a seven-month delay as it seeks about 15 billion
euros ($18.2 billion) to reduce financing costs and protect
against euro-area contagion. Policies such as a special tax on
lenders and the nationalization of private-pension funds damaged
investor confidence, contributed to the downgrade of the
country’s credit rating to junk, cut investments and pushed the
economy to the brink of its second recession in four years.  “The fact that both sides sounded optimistic about the
talks is good,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, a Budapest-based economist
at Erste Bank AG, said by phone today, adding that he expects an
agreement in the fourth quarter. “Still, major policy
differences remain.”  Forint Strengthens  The forint strengthened to as much as 282.2 per euro today,
the highest level in more than 10 months, after ECB President
 Mario Draghi  pledged yesterday to do “whatever it takes” to
preserve the euro. The forint traded down 0.2 percent at 284.48
at 10:58 a.m. in Budapest.  The currency has gained 10.9 percent against the euro this
year, the fourth-biggest surge in the world, as investors
speculate Hungary will obtain an aid deal. The forint plunged 15
percent, the most in the world, in the second half of 2011.  IMF and EU officials are focusing on untangling policies
that contributed to an economic contraction in the first
quarter. That includes special levies on banks that made the
financial industry unprofitable in 2011 for the first time in 13
years and hampered their capacity to lend.  “The key near-term challenge is to maintain macroeconomic
and financial stability, while building the foundations for a
more robust recovery which is necessary to raise  living
standards ,” the IMF said in its statement. “Reforms to restore
banking system soundness in a more business-friendly environment
are critically important so that banks can contribute to
economic recovery.”  Tax Changes  Hungary’s flat-personal income tax regime, which cut budget
revenue without raising consumption, is one of the policies the
IMF is asking the country to change, Varga told HirTV yesterday.
Another is a financial-transaction tax, which the government
plans to levy next year on commercial lenders, the central bank
and the Treasury, to help fund payroll tax cuts. The ECB said
this week that taxing the central bank violates monetary-policy
independence.  The lenders and the government also disagreed about the
projected budget shortfall next year, with the IMF and the EU
estimating a significant overshoot compared with the Cabinet’s
2.2 percent of gross domestic product target, Varga told the MTI
news service in an interview published late yesterday.  The result of the first week of talks was “no game-
changer” and the road to a loan agreement will be “bumpy” and
fraught with uncertainty as Hungary and the lenders try to reach
a compromise on policies, Ketan Gada, a London-based portfolio
manager at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  who helps manage $10.3 billion in
emerging-market funds, said by phone today. He maintains a
neutral position on Hungarian government debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  