-- In Israel-Iran Conflict, Don’t Rely on Romney
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-07-26T18:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/in-israel-iran-conflict-don-t-rely-on-romney.html
The leaders of  Israel  may very well
decide to launch a preventive strike against  Iran’s nuclear
program  before the U.S. election on Nov. 6.  Sanctions are failing to persuade the Iranian regime to
stop enriching uranium, and negotiations with members of the
 United Nations Security Council  are bearing no fruit.  With these failures in mind, Israeli officials have
intensified their rhetoric. The defense minister,  Ehud Barak ,
told an audience this week at Israel’s National Defense College
that although he is “well aware of the difficulties involved in
thwarting Iran’s attempts to acquire a nuclear weapon,” he
believes that “dealing with the threat itself will be far more
complicated, far more dangerous and far more costly in resources
and human life.”  Barak and the Israeli prime minister,  Benjamin Netanyahu ,
have argued that they don’t want to subcontract the task of
attacking Iran’s nuclear program to the U.S. They think the
Jewish state shouldn’t rely on others for its defense. Still,
there’s a good chance they will postpone action until after the
U.S. election, which is what the Obama administration says it
wants them to do.  Hardest Line  Netanyahu would never say this publicly, but as a longtime
watcher of the prime minister, I can say with reasonable surety
that if Netanyahu were a more religiously observant Jew, he
would be stuffing notes into the Western Wall right now, asking
God to help  Mitt Romney  in Florida and  Ohio . For Netanyahu, who
is dispositionally and ideologically aligned with the U.S.
Republican party, only a muscular conservative can be trusted to
take the hardest line against Iran.  On the matter of Iran, however, Netanyahu would be wrong to
root for Romney.  Barack Obama  is the one who’s more likely to
confront Iran militarily, should sanctions and negotiations
fail. He has committed himself to stopping Iran by any means
necessary, and he has a three-year record as president to back
his rhetoric. Romney has only rhetoric, and he would be
hamstrung in many ways if he chose military confrontation.  Romney, who is visiting Netanyahu in  Jerusalem  this
weekend, isn’t soft on the matter. He told a Veterans of Foreign
Wars convention this week that, “A clear line must be drawn”
with Iran: “There must be a full suspension of any enrichment,
period. And at every turn, Iran must know that the  United States 
and our allies stand as one in these critical objectives. Only
in this way can we successfully counter the catastrophic threat
that  Iran  presents.” He went on, “I pledge to you and to all
Americans that if I become commander-in-chief, I will use every
means necessary to protect ourselves and the region, and to
prevent the worst from happening while there is still time.”  But Romney would face several critical challenges in a
conflict with Iran that Obama would not:  -- Romney would be a new president in 2013, which could
plausibly be the year for a preventive attack. He will be
inexperienced, and his national security team will be new and
potentially inexperienced as well. The learning curve on Iran is
steep, and the Iranian regime knows it. The Obama team is deeply
knowledgeable, appropriately cynical about Iranian intentions,
and has had the time and confidence to make course corrections.  -- Romney, by all accounts, is uninterested in inheriting
the mantle of President  George W. Bush , who invaded two  Muslim
countries  and lost popularity and credibility as a result.
Romney, despite his rhetoric, is more of a pragmatist than Bush,
and far more cautious. An attack on Iran is an incautious act,
one that even Bush rejected.  -- The unilateral use of force in the  Middle East  for a
liberal Democrat like Obama is a credential; for a conservative
Republican like Romney, it could be an albatross. I argued in a
previous column that Romney is more likely than Obama to oversee
a revitalized Middle East peace process. That’s because
conservatives are better positioned to make peace; liberals are
generally better positioned to launch preventive strikes at the
nuclear programs of rogue nations. We know that U.S. voters, and
world leaders, allow Obama extraordinary leeway when it comes to
deadly drone strikes, precisely because of his politics,
character and background. (We are talking about a man, after
all, who won the Nobel Peace Prize while ordering the automated
killing of suspected Muslim terrorists around the world.) Romney
will get no comparative slack.  -- Obama has done a superior job of building an
international sanctions coalition against Iran. He has even
received some cooperation from  China  and  Russia . Before
identifying Iran as the U.S.’s main adversary in the world,
Romney named Russia. There’s no evidence to suggest Romney will
do a better job than Obama has in negotiating with the Russians;
no evidence to suggest that Romney will do a better job creating
international support for stringent sanctions; and certainly no
evidence he would do better in convincing allies that a strike
against Iran is a necessity.  Choose Wisely  All of this isn’t to say that Obama, if he’s re-elected,
will succeed in stopping Iran. The U.S. didn’t want  Pakistan  and
 North Korea  to gain nuclear weapons, and they did anyway. The
Iranian regime has flouted Obama’s demands, refused his offer to
negotiate and challenged his naval deployments in the  Persian
Gulf .  But there’s no reason to think Romney would be more
effective. Quite the opposite: Obama’s commitment to preventing
an increase in the membership of the world’s nuclear club long
predates the current crisis. He has devoted years to finding a
peaceful solution to the Iran problem; other world leaders
appreciate his patience, and would give him space to escalate
next year, if he chooses.  Netanyahu should carefully consider Obama’s many strengths
before wishing for a Romney victory.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own. This is the first in a two-part series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 