-- India Top Court Cancels Mine Permits; Monnet Ispat Falls
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-07-26T11:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/india-top-court-cancels-mine-permits-monnet-ispat-falls-1-.html
India ’s top court today scrapped the
iron ore mining permits of JSW Ispat Steel Ltd.,  Monnet Ispat &
Energy Ltd. (MISP)  and four other steelmakers, reserving the mines in
Jharkhand state for government-run companies.  Monnet Ispat dropped 15 percent, the most in almost four
years, to 327.05 rupees at the close in Mumbai. The benchmark
Sensitive Index fell 1.2 percent.  A two-judge panel of the Supreme Court today upheld a 2009
lower court order canceling the permits and supporting a federal
government move to set aside the reserves for companies
including Steel Authority of India Ltd., the nation’s second-
biggest producer of the alloy. The federal administration in
1969 had reserved 2,590 hectares (6,400 acres) in the Ghatkuri
hills in the mineral-rich eastern state.  “It appears to be an order that could affect the
sentiments of the private metal companies,” said Jatin Y. Damania, an analyst at SBI Capital Markets Ltd. Damania said he
is awaiting details of the court ruling to assess the impact.  In 2006, the state government of Jharkhand awarded the
mines to a group of six companies, including Prakash Ispat Ltd.,
Ispat Industries Ltd. and Abhijeet Infrastructure Ltd. Ispat
Industries is now called  JSW Ispat Steel (JSWI)  after being acquired by
 JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  The companies had challenged the Jharkhand high
court order to cancel the leases.  Adhunik Alloys and Power Ltd. was among the companies given
the mining permit, Manoj Agarwal, managing director of group
company  Adhunik Metaliks Ltd. (ADML) , said today by phone. Adhunik
Metaliks does not have any holding in Adhunik Alloys, he said.  “We’re waiting to see the order and will abide by the
ruling,” Agarwal said.  Adhunik Metaliks declined 2.2 percent to 30.75 rupees, the
lowest level since April 1, 2009.  The court ruling will not hamper the current business,
Monnet Ispat said in a stock exchange filing today. The company
didn’t sign any mining lease with the state government, it said.
R. Jayaraman, spokesman at JSW Group, couldn’t immediately
comment on the order.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Rajesh Kumar Singh in New Delhi at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  