-- Invesco Profit Falls 16% as Stock Markets Erode Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-07-26T20:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/invesco-profit-falls-16-as-stock-markets-erode-assets.html
Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , owner of the Invesco,
 Van Kampen  and PowerShares funds, said second-quarter profit
declined 16 percent as falling stock markets eroded assets and
the fees charged for overseeing them.  Net income decreased to $153.9 million, or 34 cents a
share, from $183 million, or 39 cents, a year earlier, Atlanta-
based Invesco said today. Investors withdrew $8.3 billion in the
quarter, including $3.2 billion from actively-managed products
and $1.7 billion from index-based strategies. The shares rose
after Chief Executive Officer Martin L. Flanagan said clients
reversed course in July.  “In the first few weeks of July we’ve seen a sharp
turnaround in flows,” Flanagan said on a conference call with
analysts.  Invesco joined  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and  Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS) 
in reporting lower profit as market declines eroded assets and
clients pulled money in the three months ended June 30.
Flanagan, who has expanded through acquisitions, broadened the
product lineup and boosted sales outside the U.S., said he’s
confident the company can weather a volatile market as its funds
beat 77 percent of peers over the past five years.  New Investments  Investors made new investments in July focused on real
estate, non-U.S. stocks, bank loans, asset-allocation products
and stable value products, Flanagan said during the conference
call.  Invesco rose 2.1 percent to close at $20.91 in  New York ,
bringing gains this year to 4.1 percent, compared with a 4.7
percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 20-company index of
asset managers and custody banks.  U.S. stocks gained today, snapping a four-day drop in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  pledged to defend the euro while American jobless
claims fell and durable-goods orders rose.  “We are confident of future organic growth in spite of a
challenging quarter and a volatile market environment,”
Flanagan said in a statement announcing earnings.  Total assets as of June 30 declined 3.9 percent from the
previous quarter and were down 1.1 percent from a year earlier.
Equities, which account for 44 percent of Invesco’s assets,
dropped 7 percent from March and 6 percent from a year earlier.  “Generally there was a risk-off attitude with investors in
the second quarter,” Chief Financial Officer Loren M. Starr
said in a telephone interview. Starr said the company’s
Balanced-Risk Allocation Fund, a multi-asset-class product,
helped temper net redemptions by attracting $3 billion in
deposits in the quarter.  Janus, BlackRock  Lower assets caused revenue to fall 5.7 percent to $1
billion. Expenses fell 3.7 percent to $806.1 million as
compensation dropped 4.3 percent.  The MSCI ACWI  Index (MXWD)  of global stocks declined 6.4 percent
in the second quarter, amid signs the global economy is slowing
and  Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading.  Janus, owner of the Janus, Intech and Perkins funds, said
today that second-quarter profit fell 44 percent to $23.4
million after clients withdrew money for the 12th straight
quarter. BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, said July
18 that second-quarter profit fell 11 percent to $554 million as
clients withdrew $29.4 billion.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc., the asset manager that has posted
a profit every quarter since going public in 1986, yesterday
reported a 0.9 percent increase in second-quarter profit,
missing analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  