-- Japan Upsets Spain 1-0 in Men’s Olympic Soccer as Britain Draws
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-07-27T01:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/japan-upsets-spain-1-0-in-group-d-olympic-men-s-soccer-match.html
Japan  upset gold-medal favorite
Spain 1-0 in the Olympic men’s soccer tournament, while Britain
was held to a 1-1 draw by  Senegal  in its first game as host.  Uruguay beat the United Arab Emirates 2-1 in a Group A
match yesterday, while Gabon and  Switzerland  tied 1-1 and Mexico
and  South Korea  drew 0-0 in Group B. In Group C,  Brazil  beat
 Egypt  3-2 and Belarus defeated New Zealand 1-0.  Honduras  and
 Morocco  drew 2-2 in the other Group B game.  Yuki Otsu’s 34th minute goal was enough for Japan, which
played more than half the match at Hampden Park in Glasgow with
a man advantage after Spain midfielder Inigo Martinez received a
red card in the 41st minute.  “We mustn’t get carried away and must continue to work
hard,” Otsu told reporters. “We are in a positive position for
the other games.”  The top two teams from each of the four groups advance to
the quarterfinals.  Spain  is the reigning World Cup champion and successfully
defended its European title this month, defeating Italy 4-0 in
the final. The Olympic team features younger players, as rules
only allow three athletes over the age of 23 on each squad.  “We already knew that we would be under additional
pressure coming into this tournament as world and European
champions,” Spain coach Luis Milla. “But the players are happy
to take on board the extra responsibility of this pressure. Now,
though, we have to look forward to the match against Honduras.”  Olympic Failures  Japan, the 1968 bronze medalist, finished 15th in Beijing
four years ago and 13th in  Athens  in 2004. A sixth-place finish
in 2000 in Sydney is the team’s best recent Olympic performance.  “I wanted them to mainly focus on gaining three points,”
coach Takashi Sekizuka told reporters. “We rarely have the
chance to play such a strong team, so I wanted them to take
advantage of this and most of all enjoy the match.”  Honduras got two goals from Jerry Bengtson to tie Morocco
in Glasgow.  Bengtson scored in the 56th minute to tie the match and
then on a penalty kick nine minutes later to put Honduras ahead.
Abdelaziz Barrada had given Morocco the lead with a right-foot
strike just inside the post in the first half, and Zakaria
Labyad tied the match two minutes after Bengtson’s second goal.  “The draw was a fair result, but this will make it
difficult against Japan and Spain,” Honduras coach  Luis Suarez 
told reporters. “It will not be easy in this tough group.”  Brazil got three first-half goals and held on to defeat
Egypt in the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff.  Brazil Holds On  Rafael scored in the 16th minute with Leandro Damiao adding
a goal 10 minutes later. Neymar scored in the 30th minute, and
the game remained 3-0 at half time. Captain Mohamed Aboutrika
scored seven minutes after the restart, and then Mohamed Salah
got a goal in the 76th minute to close the gap.  “We had to work really hard near the end,” Brazil
midfielder Oscar, who signed for English Premier League club
Chelsea this week, told reporters. “The most important thing is
that we won.”  In Coventry, Belarus beat  New Zealand  in the other Group C
match on a goal from Dimtry Baga in first-half stoppage time.  Uruguay rallied to defeat the U.A.E. at Old Trafford in
Manchester with goals either side of half time.  Ismaeil Matar scored in the 23rd minute by getting past the
goalkeeper and two defenders to put the underdog U.A.E. team
ahead. Gaston Ramirez made it 1-1 with a curling free kick three
minutes before the break, and Nicolas Lodeiro latched on to a
loose ball in the U.A.E. penalty area in the 56th minute.  Olympic Return  Uruguay was making its return to the Olympic soccer
tournament following an 84-year absence. It won the gold medal
in Paris in 1924 and Amsterdam in 1928.  Senegal got a second-half goal from Moussa Konate to tie
Britain in a Group A game.  The home team had taken the lead on  Craig Bellamy ’s 20th-
minute goal at Old Trafford. The striker went off with a leg
injury in the 80th minute and Konate scored two minutes later.  Gabon and Switzerland tied in their Group B match at St.
James’ Park in Newcastle,  England .  The Swiss took the lead when Mehmedi Admir converted a
fifth-minute penalty kick after Innocent Emeghara was brought
down in the box. Pierre Aubameyang scored just before half time.  Switzerland had Oliver Buff sent off for a second yellow
card for faking a foul in Gabon’s penalty area.  In the other Group B game, Mexico and South Korea played
out a scoreless draw in Coventry, England.  Mexico , which was the winner of the North and Central
America qualifying region, had a chance to win it in the closing
minutes but Giovani dos Santos failed to get a shot on target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  