-- Japan Falters as Ito Calls for Euro Buys to Rein in Yen
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-07-27T05:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/japan-consumer-prices-fall-0-2-in-sign-of-deflation-struggle.html
Japan ’s consumer prices unexpectedly
fell and retail sales missed analysts’ forecasts, adding to
evidence that the economy’s expansion is faltering as gains in
the yen and austerity measures in  Europe  hit exports.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  fell 0.2 percent in
June from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said in Tokyo
today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for no
change in prices.  Retail sales  rose 0.2 percent, a separate
report showed, the smallest gain since November and less than a
median forecast for a 1.1 percent increase.  Japan is relying on domestic spending to support growth as
global demand weakens and the boost from earthquake
reconstruction work lessens. Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  says the
government will weigh the need for fiscal stimulus after  gross
domestic product  figures due Aug. 13, while former Ministry of
Finance official Takatoshi Ito is calling for the central bank
to buy euro bonds to weaken the yen.  “Today’s data clearly signals Japan’s economy is losing
momentum,” said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at
JPMorgan Securities in Tokyo and a former central bank official,
who correctly forecast the decline in core CPI. “If personal
expenditures weaken, that will be bad news for Japan as exports
are obviously slowing because of a deepening global slowdown.”  The yen traded at 78.23 per dollar as of 1:52 p.m. in Tokyo
and 96.15 against the euro. Europe’s crisis has fueled the yen’s
appeal as a haven asset, causing it to advance to an 11-year
high against the euro this week.  Euro Outlook  “We must realize that a much bigger plunge in the euro may
occur,” Ito, who was deputy vice finance minister from 1999 to
2001, said in an interview in Tokyo on July 25. BOJ purchases of
euro bonds would be “surprising” and also show investors that
Japan is supporting Europe, he said.  Asian stocks rose for a second day today after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged yesterday to
preserve the euro. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 1.7 percent
at 1:53 p.m. in Tokyo, paring a weekly loss.  The yen has risen more than 6 percent against the dollar
since mid-March, hurting profits of exporters, the driving force
for the economy, according to Tsuyoshi Ueno, a senior economist
at NLI Research Institute in Tokyo.  “A strong yen is complicating Japan’s fight against
deflation by threating the recovery,” Ueno said. “There will
probably be more doubts about the feasibility of the  Bank of
Japan ’s inflation goal and that will result in calls for further
policy action.”  Television Sales  Retail sales fell a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent from
May, compared with analyst estimates for a 0.2 percent increase.
Sales of machinery and equipment, including televisions and  DVD
players , were the biggest drag, declining 32 percent from the
same month a year earlier, the Trade Ministry report showed.  Typhoons likely limited retail spending in June, while auto
sales may “plunge” in August or September after the end of
government incentives for purchases, Adachi said.  A decline in  oil prices  was the largest drag on the
consumer-price index, the analyst said. Oil has dropped about 20
percent from this year’s peak of $109.62 a barrel. Japan’s
gasoline prices fell 12 percent to 139.6 yen per liter this week
from the 2012 high, according to government data.  Japan’s economy probably expanded at a 1.6 percent annual
rate in the three months ended June 30 from a 4.7 percent
expansion in the first quarter, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. Growth Report  The U.S. Commerce Department may today report that the
economy expanded in the second quarter at the slowest pace in a
year. Gross domestic product rose at a 1.4 percent annual rate
after a 1.9 percent gain in the prior quarter, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Elsewhere in  Asia , industrial output in  Thailand  shrank
more than economists anticipated in June, sliding 9.6 percent
from a year earlier. In Europe,  Spain  gives unemployment
numbers,  Italy  reports business confidence and  Germany  releases
inflation data.  In Japan, central bank Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi
said on July 25 that the bank will probably add stimulus if it
judges a strong yen is a big risk after examining the currency’s
effect on the economy. Board member Takahide Kiuchi this week
highlighted uncertainty about whether the BOJ can achieve its 1
percent inflation goal, and indicated more monetary stimulus may
be needed.  A panel charged with outlining the Japanese government’s
growth strategy has updated a final draft plan with a pledge to
work with the central bank to combat deflation and the strong
yen, according to a copy of the document obtained by Bloomberg
News on July 26.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  