-- Japanese, Australian Stock Futures Rise on China, Draghi
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-07-26T23:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/japanese-australian-stock-futures-rise-on-china-draghi.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  rose as Chinese cities roll out stimulus measures amid
an economic slowdown and after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers will do whatever is needed to
preserve the euro.  American depositary receipts of  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
Australia’s biggest mining company and oil producer, rose 0.8
percent from the closing share price in Sydney. ADRs of Japanese
machinery maker  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , which gets 24 percent of its sales
in  China  and Europe, advanced 2 percent. Those of  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201) , Japan’s second-largest carmaker by revenue, fell 0.6
percent after profit missed analysts’ estimates.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,530 in Chicago yesterday, up from 8,440 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,530 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index added 0.9 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index gained
0.6 percent in Wellington.  Draghi “came out with a very strong statement in support
of the market,”said Cameron Peacock, a Melbourne-based market
analyst at IG Markets, a provider of trading services for
stocks, bonds and currencies. In China, “there’s scope for them
to re-stimulate the economy, but they’ve got to do that in such
a way that it doesn’t re-stoke inflation beyond a certain
point.”  China Stimulus  The central Chinese city of Changsha unveiled an 829.2
billion  yuan  ($130 billion) investment plan, the official China
News Service reported yesterday. Local governments are stepping
up efforts to bolster the economy, with the cities of Nanjing
and Ningbo saying over the past two weeks they will introduce
measures including tax cuts and incentives to boost consumption.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained 1.9 percent to 85.94 in New
York yesterday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The index added 1.7 percent in New York
yesterday. Global stocks rallied after Draghi suggested policy
makers may intervene in bond markets as yields surge in Spain
and Italy.  Oil advanced following Draghi’s comments, as U.S. reports
on durable goods and jobless claims reduced concern that
economic growth is slowing. Crude for September delivery rose 42
cents to settle at $89.39 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Japan CPI  In Japan, the government is scheduled to report data on
consumer prices and retail sales today before the stock market
opens at 9 a.m. local time.  Nissan Motor Co. reported first-quarter profit that fell
short of analysts’ estimates as it increased incentives and
marketing spending in the U.S. Net income dropped 15 percent to
72.3 billion yen ($924 million) in the three months ended June
30, from 85 billion yen a year earlier, Nissan said yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell about 12 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern  China’s
economy  is slowing and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
worsen. The regional benchmark index traded at 11.6 times
 estimated earnings  as of yesterday, compared with 13.2 for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  and 10.9 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 