-- Jefferies Vies With Goldman for Highest Wall Street Pay
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-26T17:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/jefferies-vies-with-goldman-for-highest-wall-street-pay.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  led Wall Street’s largest securities firms in
average compensation per employee at midyear, widening a lead
over  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Jefferies set aside $870 million in the first six months of
its fiscal year, enough to pay its 3,809 employees an average of
$228,407. Goldman Sachs set aside $225,789 for each of its
32,300 workers. Average pay for the 26,553 people in JPMorgan’s
investment bank was $184,989, or at least 18 percent less than
Jefferies’s and Goldman Sachs’s reported figures. It was 10
percent less than both in fiscal 2011.  Wall Street firms are grappling with how much to pay staff
as a slump in trading and mergers pressures revenue. Jefferies
and Goldman Sachs, both based in  New York , have been positioning
themselves for a rebound in securities businesses while
JPMorgan, which is 64 times larger than Jefferies, absorbs a
$5.8 billion trading loss this year in its chief investment
office.  “If you’re extremely large in today’s economy, chances are
you’re trying to scale down or cut costs,” said  Jeanne Branthover , a managing director at Boyden Global Executive
Search Ltd. “By staying nimble, flexible and smaller, you can
keep your costs down, you can hire the best because you can give
them the incentives needed to be the best and stay there,” she
said of Jefferies.  Slow Start  Goldman Sachs, run by Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, includes consultants and temporary staff when
reporting headcount. Jefferies, which has been luring talent
from larger rivals to expand in the wake of 2008’s credit
crisis, tallies only full-time workers in its disclosures.  Jefferies’s reported headcount would expand by 10 percent
to 15 percent if the firm included temporary workers, said a
person with direct knowledge of the figures who requested
anonymity because the information isn’t public. While that would
place the firm’s average pay per employee below Goldman Sachs’s,
it still exceeds JPMorgan’s and  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s.  Wall Street’s five biggest U.S. banks --  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs -- reported the worst start to a year since 2008. Combined
first-half revenue at those firms fell to $161 billion, the
lowest since $135 billion four years ago. Net revenue at
Jefferies, which has less assets than Paramus, New Jersey-based
 Hudson City Bancorp Inc. (HCBK) , was little changed in the first half
of the fiscal year, which ends Nov. 30, from a year earlier.  Many major European banks, including UBS AG and Barclays
Plc, haven’t yet reported first-half results.  Morgan Stanley  JPMorgan, led by CEO  Jamie Dimon , 56, said this month it
accepted an offer from former Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew,
55, to return about two years of compensation. Other London-
based managers involved in the CIO’s synthetic-credit bets left
without severance and will be required to forfeit as much as two
years of pay, New York-based JPMorgan said.  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David Viniar, 57,
said this month that the firm is targeting an additional $500
million in expense reductions that will mostly come from
compensation. The bank said it plans to add junior employees.  Morgan Stanley set aside $8.06 billion for compensation in
the first half of 2012 for the entire firm, a 9.5 percent
decrease from a year earlier. Average compensation for the
company’s 58,627 workers was $137,548. Pay at JPMorgan’s
investment bank declined 16 percent to $4.91 billion and Goldman
Sachs set aside $7.29 billion, a 14 percent drop. Jefferies’s
first-half compensation fell less than 1 percent.  Hiring Strategy  Employees at Jefferies, which has $35.7 billion in assets
compared with Goldman Sachs’s $949 billion and JPMorgan’s $2.29
trillion, are often producers “on their own basis and
relationships,” while bankers and traders at the other two
banks are more tied to their companies’ brands, said Paul Sorbera, president of executive search firm Alliance Consulting.  “If you produce you are more proportionately paid by the
numbers than at JPMorgan or Goldman Sachs,” Sorbera said.  Richard Khaleel, a Jefferies spokesman, declined to
comment, as did Goldman Sachs’s  David Wells  and Jennifer Kim at
JPMorgan.  Jefferies’s compensation-per-employee numbers reflect the
firm’s hiring strategy in the wake of the financial crisis,
Branthover said. The company, run by CEO  Richard Handler , 51,
added bankers and traders as its biggest rivals contracted.
Jefferies’s headcount has increased 68 percent from 2,270 in the
fourth quarter of 2008.  Brian Friedman , chairman of the firm’s
executive committee, said in June that Jefferies’s goal is to
grow deeper in the products and geographies it occupies.  ‘Wisely Built’  It’s an “example of how smart Jefferies is and how they
really built very wisely,” Branthover said. “But also, they’re
not too big.”  Key hires include Benjamin Lorello, who joined from Zurich-
based UBS in 2009 to be global head of  investment banking  and
 capital markets . Lorello, 59, was joined at Jefferies by 36 of
UBS’s health-care bankers.  Wall Street firms typically reserve a portion of revenue
throughout the year for employees, awarding much of the money as
year-end bonuses. Average pay per worker doesn’t reflect the
amount of money employees actually receive and could be driven
by the amount of deferred cash or restricted stock awarded. Top
executives and revenue producers sometimes receive multimillion-
dollar awards, while clerical workers get smaller salaries.  Securities firms often report their compensation numbers
differently. For example, JPMorgan divides its quarterly reports
and compensation figures into business lines, including the
investment bank, commercial banking and asset management, while
Jefferies doesn’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 