-- JFE Holdings Profit Outlook Beats Estimates on Planned Cost Cuts
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 2012-07-26T10:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/jfe-first-quarter-profit-drops-as-strong-yen-cuts-margins.html
JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) ,  Japan ’s second-
largest steelmaker, more than doubled first-quarter profit and
forecast full-year earnings will beat estimates as it pares
production costs to make up for falling prices.  Profit will probably be 80 billion yen ($1 billion) in the
financial year ending March 2013, compared with a loss of 36.6
billion yen a year earlier, the Tokyo-based company said today
in a statement. That’s more than the 69 billion yen median
estimate of 17 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  First-quarter current profit, or pretax profit from
operations, fell 61 percent to 9.9 billion yen as the strong yen
and global oversupply squeezed its profit margins. The  company 
is targeting cost reduction of 120 billion yen this fiscal year
by using cheaper low-grade steelmaking materials, Executive Vice
President Shinichi Okada told reporters today in  Tokyo .  “The company’s forecast may still be a bit too optimistic,
given the current environment as the industry struggles with
severe demand and product prices,” said Masayuki Otani, a
Tokyo-based strategist at Securities Japan Inc.  JFE, which also builds power plants and ships through
subsidiaries, rose 2.3 percent to 991 yen at the close on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  stock  has declined 29 percent since
the beginning of this year.  Net income  surged to 18.1 billion yen in the three months
ended June 30 from 7.1 billion yen a year earlier after a one-
time earthquake-related charge wasn’t repeated. The company
booked a 12.7 billion yen disaster-related charge after the
March 2011 earthquake disrupted supply lines at carmakers and
other customers.  Sales Forecast  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest mill, and  South Korea ’s
Posco posted lower  profits  as commodity prices weaken and growth
slows in  China , the biggest consumer of steel. The stronger yen
has made Japanese steel more expensive than rival Asian and
European products.  JFE forecast full-year sales will increase 4.2 percent to
3.3 trillion yen, in line with the analyst estimates.  Production in the current quarter, excluding affiliates and
units, is targeted at 7.2 million metric tons of crude steel, up
from 6.94 million tons a year earlier and little changed from
the first quarter. Exports account for about 49 percent of its
shipments.  The steelmaker expects to charge customers 71,000 yen a ton
in the three months ending Sept. 30, less than the 85,600 yen a
year earlier. Product prices fell to 75,700 yen in the first
quarter from 82,400 yen a year earlier.  China Exports  China’s monthly shipments abroad rose to 8.7 percent of
domestic output last month, the highest proportion since July
2010. Chinese  steel mills , set for a record production in 2012,
are ramping up overseas sales to avoid a softer domestic market,
where  prices  for the commodity have dropped to a two-year low.  ArcelorMittal yesterday posted a 28 percent slump in profit
in the April to June quarter as the  European debt crisis  sapped
demand, lowering prices. Posco, South Korea’s biggest mill, said
July 24 profit fell 44 percent in the period.  Japan’s currency, which reached a postwar high of 75.35 on
Oct. 31, rose about 4 percent against the dollar in the April to
June quarter.  JFE Holdings unveiled a plan in April to invest 1 trillion
yen over the three years through March 2015 on expansion, with a
focus on Asian countries where demand growth is faster than the
domestic market. The investment includes construction of its
first blast furnace outside Japan. The company is conducting a
feasibility study to build integrated steelworks in  Vietnam , in
which it is the majority holder.  JFE Holdings plans to merge its Universal Shipbuilding unit
with  IHI Corp. (7013) ’s marine unit in October, creating a bigger
shipbuilder to compete with rivals in South Korean and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  