-- Junk Appeals With Spreads Wider Than Pre-Crisis, McClellan Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-07-26T17:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/junk-appeals-with-spreads-wider-than-pre-crisis-mcclellan-says.html
Junk-rated corporate bonds are
“attractive” with relative yields on the debt still wider than
before the financial crisis, according to JPMorgan Private
Bank’s Megan McClellan.  Speculative-grade securities yielded 640 basis points, or
6.4 percentage points, more than similar-maturity Treasuries as
of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. That compares with 242 basis points, the low in May 2007.
Overall yields are little changed at 7.7 percent.  “Credit, even though the absolute yield level is low, is
relatively attractive to where it was pre-credit-crisis,”
McClellan, U.S. head of fixed income at JPMorgan, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with
 Stephanie Ruhle  and Scarlet Fu.  The firm favors company bonds rated BB to B that mature in
five to six years, McClellan said.  “Our bias tends to be toward the little bit more highly
rated companies,” she said. “You don’t want to lend to these
companies for 10 years. We have an extraordinary amount of
uncertainty.”  U.S. junk bonds, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s , have returned
8.2 percent this year, compared with 3.2 percent for Treasuries,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data show. The S&P 500 index
of stocks has gained 7.7 percent including reinvested dividends
through yesterday.  Demographic Shift  While a so-called bubble is typically only apparent in
retrospect, demographic changes as more Americans reach
 retirement age  and demand for safer securities by pensions and
insurance companies may help underpin fixed-income assets,
McClellan said.  “People flock to fixed income and yield in times of
uncertainty,” she said. “You’re certainly seeing that
reflected in inflows.”  Investor flows into U.S. bond mutual-funds and  exchange
traded funds  surged to $157 billion in the first half of 2012,
compared with $65 billion during the same period last year,
according Sausalito, California-based TrimTabs Investment
Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  