-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for July (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-07-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-july-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Growth in Tenth District manufacturing activity remained modest
in July, and producers were slightly more optimistic than a
month ago. Most price indexes increased after falling somewhat
last month and more firms plan to pass these increases along.
Several respondents commented on rising materials prices,
particularly for agricultural commodities affected by recent
weather conditions.  The month-over-month composite index was 5 in July, up from 3 in
June but down from 9 in May. The composite index is an average
of the production, new orders, employment, supplier delivery
time, and raw materials inventory indexes. Manufacturing growth
increased at most nondurable goods-producing plants, while
growth was flat to slightly negative for durable goods
production. Other month-over-month indexes were mixed in July.
The production index fell further from 12 to 2, and the
shipments index dipped into negative territory. The new orders
for export index dropped from -7 to -13, almost matching the
all-time low of -14 in early 2009. However, the new orders index
edged up from -7 to -4, and the employment and order backlog
indexes also improved over last month. Both inventory indexes
rose considerably.  The majority of year-over-year factory indexes eased somewhat.
The composite year-over-year index edged down from 24 to 20, and
the shipments, new orders, and order backlog indexes also fell.
The employment index dropped for the third straight month but
remained positive, and the new orders for exports index
decreased marginally. In contrast, the capital expenditures
index increased from 21 to 23, and both inventory indexes also
rose.  Future factory indexes rebounded slightly after falling last
month. The future composite index climbed from 8 to 13, and
future new orders and order backlog indexes also rose after
decreasing in June. The future employment index edged higher
from 13 to 16, while the future production, shipments, and
employee workweek indexes were unchanged. The future capital
expenditures index increased from 17 to 20, and the future new
orders for exports index improved slightly. The future raw
materials inventory index rose from -11 to -1, and the future
finished goods inventory index moved into positive territory.  Most price indexes climbed higher after moderating the past few
months. The month-over-month finished goods price index moved
out of negative territory, and the raw materials price index
increased from 7 to 18. While the year-over-year raw materials
price index continued to fall, the finished goods price index
rose from 19 to 35. The future raw materials price index
increased from 40 to 50, and the future finished goods price
index jumped from 12 to 25, indicating more firms plan to pass
recent cost increases through to customers. Several contacts
indicated that rising prices of agricultural commodities were
likely to translate into higher selling prices. 