-- Kirin Said to Weigh Bid for F&N Food and Drinks Business
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-07-26T12:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/kirin-said-to-consider-bid-for-f-n-food-and-beverage-business.html
Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , Japan’s largest
brewer by market value, is considering a bid for Fraser & Neave
Ltd.’s soft drinks and dairy businesses, said three people with
knowledge of the matter.  The people, who asked not to be identified as the
deliberations are private, didn’t say how much Kirin would offer
for the operations. One person said an acquisition of the food
and beverage operations is one of the options Kirin is
considering. Kirin spokesman Kan Yamamoto declined to comment.  Buying the F&N businesses would jump-start Kirin’s
expansion in  Southeast Asia , where soft-drink sales are rising
as beer consumption slows in Japan.  F&N’s stakes  in food and
beverage businesses with operations in Malaysia, Vietnam and
Thailand have a market value of about S$2.7 billion ($2.1
billion), according to estimates by Nomura Holdings Inc.  “There aren’t many attractive companies to acquire,” said
 Naoki Fujiwara , chief  fund manager  at Shinkin Asset Management
Co. “Expanding in  emerging markets  makes sense as it takes time
to grow if you start from scratch.”  F&N shares rose 0.4 percent to a record S$8.38 at the close
in  Singapore , giving it a market value of about S$12 billion.
Kirin, which already owns 15 percent of F&N, fell 0.9 percent to
close at 876 yen in  Tokyo .  Heineken Counters  Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi sparked
consolidation in Southeast Asia’s beverage industry when his
 Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV)  agreed on July 18 to buy a 22 percent stake in
F&N. At the same time, Charoen’s son-in-law stuck a deal to
purchase almost 9 percent of  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  F&N,
which owns 40 percent of APB, the maker of Tiger beer, said
today that ThaiBev increased its stake to 23.9 percent.  Two days later,  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-biggest
brewer and the owner of a 42 percent stake in APB, struck back
with a S$7.5 billion offer to buy the rest of the company.  Kirin “knew they can’t take the beer business, so this
shows their will to not let go of the soft drink part,” said
Mikihiko Yamato, deputy head of research for JI Asia in Tokyo.
“It’s better for Kirin to move than not move.”  Singapore-based F&N has been in the food and beverage
business since 1883, producing soft drinks, milk drinks, ice
cream and isotonic drinks under F&N Foods Pte. and Malaysia’s
 Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd. (FNH) , according to its website.  “Operationally they are doing quite well and overall they
have a sizeable market share,” said Low Soo Fang, a Kuala
Lumpur-based analyst at  AMMB Holdings Bhd (AMM) , referring to Fraser &
Neave Holdings Bhd. “It would not be cheap for Kirin, and they
would have to offer something quite compelling because there is
a scarcity of quality names here.”  Fraser & Neave Holdings, 56 percent owned by F&N, has risen
2.2 percent in Kuala Lumpur trading this year, giving the
company a market value of 6.7 billion ringgit ($2.1 billion).
Nomura’s valuation of F&N’s food and beverage operations
excludes the APB stake and a brewery in Myanmar.  Property Business  F&N, the biggest seller of soft drinks in Malaysia and
 Singapore (FNN) , also accounts for more than half of sales of mixers,
tonic, and seltzer in  Indonesia , according to data from
Euromonitor International.  F&N also owns a real estate business with shopping centers,
serviced apartments and industrial property. With sales of S$2.1
billion, real estate accounted for 34 percent of revenue last
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The  dairy business 
reported sales of S$1.1 billion in 2011, while the soft drinks
unit had S$759 million of revenue, the data show.  “A break-up of the group could actually create, not
destroy, value for shareholders,” Jonathan Foster, Singapore-
based director of Global Special Situations at Religare Capital
Markets Ltd., said before today’s news. “You’re selling the
components at a premium to market price.”  Schincariol Deal  Industrywide beer sales in  Japan  fell 3.7 percent to 442
million cases last year. Soft-drink sales in 10 Southeast Asian
countries increased by an average 7 percent last year,
Euromonitor data show.  Kirin’s 2011  profit  dropped 35 percent as the value of its
Sydney-based Lion unit and investments declined. Net income fell
to 7.4 billion yen from 11.4 billion yen the previous year.  Among other acquisitions, Kirin agreed to buy out
shareholders in Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes in
November 2011. The deal at that time valued the Brazilian
company at about $3.6 billion excluding debt, when combined with
the initial purchase of a 50.45 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  