-- Kiwi Gains as RBNZ Holds Rate, Amid ESM Bank-License Bets
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-26T05:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/kiwi-gains-as-rbnz-holds-rate-amid-esm-bank-license-bets.html
The  New Zealand  dollar rose against
all of its 16 major counterparts after Reserve Bank Governor
Alan Bollard left benchmark  interest rates  on hold and said the
economy should grow “modestly.”  The Australian and New Zealand dollars climbed for a second
day against the greenback ahead of U.S. data forecast to show
growth slowed in the world’s largest economy. Demand for the
South Pacific nations’ currencies was also supported by comments
yesterday from Ewald Nowotny, a European Central Bank council
member who said there were arguments in favor of giving the
region’s rescue fund a banking license.  “The RBNZ did say they were quite confident about the
outlook for New Zealand’s economy,” said Peter Dragicevich, a
Sydney-based foreign-exchange economist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. (CBA)  “We still expect the next move by the RBNZ to be a
hike. We’ve seen the New Zealand dollar supported by that.”  New Zealand’s currency, nicknamed the kiwi, rose 0.5
percent to 79.29 U.S. cents as of 3:28 p.m. in Sydney from
yesterday, when it gained 0.6 percent. It added 0.6 percent to
62 yen from yesterday, when it gained 0.6 percent.  Australia ’s dollar advanced 0.3 percent to $1.0339 from
yesterday, when it appreciated as much as 1.1 percent to
$1.0337, the largest intraday gain since June 29. The so-called
Aussie climbed 0.3 percent to 80.84 yen from yesterday, when it
advanced 0.8 percent.  New Zealand’s central bank left the official cash rate
unchanged at 2.5 percent for an 11th-straight time at a meeting
today. The decision was predicted by all 16 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  ‘Grow Modestly’  The nation’s economy should “grow modestly over the next
few years,” Bollard said, with the rebuilding of earthquake-hit
Christchurch expected to boost the  construction industry . Fiscal
consolidation and a strong  exchange rate  were offsetting that by
constraining demand, he said.  The country’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, added two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.58 percent.  Investor demand for riskier assets was buoyed after ECB
council member Nowotny said there were arguments in favor of
giving the European Stability Mechanism a banking license,
easing concern its 500 billion-euro ($607 billion) cash reserves
won’t be enough if Italy or  Spain  require assistance as the
region’s debt crisis deepens.  ‘Unlimited Firepower’  A banking license would “theoretically give the ESM
unlimited firepower to fight the crisis, so we saw risk markets
benefit from that,” said CBA’s Dragicevich. “We have seen the
Aussie drift higher and it should stay above $1.03 today.”  Australian  government bonds   declined  as Asian stocks rose.
The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks advanced 0.9 percent,
snapping four days of decline. The yield on Australia’s 10-year
security rose four basis points to 2.83 percent.  In the U.S., orders for durable goods probably rose 0.3
percent in June after a 1.3 percent gain in May, according to
economist estimates in a Bloomberg survey taken before the
Commerce Department releases the figures today.  Data tomorrow is forecast to show gross U.S. domestic
product expanded at an annualized 1.4 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace in a year, leading to speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will act to boost growth.  “Expectations for further unorthodoxy from the Fed have
increased,” Citigroup Inc.’s Group of 10 currency strategy team
led by Steven Englander, wrote in a note to clients today. “GDP
on Friday may further stoke expectation.”  The Fed released its Beige Book business survey last week,
saying the  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate”
pace. It gives central bankers anecdotal evidence on the economy
before a two-day policy meeting starts on July 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  