-- N.J ‘Death Race’ State Trooper to Face Charges, Lawyer Says
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-07-26T18:44:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/n-j-death-race-state-trooper-to-face-charges-his-lawyer-says.html
A New Jersey state trooper who
escorted Porsches, Lamborghinis and Ferraris in a high-speed
“Death Race” on the Garden State Parkway in March faces
criminal charges, according to his attorney.  Sergeant Nadir Nassry will be charged tomorrow, said
 Charles J. Sciarra , his Clifton-based lawyer, at a news
conference in his office today. Sciarra said he didn’t know what
the charges will be. Paul Loriquet, a spokesman for New Jersey
Attorney General Jeffrey Chiesa, said a news conference is
scheduled tomorrow on the charges.  Motorists reported two state-police cruisers on March 30
leading a pack of  sports cars  in a “Death Race” convoy at
speeds of 100 miles (160 kilometers) an hour toward  Atlantic
City , according to complaints filed with the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority.  Sciarra confirmed today that Nassry led the caravan at the
request of  Brandon Jacobs , a professional football player for
the  National Football League ’s San Francisco 49ers. He called
his client’s participation “a one-time screw-up.”  Sciarra said “a high-level law-enforcement professional in
the Attorney General’s office” contacted him July 24 and said
criminal charges against Nassry will be filed tomorrow.  ‘Special Retirement’  He said Nassry had done nothing criminal. In a “request
for special retirement” sent to State Police Colonel Joseph R.
Fuentes yesterday, Nassry included the results of a polygraph
test, commissioned by Sciarra’s office. The report said Nassry
was “truthful” when he denied receiving a gratuity or anything
of value, including football memorabilia, for the escort.  State police officials suspended Nassry and Trooper Joseph
Ventrella without pay over the incident. Nassry is seeking full
pension benefits, Sciarra said. Nassry’s annual salary was
$110,423.54, according to state records.  Jacobs was released as a running back in March after seven
seasons with the Super Bowl-winning  New York  Giants. He signed a
one-year contract in April with the 49ers.  Nassry knows Jacobs from charity work, Sciarra said. Jacobs
contacted the trooper to request an escort for the drivers, who
were heading to the seaside resort to discuss fundraising, the
lawyer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ; Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at
   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stacie Servetah at   sbabula@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 