-- NAACP Joins Tea Party to Oppose Atlanta Sales Tax Boost
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/naacp-joins-tea-party-to-oppose-atlanta-sales-tax-boost.html
Atlanta area political and business
leaders have a solution to traffic that’s ranked among the worst
in the U.S.: Ask voters to approve a sales tax increase to raise
$8.5 billion over a decade for roads and public transportation.  That plan, to be considered on July 31 by voters in 10
counties that include Atlanta and its suburbs, isn’t an easy
sell. Groups that normally have little in common have joined
together to campaign against the tax: anti-government  Tea Party 
activists, civil rights leaders from the NAACP and
environmentalists from the  Sierra Club .  “You’ve got the folks that want no growth, the Sierra Club
saying there isn’t enough transit, the suburban Republicans
saying there’s too much transit,” said John Gornall, head of
the economic development and public finance practice at the law
firm Arnall Golden Gregory LLP in Atlanta, and a supporter of
the measure. “If it weren’t so serious, it would be funny.”  Roads and mass transit haven’t kept up with demand,
supporters of the referendum said. Average drive times are the
11th longest in the nation, according to a study last year by
the Texas Transportation Institute at  Texas A&M University . The
Atlanta area ranked seventh among metropolitan regions in
numeric  population growth  in the year ending July 1, 2011,
according to U.S. Census estimates.  A recent poll showed the tax may not pass. The July 11
Rosetta Stone poll for Atlanta’s WSB-TV surveyed 1,050
registered voters and found 33 percent in favor of the tax, 56
percent opposed and 12 percent undecided. The survey had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Designated Projects  If approved, a 1 percent levy would be added to a 4 percent 
state sales tax and county taxes of 2 percent to 3 percent. It 
would be used to fund a list of 157 mass transit and road 
projects that have been designated by political leaders from the
counties considering the tax increase. The Georgia Legislature in 
2010 voted to allow a sales tax measure to go to voters in the
Atlanta area and 11 other regions.  To succeed, the Atlanta-area levy would need support from a
majority of those casting ballots in the 10-county region.
Supporters have been running television commercials backing the
tax and both sides have been distributing yard signs.  The referendum is “a way around” opposition by the
Republican-controlled Georgia Legislature to raising taxes, said
Harvey Newman, the recently retired chairman of the public
policy department at  Georgia State University ’s Andrew Young
School of Policy Studies in Atlanta.  Raising Taxes  “They wouldn’t get re-elected if they raised taxes,”
Newman said.  The list of projects to be funded was approved unanimously
by political leaders, which Newman called “remarkable” in a
region where city and suburban officials agree on little.  Failure to reduce traffic congestion hurts efforts to
attract businesses, said Paul Bowers, president and chief
executive officer of Georgia Power, an Atlanta-based subsidiary
of  Southern Co. (SO)  Georgia Power is among local businesses that
have donated to the campaign for the tax.  “This tax vote is going to be a big moment in terms of our
competitive position relative to  Charlotte  and  Dallas  and other
cities that have actually done something with transportation,”
Bowers said.  Supporters of the tax include Atlanta-based companies such
as  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  United Parcel Service
Inc. (UPS) ,  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , local professional sports teams and
leaders of both political parties. Businesses have been urging
employees to vote.  Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed, a Democrat, supports the tax and
predicted it would narrowly pass.  ‘Our Brand’  A failure to pass the measure “would hurt our brand,”
Reed said. “We have had this tradition of being able to come
together and do really hard things.”  Citizens for Transportation Mobility Inc., a group
supporting the tax, raised $6.5 million through July 17,
according to state records. The Transportation Leadership
Coalition LLC, a group formed by opponents raised $14,400
through July 15, the records show.  Opponents have lined up against the tax for varying
reasons.  The National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People opposes the measure because two counties that include
Atlanta have paid a penny sales tax for 40 years to support the
agency that provides bus and rail service in the region, while
the suburban counties haven’t, said  John Evans , president of the
DeKalb County chapter.  ‘Backward Math’  A needed rail line to predominantly black neighborhoods
wasn’t included in the list of projects to be funded by the tax
while a line to a largely white suburb was, Evans said.  “We are just tired of folks messing with us,” Evans said.
“We’ll be paying two cents and suburbs will pay one cent.
That’s backward math.”  The Sierra Club wants a project list more focused on public
transportation, said Colleen Kiernan, director of the group’s
Georgia chapter.  Debbie Dooley, co-founder of the Atlanta Tea Party, called
the transit projects boondoggles and said the tax violates the
state constitution’s home-rule provision because it could impose
a tax in a county where voters rejected the measure.  “We don’t trust the elected officials to spend the tax
dollars they have now,” Dooley said. “We think the project
list is fiscally irresponsible, and about economic development,
not congestion.”  Revenue Source  Municipal finance specialists are watching with interest,
said Charles Doty, president of Asset Preservation Advisors, an
Atlanta investment firm. The region needs a new revenue source
because  property  tax revenue has decreased, he said.  The tax is unlikely to lead to new bond issuances because
it expires in 10 years, said Linda Murphy, a bond analyst with
Baltimore-based  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW) , an asset manager.
Georgia bonds won’t have prices depressed by a rush of new ones,
she said.  “They could issue revenue bonds securitized by the tax,
but I haven’t heard that mentioned,” Murphy said.  The most recent push for new transportation money began in
2007, after a business-funded study found that traffic
discouraged businesses from moving to the area, said Renay
Blumenthal, a senior vice president at the Metro Atlanta
Chamber.  Projects that would be funded by the tax include a rail
line from Atlanta to a suburb that includes the headquarters of
the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and Emory
University. Also included is money for the reconstruction of an
interchange north of Atlanta, where Interstate 285 and State
Route 400 meet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  