-- Nagai as Nomura CEO Signals Global Retreat Amid Leak Scandal
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-07-27T06:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/nagai-at-helm-signals-nomura-s-global-retreat-amid-insider-leaks.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s appointment
of domestic brokerage head Koji Nagai as the new chief signals a
retrenchment into its home market as  Japan ’s biggest investment
bank reels from an insider-trading scandal and losses overseas.  Nagai, 53, will succeed Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe, 59, from Aug. 1, Tokyo-based Nomura said in a
statement yesterday. Watanabe and Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata, architects of the 2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s assets, will step down to atone for instances of
staff leaking information about clients’ share sales to traders.  The new CEO inherits the task of placating clients and
regulators after the bank said yesterday that the leaks, which
cost Nomura its top spot managing Japan bond sales, may have
been more widespread than previously announced. The  stock  slid
82 percent during Watanabe’s tenure as operations abroad, built
with the Lehman assets, posted losses for a ninth quarter.  Nagai’s appointment “will create the perception that
Nomura is shifting to make the domestic business its main
pillar,” said  Yasuhide Yajima , chief economist at NLI Research
Institute in  Tokyo , pointing to the executive’s local
experience. “The question remains whether reshuffling top
management will be enough of a remedy to change the corporate
culture.”  Nomura shares climbed 11 percent, the biggest two-day gain
since October 2009, since news of Watanabe’s resignation emerged
yesterday morning. The stock closed at 272 yen in Tokyo today.
The benchmark Topix Index rose 2.8 percent in the same period.  More Cuts  Shibata, 59, will be replaced by American unit chief
Atsushi Yoshikawa, who said on a conference call with analysts
yesterday that additional cost reductions are needed and the
company may cut more jobs.  Among other management changes, Nomura  Asia  CEO Philip Lynch will step down, to be replaced by Minoru Shinohara,
according to the statement. Lynch joined Nomura from Lehman.  Nomura’s profit tumbled 89 percent to 1.9 billion yen
($24.3 million) in the three months ended June 30 as investment
banking fees and brokerage commissions fell, the company
reported yesterday. It posted a 12.1 billion yen pretax loss
from overseas operations.  Nagai replaced Watanabe on April 1 as president of Nomura
Securities Co. to reduce the CEO’s domestic role. Nagai has
spent his entire career at the local unit since joining the
company in 1981 after graduating from Chuo University.  Proper-Sized  “I want to make a new business strategy free from the
past,” Nagai said at a news briefing yesterday. “I will
rebuild the overseas business to a proper-sized global
franchise.”  He said Nomura will “regard Japan and Asia as the mother
market, and we would like to be a global bank based in Asia.”  Once the world’s  biggest  securities firm with a market
value of $76 billion in 1987, Nomura has now slumped to a
capitalization of $12.3 billion, about one-fourth that of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Under Watanabe, the company posted a
record 708 billion yen loss in the year ended March 2009,
oversaw the exodus of former Lehman Brothers bankers, sold new
shares twice to  boost capital , and cut dividends.  “The management change shows Nomura has reversed course
and is becoming realistic about the need to focus on Japan and
Asia to boost profitability, rather than losing money overseas
to be a global player,” said Katsunori Tanaka, a Tokyo-based
analyst Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “Nomura couldn’t have changed
its direction under the Watanabe-Shibata regime.”  Take Seriously  Watanabe bowed in apology at a news conference at Nomura’s
headquarters yesterday. “I take this insider issue very
seriously,” he said after being asked why he resigned.  Japanese regulators this year found that Nomura employees
gave tips on share sales the company managed for  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Inpex Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co.
to traders who short-sold the stocks before the offerings were
announced in 2010. Nomura said June 29 that it would cut top
officials’ pay, force two managers to step down and suspend some
operations after an internal probe.  There are “high possibilities” of other leaks by
employees to clients, Nomura said in a status report yesterday.  Clients asked Nomura staff to provide advance notice of
changes to ratings of equities, and in some instances “sell
recommendations of individual stocks to hedge funds occurred at
a time prior to the public offerings,” Nomura said. Some
employees acted in a “suspicious” way by frequently using
private mobile phones, according to the report.  Do Anything  Staff appeared to have been “willing to do anything to
meet sales targets,” lawyers hired by Nomura to examine the
lapses said in an earlier report last month.  Tadahiro Matsushita, Japan’s financial services minister,
today said the regulator plans to consider administrative action
against Nomura based on the agency’s inspection and company’s
internal review.  “I have a high expectation that the company will restart
as a reborn Nomura,” Matsushita said. “We are aware that
Nomura revealed the fact that it may have leaked information on
more cases. We will take action if we find operational problems
through our investigation.”  As part of its crackdown, the regulator this month asked
Nomura, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and 10 other brokerages to
review how they handle confidential information.  ‘Attack Rabbits’  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan yesterday completed
proposals to tighten rules against leaks, including fines and
criminal charges for brokerages and banks that leak stock
offering information. Current rules only provide for fines to
insider traders without penalizing tipsters, prompting criticism
by politicians and investors.  “Foreign investors were expecting to see orange jumpsuits
and hear rustling chains; what they are getting is the patter of
teeny tiny attack rabbits,” said  Nicholas Smith , a strategist
at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets Ltd. in Tokyo. “But the foreigners
who haven’t abandoned the market in disgust remain angry and
won’t let up.”  Nomura has lost deals in the wake of the probe. Government
agencies including  Development Bank  of Japan Inc. dropped Nomura
from debt sales. The state-owned venture said it instead
assigned Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. to lead an
offering because it wanted to avoid “any disruption.”  JAL Demotion  Japan Airlines Co. demoted Nomura from global coordinator
of its initial public offering, an issuance that may raise as
much as 800 billion yen, according to people with knowledge of
the matter.  Scandals at banks worldwide are forcing some top executives
to step down and tainting the image of others. Robert Diamond 
resigned as CEO of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  on July 3 after regulators fined
the lender a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) for
rigging global  interest rates . JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO Jamie Dimon was grilled by U.S. lawmakers after the Wall Street firm
disclosed trading losses that have spiraled to $5.8 billion.  Nomura leaders have quit over uproars in the past.
PresidentHideo Sakamaki stepped down in 1997 after the company
admitted paying bribes to corporate extortionists, known as
sokaiya. In 1991, President Yoshihisa Tabuchi resigned after the
bank was found to have compensated clients for losses.  Credit-default swaps tied to Nomura’s debt rose 6.7 basis
points to 368.3 basis points yesterday, the highest in almost a
month, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. An increase signals worsening perceptions of
creditworthiness, while a decrease suggests the opposite.  Credit Rating  Moody’s Investors Service cut Nomura’s  credit rating  to the
lowest investment grade in March, questioning the profitability
of its global capital markets operations.  “Nomura and other Japanese brokerages still can’t ignore
overseas business for their growth,” said Maki Hanatate,
Moody’s senior credit officer in Tokyo. “We will wait to see
how the new management rebuilds the franchise and how it will
generate a profit.”  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday that the resignations may halt
Nomura’s global ambitions, a move that “could ease some of the
pressure” on its credit rating.  Watanabe, who became CEO in April 2008, oversaw the
purchase of Lehman’s European operations for just $2 and the
Asian unit for $225 million in a drive to compete with Wall
Street banks weakened by the financial crisis.  The  acquisition  was a “once-in-a-generation opportunity,”
he said at the time. The deal has yet to pay off, with the
company continuing to lose money in Asia and  Europe  and former
Lehman executives leaving the firm, including  Jesse Bhattal , who
quit as Nomura’s wholesale banking chief in January. Watanabe
eliminated 1,300 jobs worldwide in the six months ended March as
part of a $1.2 billion cost-cutting plan.  “What might have looked like a sensible strategy at the
end of the last  bull market  for Nomura turns out to be a pretty
wrong strategy given the expected long slump in Europe,” said
Tom Kirchmaier, a fellow in the in the financial-markets group
at the  London School of Economics . “If I would be the new CEO
of Nomura, I would be thinking about selling too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  