-- National Oilwell Rises After Boosting Gear Backlog: Dallas Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-07-26T20:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/national-oilwell-rises-after-boosting-gear-backlog-dallas-mover.html
National Oilwell Varco Inc. (NOV)  and
 Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , the two largest U.S. oilfield
equipment makers, rose the most in nearly a year as both
reported earnings that beat analyst estimates because of
increased orders for offshore rig equipment.  National Oilwell Varco, the largest maker of rigs, gear and
tools used to produce oil and natural gas, rose 8.9 percent to
$73.31 at 4:15 p.m., the most since Aug. 9. Cameron, the second-
largest manufacturer, rose 11 percent to $49.91, the most since
Nov. 13, 2008. Both companies are based in Houston.  “The market has finally realized that the deep-water
business is not a boom-and-bust equipment cycle, but a
sustainable market for years to come and NOV and CAM are clear
winners in that market,”  Brian Uhlmer , an analyst at Global
Hunter Securites LLC in Houston, said today in an e-mail.  Third-quarter earnings at National Oilwell Varco, excluding
certain transaction charges, were $1.46 per share, 6 cents
better than the average of 23 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Backlog in the company’s rig technology segment,
which makes drilling rigs and blowout preventers, climbed 46
percent from a year earlier to $11.3 billion, the company said.  Cameron reported adjusted earnings of 74 cents per share, 2
cents better than the average of 25 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. The company booked $2.57 billion in new orders,
the second highest quarterly total in its history.  Pete Miller, chief executive officer of National Oilwell
Varco, told analysts and investors today on a conference call he
doesn’t see a slow down in the number of new rigs being ordered.
The company’s rig technology unit sold drilling packages for six
new floating rigs and five shallow-water vessels in the quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Clay Williams said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  