-- Natura Profit Beats Forecasts as Operational Upgrades Completed
-- B y   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-07-26T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/natura-profit-beats-forecasts-as-operational-upgrades-completed.html
Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) ,  Latin
America ’s largest cosmetics company, posted second-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as an upgrade of
operational systems boosted sales.  Net income rose 14 percent to 215 million reais ($105.8
million) from 188 million reais a year earlier, the Cajamar,
Brazil-based company said yesterday in a statement sent to the
website of  Brazil ’s securities regulator. The result was above
the 213 million reais  average estimate  for adjusted net income
of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales rose 16 percent to 1.61 billion reais, from 1.39
billion reais a year earlier. It was the second consecutive
quarter of double-digit sales growth following three quarters of
expansion of less than 10 percent.  During the replacement of operating systems in 2011, some
disruptions caused weak sales growth, Bradesco BBI analysts
Ricardo Boiati, Alan Cardoso and Pedro Bueno wrote in a report
to clients before the earnings were released.  “Now that the operating problems have been fixed, Natura
should be able to resume stronger top-line growth, with gradual
acceleration in the coming quarters,” the analysts wrote.  The number of direct sellers grew 16 percent to 1.5
million, Natura said.  “We began to enjoy the benefits of the strategic
investments made in logistics and information technology,” the
company said in the earnings statement.  Natura rose 1.8 percent to 49.20 reais yesterday in  Sao
Paulo  trading. The stock is up 36 percent since the beginning of
the year, compared to a 7.3 percent drop in the  Bovespa (IBOV) 
benchmark index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  