-- New York Times Gains as Loss Narrows Amid Digital Jump
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-26T20:21:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/new-york-times-gains-as-loss-narrows-amid-digital-jump.html
The New York Times Co. (NYT) , the
newspaper publishing company, rose the most in more than 9
months after reporting a narrower loss in the second quarter
amid a gain in digital subscriptions.  Times Co. advanced 10.6 percent to $7.80 at the close in
 New York , the biggest one-day gain since Oct. 6. The shares were
down 8.8 percent this year through yesterday.  Times Co., looking for a chief executive with  digital
expertise , has accelerated its shift to the Internet as print
advertising declines, offloading assets and tightening its focus
on the New York Times media brand. Digital subscriptions to the
New York Times and International Herald Tribune newspapers rose
12 percent from the prior quarter and 81 percent from a year
earlier, the company said today in a statement.  The company’s board has made “meaningful progress” in the
search for a new chief executive and will “have more to share”
by the end of September, chairman and interim CEO Arthur Sulzberger Jr., said.  “Our new CEO must have strong business and digital
management skills; must understand the power of brands; and must
be able to successfully lead the launch of products critical to
our future,” he told analysts on a conference call today after
the company reported its results.  Times Co. has been without a chief executive since Janet Robinson was ousted in December.  Digital Subscribers  Digital subscriptions at Times Co.’s flagship paper and the
International Herald Tribune reached 509,000 in the second
quarter. The so-called paywall is estimated to bring in about
$90 million this year and $125 million next year, Douglas Arthur, an analyst with  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , said before the
results were announced.  The net loss was $88.1 million, or 60 cents a share,
compared with a net loss of $119.7 million, or 79 cents, in the
same period a year earlier, the New York-based company said
today in the statement. Excluding some items, profit was 14
cents, topping the average analyst  estimate  of 13 cents,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company recorded an estimated non-cash, after-tax
charge of $126.1 million, or 85 cents per share, during the
period for the writedown of goodwill at the About Group, which
produces how-to videos and articles online. The site has lost
traffic and advertising.  The narrower loss came after the company sold its stake in
Fenway Sports Group, owner of the  Boston Red Sox , for a total of
$93 million this year. The publisher still owns the Boston Globe
and Worcester Telegram & Gazette newspapers.  Fenway Sports  Total sales rose 0.6 percent to $515.2 million, topping
analysts’ average estimate of $511 million.  Print ad revenue decreased 8 percent, while digital ad
sales dropped 4 percent, led by declines at the About Group,
according to the statement.  “The stock jump is justified,” Evercore’s Arthur said in
a telephone interview after the results were released. “Cost
controls are strong and everything is stabilizing,” said
Arthur, who recommends the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  