-- New York Red Bulls to Include Fans’ Names in Jersey Numbers
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-07-26T20:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/new-york-red-bulls-to-include-fans-names-in-jersey-numbers.html
Major League Soccer’s New York Red
Bulls are inviting season-ticket holders on the field for their
exhibition game against Tottenham Hotspur of  England ’s Premier
League.  While the fans won’t actually be in uniform for the July 31
game at Red Bull arena in Harrison,  New Jersey , their names
will.  The names of more than 600 season-ticket holders will be
included in the fabric of the numbers on the back of the jerseys
worn by Red Bulls players, including forward  Thierry Henry .  For legal reasons season-ticket holders must opt-in to the
offer, Chris Heck, the team’s president of business operations,
said in a telephone interview. The Red Bulls have about 7,000
season-ticket holders, he said.  “This unique integration is our way of saying thank-you
and that, together, we are one team,” Heck said.  Fans who participate are eligible to receive a signed,
game-worn jersey.  Additionally, a randomly selected group of season-ticket
holders will take part in pre- and post-game ceremonies.  Tottenham, whose roster includes American goaltender  Brad Friedel , finished fourth in the English Premier League this past
season behind  Manchester City , Manchester United and Arsenal.  Fans whose names appear in the jersey will be able to order
a replica, Heck said.  Julie Leone, who has held three season tickets since the
team’s inception as the MetroStars in 1996, said in a telephone
interview she was grateful for the promotion because it makes
her feel like a valued customer.  “It’s a nice way to pay tribute to the season-ticket
holders,” said Leone, a 39-year-old resident of Whippany, New
Jersey. “The MLS is pretty good with that, as compared to Major
League Baseball or football where they have such huge fan
bases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  