-- New Century Hedge Fund’s Onsa Sentenced for Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-07-26T20:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/new-century-hedge-fund-s-onsa-sentenced-for-ponzi-scheme-1-.html
Former hedge-fund manager Ward Onsa
was sentenced to 6 1/2 years in prison for using his firm, New
Century Investment Management LLC, to run a  Ponzi scheme .  Onsa pleaded guilty in  Brooklyn , New York, federal court in
December to one count of  securities fraud  in connection with the
scheme. Investors, primarily retirees, lost more than $3
million, according to the government.  Through New Century, Onsa made special arrangements with
institutional money managers, including  Charles Schwab & Co. (SCHW)  and
Millennium Trust Co., to facilitate the theft, the U.S. alleged.
As part of his penalty, Onsa today was also ordered to pay $3.1
million as restitution and to serve three years of supervised
release.  “He is a con artist who convinced a lot of people to part
with their savings, to part with retirement funds, and I’m not
convinced that it was not for personal gain,” said U.S.
District Judge Dora L. Irizarry, responding to defense arguments
that Onsa didn’t profit from the scheme.  The former investment manager launched Southampton,
Pennsylvania-based New Century after his previous firm, Ward
Onsa & Co., was bankrupted by trading losses and default
judgments, the government alleged. He funneled money solicited
from investors to himself and his previous firm, the government
said.  Civil Claims  Onsa’s firm isn’t related to Hanover, Massachusetts-based
New Century Investment Management LLC or Southfield, Michigan-
based New Century Investment Management Inc.  In addition to the criminal case, Onsa faces civil claims
brought by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission over
the New Century fraud. The fund purportedly invested in both e-
mini S&P 500 futures contracts and options on those contracts,
the agency said in its suit, filed in Philadelphia federal
court.  The fund suffered significant losses, which Onsa concealed
by providing fake account statements and by paying some
customers with others’ funds, the CFTC alleged.  In court today, Onsa told the judge that he “tried to
right the ship” and failed.  ‘The Truth’  “People deserve the truth,” he said while seated in the
courtroom and wearing a dark suit. “I should have given it to
them right away.”  Referencing his previous firm Ward Onsa, the judge said
Onsa “had to know based on his past experience that he could
not perform” as promised to investors.  The sentence was seven months longer than the maximum
amount of 71 months the government had agreed to seek under a
plea agreement with Onsa. He faced a range of 6 1/2 to 8 years
in prison under federal sentencing guidelines.  The case is U.S. v. Onsa, 10-cr-00730, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  