-- New York Beats California in Sales for First Time: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/new-york-beats-california-in-sales-for-first-time-muni-credit.html
New York is set to topple  California 
from its two-decade reign as the biggest borrower in the $3.7
trillion municipal  bond market .  Wall Street’s home state and its local governments are on a
pace to sell more debt than their California counterparts for an
unprecedented second straight year, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
data starting in 1991. The relative shortage of securities from
the most-populous state is fueling gains that are beating the
rest of the tax-exempt market.  California issuers were the top sellers in every year but
1998 until Governor  Jerry Brown , facing $25 billion of budget
deficits, cut general-obligation sales to $11.5 billion in 2011
and 2012, the smallest two-year total since 2006. New York and
its cities and towns, by contrast, are offering more as yields
close to the  lowest  since the 1960s spur refinancing as well as
borrowing for repairs to aging infrastructure.  “From a New York perspective, there are capital needs that
need to be addressed and less hesitancy to enter the market,”
said Howard Cure, head of research at New York-based Evercore
Wealth Management LLC, which manages about $3.5 billion.  This year, New York issuers have offered about $26.1
billion in long-term, fixed rate debt, to $22.7 billion for
California, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In 2011,  New York 
sales totaled $33.8 billion, compared with $31.7 billion for the
world’s No. 9 economy.  Bond Dream  Securities of Golden State issuers have earned 6.5 percent
this year, beating the broader muni market’s 5.8 percent
advance, according to Standard & Poor’s total-return data.
Meanwhile, New York’s 5.2 percent return trails 16 of 27 U.S.
states and territories tracked by S&P.  “There’s a risk that New York’s total returns could be
lagging the broader market just because of the potential for
more supply,” said Michael Pietronico, who oversees $770
million of munis as chief executive officer of Miller Tabak
Asset Management in New York. “That’s going to be something
that might be more of a problem for investors in terms of total
returns should  interest rates  begin to move forcefully higher.”  California, the lowest-rated state by S&P, is also drawing
investors willing to take more risk as muni interest rates sink
amid a fixed-income rally. California’s A- rating from S&P is
seventh-highest, and four grades below New York’s.  Brown’s Tenure  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold California issuers
is below the average since Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, took
office in January 2011. The yield spread for 10-year local debt
from California is about 0.93 percentage point above top-grade
municipals, compared with the 1.11 point average since the start
of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  For New York, the  added yield  over AAAs is about 0.51
percentage point, above the 0.42 point average since the
beginning of 2011, when Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo , 54,
took office.  The New York Thruway Authority, operator of the longest
U.S. toll road, sold $1.1 billion of bonds last month for
highway improvements, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The New
York Metropolitan Transportation Authority issued a combined
$1.9 billion in the past month, some of which went to refund
high-cost borrowings.  California may yet regain its spot as the top issuer. Brown
won lawmakers’ approval this month to sell $4.75 billion in debt
for a high-speed passenger rail line. Voters also are scheduled
to decide on $11 billion of water bonds in 2014.  November Vote  Brown has proposed solving California’s perennial budget
deficits in part by raising the  state sales tax  and boosting
income taxes for some residents. Voters will decide on the plan
in November.  California municipalities may be reluctant to issue debt
without knowing how the tax boosts will play out as they deal
with declining home prices, said Cure at Evercore.  From the time Brown took office through the first quarter
of this year, housing prices dropped 5.6 percent, according to
the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States. In that same
period, state tax revenue grew 1 percent, compared with 8.5
percent in New York.  In California, “with the declines in assessed property
values, there may be more hesitancy to enter the market,” Cure
said.  In the past month, three California municipalities decided
to seek bankruptcy, including Stockton. With 292,000 residents,
it’s the largest U.S. city to do so.  “There’s a lot of demand for New York paper,” said Matt Dalton, who manages about $1 billion in munis at Belle Haven
Investments Inc. in  White Plains , New York. “It’s not
necessarily the supply, but also the quality. New York issuers
are generally in better fiscal shape than those in California.”  Following are pending sales:  MINNESOTA plans to borrow about $659 million of general-
obligation debt through competitive bid as soon as Aug. 7, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The deal includes $234 million of
debt repaid with motor-vehicle taxes, according to bond
documents. S&P rates the state AA+, its second-highest grade.
(Added July 26)  REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA plan to sell about
$920 million of revenue bonds, including $100 million of taxable
debt, as soon as today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Proceeds will help finance student housing and parking and
refinance debt, according to bond documents. Moody’s Investors
Service rates the bonds Aa2, third-highest. (Updated July 26)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  