-- New York Councilman Convicted of Public Corruption
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-26T21:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/new-york-councilman-convicted-of-public-corruption.html
New York  City Councilman Larry B. Seabrook was convicted of nine public corruption counts in a
retrial in federal court in  Manhattan  and by law was immediately
removed from office.  Seabrook, a Democrat who represented part of the Bronx, was
found guilty today in U.S. District Court in Manhattan after two
days of jury deliberations. His crimes included directing city
money to “purportedly independent nonprofit organizations”
that he controlled, prosecutors said.  Another jury deadlocked on the charges in December, leading
to a mistrial.  “Councilman Larry Seabrook abused the power of his
office,” U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement.
“Today’s conviction ensures that the councilman will pay for
betraying the public trust.”  Seabrook is to be sentenced Jan. 8. The trial began June
20. The jury found the councilman not guilty of corrupt
solicitation in connection with government business, using
telephones to facilitate payments for official conduct, and
 money laundering .  Thanks to Prosecutors  City Council Speaker Christine Quinn thanked prosecutors
and investigators for their “commitment to seeking justice.”  “Larry Seabrook has been convicted of crimes that display
a galling abuse of the trust and confidence placed in public
officials,” Quinn said in an e-mail.  Under New York law, an office is considered vacant once its
holder is convicted of a felony or a crime involving a violation
of his oath of office. The council’s  website  today listed the
District 12 position held by Seabrook as vacant.  State law requires the mayor to issue a proclamation
certifying a special election within three days of the creation
of a vacancy. The election is to be held within 45 days, if
practicable, said Jerry Goldfeder, a specialist in election law
who served as special counsel to Governor  Andrew Cuomo  when he
was state attorney general.  Mayor  Michael R. Bloomberg  intends to certify a nonpartisan
election for Nov. 6, this year’s general-election day, said  Stu Loeser , a spokesman for the mayor. The seat, like all City
Council positions, will then be open in 2013 under  New York
City ’s usual partisan election system.  The district at that point will have new borders, as
determined by the Districting Commission, Loeser said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent company of Bloomberg News.  The case is U.S. v. Seabrook, 1:10-cr-00087, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York
at   egrannis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 