-- Watanabe Quits as Nomura Says There May Have Been More Leaks
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-07-26T10:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/nomura-said-to-name-koji-nagai-to-succeed-watanabe-as-chief-1-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  Chief Executive
Officer Kenichi Watanabe and his top lieutenant resigned over an
 insider-trading  scandal as the company indicated there may have
been more information leaks than those identified by
authorities.  Koji Nagai, president of Nomura’s domestic brokerage, will
succeed Watanabe on Aug. 1, Japan’s biggest brokerage said in a
statement in  Tokyo  today. Chief Operating Officer Takumi Shibata
will be replaced by American unit chief Atsushi Yoshikawa.  The  shares rose  as investors bet the biggest management
shakeup in 15 years may placate clients and regulators after a
CEO pay cut and penalizing junior executives for the leaks
failed to stem the backlash, costing Nomura its top spot
managing bond sales. Watanabe and Shibata, both 59, oversaw the
purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European and Asian
assets, as well as an 83 percent slump in the stock.  Watanabe’s resignation “would be a plus for Nomura shares
as the company explores ways to reshape itself,” Kouichi Niwa,
a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said before
the announcement. “Still, what Nomura needs the most now is to
retrieve market trust and boost earnings power.”  Nomura earlier today reported first-quarter profit tumbled
89 percent to 1.9 billion yen ($24.3 million) as investment
banking fees and brokerage commissions fell.  Gave Tips  Watanabe bowed in apology at a news conference at Nomura’s
headquarters in Tokyo today. “I take this insider issue very
seriously,” he said after being asked why he resigned.  Japanese regulators this year found that Nomura employees
gave tips on share sales the company managed for Mizuho
Financial Group Inc., Inpex Corp. and Tokyo Electric Power Co.
to traders who short-sold the stocks before the offerings were
announced in 2010.  Aside from the previously announced leaks, “there are
certain other cases in which there are high possibilities that
corporate-related information were communicated by our employees
to our clients,” Nomura said in a status report on its
improvement measures today. “We intend to restore the
confidence that we have lost in the  capital markets .”  Nomura climbed 5.7 percent to close at 259 yen in Tokyo
before the earnings and management changes were announced, while
the benchmark Topix Index rose 1.2 percent. Profit for the three
months ended June 30 beat the 1.6 billion yen median estimate of
nine analysts Bloomberg News surveyed by phone and e-mail.  Domestic Focus  Nagai, 53, replaced Watanabe on April 1 as president of
Nomura Securities Co. to reduce the CEO’s domestic role and
revive operations abroad. Nagai had been deputy president of the
domestic unit, where he spent his entire career since joining
the company in 1981 after graduating from Chuo University.  Once the world’s  biggest  securities firm with a market
value of $76 billion in 1987, Tokyo-based Nomura has now slumped
to a capitalization of $12.3 billion, about one-fourth that of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Under Watanabe, the company posted a record 708 billion yen
loss in the year ended March 2009, oversaw the exodus of former
Lehman Brothers bankers, sold new shares twice to  boost capital ,
and cut dividends. The stock’s more than 80 percent drop since
he took the post in April 2008 compares with a 41 percent
decline in the Topix.  Nomura said June 29 that it would cut top officials’ pay,
force two managers to step down and suspend some operations
after an internal probe into the information leaks. Staff
appeared to have been “willing to do anything to meet sales
targets,” lawyers hired by Nomura to examine the lapses said in
a report last month.  Dropped Nomura  Government agencies including  Development Bank  of Japan
Inc. dropped Nomura from debt sales in the wake of the insider-
trading probe. The state-owned venture said it instead assigned
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. to lead an offering
because it wanted to avoid “any disruption.”  Nomura’s investment banking fees fell 25 percent in the
three months ended June from a year earlier to 10.4 billion yen,
the lowest in at least five quarters, today’s figures showed.
Brokerage commissions slid 20 percent to 77.4 billion yen.  Credit-default swaps tied to Nomura Holdings’ debt were
little changed from yesterday at 362 basis points at 6:30 p.m.
in Tokyo, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. An increase in the swaps signals
worsening perceptions of creditworthiness, while a decrease
suggests the opposite.  Daiwa Salaries  Japan ’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission is
continuing to inspect Nomura. As part of efforts to crack down
on insider trading, the regulator this month asked Nomura,
Goldman Sachs and 10 other brokerages to review how they handle
confidential information. Watanabe had told reporters in June
that he wasn’t sure whether there were additional leaks.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Nomura’s biggest domestic
rival, may cut the salary of CEO Takashi Hibino and other
executives following an internal probe into possible employee
leaks about a Nippon Sheet Glass Co. share offering in 2010, the
Mainichi newspaper reported today, without citing anyone.  Scandals at banks worldwide are forcing some top executives
to step down and tainting the image of others. Robert Diamond 
resigned as CEO of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  on July 3 after regulators fined
the lender a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) for
rigging global  interest rates . JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO Jamie Dimon was grilled by U.S. lawmakers after the Wall Street firm
disclosed trading losses that have spiraled to $5.8 billion.  Past Scandals  Watanabe faced flak from shareholders at their annual
meeting last month. His approval rate among shareholders fell to
63.6 percent, the lowest among 13  executives  and down from 92
percent a year earlier, according to a regulatory filing.  He joined Nomura in 1975 and held managing positions until
becoming CEO in April 2008, according to the firm’s website. He
took the role after predecessor Nobuyuki Koga failed to boost
profit and his attempt to expand in the U.S. backfired when the
subprime mortgage market collapsed.  Scandals have forced the resignation of Nomura leaders in
the past. PresidentHideo Sakamaki stepped down in 1997 after
the company admitted paying bribes to corporate extortionists,
known as sokaiya. In 1991, President Yoshihisa Tabuchi resigned
after the bank was found to have compensated clients for losses.  One of Watanabe’s first tasks as CEO was to apologize for
information leaks by an employee in the mergers and acquisitions
department and pledge to prevent further breaches.  $2 Acquisition  Nomura purchased Lehman’s European operations for just $2
and the Asian unit for $225 million in 2008 in a drive to
compete with Wall Street banks weakened by the financial crisis.  The  acquisition  was a “once-in-a-generation opportunity,”
Watanabe said at the time. The deal has yet to pay off, with the
company continuing to lose money in  Asia  and  Europe  and former
Lehman executives leaving the firm, including  Jesse Bhattal , who
quit as Nomura’s wholesale banking chief in January.  Nomura posted a 12.1 billion yen pretax loss from overseas
operations last quarter, the ninth in a row, it said today.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Nomura’s credit rating to the
lowest investment  grade  in March, citing questions over the
profitability of the company’s global capital markets
operations. Watanabe eliminated 1,300 jobs worldwide in the six
months ended March as part of a $1.2 billion cost-cutting plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  