-- Novogratz Wrestles Wall Street for Funds to Lure U.S. Olympians
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/novogratz-wrestles-wall-street-for-funds-to-lure-u-s-olympians.html
Ike Waldhaus wrestled his way onto
Wall Street.  The former University of Oklahoma wrestler approached
Michael Novogratz a few years ago at a fundraiser for the inner-
city wrestling program Beat the Streets and asked the  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  principal and director for a job.  Novogratz, 47, a former Princeton University wrestler who
is chairman of Beat the Streets, had taken up the sport again
and was feeling pretty strong, so he made Waldhaus an offer:
Take him down two out of three times and Novogratz would find
Waldhaus a job.  “I don’t know what the hell I was thinking,” Novogratz
said in a telephone interview. “I looked good for about 30
seconds and then he just beat the crap out of me. Now he’s
working for Rich Tavoso at  Royal Bank of Canada .”  Wall Street is filled with wrestlers, said Novogratz, who
has called upon the fraternity to give additional incentives to
Olympians in  London  with the “ Living the Dream Medal Fund .”
The program will pay any American wrestler who wins a gold medal
$250,000. Silver medalists will receive $50,000 and bronze
medalists $25,000.  Novogratz and Tavoso, his college roommate and RBC’s head
of global arbitrage and trading, are among the stewards of the
fund who agreed to pay any awards not covered by donations.  Living the Dream is the brainchild of Novogratz and Dave Barry, president of Hoboken, New Jersey-based real estate
development company Ironstate Development Co., who wrestled at
 Columbia University . It was created to thank those who now carry
the torch for the sport that shaped them and to keep top
athletes from turning to mixed martial arts, which is made up of
about 85 percent former wrestlers, Novogratz said.  Incentive Structure  MMA is “a natural progression for the guys who want to
punch people in the face, it’s a warrior sport, but it’s not the
same thing,” Novogratz said. “We want to keep our elite
athletes in the Olympic program at least one and hopefully two
cycles. Hopefully that incentive structure helps some.”  Tavoso, who runs a youth wrestling program in Ridgewood,
 New Jersey , helped pay off Novogratz’s debt to Waldhaus by
finding Waldhaus an internship that later led to a full-time
job. He’s now an RBC analyst in  New York . Waldhaus declined to
comment on how he got the job.  Challenging people to wrestling matches, often while
seeking donations, is “part of Mike’s personality,” Tavoso,
47, said in a telephone interview.  Novogratz is the U.S. men’s freestyle wrestling team
leader, a role he described as cheerleader, fundraiser, mentor
and counselor. He fulfilled a promise to those who made his
Olympic squad by chartering a private jet to fly them to the
opening ceremony on July 27. The group competes Aug. 10-12.  Monthly Stipend  “Our freestyle team has almost been spoiled having Mike,”
Jake Herbert, who will compete at 84 kilograms (185 pounds),
said in a telephone interview. “When you have a guy that has as
much influence and the connections that Mike has, it seems like
nothing is impossible for us.”  Herbert, 27, gets a $1,200 monthly stipend from USA
Wrestling and has received about $4,000 in donations on his
website. He called the medal bonus “a little bit more
incentive” on a bigger dream of winning gold.  The fund first awarded smaller medal bonuses at last year’s
world championships in Istanbul. Jordan Burroughs, the top-
ranked wrestler at 74 kilograms, took home $50,000 for the gold,
while Jake Varner, Adeline Gray and Ali Bernard each got $15,000
for bronze medals.  “The great thing about good wrestlers is that they’re just
cocky,” Novogratz said of first introducing the bonus offer to
his team. “They were like, ‘Hey, thanks.’ Not ‘Thank you for
doing it,’ but ‘Thank you for the money. Here’s my checking
account.’”  Wrestling Financiers  Among those in finance with wrestling backgrounds are
Tavoso;  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  co-founder  Joshua Harris ,
who wrestled at the  University of Pennsylvania  and co-owns the
 National Basketball Association ’s Philadelphia 76ers;  John Thain , chairman and chief executive officer at  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) ,
who was captain of his high school team;  Henry Kravis , who runs
the private-equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR) ; and  Stephen Friedman , the
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  chairman, who was an Eastern
Intercollegiate Wrestling champion at Cornell in 1959.  “Wall Street is about not being scared and wrestling is
about learning how to not be scared,” Novogratz said. “Anyone
who has worked on Wall Street and doesn’t think it’s tough is
out of their mind. Wrestling prepares you for tough
environments.”  Beat the Streets, which was created in 2002, is taking on
another difficult environment in bringing wrestling to  New York
City ’s at-risk kids. The program has worked with the city’s
public school system to put mats in about 75 high schools and 60
middle schools, reaching 3,000 kids. The  Wall Street  community
provides about $1 million to $1.5 million per year for the
initiative, Novogratz said.  Inner Cities  “As a sport we usually don’t struggle with the ‘what’ so
much as the ‘how,’” Rich Bender, executive director of USA
Wrestling, said in a telephone interview. “Wall Street, and in
particular, Mike Novogratz, has helped us with that how.”  Calling inner cities the “next frontier for our sport,”
Bender said Beat the Streets had expanded to more than a dozen
other cities and that USA Wrestling would like to expand it to
“every metropolitan area in America.”  USA Wrestling has an annual operating budget of $9.5
million and Wall Street has about $1 million worth of impact on
the organization’s budget, Bender said.  U.S. Lineup  The men’s freestyle team finished third at the 2011 world
championships. USA Wrestling is competing in 17 events in
London: seven in men’s freestyle, four in women’s freestyle and
six in Greco-Roman.  Novogratz, whose firm manages about $46.4 billion in
private equity,  hedge funds  and other assets, said six medals
for USA Wrestling would be a good Olympics because of the
stiffness of the competition. Still, he wants the best from his
team, regardless of the financial consequences for him and the
other stewards.  “If there are 10 gold medals I will write a check with a
big smile on my face,” Novogratz said. “I’ll be the happiest
poor guy in London.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 