-- NYC’s Bloomberg Backs Brown in Massachusetts Senate Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-26T19:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/nyc-s-bloomberg-backs-brown-in-massachusetts-race-for-senator.html
New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
endorsed Republican U.S. Senator  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts
for re-election against  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat and Harvard
Law School professor who helped create the federal  Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau .  The mayor, an independent, decided to support and raise
money for Brown after the senator said he would oppose a
National Rifle Association-sponsored Senate bill, said  Marc LaVorgna , a mayoral spokesman. The measure would permit people
to carry concealed guns anywhere in the U.S. if they reside in a
state that allows the practice.  Brown’s stand on that issue outweighed his reluctance to
back a federal ban on assault weapons, LaVorgna said. Bloomberg
has sought a federal prohibition on such weapons; Brown, 52, has
said each state should have the right to decide.  “The value of having a Republican stand up on this is
tremendous,” LaVorgna said in an interview. “The mayor
supports independent, bridge-building elected officials who
reach out across party lines and take gutsy stands, and Brown’s
support on this issue is crucial.”  The mayor, 70, co-founded and co-chairs Mayors Against
Illegal Guns with Boston Mayor Thomas Menino, a coalition of
more than 600 chief executives of U.S. cities who advocate new
laws and stiffer enforcement of existing ones to keep guns out
of the hands of criminals, the mentally ill, terrorists and
felons.  Bloomberg intends to host a fundraiser for Brown at his
home on Manhattan’s Upper East Side on Aug. 15, LaVorgna said.  New York’s mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  