-- Occidental Profit Falls as Oil Decline Outstrips Output Jump
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-07-26T20:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/occidental-profit-falls-as-oil-decline-outstrips-output-jump-1-.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the
largest onshore crude producer in the continental U.S., said
second-quarter profit fell 27 percent as new output in
 California  and Texas failed to make up for declining oil prices.  Net income fell to $1.33 billion, or $1.64 a share, from
$1.82 billion, or $2.23, a year earlier, Los Angeles-based
Occidental said in a statement. Sales fell 6.6 percent to $5.77
billion.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen I. Chazen plans to boost
its U.S. capital spending 27 percent to $5.5 billion in 2012 by
developing oil and gas prospects, and by raising domestic output
as much as 7 percent by concentrating on California and the
Permian basin of Texas and  New Mexico , according to  slides 
released to accompany the company’s conference call with
investors today.  Occidental is waiting to accelerate the pace of drilling in
California, where permitting in the state has improved, until
the cost per well can be reduced by a third, Chazen said on the
call. The company holds about 1.7 million acres in California,
including in the Monterey shale formation, which may hold as
much as 15 billion barrels of oil, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  “If I can reduce the cost, I’ll get more wells for the
same money,” he said. “That’s really what I’m after.”  Biggest Drop  Occidental’s midstream and marketing business, which
includes pipelines, gas processing and the Phibro LLC trading
unit, posted a 59 percent decline from the same period a year
ago, the biggest drop in any of the company’s businesses. The
unit had higher profits in its pipeline businesses and lower
margins in marketing, trading and gas processing, according to
the statement. The company acquired Phibro from Citigroup Inc.
in 2009.  The average price of West  Texas  Intermediate crude, the
U.S. benchmark, fell 8.8 percent to $93.35 a barrel in the
second quarter from a year earlier amid fears that  Europe ’s debt
crisis would slow global economic growth and crimp demand for
hydrocarbons.  The declining crude price offset production gains at
Occidental in the quarter. U.S. oil and natural-gas production
rose 9 percent to the equivalent of 462,000 barrels a day, an
all-time high, including 88,000 barrels of crude a day in
California and 138,000 barrels in the Permian basin, according
to the statement. Domestic output may reach 480,000 barrels by
the end of 2012, he said.  “The record production volumes, especially the domestic
increase, is a positive,” Brian Youngberg, an analyst at  Edward
Jones  in  St. Louis , said in a telephone interview today. “It
shows Occidental’s focus on growing volumes in the U.S. is
working.” Youngberg rates Occidental shares a buy and owns
none.  Occidental rose 4.6 percent to $87.32 at the close in  New
York . The shares, which have 18 buy ratings and six holds from
analysts, have dropped 17 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  