-- Lochte Chasing Phelps From Pool to Vogue Pursuing Double Gold
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-26T23:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/lochte-chasing-phelps-from-pool-to-vogue-pursuing-double-gold.html
Ryan Lochte  has almost everything
necessary to be the star of the London Olympics: looks,
personality, even a catch-phrase. He just needs success in the
pool.  After dominating swimming’s world championships since
 Michael Phelps  won eight gold medals at the 2008 Olympics in
Beijing, the 27-year-old Floridian who endorses  green sparkled 
high-top  sneakers and has his own sports apparel line is 
entering the most important week of his professional life.  “If he goes to London and he blows Michael Phelps out of
the water, then we’re talking much, much, much more publicity
and bargaining power,” his agent, Erika Wright, said in a
telephone interview. “You’ve got to go win some golds and Ryan
knows that.”  The opening ceremony of the games is tonight, with swimming
beginning tomorrow, when Lochte and Phelps are set to race in
the 400-meter individual medley.  Lochte won two gold medals in Beijing, setting a record in
the 200-meter backstroke. His effort was overshadowed by Phelps,
who became the only person to win eight golds at a single
Olympics. Lochte is 11 months older than Phelps.  Tired of life in Phelps’s shadow, Lochte rededicated
himself, said Rowdy Gaines, a three-time Olympic swimming gold-
medalist who now is a television analyst. The effort paid off,
with Lochte winning 15 gold medals at the following three world
championships. Though he picked up several endorsement deals
along the way, he has yet to become a household name.  Vogue Cover  Last month Lochte, whose interests include fashion, became
just the fourth man to appear on the  cover of Vogue .  “He’s a really good-looking guy, and I base that on four
daughters,” Gaines said. “Phelps will always be the beloved
one in our home full of women, but Ryan is definitely the new
kid on the block as far as huge crushes go.”  A longtime endorser of Speedo International Ltd, the
swimwear unit of U.K.-based Pentland Group Plc, Lochte now also
represents Mutual of Omaha Insurance Co.,  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
and its Gillette brand,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Gatorade,  Ralph Lauren
Corp. (RL) ,  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   He “stands to make millions of dollars this year,” Wright
said in a telephone interview, without being specific. A Fortune
magazine article that estimated his earnings at $2.3 million
this year was “close,” she said.  “From 2008 until this year, he will increase by at least
five times the amount of money he made then, and that might be
on the low end,” Wright said.  Swimming Stipends  USA Swimming team members receive stipends of between
$1,500 and $3,000 per month, depending on how many appearances
are made, according to Wright. Given his other commitments,
Lochte’s take is currently on the lower end.  His Speedo contract, which runs through 2016, is valued in
the “high six figures and can go into seven figures depending
on what he does in the water,” Wright said.  As of the U.S. Olympic trials, which ran from June 25-July
2, Lochte ranked 2,056th out of about 2,500 people in the Davie
Brown Index that measures U.S. celebrity status. Phelps was
182nd.  The index, created by the Dallas-based Marketing Arm, is
broken into categories such as “Awareness,” how well a
celebrity’s image is known by consumers, and “Breakthrough,”
the degree to which the public takes notice when a celebrity’s
image appears in media such as TV or print. While Lochte’s
awareness ranked 2,266th, his breakthrough score was 90th and
his “Aspiration” score -- how much consumers feel he has a
life they desire -- was 97th.  ‘Break Through’  “It tells us that people look up to him and he’s able to
break through the clutter,” Darin David, an account director at
the Marketing Arm, said in a telephone interview. “When he is
in the news he’s able to get his name out there. He has been in
Phelps’s shadow to some extent because his awareness is
extremely low.”  Since teaming with Lochte three years ago, much of Wright’s
efforts have been to prepare him and his brand for the Olympics
and their aftermath.  On  RyanLochte.com , fans can buy sunglasses with Lochte’s
name and the American flag-embedded on the lenses for $14.99.
Also for sale are 146 different T-shirts with prices ranging
from $17.90 to $27.40. A fitness video, “Lochte Hard-Core,”
will be released in August. A message on the website says U.S.
Olympic Committee rules forbid the sale of the items during the
 London  Games.  “It’s extremely important to us to capitalize on his
marketability and ability to capture a large audience directly
after the Olympics,” Wright said. “That’s the reason we have
products to sell.”  Phelps Earnings  Peter Carlisle, Phelps’s agent, said after the Beijing
Olympics that his client might earn as much as $100 million as
an endorser during his lifetime.  “I don’t back off of that, so long as he continues to want
to be out there and work in the way that he has,” Carlisle said
in a telephone interview this month.  He’s made $40 million in endorsement income so far,
according to CBS’s “60 Minutes,” a figure Carlisle said
“isn’t wildly off base.” He wouldn’t be more specific.  Regardless of what transpires when the two compete against
each other, it will be hard for Lochte to match Phelps as an
iconic international endorser, said Carlisle.  “He’s a great competitor, but if you look at it globally,
it’s really difficult to stand out, to be relevant on a long-
term basis and recognizable in all these markets,” Carlisle
said of Lochte, who will enter a maximum of seven events in
London. “To do so, you really have to do something unique.”  Say ‘Jeah!’  On several of Lochte’s shirts is “Jeah!,” a catch-all
expression he uses that’s morphed from a similar word created by
the rapper Young Jeezy. Jeah, which rhymes with yeah, can mean
anything good, according to a  video  posted on his website.  “I’m still the same old Ryan,” Lochte said at a news
conference during the Olympic trials, pointing to his love of
skateboarding and surfing. “I don’t think I’ve changed.”  If the glare of the Olympic spotlight becomes too bright,
Phelps, a friend, said he’d be there to help.  “He knows if he has any questions he can always reach
out,” Phelps said in a telephone interview. “Business isn’t
something we usually talk about. We’re usually joking around
more than anything.”  Lochte plans to compete through the 2016 Olympics in  Rio de
Janeiro , while Phelps said London will be his last games.  Asked if Lochte’s improvement had made him work harder
since the last Olympics, Phelps replied, “It made me start
working.”  “I wasn’t really focused on what I had to do and with
Ryan’s success it made me get a little more excited and focus a
little more,” Phelps said.  Qualification  At the trials, where the only thing that mattered was
Olympic qualification, Phelps beat Lochte in two out of three
head-to-head races. They’ll face each other in the 400-meter and
200-meter individual medleys in London.  Lochte seems immune to distractions, Gaines said. When he
had NBC Sports to his Gainesville,  Florida , home for an
interview, the shoot was interrupted by Carter, the world
champion swimmer’s Doberman Pinscher, and A-Milli, his brother’s
blue pit bull.  The two dogs repeatedly disrupted what the  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) 
network crew had hoped would be a quiet set. Lochte was
“totally oblivious to it,” according to Gaines, who conducted
the interview.  “The point is, I think he’s that way in swimming,” Gaines
said in a telephone interview. “I think he’s totally oblivious
to the kind of pressure that he’s under.”  Lochte and Phelps probably will be teammates in three relay
races. Each may attempt to win seven golds.  Wins over Phelps would mean more than just medals for
Lochte; they also would enhance his opportunity to become a
celebrity endorser. He says he’s up to the task.  “I love a challenge,” Lochte said. “He is one of the
world’s best swimmers ever. For me to be in the same era as him
and be in the same events as him and being able to race him to
the finish, it’s awesome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 