-- Modric’s Transfer to Madrid Moves Closer With Meeting: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-26T06:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/modric-s-transfer-to-madrid-moves-closer-with-meeting-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Modric Meeting  Luka Modric’s advisers will hold a meeting with Real Madrid
officials today to try to put together a deal to secure the
Croatian midfielder’s move from Tottenham Hotspur, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  Although Real won’t meet Spurs’ 40 million-pound ($62
million) valuation of the player, the Spanish champion will
raise its original offer of 27 million pounds and is confident
of getting Modric, the newspaper said.  Lampard to Stay  Frank Lampard  said he’s ready to start negotiating a new
contract that will keep him at Chelsea for the rest of his
playing career, the  Daily Mail reported .  “I’ve had a great time playing for Chelsea and I hope I
can prolong it,” the Mail cited Lampard, 34, as saying. “In an
ideal world I’d finish here and keep giving what I have given
over the past 10 years.”  Moura Talks  Sao Paulo vice-president Joao Paulo de Jesus Lopes said
Manchester United’s bid to sign Lucas Moura can be resurrected
after the 19-year-old winger’s agent ruled out an agreement, the
 Daily Mirror reported .  “I don’t rule out the possibility that in the future there
are some sort of negotiations, because we received Manchester
with great courtesy and left open the possibility of more
talks,” the Mirror cited Lopes as telling Radio Estadao ESPN.  Broken Promise  Liverpool believes manager  Brendan Rodgers  is entitled to
return to his former club Swansea City for players who wish to
leave after the Welsh team accused him of breaking a promise by
bidding for midfielder  Joe Allen , the  Independent reported .  Swansea said in a statement yesterday that Liverpool had
“expressed an interest” in Allen even after “a written
agreement not to approach any players within the 12-month period
of former manager Brendan Rodgers leaving for Anfield.”  Dalglish Dumping  Liverpool’s principal owner  John Henry  said he would have
fired  Kenny Dalglish , Rodgers’s predecessor, even if the team
had beaten Chelsea in the F.A. Cup final, the  Sun reported .  “The F.A. Cup would not have made any difference had he
won it,” the Sun cited Henry as saying. “For us, we were 17th
over the second half of the season and Liverpool should not be
in that position. It was obvious to every fan that something was
wrong and something needed to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  