-- Logitech Falls as Loss Is Bigger Than Estimated: Zurich Mover
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-07-26T16:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/logitech-falls-as-loss-is-bigger-than-estimated-zurich-mover.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN)  declined
in Paris trading after the world’s biggest maker of computer
mice reported a first-quarter loss that was more than twice as
big as analysts had estimated.  Logitech dropped 1.6 percent to 8.81 Swiss francs in
Zurich, the lowest price since April 26, giving the Morges,
Switzerland-based company a market value of 1.69 billion francs
($1.73 billion). The net loss in the quarter ended June 30
widened to $52.1 million from $29.6 million a year earlier as
Logitech had one-time charges for job cuts, Logitech said in a
statement. Analysts had predicted a loss of $20.3 million,
according to the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The net loss “is clearly disappointing, short of
expectations and suggests that Logitech probably again also
needed to lower prices in order to help clear inventories in the
channel,” Stefan Gaechter, an analyst at Helvea, wrote in a
note today. “Logitech has again refrained from issuing a
quantitative guidance for the full fiscal year 2013, stating
that the company is still in the middle of a turnaround.”  The proliferation of tablet computers that don’t need mice
has eroded Logitech’s traditional desktop and notebook business.
The company is seeking to improve its offering, delivering
“fewer but more compelling products,” and in May introduced a
 wireless solar keyboard  for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Mac, iPad and iPhone,
which has solar cells for charging and allows switching among
multiple devices with the push of a button.  Restructuring Plan  Revenue dropped 2 percent to $469 million in the quarter,
compared with analysts’ average estimate of $463.6 million.  The company, which also produces gaming hardware, last
month predicted pretax charges in the current fiscal year of $35
million in connection to its restructuring plan. The first-
quarter results included $34 million of restructuring-related
costs of which $31 million was previously announced, according
to the statement.  “We incurred several one-time charges in the first quarter
that are expected to positively impact future profitability,”
Chairman Guerrino De Luca said in the statement. The company
plans to introduce most of its new products in the current
quarter and the following three months, he said.  In April, Logitech said it cut a layer of management to
help save $80 million a year. Leaders of business groups and
sales regions will report directly to Bracken P. Darrell, who
will succeed Guerrino  De Luca  as chief executive officer next
year as the company seeks to revamp its products.  “We’re on track for a turnaround in the second half and
we’re very confident about our product portfolio for the
 Christmas shopping season ,” Darrell said in a phone interview
today. “The macroeconomic situation affects everyone but the
most important driver for us is to have a compelling
portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  