-- Oil Rises in New York After ECB Says Euro Will Survive
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-26T12:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/oil-declines-for-first-day-in-three-as-u-s-stockpiles-increase.html
Oil gained in  New York , paring this
week’s decline after a European Central Bank pledge that the
euro will survive reassured investors and better-than-forecast
U.S. data underpinned confidence in the world’s biggest economy.  Futures rose as much as 1.7 percent after ECB President
 Mario Draghi  signaled that officials are prepared to do whatever
is needed to preserve the euro and act on surging bond yields
that are tearing at the seams of the 17-nation currency bloc.
Orders for U.S. durable goods climbed more than projected in
June and fewer Americans than forecast filed for unemployment
insurance payments last week.  “The biggest problem of this market is a lack of trust,
and Draghi’s comments are bringing the back that trust, and with
it, confidence,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodity market
research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , who predicts any
further gains in oil will be capped by “plentiful” supplies.  Crude for September delivery rose as much as $1.47 to
$90.44 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $90.19 at 1:46 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday rose 47 cents to $88.97, the highest close
since July 20. Prices have lost 1.4 percent this week.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures  Europe  exchange rose $1.51 to $105.89 a barrel. The
European benchmark crude was at a $15.70 premium to the New York
contract. The spread closed at $15.41 yesterday, the widest in
seven weeks.  New Measures  Economists said Draghi’s comments suggest the ECB may be
preparing to unveil new measures to fight the crisis as
potential bailouts for economies the size of Spain and  Italy 
threaten to overwhelm Europe’s rescue funds. The euro gained 1.3
percent to $1.2313 after losing 0.3 percent to $1.2118.  U.S. bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
rose 1.6 percent for a second month, a Commerce Department
report showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.3 percent
gain, the Commerce Department said today in Washington.  Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 35,000 in
the week ended July 21 to 353,000, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 380,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Technical Support  Oil in New York has technical support around $86 a barrel,
along the lower of two so-called leading span lines that define
an “ichimoku cloud” on the daily chart, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s an area where buy orders tend to
be clustered. Crude started a descent in early May to an almost
nine-month low after falling out of an ichimoku cloud.  Gasoline stockpiles rose 4.1 million barrels in the week
ended July 20 to 210 million, the highest in three months, the
Energy Department report showed yesterday. Distillate
inventories, a category that includes heating oil and diesel,
climbed 1.7 million barrels to 125 million, according to the
Energy Department.  “Our industry continues to see significant price
volatility as a result of economic and political developments,”
 Peter Voser , chief executive officer of  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
said today in the company’s second-quarter earnings statement.  -- Editors:  John Buckley , Rachel Graham  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  