-- Oil Falls for First Day in Three as U.S. Stockpiles Increase
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-26T06:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/oil-falls-first-day-in-three-in-new-york-as-u-s-stockpiles-rise.html
Oil dropped for the first time in
three days in New York on concern that rising stockpiles signal
faltering demand in the U.S., the world’s biggest crude
consumer.  Futures slid as much as 0.7 percent, erasing a 0.5 percent
gain yesterday.  Crude inventories  climbed by 2.7 million barrels
last week, the first increase in five weeks, data from the
Energy Department showed. Supplies were forecast to decline 1
million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Sales of
new U.S. homes unexpectedly decreased in June from a two-year
high, a Commerce Department report showed.  “We’re stuck in the $80s until we get a little more
confidence around global growth prospects,”  Michael McCarthy , a
chief market strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney, said in a
phone interview. “I would expect, especially given the
inventory numbers, oil to gravitate back toward the middle of
the $81.50 to $88.50 range over the next few trading days.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as 59 cents to
$88.38 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.60 at 2:54 p.m.  Singapore  time. The
contract yesterday rose 47 cents to $88.97, the highest close
since July 20. Prices are 10 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slid as much as 59 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $103.79 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was
at a $15.39 premium to  New York  contracts. The spread closed at
$15.41 yesterday, the widest in seven weeks.  Ichimoku Cloud  Oil in New York has technical support around $86 a barrel,
along the lower of two so-called leading span lines that define
an “ichimoku cloud” on the daily chart, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s an area where buy orders tend to
be clustered. Crude started a descent in early May to an almost
nine-month low after falling out of an ichimoku cloud.  Gasoline stockpiles rose 4.1 million barrels in the week
ended July 20 to 210 million, the highest in three months, the
Energy Department report showed yesterday. Supplies were
forecast to drop 1 million barrels, according to the median
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The increase
followed a 50 percent jump in product imports from a week ago to
2.6 million barrels a day.  The U.S. East Coast  imported  964,000 barrels a day of
gasoline last week, the most since January, according to the
data. Stockpiles were up 1.8 million barrels last week. The
area, known as Padd 1, consumes the most motor fuel in the
country.  Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, climbed 1.7 million barrels to 125 million,
according to the Energy Department. They were forecast to gain
1.4 million barrels, the survey showed.  U.S. Homes  U.S.  home purchases  fell 8.4 percent to a 350,000 annual
rate, the weakest since January, the Commerce Department
reported yesterday. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 74 economists was 372,000. The decline was led by a
record plunge in the Northeast, where the number of properties
available last month was the fewest for any June.  Oil pared losses earlier on speculation the U.S. Federal
Reserve may take new steps to spur economic growth. Futures
rallied the past two days amid concern that unrest in  Syria  will
spread and disrupt fuel supplies from the  Middle East .  “Bullish drivers at the moment are indeed stimulus
expectations and concerns about spillover of the conflict in
Syria to  Iran ,  Iraq  and elsewhere in the Mideast,” said  Victor Shum , the managing director of IHS Consulting in Singapore.  Brent may trade in a range from from $100 to $115 a barrel
in the week ahead, supported by “much improved” Chinese
economic data,  Gordon Kwan , head of energy research at Mirae
Asset Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said in an e-mailed report
today. Manufacturing in  China , the world’s second-largest oil
user, may contract at a slower pace in July, according a survey
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics on July 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  