-- Oil Rises for Third Day on U.S. Economy, Euro Pledge
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-26T19:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/oil-rises-for-third-day-on-u-s-economy-euro-pledge.html
Oil rose for a third day as U.S.
reports on durable goods and jobless claims reduced concern that
economic growth is slowing, and the head of the  European Central
Bank  pledged that the euro will survive.  Prices gained 0.5 percent as bookings for goods meant to
last at least three years climbed more than projected in June
and fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve
the European common currency.  “The bullish economic news is the main thing pushing oil
prices up, and it does look a little more like we are seeing a
turnaround in the economy,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “Draghi said they are going to defend the euro
and it gave the market more confidence.”  Crude for September delivery rose 42 cents to settle at
$89.39 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have
increased 15 percent from the year’s closing low of $77.69 a
barrel on June 28.  Brent oil for September settlement climbed 88 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $105.26 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange.  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said in a speech at the
Global Investment Conference in  London  today. “Believe me, it
will be enough.”  Equities Advance  Equities and commodities gained on speculation the ECB will
act to lower Spanish borrowing costs after yields on the
nation’s bonds rose to levels that prompted bailouts for  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland. The ECB started buying Spanish and Italian
debt in August last year as part of its bond purchase program.  “Draghi’s comments reinforced the positive sentiment that
Europe will print more money to stimulate the economy,” said
Jacob Correll, a Louisville, Kentucky-based analyst at Summit
Energy Inc., which manages more than $20 billion in companies’
annual energy spending.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.8 percent at 3:42
p.m. in  New York . The Stoxx Europe 600 Index jumped 2.5 percent
at the close of trading for its biggest gain since June 29. The
S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities gained 0.3 percent.  The euro strengthened as much as 1.4 percent against the
dollar. A stronger euro and weaker dollar increase oil’s appeal
as an investment alternative.  “Draghi speaks, the market responds,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago . “The ECB said it will defend the euro, and that
boosted confidence.”  Durable Goods  In the U.S., durable goods orders increased 1.6 percent for
a second month, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.3 percent gain.  Applications for  jobless benefits  decreased by 35,000 in
the week ended July 21 to 353,000, Labor Department figures
showed. Economists forecast 380,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  “The durable goods and jobless claims numbers are positive
for the economy and they are driving  oil prices  up,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in New York.
“All markets from commodities to equities are following
Draghi’s comments.”  U.S. Growth  U.S. gross domestic product probably grew 1.4 percent in
the second quarter, the slowest pace in a year, according to a
Bloomberg survey before a Commerce Department report tomorrow.  “Today’s numbers were definitely positive, but the big
news for the remainder of the week is going to be GDP,”
Ilczyszyn said.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest oil consuming country,
using 18.8 million barrels a day in 2011, according to the BP
Statistical Review of World Energy.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will trim
exports through the middle of next month as refiners cut their
crude intake during seasonal maintenance, according to tanker-
tracker Oil Movements.  OPEC , responsible for about 40 percent of global supplies,
will curb daily exports by 0.3 percent to 23.84 million barrels
a day in the four weeks to Aug. 11, compared with 23.91 million
a month earlier, the researcher said today in an e-mailed
report. The data exclude Angola and  Ecuador .  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 335,563
contracts as of 3:42 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 488,048
contracts yesterday, 13 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.39 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  