-- MoMA as Design Playground, Polka-Dot Sex, Tech Phantoms
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/moma-as-design-playground-polka-dot-sex-tech-phantoms.html
The  Museum of Modern Art ’s “Century
of the Child: Growing by Design, 1900-2000,” an omnivorous
immersion in childish things, is a rarity these days: MoMA doing
what MoMA does best.  Kid-friendly, the exhibition leaves behind Victorian
sentimentality and dives right into 20th-century pragmatism
without sacrificing a sense of wonder.  From beginning to end, it’s engaging and even interactive -
- from Peter Opsvik’s comical, oversized table and chairs at the
show’s outset, which puts adults right back in the position of
children, to its last work by Philip Worthington, which
transforms visitors’ shadows into screeching, belching monsters.  Comprising more than 500 items -- artworks, animations,
furniture, films, clothing, books, toys, games, architecture,
graphic design -- the show covers all angles: pedagogical,
social, political, playful and psychological.  It includes Joaquin Torres-Garcia’s wood figures, Sophie
Taeuber-Arp’s puppets, Isamu Noguchi’s playgrounds, Lotte
Reiniger’s animated 1926 masterpiece “The Adventures of Prince
Achmed” and children’s furniture by Gerrit Rietveld, Charles
and Ray Eames and Alvar Aalto, whose little colorful bentwood
chairs climb up the wall.  Visiting Barbie  The show also encompasses the Slinky, the Rubik’s Cube and
the Etch-a-Sketch. It makes stops at Disneyland, Sesame Street,
Pee-wee’s Playhouse and Barbie’s Dream House. And it addresses
the propagandizing and militarization of children in wartime.  When this exhibition errs, it does so with fine art.
 Alexander Calder ’s playful masterpieces and  Paul Klee ’s child-
themed pictures would be better suited here than Andreas Gursky’s photograph of a Toys “R” Us Inc. store.  “Century of the Child” is directed primarily at children.
As an exhibition that celebrates Modernism as a back-to-basics
cultural rebirth -- an admission that “the child is father of
the man” -- it will appeal to the kid in all of us.  “Century of the Child: Growing by Design, 1900-2000” runs
July 29 through Nov. 5 at the Museum of  Modern Art , 11 W. 53rd
St. Information: +1-212-708-9400;  http://www.moma.org .  Psychedelic Phalluses  The catalog cover for the Whitney’s retrospective of Yayoi Kusama, born in 1929, is a photograph (1965) of the spirited
Japanese artist sprawled on her back amid a field of polka-
dotted phalluses -- a psychedelic sex kitten to rival  Jane Fonda ’s “Barbarella.”  In New York in the 1960s, Kusama’s polka dots and her name,
as ubiquitous as her nude performances, operated like Pavlovian
triggers provoking counterculture notions about political
protest and free love.  Her Pop Art dots covered more than cloth phalluses --
melancholy forms resembling deflated potatoes -- which she
affixed to furniture, clothing, shoes and a spatula.  She also polka-dotted canvases. In performances and films,
she dotted animals, trees, nude bodies and even the surface of a
pond, where red painted circles suggest Monet’s water lilies.  Kusama’s most recent paintings -- large, bright, flat-
colored affairs of illustrative squiggles, eyes and faces -- are
too decorative and derivative of her fellow countryman  Takashi Murakami . Yet there are flashes of substance and soul.  Early beautiful Surrealist pictures from the 1940s and ’50s
exploring creation and violence convey the internal spirit of
things. So, too, does “Fireflies on the Water” (2002), a
deprivation-tank installation of lights, mirrors and water in
the Whitney’s lobby gallery, where, completely alone for one
minute, you can peer into the infinite.  “Yayoi Kusama” runs through Sept. 30 at the Whitney
Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-
570-3600;  http://whitney.org .  Curious Offspring  Art and technology have always gone hand-in-hand. Sometimes
they make strange bedfellows with the oddest offspring.  Much of the work in “Ghosts in the Machine” is like that.
A multidimensional show of paintings, sculptures, films,
inventions, environments and diagrams, it purports to explore
the shifting relationships among humans, art and machines.  Like “After Nature” (2008) and “Ostalgia” (2011),
“Ghosts” is an ambitious, thematic multifloor survey at the
 New Museum  -- another in a series of overarching shows,
fascinating yet frustrating, that have been big on ideas but
aesthetically wanting.  Brainstorming  Spanning the last six decades and including the work of
more than 70 people from 15 countries, “Ghosts” comes off not
as a complete expression of a thesis, but rather as curatorial
brainstorming. Some of its ideas are better than others.  A lot is filler, much of which feels dated. But standouts
include J.G. Ballard’s film “Crash!” (1971), an erotic
meditation on the automobile as the ultimate marriage of man and
machine, and Jikken Kobo/Experimental Workshop’s “Silver
Wheel” (1953), a dreamy expression of our love of the bicycle.  This show is worth a visit. The weaker works, though,
illustrate that in a world driven by planned obsolescence, art
that is overly dependent on the latest technology quickly
becomes last year’s model.  “Ghosts in the Machine” runs through Sept. 30 at the New
Museum, 235 Bowery. Information: +1-212-219-1222;
 http://www.newmuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  and  book  reviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 