-- Homeland Security Gives Pointers on Surviving Shooting Sprees
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/homeland-security-gives-pointers-on-surviving-shooting-sprees.html
For those caught up in the chaos and
horror of a shooting spree, the U.S. Department of  Homeland
Security  has a survival plan.  With seminars, online courses, posters, a  booklet  and even
a pocket card highlighting salient points, the department is
educating mall owners, office managers and the public on how to
lessen the likelihood of becoming a casualty.  The pointers include yelling at or subduing the shooter in
some situations. The online  course  consists of quizzes and
assignments such as telling how to respond during a gunfire
assault. While the guidance may seem reminiscent of advice given
to 1950s’ schoolchildren to hide under their desks to survive a
nuclear attack, security professionals said people need to
prepare for the increasing deadliness of mass shootings.  “The only method of response is for citizens to understand
their options to cope and respond to avoid being a statistic,
because someone usually dies,” said Robert Siciliano, a Boston-
based security consultant. “In this case, information certainly
is power.”  Even so, Colin Goddard, one of the survivors of the
 Virginia Tech university  massacre in 2007, said he doesn’t think
any of the booklet’s pointers would have helped him avoid the
four bullets Seung-Hui Cho pumped into his leg, hips and
shoulder.  “You can never prepare for something like that,” Goddard,
26, said in a telephone interview.  More Lethal  A  New York  Police Department  report  last year found that
281 mass shootings occurred between 1966 and 2010, and many of
the most lethal incidents happened in the past decade.  In the latest tragedy, a gunman wearing a gas mask,
ballistic helmet and vest killed 12 and injured 58 on July 20 in
Aurora,  Colorado , when he opened fire in a movie theater showing
a midnight screening of “The Dark Knight Rises.”  The booklet and online course indicate that “attitudes
have evolved into a tacit, realistic acceptance that violence in
our workplaces, schools and public places has become a part of
our lives,” Joseph A. LaSorsa, a former Secret Service agent
who’s a Swansboro, North Carolina-based security consultant and
private investigator, wrote in an e-mail.  The booklet includes guidance similar to what’s used by
university and business security forces across the country.  Reference Guide  “The book has been a good reference guide” for security
plans, said Captain Ashly Foster of the emergency operations
unit at Mall of America in Bloomington,  Minnesota .  Shooting incidents unfold over a matter of minutes, and
semiautomatic weapons rack up casualties quickly.  With so little time for police to react, it’s up to the
intended victims to try to avoid the carnage as much as possible
until help arrives, said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the New
York Police Department.  The Department of Homeland Security’s guidance, first
compiled in a 2008 booklet aimed at retailers and mall
operators, has proved so popular it’s being used by companies
throughout the private sector, said Peter Boogaard, a department
spokesman.  Since the “Active Shooter Program” began four years ago,
125,000 people in the government and private sector have been
trained in the seminars, online course, booklets and other
guides it offers, according to Boogaard.  Boiled down to the essentials, the  advice  is to evacuate or
hide, and if those options aren’t available, disrupt the attack
by distracting the shooter or taking him out.  Smelled Gunpowder  Goddard said he and other students in his French class had
no opportunity to do anything other than hide under their desks
as the rampage unfolded on  Virginia Tech ’s Blacksburg campus
before bullets started flying through the door and Cho entered,
spraying the room with gunfire, Goddard said.  It wasn’t until Goddard said he smelled gunpowder and felt
the warmth of blood spreading over his newly broken leg that he
knew what was happening.  “I really totally didn’t understand what was going on
until I was shot the first time,” said Goddard, who now is an
assistant director at the Washington-based Brady Center to
Prevent Gun Violence, which advocates for  gun control .  “It’s pretty messed up that the U.S. government treats
these shootings like they would a natural disaster,” as if
these rampages “were something that can’t be prevented,” he
said.  Omaha Massacre  Joseph LaRocca, senior adviser at the  National Retail
Federation , a Washington-based trade group, said he approached
the department about doing the booklet after a gunman killed
eight and took his own life at the Westroads Mall in Omaha,
 Nebraska , in December 2007. The department put out the booklet
in October of the following year.  While the safety of retail employees and customers was the
main reason, LaRocca said his members also were concerned about
the legal liability they would face for not trying to do
anything to minimize the loss of life during a rampage.  Boogaard declined to comment on how much the booklet or
other materials cost to develop.  In the booklet, the reader is advised to “take note of the
two nearest exits in any facility to visit” so you’re not
caught flat-footed and “evacuate regardless of whether others
agree to follow.”  Such advice in the booklet just sounds like common sense,
Goddard said. Still, not everyone follows common sense, and some
of the shoppers at Westroads moved toward the sound of gunshots,
putting themselves in the line of fire, LaRocca said.  Hands Visible  In the booklet, the department  advises  people to remember
to keep their hands visible and spread their fingers so police
arriving on the scene don’t mistake them for the shooter.  If escape is impossible, silence cell phones and find a
safe room where the door can be blockaded with furniture.  Students in some of the other Virginia Tech classrooms were
able to move their teachers’ heavy desks in front of the door,
keeping Cho at bay, Goddard said.  During the mayhem, Goddard said he adopted his own rules of
survival: “Just don’t do anything to let him know you’re
alive.” He also threw his cell phone, which was emitting the
voice of the 911 dispatcher, to avoid attracting any more of
Cho’s attention, Goddard said.  The booklet counsels to avoid “pointing, screaming and/or
yelling” at police. If the possibility of death is imminent,
though, try shouting at the attacker or throw items and
improvise weapons to subdue him, according to the booklet.  Simply Yelling  In some cases, simply yelling at a shooter has disrupted
the “loop” of the attacker’s homicidal thinking, slowing down
the attack, said Mark Lomax, executive director of National
Tactical Officers Association, a Doylestown, Pennsylvania-based
law enforcement group.  The booklet makes no mention of whether employees or the
public should use guns to cut down the attacker. That’s because
some of the companies that were the original audience for the
booklet prohibited their employees from carrying guns while at
work, LaRocca said.  Jacqueline Otto, a spokeswoman for The  National Rifle
Association , the Fairfax, Virginia-based gun-rights lobby that
has supported concealed-weapons statutes, declined to comment,
citing sensitivity about “policy discussions” so soon after
the Colorado rampage.  The best advice in the department’s materials are the tips
on recognizing potential shooters, said Siciliano, the security
consultant: people who are suicidal and make comments about
“putting things in order,” talk of financial problems or have
“empathy with individuals committing violence.”  Goddard said expecting people to save themselves after a
shooting begins isn’t doing enough to protect the public.  “We got to do better than just something at the last
second,” he said.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  