-- London Heathrow’s Olympic Arrivals Peak as VIPs Join Influx
-- B y   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-07-26T16:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/london-heathrow-s-olympic-arrivals-peak-as-vips-join-games-surge.html
London’s  Heathrow airport  said it’s
grappling with a surge in Olympic traffic as sports fans and
VIPs swell passenger numbers on what’s forecast to be the most
hectic day ever for arrivals.  Europe ’s busiest airport forecasts that 125,000 passengers
will fly in, surpassing a record of 123,000 set on July 31 last
year, owner BAA Ltd. said. The number exiting will be about
102,000, lower than the predicted 110,000 after some people
rebooked departures amid concern about  strike action .  “It’s a case of so far, so good,” BAA spokesman Simon
Baugh said by telephone. “Tuesday was the peak for athletes, so
we’re dealing with less out-size sporting baggage, but numbers
of media and sponsors are very high. We’re also seeing a peak in
VIP arrivals, which brings its own complications.”  Heathrow has maximized staffing levels and brought in
volunteers to help deal with the Olympic surge. An initial high
came on July 16, when the competitor village opened, followed by
the July 24 peak in athlete arrivals. The busiest period of all
may come on Aug. 13, the day after the closing ceremony, with
130,000 people forecast to depart and 108,000 to arrive for a
total of 238,000 that would beat the hub’s 233,000 daily record.  London Ready  Transport systems have so far “held up well,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said at a news conference in the Olympic
Park. London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said he has full confidence in
security measures after soldiers were assigned to provide cover
when the contracted company, G4S Plc, said it couldn’t cope.  “London is as ready as any city has ever been in the
history of the  Olympic Games ,” he told reporters. “The stuff I’m
getting from the army, from the police, from everybody involved
in protecting the venue says it’s going very, very well.”  At Heathrow, the Windsor Suite has been particularly busy
with arrivals including U.S. presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ,
who flew in yesterday to attend tomorrow’s opening ceremony. The
facility, located at the British Airways-dominated Terminal 5,
is used by most of the airport’s VIP visitors.  Passengers are taken from the plane by car to the suite,
where they’re met by another vehicle after quickly transiting
immigration. Almost all VIP visitors to Heathrow arrive on
scheduled flights since the airport generally lacks the spare
capacity to accommodate business-jet and charter operations.  ‘Big Swings’  Lines at immigration desks were within targets today and at
times non-existent, even with the arrivals surge, Baugh said.
The U.K. Border Agency had drafted in extra staff to cope with a
strike called by the Public and Commercial Services Union that
was abandoned yesterday following government talks.  “Dealing with the big swings in arrivals and departures is
the toughest thing,” Baugh said, adding that a late jump in
exiting traffic could still materialize today as people revise
travel plans now that the walkout has been scrapped.  On  London ’s roads, 75 percent of the city’s 30 miles of
 “Games Lanes”  -- reserved for athletes, officials and the
media -- were opened to all traffic using digital displays,
 Transport for London  spokeswoman Ann Laker said by telephone.  While non-Olympic traffic is nominally banned from the
lanes between 6 a.m. and midnight, the intention has always been
to grant general access where games flows allow, she said,
adding that there is also a “good service” on London’s subway.  Bike Strike  A fire alert at West Ealing railway station caused the
Heathrow Express train service to suspend operations for about
35 minutes this morning, BAA spokesman Martin Sparey said.  The National Rail Enquiries website warned of continuing
delays of about 10 minutes. People should also check the  Get
Ahead of the Games  website to avoid travel disruption during the
Olympics, according to TfL.  A strike planned for tomorrow at  Serco Group Plc (SRP) ’s “Boris
Bikes” cycle-borrowing business, named after the mayor, has been
called off after workers received a “substantially improved
Olympics recognition and reward offer,” according to Rail,
Maritime and Transport union General Secretary Bob Crowe.  The action would have coincided with the opening ceremony
and jeopardized an alternative to crowded public transport
networks during the games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  