-- London Olympics Fake Tickets Create ‘Honeypot’ for Criminals
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-07-27T15:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/london-olympics-fake-tickets-create-honeypot-for-criminals.html
London is a “honeypot” for
organized crime rings hawking fake tickets and other scams
preying on tourists descending upon the city for the  Olympic
Games  starting today, police say.  Nick Downing, head of the  Metropolitan Police Service ’s 47-
officer anti-fraud team,  Operation Podium , said visitors may not
even know they are victims until they arrive at stadiums and
arenas with counterfeit tickets that were sold to them months
ago in their home countries.  The 320,000 global visitors attending the Olympics
contribute to an economic boost of an additional 804 million
pounds ($1.26 billion) in  consumer spending  from the games,
according to a report published in June by Visa Inc. Downing
said the combination of money and unsuspecting holidaymakers
creates a “honeypot” for attracting crooks.  “It’s a multimillion-pound criminal industry that’s behind
ticketing,” Downing said in an interview this week. “That’s
every day, but with the Olympics we’ll see a much bigger
opportunity.”  One of his top priorities is shutting down as many as 70
websites offering bogus or unauthorized tickets and it has been
“quite a challenge” asking  Internet service providers  to
suspend the sites.  Enabling Crime  “You map out what the crime is in the first place and you
look at what enables that crime to occur,” he said. “So if you
look at ticket fraud well, one of the aspects that makes that
crime occur is the website.”  Fans holding fake tickets sold from an unauthorized website
to the games’ first London-based event, the preliminary ranking
round in archery, were refused entry today.  “We have always made it clear that the preliminary rounds
are not open for spectators,” organizer LOCOG said in a
statement.  Operation Podium has made 186 arrests for a range of
offenses including ticket scalping, known as touting in the
U.K., fraud and theft. Of those, 100 have been charged, and 57
convicted. The team currently has 20 open investigations.  Downing has also tried to “police the world” as a
significant amount of the ticket fraud occurs long before
tourists reach  London .  The directors of Euroteam AS, a Norwegian ticketing agency,
have been charged with fraud by authorities in the Scandinavian
country working with Operation Podium, Downing said. The U.K.
 Office of Fair Trading , in conjunction with police, yesterday
won a court order to stop Euroteam and other Norwegian companies
from offering tickets to the event.  Police, Soldiers  John Christian Elden, a lawyer for one of Oslo-based
Euroteam’s directors, couldn’t be reached to comment.  Downing’s team, which is being funded by the  Home Office ,
is just one element of the security effort to keep the games
safe. An additional 9,500 police officers will be working in
London on the busiest days of the games. The capital will also
see 18,200 soldiers deployed to Olympic venues, more than twice
as many as in  Afghanistan .  Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said this week that nothing
should be left to chance “on the eve of the largest peacetime
event ever staged in this country.”  About 320,000 visitors will converge on the city during the
Olympics, surpassing the 250,000 visitors to Barcelona for the
1992 games and  Athens ’ 150,000 tourists in 2004, according to a
study by researcher Oxford Economics Ltd. The number of trips on
subways, buses and trains will rise by 25 percent to 15 million
a day, Transport for London says.  Construction Fraud  Simon Bevan, a partner at the accounting firm BDO LLP in
London said that ticket fraud pales in comparison to other
crimes spurred by the games.  “Ticket fraud during the Olympics will be dwarfed by
procurement and construction fraud,” Bevan said.  Operation Podium may lead to more arrests as criminal gangs
make large financial gains from relatively low-risk activities
such as selling fake tickets, Downing said.  “We will prosecute them,” Downing said. “There’s no
middle ground here -- it’s very clear -- as we started this we
said it would be a very hostile environment and it has been.”  The biggest economic losses are felt by credit card
companies that often have to repay their customers for any
losses, Downing said.  “The value of credit card charge-backs could be millions,
and no merchant acquirer or credit card company wants that,” he
said.  Tickets aren’t the only fraud targeted by Operation Podium.  Stephen Moonesamy was sentenced July 17 to two years in
prison after pleading guilty to leading 75 children from
Northamptonshire in central  England  to believe they would take
part in the closing ceremony.  The impact of the crimes is “not just economic,” Downing
said. “This is what we have been working to prevent. That’s the
big issue for me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  