-- Horizon Drops as Investors Doubt Company’s Marketing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-07-27T20:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/horizon-wins-approval-for-rayos-rheumatoid-arthritis-drug-1-.html
Horizon Pharma Inc. (HZNP) , a maker of pain
therapies, fell the most ever in New York trading as investors
doubted the company’s ability to market its newly approved Rayos
rheumatoid arthritis treatment.  Horizon dropped 17 percent to $6.31 at the close in New
York, its biggest decline since the stock started trading in
July 2011. The shares of the Northbrook, Illinois-based company
have risen 58 percent this year.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the first delayed-
release, low-dose prednisone in Horizon’s Rayos, the company
said in a statement yesterday. Investors may be betting that
Horizon won’t be successful enough when it starts to sell the
medicine or that the company may raise more money to build out
its sales force, said  Charles Duncan , an analyst with JMP
Securities who recommends buying the stock.  “I believe both concerns are overdone,” Duncan said in a
telephone interview today. “It’s a ‘short the launch’ thesis.”  The approval may make Horizon a candidate for a deal with a
larger drugmaker, either in the form of a partnership or
acquisition, Duncan said. He named Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. and
 Covidien Plc (COV) , which collaborates with Horizon on another
medicine, Duexis, as possibilities.  Covidien’s Mallinckrodt unit “is looking forward to
working with Horizon on our recently-announced co-promotion of
Duexis,” Lynn Phillips, a spokeswoman for the unit, said in an
e-mail. “That said, our policy is not to comment on potential
future plans for the business.”  Synthetic Steroid  Elissa Johnsen, a spokeswoman for Takeda, also said the
company doesn’t comment on business development activity.  “Other franchises outside of rheumatology but with anti-
inflammatory drugs you could see pick this up,” Duncan said.  While the synthetic steroid was studied as a treatment for
rheumatoid arthritis, the FDA granted approval for the medicine
to also help with psoriatic arthritis, asthma and chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease.  Horizon said it will start selling the drug for rheumatoid
arthritis in the fourth quarter and later plans to expand its
commercial strategy to include the respiratory diseases.
Prednisone is a type of corticosteroid, and about 50 percent of
rheumatoid arthritis patients are prescribed a combination
therapy that includes corticosteroids, Horizon said.  “We are extremely pleased the FDA has approved Rayos for a
broad range of indications,” Timothy Walbert, president and
chief executive officer of Horizon, said in the statement. “Our
initial focus will be on the launch of Rayos in rheumatologic
diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and polymyalgia rheumatica
in the fourth quarter.”  Revenue Projection  The company may have $97.6 million in revenue in 2013, the
average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Rayos is meant to be taken at bedtime and enables a delayed
release of prednisone four hours after administration. The
treatment also reduced morning stiffness of patients in a trial,
according to a statement from Horizon.  Long-term use of high doses of corticosteroids can lead to
osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease and weight gain, according
to Horizon.  Rheumatoid arthritis causes painful and swollen joints,
including in the hands, wrists, feet and knees. Other treatments
include anti-inflammatory medications and immunosuppressants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  