-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Fall With 30-Year at a Record-Low 3.49%
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-07-26T14:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/mortgage-rates-in-u-s-fall-to-record-lows-with-30-year-at-3-49-.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  dropped, with
30-year loans reaching a record low for a sixth straight week,
amid signs the housing recovery is slowing.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 3.49
percent in the week ended today, the lowest in Freddie Mac
records dating to 1971, from 3.53 percent. The average 15-year
rate declined to 2.8 percent, also a new low, from 2.83 percent,
the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company said today
in a statement.  Sluggish  employment  growth and tight lending standards are
limiting a recovery in the housing market even as mortgage rates
continue to fall, according to Celia Chen, an economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . Contracts
to buy previously owned homes dropped 1.4 percent last month
from a revised 5.4 percent gain in May that was less than
initially reported, data from the National Association of
Realtors showed today.  “It’s essential that the job market continues to add
jobs,” Chen said. “If things don’t improve at least a little,
yes, we do risk squashing this housing recovery.”  Private-sector employers added 84,000 jobs in June, the
weakest in 10 months, and the  unemployment rate  stuck at 8.2
percent, U.S. Labor Department figures showed.  Purchases of  new U.S. homes  dropped in June from a two-year
high, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Sales of
 existing residences  also declined, to an eight-month low, the
National Association of Realtors reported.  Mortgage applications in the U.S. climbed last week as low
borrowing costs spurred refinancing. An index of applications
for  refinancing  increased 1.8 percent in the week ended July 20
from the previous week, the Washington-based  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said yesterday. The group’s  purchase  gauge dropped
3.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in  New York  at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  