-- Osaka Exchange Holder Jupiter Asset Says Tokyo Bid Price Too Low
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-07-26T18:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/osaka-exchange-holder-jupiter-asset-says-tokyo-bid-price-too-low.html
Jupiter Asset Management Ltd., the
London-based fund company that owns 1.2 percent of  Osaka 
Securities Exchange Co., won’t go along with its takeover unless
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. raises the price.  Shareholders deserve more than 480,000 yen a share because
Osaka, which dominates  Japan ’s growing futures market, is more
profitable than Tokyo, where volume in equities and public
offerings are falling, according to Simon Somerville, manager of
Jupiter’s Japan Income Fund. Osaka shares gained 4.9 percent to
462,000 yen since the merger was announced nine months ago.  “We’re certainly not going to support the deal in its
current form,” Somerville said in a phone interview. Jupiter
has owned shares in the Osaka exchange since 2009. “The price
isn’t right. TSE is being valued 50 to 60 percent higher than
OSE in the terms of this deal. The problem at the moment is that
the value’s all in Osaka, not in  Tokyo .”  Foreign investors who own 75 percent of Osaka Securities
Exchange Co. may be able to extract more money to complete a
merger that’s part of government plans for reviving Japan’s
securities industry. They have leverage because the TSE can’t
easily walk away from the deal, first announced in November,
according to Somerville, Deutsche Bank AG and Religare Capital
Markets Ltd.  Kazuhiko Yoshimatsu, head of corporate strategy at the
Tokyo Stock Exchange and Masahiro Yada, a spokesman for Osaka
Securities, declined to comment on the progress of the bid.  Comprehensive Exchange  Japan’s government said in 2010 it wants to create a
“comprehensive” exchange that combines the country’s nine
bourses into a single entity handling stocks, commodities and
other securities. The country’s Financial Services Agency was
involved in discussions between TSE and Osaka before the deal
was announced, two people with direct knowledge of the talks
said in March.  The transaction has two steps, with TSE first bidding for
between 50 percent and 67 percent of Osaka in a tender offer
scheduled to end Aug. 22. If that’s successful, owners will then
vote to complete the merger via a share swap that values TSE at
1.7 times Osaka.  Osaka Securities is forecasting net income of 6.2 billion
yen in the year to March 31, a 13.4 percent increase from the
previous 12 months. The smaller venue’s target is 100 million
yen less than last year’s annual  profit  at the TSE, where net
income fell 29 percent.  Osaka had 1.33 billion yen net income in the three months
through June 30, it said this week. Tokyo is scheduled to post
earnings today.  Clearing Threshold  “If Tokyo barely clears the 50 percent threshold, then
there’s some risk that the merger won’t be approved at the
extraordinary shareholder meeting,” said Deutsche Bank analyst
Hiroshi Torii. “Given this is part of the national agenda,
raising the offer price would probably satisfy investors who
don’t like the merger ratio.”  Market value of companies traded on the Tokyo bourse, which
handles about 96 percent of share trading in Japan, is the
third-highest of any venue in the world, the World Federation of
Exchanges said this  month .  Investors outside Japan owned 75 percent of Osaka’s shares
as of yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
less than the 80 percent they held on Nov. 21, the day before
the merger was announced, the data show.  Fidelity Investments  is
the  largest  holder.  Political Imperative  While regulators elsewhere in the world have scuttled more
than  $30 billion  in exchange mergers since 2010, Japan’s Fair
Trade Commission approved the deal July 5. The companies project
the deal will close in January.  Government backing binds the companies more than usual,
said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director of Global Special
Situations at Religare Capital Markets Ltd., who advises some of
Osaka’s shareholders.  “There’s a lot of pressure to get this done,” Foster said
in a phone interview. “It’s not going to be easy to turn around
and explain that the deal isn’t going to work because you
couldn’t come to terms on price.”  JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd., the OSE’s third-largest
shareholder, won’t tender its 5.1 percent stake because it wants
to own a piece of the exchange formed out of the planned merger,
Nudgem Richyal, a Singapore-based portfolio manager at JO
Hambro, said on July 10. The bourses should make sure
disagreement over price doesn’t derail the bid, he said.  ‘Tough Decisions’  “The TSE is going to be forced to make some tough
decisions to get this deal through,” said Gaku Ishiwata an
attorney at Mori Hamada & Matsumoto, rated Japanese Deal Firm of
the Year by Asian Legal Business magazine. “Foreign investors
are interested in profit and are different than domestic
investors who have business dealings with the merger companies.
 Hedge funds  may well approach TSE and ask for more in exchange
for their support.”  If Tokyo was simply offering 480,000 yen a share for Osaka,
the deal would fail, said Jupiter’s Somerville. The two-stage
process and a lack of transparency about the progress of the
tender offer makes it difficult for shareholders to decide
whether to sell or hold out for more and risk ending up with
shares of a merged company dominated by TSE.  “TSE has been very clever with the way they’ve done
this,” Somerville said. “If you don’t tender and it goes
through, you’re going to look pretty stupid. So it’s a game of
poker going on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  