-- Total Said to Hire Banks to Sell $3 Billion Gas Network
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-26T17:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/total-said-to-hire-banks-to-sell-3-billion-gas-network.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest oil
producer, is exploring a sale of its TIGF natural-gas network in
France in a transaction that may fetch about 2.5 billion euros
($3.1 billion), according to two people familiar with the
process.  The French company is working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to seek buyers for the transmission network,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because talks
are private. Potential bidders include companies such as  Enagas
SA (ENG) , the operator of Spain’s natural-gas grid, infrastructure
investors including Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd., and
also pension funds, one of the people said. No final decision on
selling the asset has been made.  Energy companies from Total to  Germany ’s EON AG are selling
their transmission networks as they focus on higher-margin
investments and seek to cash in on demand from infrastructure
investors. The European Union has also been pressing utilities
and natural gas companies to separate from their networks in a
bid to open up markets.  TIGF’s 5,000 kilometers of pipeline in southwestern  France 
transports about 12 percent of the country’s natural gas and had
2010 revenue of 370 million euros, according to its  website . A
sale may kick off in the fourth quarter, one of the people said.
Madrid-based Enagas may consider buying TIGF because it could
transport natural gas from the Iberian peninsula, the person
said.  Total began a series of asset sales and purchases in 2010,
seeking to raise energy production. The French  oil company  in
2011 agreed to sell its 6.4 percent stake in the Norwegian
Gassled pipeline network to Silex Gas Norway AS, owned by German
insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   EON Sales  EON, Germany’s largest utility, agreed in May to sell a
network of natural-gas pipelines in the country to a group led
by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  for 3.2 billion euros, shoring up its
funds as nuclear earnings decline. The buyers for Open Grid
Europe GmbH, Germany’s biggest gas-transmission system, also
included a fund of German reinsurer  Munich Re , the Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority’s Infinity Investments and British Columbia
Investment Management Corp.  Pension funds, insurers and sovereign wealth funds are
seeking infrastructure investments for more stable cash-flow and
earnings as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and global economic
concerns roil equity and bond markets.  Officials at Total, Goldman Sachs and Lazard declined to
comment on the process. Officials at Global Infrastructure
Partners were not immediately available, nor were officials at
Enagas after normal business hours.  Reuters reported Total was planning to sell the gas network
earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  