-- Motorola Mobility to Move to Merchandise Mart in Chicago
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-07-26T23:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/motorola-mobility-to-move-to-merchandise-mart-in-chicago.html
Motorola Mobility, the mobile-phone
maker bought by  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in May, agreed to relocate its
headquarters to  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) ’s Merchandise Mart in
Chicago, where it will be the building’s largest tenant.  The technology company, currently based in Libertyville,
Illinois, will occupy almost 600,000 square feet (56,000 square
meters) on the property’s top four floors and rooftop, according
to a statement today from Motorola Mobility and Chicago Mayor
 Rahm Emanuel . The 4.2 million-square-foot Merchandise Mart,
completed in 1930, is the world’s biggest commercial building,
according to its website.  “Today marks a homecoming for a company that was founded
in Chicago over 80 years ago,” Emanuel said in the statement.
“The company will bring jobs and economic opportunity to our
city.”  The deal also provides a boost to Vornado, owner of more
than 100 million square feet of U.S. commercial properties. The
New York-based landlord, whose shares have fallen 15 percent in
the past year, has been responding to shareholder complaints
that its structure is too complex. On July 5, Vornado said it
would sell showrooms in Washington,  Los Angeles  and  Boston  while
keeping its flagship Merchandise Mart in Chicago.  Motorola Mobility will move to the building in mid-2013,
according to today’s statement. The company didn’t disclose the
terms of its lease.  The lease increases the size of the Merchandise Mart’s
office portion to 1.73 million square feet, “continuing the
right-sizing of the mix of office space and showroom space,”
Vornado said today in a separate statement.  “We’re thrilled to bring our employees to downtown Chicago
and infuse our company with the vibrant energy of the city,”
Dennis Woodside, Motorola Mobility’s chief executive officer,
said in his company’s statement. He called the building a great
place to “honor our heritage” and “recruit top talent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  