-- House to Vote on Competing Tax-Cut Proposals Next Week
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-07-26T20:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/house-to-vote-on-competing-tax-cut-proposals-next-week.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said
he will allow a vote next week on Democrats’ plan to extend most
George W. Bush-era income tax cuts while ending them for top
earners.  Boehner told reporters today he will give Democrats a
chance to vote on their tax plan as the Republican-led House
also considers a Republican proposal to extend the tax cuts for
all income levels.  “We’ll give the Democrats an opportunity to vote for the
president’s small business tax hikes,” Boehner told reporters
today. “We’ll see what they’ll offer.”  He didn’t specify in what form the Democrats will be able
to bring up their competing tax proposal. “It’s our belief that
they ought to be able to have a vote,” the speaker said.  The Democratic-controlled Senate voted 51-48 yesterday,
mostly along party lines, on a plan endorsed by President  Barack Obama  providing a one-year extension of the tax cuts for
individual income up to $200,000 and married couples earning as
much as $250,000 a year.  The House will vote next week on Republicans’ legislation
to extend the tax cuts for all income levels for one year, and
on a measure that would set up a process for overhauling the  tax
code  in 2013. The Senate yesterday rejected a tax-cut extension
for all levels of income.  Strategic Advantage  Boehner’s decision to allow a vote on a Democratic plan may
diffuse what Democrats say is a strategic advantage they gained
by passing their plan in the Senate.  “We are one vote away from passing this legislation,”
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said today
in calling on Boehner to schedule a vote on the Senate plan.  Senator  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, told reporters that a House vote could provide
individuals and businesses with the certainty on tax law they’ve
been seeking.  “There will be some certainty if Speaker Boehner will call
this bill on the floor of the House because it will pass,”
Durbin said. “It will pass because I believe there are enough
Republicans who believe that giving middle-income families
across America a break, making sure that they don’t see their
taxes go up, is good for America.”  ‘Right Thing’  Obama today urged the House “to do the right thing” and
pass the Senate’s plan.  “Right now we’re seeing some of the weaknesses in Europe
and it is a perfect time for us to focus on what are steps we
can take now, not later, not a year from now but right now, to
strengthen the middle class,” Obama said before a meeting with
his Cabinet at the White House.  Two Senate Republicans,  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts and
 Susan Collins  of  Maine , voted yesterday against the Republican
measure to extend all of the tax cuts, and not all House
Republicans are committed to supporting the proposal in that
chamber.  “I don’t know that there’s a consensus among House
Republicans to extend them for a year,” Representative  Joe Walsh , an Illinois Republican, said today at a Bloomberg
Government breakfast.  Walsh added that he and other Republican lawmakers are
“pretty tired” of yearlong extensions of  tax policy .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  