-- House Backs Bill to Ban Regulations Until Unemployment Drops
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-07-26T19:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/house-passes-bill-to-block-regulations-until-unemployment-drops.html
The U.S. House voted to block
thousands of potential future regulations covering every facet
of the economy touched by the U.S. government, including such
diverse areas as updates to rental subsidies for low-income
tenants and Medicare payments to doctors and other health-care
providers.  While the bill stands little chance of becoming law, its
consideration today -- less than four months from Election Day -
- provided lawmakers with a chance to vote against
“Washington” by blocking basically everything the federal
government does.  The vote, mostly along party lines, was 245-172.  Freshman Republican Tim Huelskamp of  Kansas  said he viewed
the vote as a way to help the economy.  “You want to get the economy moving again, it’s not
another government program, it’s not another stimulus, it’s give
me a moratorium on regulations,” he said in an interview.  The bill, which faces a possible veto, would end “major”
federal regulations until the  unemployment rate  reaches 6
percent or below.  The U.S. unemployment rate,  currently at 8.2 percent ,
hasn’t been below 6 percent since July 2008, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics. The  Congressional Budget Office 
 projected earlier this year  that it would probably remain above
6 percent until late 2016.  That would delay implementation of two laws roundly opposed
by congressional Republicans -- the 2010 health-care overhaul
and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street regulatory law. Those laws rely
on regulations that, for the most part, have yet to be written
or implemented.  Environmental Rules  The measure would apply to any regulation with a projected
economic cost of at least $50 million, as well as to regulations
determined by the Office of Management and Budget’s Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs to have a materially negative
effect on jobs, public health and safety, local and state
governments, or the environment.  Though the bill would allow for the president to waive the
rule freeze in case of emergencies, the bill could block
thousands of proposed regulations annually. Among those would be
scores of environmental regulations covering emissions standards
and waste disposal that have been fought by coal, oil and other
energy companies.  “It amounts to ordering a government shutdown, and it’s a
kind of coup d’etat by the most recalcitrant special
interests,” Scott Slesinger, legislative director for the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an statement. “This
will do nothing to create jobs, but it will prevent the nation
from addressing real problems.”  Delaying Rules  It also could delay planned Federal Communications
Commission rules on wireless spectrum auctions, which would fund
a public safety wireless network that was called for in the
aftermath of communications network disruptions following the
Sept. 11 attacks.  The only areas of government the bill wouldn’t touch would
be the Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve System , the
 Federal Open Market Committee  and the U.S. Postal Service, each
of which was specifically exempted from the measure.  The bill has almost no chance of passing the Democratic-
held Senate, which has refused to consider at least three other
House-passed bills to stall federal regulations.  The White House Office of Management and Budget, in a
statement of administration policy, said that the measure
“would undermine critical public health and safety protections,
introduce needless complexity and uncertainty in agency
decision-making, and interfere with agency performance of
statutory mandates,” and that senior advisers to President
 Barack Obama  would recommend a veto.  The bill is  H.R. 4078 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  