-- How to Break NRA’s Grip on Politics: Michael R. Bloomberg
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R .   B l o o m b e r g
-- 2012-07-26T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/how-to-break-nra-s-grip-on-politics-michael-r-bloomberg.html
It has been a week since the
massacre in Aurora,  Colorado . The two major U.S. presidential
candidates spent the past week avoiding the subject of whether
anything should be done to prevent such shootings from
recurring.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee, declared
Wednesday that “changing the heart of the American people” is
our best hope to stop the carnage. President  Barack Obama 
offered little more than support for his past positions, such as
banning assault weapons. Very likely, both candidates will spend
the next few months avoiding the issue altogether.  The wise men of  Washington  tell us that candidates are
silent on guns because to speak out is to incur the wrath of the
 National Rifle Association . But  polls  consistently show that gun
owners, including NRA members, overwhelmingly support the common
sense measures that mayors across the country have been trying
to get Washington to pass for years.  More than 700 mayors, from both political parties, have
 joined together  to stop the flow of illegal guns into our
communities. Mayors know all too well that the debate on the
Second Amendment is over. The  Supreme Court  recognized that the
Second Amendment grants citizens the right to bear arms, subject
to reasonable restrictions. The question is: What should those
restrictions look like?  Mayors and the NRA strongly agree that the federal
government should enforce the laws already on the books. Federal
law prohibits all felons -- and those with a history of mental
illness or drug abuse -- from possessing guns.  The NRA believes -- rightly -- that  enforcing  the law means
prosecuting criminals to the fullest extent. In  New York  state,
we have increased the mandatory minimum prison sentence for
illegal possession of a loaded gun to 3 1/2 years, one of the
toughest penalties in the country.  But whether fighting illegal guns or drugs, we should seek
not merely to make arrests, but to prevent the crime from
occurring in the first place.  That is why the federal government requires licensed
firearm dealers to conduct  background checks  to determine
whether an individual is eligible to purchase a gun.  Nonlicensed sellers, however, are not required to perform
federal background checks, and as much as 40 percent of gun
sales slip through this loophole. Criminals and the deranged can
buy guns simply by logging on to the Internet or visiting a gun
show -- and they do, every day. Stopping them requires
background checks for every gun sale, a change strongly
supported by major law enforcement organizations, as well as gun
owners and NRA members. But not the  NRA’s leadership .  The NRA is a $200 million-plus-a-year  lobbying juggernaut ,
with much of its funding coming from gun manufacturers and
merchandising. More than anything, the NRA is a marketing
organization, and its flagship product is fear. Gun sales jumped
after Obama was elected president, based on the absurd -- and
now demonstrably false -- fear that he would seek to ban guns.  There is one particular fear the NRA manufactures with
great success: fear of electoral defeat. Romney has walked away
from the assault-weapons ban he once supported, and in nearly
four years, Obama has offered no legislation to rein in illegal
guns. In Congress, the NRA threatens lawmakers who fail to do
its ideological bidding, although its record in defeating
candidates is much more myth than reality.  What can be done?  One of the U.S. Senate’s most pro-gun members has
paradoxically shown how the battle might begin. Republican
Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma , also the chamber’s most sincere
fiscal conservative, has made it his mission to diminish the
influence of another ideological group that has exercised
unwarranted sway over public policy: the anti-tax absolutists
led by  Grover Norquist  and Americans for  Tax Reform .  To confront Norquist, Coburn identified an indefensible tax
-- the ethanol subsidy -- isolated it and forced a vote on it.
His colleagues, many of whom had signed Norquist’s pledge never
to raise taxes, were forced to choose between opposing what
Coburn decried as an obvious “special interest giveaway” or
looking like spineless shills for Norquist. By heightening 
attention on the vote, the tactic worked. The $5.4 billion
ethanol subsidy was  voted down .  The Coburn approach could be applied to guns. Elected
officials who profess to be tough on crime but who also oppose
tougher measures to stop illegal guns can’t be in two places at
once -- particularly when many law enforcement organizations
support basic gun measures that simply don’t exist today. In the
same way Coburn pointed out the ethanol-corporate welfare
contradiction, a pro-gun senator can point out the obvious: It’s
impossible to support police officers and law enforcement
agencies and also oppose giving them the tools they need to keep
guns out of the hands of dangerous people.  Some Americans view smarter, tougher gun measures as a
hopeless crusade. But political environments change, especially
when strong leaders build coalitions and carve new paths through
seemingly settled territory. There are conservative, pro-gun
rights members of Congress who understand that more can be done
to keep guns away from dangerous people.  We know the special interests’ grip can be shaken; the most
egregious gaps in gun regulation can be filled. The Coburn
approach is proven. Who has the guts to follow it?  ( Michael R. Bloomberg  is mayor of New York, co-founder and
co-chairman of Mayors Against Illegal Guns, and founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  bringing back earmarks  and on
 easing austerity  in the U.K.;  Jonathan Alter  on the collective
effort to  “build that” ; Stephen L. Carter on why all  NCAA
punishments  should be as harsh as  Penn State ’s;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on why  Obama would be better than Romney  on  Iran ;  Pankaj Mishra 
on the challenge of  Asian state capitalism ; William Pesek on
 U.S.-China relations ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  conflicts of interest 
at  Freddie Mac ; Kim Schoenholtz and Lawrence White on  remaking
Libor .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 