-- Lloyds Posts Unexpected First-Half Loss on Insurance Redress
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-07-26T15:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/lloyds-first-half-net-loss-misses-estimates-on-ppi-compensation.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the first
of Britain’s four biggest banks to report earnings, posted an
unexpected loss after setting aside additional money to
compensate clients mis-sold loan insurance.  The  net loss  narrowed to 641 million pounds ($998 million)
in the first half from 2.28 billion pounds in the year-earlier
period, the London-based lender said in a statement today.
Analysts had predicted a 314 million-pound profit, according to
the median estimate of five surveyed by Bloomberg. Lloyds set
aside a further 700 million pounds in the second quarter to
compensate customers mis-sold payment protection insurance.  Today’s provision brings the total the bank has earmarked
for redress to 4.3 billion pounds, more than the sum set aside
by Lloyds’s three largest British competitors. Regulators have
ordered U.K. banks to compensate clients who were forced to buy,
or didn’t know they had purchased, insurance to cover repayments
on credit cards or mortgages they were taking out.  “This is an industry wide problem, and other banks are
going to follow Lloyds and do something similar,” said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at  Shore Capital Group Ltd. (SGR)  in Liverpool,
 England . “The banks underestimated how aggressive the lawyers
were going to be in pursuing PPI claims.”  Lloyds fell 1.1 percent to 28.97 pence in  London  trading.
The stock has gained 12 percent this year, making it the best
 performer  in the six-member FTSE 350 Banks Index. The Treasury,
which owns about 40 percent of the bank, paid about 73.6 pence a
share for its stake.  More Provisions?  “I’d like to say categorically the 700 million represents
the final word on PPI provision,” Finance Director George Culmer told reporters on a conference call today. “However,
it’s made on future claims and, while we’ve conducted as much
research into that, we can’t really speak for what the ultimate
number might be.”  The increase in PPI provisions will mean lower profits and
so bonuses this year will be lower than they would otherwise be,
Chairman  Win Bischoff  said at a press conference in London
today.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio blamed so-
called claims-management companies, which help individuals
pursue cases against firms for a fee or percentage of any
successful award, for inflating the costs. More than half of
claims received from some firms were linked to insurance
policies that didn’t exist, he said on the call. The lender has
added 1,000 more people to process erroneous claims, he said.  “Mis-sold PPI policies are an industry legacy issue but by
redressing those affected quickly we continue to do the right
thing for our customers,” Horta-Osorio, 48, said in the
statement. “We are on track to deliver our strategic aims and
we are making significant progress with our financial targets.”  Barclays Reports  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which analysts expect will post an 11 percent
increase in first-half pretax profit tomorrow, has set aside 1.3
billion pounds for PPI.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank, has made a 770 million-pound provision and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  1.2 billion pounds. The two report next week.  In all, the country’s four biggest banks by assets have set
aside about 7.6 billion pounds for compensation. The Financial
Services Authority estimated last year banks would need to pay
about 9 billion pounds.  Lloyds said it will implement early the Independent
Commission on Banking’s recommendations to erect fire-breaks
around its consumer banking unit. Firms have until 2019 to
comply with the plans in full, though Bischoff said investors
would force banks to implement the proposals by 2015.  “This will be another important step toward providing
sustainable returns for our shareholders and support to our
customers and communities,” Horta-Osorio said on a call with
analysts today. “By doing that we will return the bank to
profitability and that will ultimately give taxpayers the
opportunity to get their money back.”  Libor Suits  Lloyds said it’s also been named as defendant in U.S. class
action lawsuits linked to allegations banks manipulated the
London interbank offered rate, the benchmark  interest rate  for
more than $500 trillion of securities from derivatives to
 student loans . Barclays was last month fined a record 290
million pounds for rigging the rate.  Horta-Osorio declined to give an estimate for the potential
cost of Libor lawsuits and regulatory settlements. The lender
may be fined 420 million pounds by regulators over its role in
the scandal and face a further 38 million pound charge to settle
civil lawsuits, Morgan Stanley analyst  Betsy Graseck  said in a
July 12 report to clients.  ‘Ultimate Outcome’  “It is currently not possible to predict the scope and
ultimate outcome of the various regulatory investigation or
private lawsuits, including the timing and scale of the
potential impact of any investigations and private lawsuits,”
Lloyds said in today’s statement.  Lloyds’s revenue and profit margins are being squeezed as
the U.K. economy contracts and the  Bank of England  holds its
benchmark interest rate at a record low. Lloyds’s underlying
revenue, which excludes one-time items, slid 17 percent to about
9.3 billion pounds in the first half, the bank said.  Net interest margin, the difference between what Lloyds
earns on loans and its cost of funding, fell to 1.93 percent by
the end of the first half, from 2.12 percent at the end of June
last year, the bank said. That met the 1.93 percent estimate of
Credit Suisse Group AG analysts led by London-based Carla Antunes da Silva. Horta-Osorio said in May the margin would
narrow to less than 2 percent in 2012.  Impairments for souring loans fell 42 percent to 3.2
billion pounds in the first half, as charges in Ireland fell by
half. Lloyds’s earnings have been hurt as it set aside more than
10 billion pounds to cover losses on real estate loans in the
country, where commercial real estate prices slumped more than
65 percent and house prices almost halved since 2007.  Irish Notes  “The rate of increase in newly impaired loans in Ireland
has slowed through the second half of 2011 and the first half of
2012,” Lloyds said in today’s statement.  Lloyds set up a so-called non-core division after its
bailout to house assets, such as its Irish operation, that it
plans to sell or wind down. The bank shrunk the division by 44.9
billion pounds to 117.5 billion pounds in the year through June.
The lender said it expects to reduce non-core assets to less
than 70 billion pounds by the end of 2014.  Horta-Osorio said the bank would either sell or close its
Intelligent Finance unit after the Co-Operative Bank Plc said it
did not want the business as part of the package of 632 branches
that it bought last week for 750 million pounds. Lloyds was told
to sell the branches and Intelligent Finance to comply with
European Union rules on state aid European Union rules on state
aid in the wake of its rescue by the British government
following the 2008 financial crisis.  The lender boosted its core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure
of financial strength, to 11.3 percent from 10.8 percent at the
end of last year. It will also raise its target for lending to
small- and medium-sized businesses by 1 billion pounds to 13
billion pounds in 2012.  Investors will force banks to implement Vickers’ reforms by
2015, long before the 2019 deadline, Lloyds’s Bischoff said.  Bischoff, 71, said he planned to retire from the bank
within one to two years. He took over from Victor Blank in 2009,
and was formerly chairman of Citigroup Inc. and Schroders.
Bischoff was knighted by  Queen Elizabeth II  in 2000.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  