-- Lloyds’s Irish Impairment Charge Cut by Half as Arrears Ease
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-07-26T07:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/lloyds-s-irish-impairment-charge-cut-by-half-as-arrears-ease-1-.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, said its Irish loan-impairment charge
was cut by half to 897 million pounds ($1.39 billion) in the
first six months compared with a year earlier as the pace of
increase of home-loan arrears slowed.  The impairment charge compared with 1.78 billion pounds in
the first half of last year and 1.41 billion pounds for the
final six months, Lloyds said in a  statement  today. The decline
in new provisions “is primarily due to a reduction in new
customers entering arrears,” while the rate of commercial real
estate market deterioration has eased, it said.  “The Irish economy appears to have grown in 2011 for the
first time since 2007, by 1.4 percent, and the  unemployment rate 
appears to have stabilized,” London-based Lloyds said. “Strict
austerity measures in recent years targeted at improving
international competitiveness are beginning to pay off.”  Lloyds has taken 11.8 billion pounds of impairment charges
on Irish loans since the collapse of the nation’s real estate
market four years ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
News. The bank, which today reported an unexpected net loss of
641 million pounds, shut its Irish unit in 2010 and is running
down its remaining assets.  2013 Outlook  “The slowdown in the rate of impaired loans is to be
welcomed and may ease concerns in recent months as the pace re-
accelerated in fourth quarter of 2011 and first quarter of this
year,”  Eamonn Hughes , an analyst with Dublin-based  Goodbody
Stockbrokers , said today in a note to clients. While  Allied
Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the nation’s largest mortgage lender, also
“recently indicated the pace of deterioration had slowed in the
second quarter,” arrears across the industry will likely rise
into 2013, he said.  Lloyds said 22 percent of its 6.7 billion-pound Irish
retail loans, which are 99 percent comprised of residential
mortgages, were impaired, or unlikely to be repaid in full, at
the end of June. This compares with 20 percent at the end of
December.  The level of impaired loans in the 16.1 billion-pound Irish
wholesale portfolio rose to 85.5 percent from 84.3 percent.  Lloyds’s Irish mortgage arrears have been “consistently
1.6 times” that of the local banking industry in recent years,
Shailesh Raikundlia, a London-based analyst with Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said in a note to clients on July 10. “The
lower credit quality of the mortgage portfolio compared with the
market is partly explained by aggressive lending by HBOS just
prior to the crisis, coupled with weaker underwriting
standards,” he said.  HBOS Acquisition  Lloyds acquired its Irish business through its takeover in
2008 of HBOS Plc.  Ireland’s commercial property prices have plunged 67
percent since 2007, according to Investment Property Databank,
and  home prices  have been cut in half, the  Central Statistics
Office   said July 24 . Lloyds’s losses can be traced to HBOS
predecessor Bank of Scotland Plc’s entry into the country’s
mortgage market in 1999, followed two years later by its
purchase of state-owned lender ICC Bank Plc.  Lloyds sold 300 million pounds of gross Irish wholesale
assets during the first six month, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  