-- Paul Allen’s Vulcan Capital Backs Siluria’s Natural Gas Catalyst
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/paul-allen-s-vulcan-capital-backs-siluria-s-natural-gas-catalyst.html
  Paul Allen ’s Vulcan Capital led a
$30 million venture capital investment in Siluria Technologies
Inc., a closely held company that’s developing processes to
convert natural gas into transportation fuels and chemicals.  Vulcan Capital, which manages the personal investments of
Microsoft Corp. co-founder Allen, led the third round of
financing with Moscow-based venture investor Bright Capital,
Siluria said in an e-mailed statement.  San Francisco-based Siluria is developing a catalytic
process that combines molecules of methane, the principle
component of natural gas, to produce ethylene, a chemical that’s
the basis of the petrochemical industry. The technology may give
producers another market for their natural gas, which is mostly
burned as a fuel to generate steam or power and fell to a 10-
year low in April in part due to an expansion of U.S. shale
drilling.  The company’s process is compatible with standard equipment
though it differs from conventional steam cracking used by
chemical makers to break down petroleum or natural gas
derivatives into different products, and is less energy
intensive, Siluria says on its website.  The funding will support a “commercial demonstration
plant” that may be built next year and Siluria plans to partner
with chemical or gas companies on subsequent projects, President
Alex Tkachenko said by telephone.  Fuel Conversion  The ethylene Siluria produces is chemically equivalent to
that made through conventional processes, meaning it can be
converted into transportation fuels, chemicals or materials such
as plastic. The company is focused on converting natural gas
produced from oil and gas wells, though its process functions
with biogas from landfills or anaerobic digesters and could be
used by partners interested in those sources of methane.  “Our technology is indifferent to the source of methane,”
Tkachenko said. “Where there is a difference, of course, is in
the abundance,” he said.  Other companies including  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  are also developing catalytic conversion
processes for natural gas.  Existing Siluria backers including Arch Venture Partners
LP, Alloy Ventures Inc., Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers,  Lux
Capital , Altitude Life Science Ventures, Presidio Ventures Inc.
and the London-based charity Wellcome Trust Ltd. reinvested, the
company said. Siluria has raised a total of $63 million, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  