-- Pending Sales of U.S. Homes Unexpectedly Fell 1.4% in June
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-26T14:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/pending-sales-of-u-s-homes-unexpectedly-fell-1-4-in-june.html
Contracts to purchase previously
owned homes unexpectedly dropped in June for the second time in
the last three months, a sign of limited momentum in housing.  The index of pending  home resales  decreased 1.4 percent to
99.3 after a revised 5.4 percent gain in May that was less than
initially reported, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.3 percent
June increase.  Slower job growth that’s holding down confidence and strict
lending standards are restraining housing even with cheaper
properties and mortgage rates at all-time lows. While
acknowledging the improvement in housing, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that policy makers are
ready to take further action to boost an economy that faces a
headwind from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “One of the cruel facts of this current backdrop is that
few people have really been able to take advantage of these
historically low rates -- whether that’s by choice or force,”
 Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist for RBC Capital Markets LLC
in  New York , said before the report. “You really haven’t seen
purchase applications pick up in any meaningful way at this
stage.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 34 economists ranged
from a drop of 4 percent to a gain of 4 percent.  Stocks Climb  Stocks held gains after the report as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers will do everything in
their power to ensure survival of the euro. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.7 percent to 1,360.77 at 10:11 a.m. in
New York.  Another report today showed orders for  durable goods 
climbed more than forecast in June, boosted by demand for
military hardware and aircraft. Bookings increased 1.6 percent
for a second month, the Commerce Department said.  Orders excluding the volatile transportation category
slumped 1.1 percent, the most in five months.  First-time applications for  unemployment benefits  fell more
than forecast last week, extending the period of volatility
typically seen in July.  Jobless claims  dropped 35,000 in the
period ended July 21 to 353,000, the Labor Department said.  Pending home sales provide insight into actual contract
closings a month or two later. Purchases of existing homes,
which made up about 93 percent of the residential real estate
market last year, are tabulated when the contract closes.  Home Sales  Today’s figures suggest sales of  existing homes  will slow.
Purchases decreased 5.4 percent to an eight-month low 4.37
million annual rate, the Realtors group said July 19.  Existing-home sales have climbed since reaching a low of
3.39 million at an annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to
the subprime lending collapse and recession, sales reached a
peak of 7.25 million in September 2005.  Competition from cheaper distressed properties may have
held down existing-home sales. Transactions involving
foreclosures and short sales, where a lender agrees to accept
less than the balance of the mortgage, accounted for 25 percent
of the total last month, matching the May figure.  “We’ve been seeing a steady decline in the level of
housing inventory, which is most pronounced in the lower price
ranges popular with first-time buyers and investors,”  Lawrence Yun , the Realtors group’s chief economist, said in a statement.
“Any bank-owned properties that have been held back in markets
with inventory shortages should be released expeditiously to
help meet market demand.”  New Homes  New dwellings accounted for almost 7 percent of the market
last year, down from a high of 15 percent during the boom of the
past decade. Sales of new homes dropped 8.4 percent to a 350,000
annual rate in June, a Commerce Department report showed July
25.  Compared with a year earlier, June pending sales of
previously owned properties increased 8.4 percent after a 14.7
percent jump in May.  Contract signings decreased in three of the four regions,
today’s report showed, including a 7.6 percent slump in the
Northeast and a 2 percent decline in the South.  Low borrowing costs are making homes more affordable. The
average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped last week to
3.53 percent, the lowest since Freddie Mac record-keeping began
in 1972.  For companies like  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , gains in housing
translate to more purchases.  “Housing sales are picking back up and housing volumes are
improving, those are all really positive market metrics to
sustain growth in this business,” Christopher Connor, chairman
and chief executive officer of the Cleveland-based paint
manufacturer, said on a July 19 earnings call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  