-- Penn State Faced 4-Year Football Shutdown, Erickson Says
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-26T04:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/penn-state-says-ncaa-s-alternative-penalty-was-more-excessive.html
Pennsylvania State University ’s
football program faced being shut down for four years if it
hadn’t accepted other sanctions from college sports’ governing
body for attempting to cover up Jerry Sandusky’s child abuse.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  considered the
so-called death penalty, school President Rodney Erickson told
the Board of Trustees last night, according to spokesman David La Torre.  Erickson agreed to a $60 million fine by the NCAA, which
also stripped the school of 112 wins from 1998 through 2011,
took away 20 total scholarships annually for four seasons and
barred the Nittany Lions from bowl games for four years.  “The board finds the punitive sanctions difficult and the
process with the NCAA unfortunate,” the trustees said in a
statement. “But as we understand it, the alternatives were
worse, as confirmed by NCAA President  Mark Emmert ’s recent
statement that Penn State was likely facing a multiyear death
sentence.”  Emmert told Erickson that a majority of the NCAA’s
leadership agreed with the four-year ban after a report
concluded that top university officials, including former coach
 Joe Paterno , tried to cover up the crimes of assistant coach
Sandusky, the president told ESPN in an interview.  “That’s a pretty tough number to swallow,” Erickson said
he recalled thinking after hearing about the ban. “It’s
unprecedented. It’s a blow to the gut; there’s no doubt about
that ... I couldn’t agree to that at all.”  ‘Own Legacy’  The trustees said it was time to accept the punishment and
move forward in anticipation of the fall football season.  “We anticipate and look forward to demonstrating our
outstanding performance in complying with the sanctions,” the
board said. “The commitment demonstrated by our student
athletes in recent days embodies all that is good about  Penn
State  and we look forward to unprecedented support by the
Nittany nation when we take the field this fall.”  Senior running back Michael Zordich and linebacker Michael
Mauti led a group of more than two dozen Penn State football
players who vowed to stay committed to the team, while others
were being recruited to other schools.  “We take this as an opportunity to create our own
legacy,” Mauti told reporters yesterday. “This program was not
built by one man, and this program sure as hell is not going to
get torn down by one man.”  Zordich said the players were eyeing the NCAA’s decision as
an opportunity, rather than a punishment.  Embrace Opportunity  “We’re going to stick together through this; we’re going
to see this thing through,” Zordich said. “We have an
obligation to Penn State. We’re going to embrace this
opportunity.”  The NCAA is allowing any entering or returning Nittany Lion
football player to transfer to another school and play
immediately. In addition, any football player choosing to remain
at Penn State will keep his scholarship regardless of whether he
continues to play on the team, provided he maintains the
academic requirements.  The sanctions will affect the football team long after the
ban ends and the fine is paid, said Brandon Huffman, a college
football recruiting analyst for Scout.com.  The team will struggle to retain players and to recruit,
and it may take at least eight years, or until the first class
of full scholarships enters its senior season, for the program
to resemble the perennial Top 25 team that it became under
Paterno.  The Penn State football team will be ineligible to receive
its share of the  Big Ten ’s bowl revenue during the four-year
postseason ban, roughly $13 million, which will be donated to
charitable organizations dedicated to the protection of children.
The Nittany Lions also can’t participate in the Big Ten’s
championship game for four years.  Child-Abuse Conviction  The NCAA acted against the  State College , Pennsylvania-
based school less than two weeks after an investigation found
Paterno, who died of  lung cancer  in January, and other school
officials tried to cover up abuse allegations. The 68-year-old
Sandusky, a football assistant coach for 31 years, was convicted
last month on 45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of 10 boys
over a 15-year period starting in 1994.  In the fiscal year ending in 2011, Penn State’s athletic
department generated $116.1 million in operating revenue and
posted a $14.8 million operating profit, according to school
records.  Bill O’Brien, hired in January as the Nittany Lions’ coach,
said in a statement that he remains dedicated to the school and
program. Acting Athletic Director David Joyner said in a
statement that he agreed that the “culture at Penn State must
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  