-- Pertamina Buys Akpo, Sharara; CPC Takes Angolan Oil: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-07-26T10:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/pertamina-buys-akpo-sharara-cpc-takes-angolan-oil-asia-crude.html
Indonesia ’s PT Pertamina, the state-
owned  oil company , purchased almost 2 million barrels of low-
sulfur crude for October delivery in its latest tender.  The company bought a 950,000 barrel cargo of  Nigeria ’s Akpo
for October, said two people who participate in the market,
declining to be identified because the information is
confidential. Pertamina also bought a 950,000 barrel shipment of
 Libya ’s Es Sharara, one of the people said. The crude will be
sent to Pertamina’s refinery at Balikpapan, the people said.  CPC Corp., a Taiwan state-run oil company, bought 4 million
barrels of Angolan crude for loading in September via a tender,
according to four traders who participate in the market.  The company bought 3 million barrels of Cabinda and 1
million barrels of the Nemba grade, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the information is
confidential. CPC awarded the tender to Chevron Corp., Sonangol
Holdings and China International United Petroleum & Chemical Co.,
or Unipec, they said.  CPC decided not to award its latest tender for sour crude,
according to two people familiar with the decision.  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  sold about 600,000 barrels of Libya’s
Mellitah crude to Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd., a
unit of  India ’s biggest energy explorer, said two traders who
asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential. The cargo sold for a discount of 75 cents to $1 a
barrel to benchmark Brent oil.  Crude Tenders  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, issued a
second tender to buy crude for loading in September, a document
obtained by Bloomberg News showed. The tender closes today and
offers will be valid until tomorrow, according to the document.  OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil producer, issued a tender
to sell one 100,000 metric-ton cargo of East Siberia-Pacific
Ocean crude for loading Sept. 21 to Sept. 24, three traders who
participate in the market said. The tender closes tomorrow.  Pertamina is offering to sell 200,000 barrels of Grissik
Mix crude for loading Aug. 30 to Aug. 31, according to a tender
document obtained by Bloomberg News. The offer closes July 30.  The Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures the
European oil’s premium to the grade, fell 6 cents to $3.72 a
barrel for September, according to data from PVM Oil Associates
Ltd., a London-based broker. The October EFS lost 9 cents to
$3.17.  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when the price for near-term
deliveries is greater than later supplies, rose 2 cents. Swaps
for August were 63 cents a barrel more than October, according
to data from PVM.  Profits from refining a barrel of Dubai into fuels such as
diesel and gasoline priced in the regional oil-trading hub of
Singapore averaged $5.54 during the last five days, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day average is $3.43.  Oman oil for September delivery rose 39 cents to settle at
$101.26 a barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  No Dubai partials were sold today, according to a survey of
traders who monitor the Platts pricing window.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  