-- Phallic Symbols Meet Carpeted Pigs at Louvre: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-07-26T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/phallic-symbols-meet-carpeted-pigs-at-louvre-review.html
Would the  Mona Lisa  still smile if
she knew she was sharing her home with a man whose tattooed
back, to be peeled off after his death, was bought by an art
collector for 200,000 euros ($241,800)?  Tim Steiner, the owner of that precious skin, is one of the
items in an exhibition at the  Louvre  devoted to the Flemish
enfant terrible Wim Delvoye. In fact, Steiner displayed his body
only at the opening, long enough to be photographed for the
show’s catalog.  Delvoye, who was born in 1965 and works in Ghent,  Belgium ,
made his name with scatological provocations. At the Documenta
IX art exhibition in 1992, he surprised visitors with glazed
tiles featuring pictures of his own feces.  In 2000, he built “Cloaca,” a digestive machine inspired
by Chaplin’s film “Modern Times” that turned food into
excrement. The smelly output, neatly packaged in cute jars,
could be purchased by admirers of his art.  At the same time, Delvoye experimented with tattooing live
pigs. When he ran into trouble with the authorities, he moved
his “Art Farm” to  China  where animal -- and human -- rights
are less of a concern.  In the Louvre show, the pigs appear in a form that even
animal-rights activists can accept: They have morphed into
polyester molds sewn into Indian and Turkish carpets.  Mellow Provocation  Perhaps out of respect for the venerable Paris institution
or because he has mellowed, Delvoye has toned down his
provocative impulses.  At first, he wanted to top the Louvre’s glass pyramid,
which he hates, with a steel construction, a kind of medieval
belfry. When the curators protested, he settled for an 11-meter-
high phallic sculpture inside the pyramid named “Suppo” (for
suppository).  Looking closely at the piece, you discover distorted
elements of Gothic architecture, another source of Delvoye’s
exuberant imagination.  References to Gothic style also abound among the 30 or so
objects displayed in the apartments of Napoleon III, an odd
contrast to the pompous 19th-century furniture.  They include models of a chapel and a Gothic dump truck --
both made of laser-cut steel -- hand-carved car tires, a
taxidermied rabbit on slippers and a 5-meter-high stained-glass
window.  In the past, Delvoye peopled his church windows with
copulating skeletons and other sex scenes. A sharper eye than
mine may discover obscenities in this window; to me, it looks
innocent.  The exhibition, which is supported by Mercedes-Benz AG and
 Louis Vuitton , runs through Sept. 17. Information:
 http://www.louvre.fr   (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 