-- Philippine Peso Gains on Odds for Fed Stimulus; Bonds Decline
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-26T08:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/philippine-peso-gains-on-odds-for-fed-stimulus-bonds-unchanged.html
The Philippine peso rose from a
three-week low on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will take
further measures to boost the  U.S. economy , stoking appetite for
emerging-market assets.  The Philippine central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates 
for a third time this year to a record low of 3.75 percent from
4 percent, according to a statement in Manila today. The
decision was announced after the local  currency market  closed.
Data yesterday showing a drop in new home sales in America from
a two-year high supports the case for the Federal Reserve to
take further steps to stimulate growth, according to Sim Moh Siong of Bank of Singapore Ltd.  U.S. economic data are “supporting risk appetite,” said
currency strategist Sim. The Philippine central bank “is quite
vigilant about the peso’s strength given it’s been outperforming
Asian currencies,” he said.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 42.100 per dollar in  Manila ,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched 42.233
yesterday, the weakest level since June 29. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was unchanged at 6.5 percent.  The peso has appreciated 4 percent this year, the best
performance among  Asia ’s 11 most-active currencies, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The central bank’s decision to lower borrowing costs by a
quarter percentage point was predicted by four of 16 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Eleven forecast no change, while one
predicted a half-a-percentage-point cut.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut the rate it pays lenders
for overnight deposits twice this year, by a combined 0.5
percentage point to 4 percent, before leaving it unchanged in
April and June. Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in June from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in three months.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 increased three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
5.61 percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial
Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  