-- Pig Tissue Seen Fixing Injury That Sidelined Lin: Health
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-07-27T14:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/pig-tissue-seen-fixing-injury-that-sidelined-lin-health.html
A tiny tissue tear has gotten in the
way of the careers of former  New York  Knicks point guard Jeremy Lin and English Premier League soccer star  Michael Essien . The
same injury also routinely ruins the fun of millions of weekend
warriors. Now a new technology using pig tissue may save those
careers and undo the painful damage from torn meniscus in knees.  The removal of damaged meniscus tissue is the most common
orthopedic procedure in the U.S. and is a major cause of
osteoarthritis. While replacing damaged meniscus with donor
tissue helps reduce pain and restore normal range of motion, a
shortage of donors has limited the scope of such operations.
That may soon change.  Tissue Regenix Group Plc (TRX)  of York,  England ,
is developing a new product using material from pigs that holds
the hope of producing abundant quantities of tissue.  “A product that restores normal function of the meniscus
and prevents or delays development of arthritis would have huge
demand,” said Marc Galloway, an orthopedist in Cincinnati and a
spokesman for the  American Academy  of Orthopaedic Surgeons who
isn’t involved in Tissue Regenix’s research.  The menisci are made of C-shaped cartilage that serve as
 shock absorbers  for the knees. Currently, tears are treated
through surgical repairs with stitches, a fifth of which fail,
or partial removal of damaged portions. The market for these
procedures is about $3 billion, according to Peel Hunt LLP.  Cellular Material  Tissue Regenix’s  dCELL  technology involves taking animal
tissue and removing cellular material from it that would cause
humans to reject the implant. That allows doctors to use the
stripped tissue without anti-rejection drugs to replace worn out
or diseased body parts. Once implanted, the cellular scaffold is
repopulated with the patient’s own stem cells.  This decellularization technology may also potentially be
applied to  heart valves  and wound care. Tissue Regenix received
European approval in August 2010 for its first product, a
vascular patch, which replaces tissue removed during open-heart
surgery, and the company is in the process of obtaining U.S.
clearance.  Data from a pre-clinical trial for the meniscus application
will be released this year, with a trial in humans to start in
2013, Chief Executive Officer Antony Odell said in a phone
interview. The company may file for approval as early as 2014,
he said.  A recent  study at Yale University  showed that Tissue
Regenix’s dCELL scaffold in vascular patches led to much quicker
cell re-population after one week, compared with a limited
effect after one month for a competing product using cow tissue
from Synovis Life Technologies Inc., which was  acquired  by
 Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  in February.  Acute Healing  “This study shows that after the dCELL process, the
stripped tissue is so similar to human tissue that the body
accepts it more rapidly than conventional patches,” said  Alan
Dardik , an associate professor of surgery at Yale who led the
study published in the journal PLoS One in June. “It appears to
be a new breakthrough in acute healing,” added Dardik, who has
no financial interest in the company. “It might be a very
useful replacement in the meniscus area as well.”  Currently, no tissue engineering companies have
commercialized an orthopedic product, according to Paul Cuddon,
a London-based analyst at Peel Hunt LLP, Tissue Regenix’s
investment banker. “It’s a totally unique product in its
field,” he said.  The technique, if proven to work, could reduce demand for
knee replacements by reducing cases of severe arthritis. That
would threaten the growing $7 billion prosthetic knee industry,
prompting device makers such as  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  or  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  to consider acquiring Tissue Regenix as a hedge, said
Ingeborg Oie, a Jefferies International Inc. analyst in  London 
who follows medical device makers.  Better Technology  The company may also attract bidders or licensing
agreements for the technology’s other applications based on
pending clinical study results, Cuddon said. Given the growing
market for heart valves,  Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ,  Medtronic
Inc. (MDT) ,  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ)  and Johnson & Johnson may take an
interest, he said.  “They are all major heart-valve players that could do with
better decellularization technology,” he said.  Tissue Regenix issued shares in June 2010 at 5 pence each
after a reverse takeover of Oxeco. The shares traded at 9.13
pence as of 3:05 p.m. in London.  For weekend athletes with knee injuries, tissue transplant
procedures can’t arrive soon enough. Erin Hallock had four
stitches sewn into her meniscus to repair a tear after a fall
while skiing on icy slopes in Zermatt,  Switzerland  in March
2010. Two years later, Hallock, 35, is able to ski and cycle,
but she worries how long the repair work will last and one
important challenge remains completely out of her grasp: long-
distance running. “My doctor said, ‘You can’t run a marathon
anymore,’” she said.  Lin’s Surgery  For professional athletes, of course, the consequences of
such injuries can be even more devastating. A torn meniscus
forced Lin into surgery in April and has taken  Los Angeles
Clippers  forward  Blake Griffin  off the U.S. Olympic basketball
team. Essien, the Chelsea player, injured his anterior cruciate
ligament along with his meniscus last year, keeping him off the
field for six months.  While calcium build-up, which hardens the donor tissue, is
a drawback of decellularization technology developed by others,
Tissue Regenix has found an alternative solution. Instead of
using the disinfectant  glutaraldehyde  favored by competitors,
the company has chosen to use sodium dodecyl sulphate, an
approach that doesn’t lead to calcium build-up, Cuddon said.  FDA Timeline  The timeline for obtaining approval from the  Food and Drug
Administration  is unclear. The FDA requires more clinical
analysis for non-pharmaceutical medical devices than European
regulators. And tissue products like those derived from dCELL’s
scaffold are categorized as  medical devices  since they are
implanted and not metabolized by the body.  Erica Jefferson, a spokeswoman for the FDA, declined to
comment on the approval prospects for Tissue Regenix’s products.  Still, researchers remain hopeful. Given the acceptance of
porcine tissue by the medical community, especially in heart
valves, safety isn’t a concern, Yale’s Dardik said.  “It’s extremely similar to human tissue and is implanted
thousands of times every day across the world,” he said. “In
the future, there will probably be pig organ transplants. That’s
the holy grail of transplant surgery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  