-- Pluristem Wins NIH Backing for Radiation-Exposure Study
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2012-07-26T14:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/pluristem-wins-nih-backing-for-radiation-exposure-study.html
Pluristem Therapeutics Inc. (PSTI) , a
developer of placenta-based stem-cell therapies, will work with
a U.S. National Institutes of Health unit to evaluate the
company’s PLX cells for the treatment of  radiation exposure .  Pluristem rose to the highest price in 18 months after
saying the NIH’s allergy and infectious-disease division is
giving access to its laboratories for the research. Studies will
look at the treatment’s effectiveness in several versions of
acute radiation syndrome, Haifa, Israel-based Pluristem said
today in a  statement .  Pluristem  gained  3.2 percent to 14.45 shekels, the highest
level since January 2011, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.
That reversed a decline of as much as 5.4 percent before the
announcement.  ARS, which occurs after exposure to high doses of ionizing
radiation, can result in a number of illnesses, including damage
to bone marrow that can lead to a severe drop in red and white
blood cells and cause death, according to Pluristem. The
company’s PLX technology derives cells from placental material,
releasing growth factors that promote blood flow, wound healing
and artery and vein development.  “The company needed the backing of a government body to
carry on with their evaluation of the potential to treat
radiation and that’s exactly what they did,” said Sabina Podval, an analyst at Leader & Co. Investment House Ltd. in
 Tel Aviv . “Now they have crucial access to the financing of
large trials and access to a large quantity of patients exposed
to radiation.”  Pluristem shares have  advanced  for seven consecutive days,
the longest streak since January 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  