-- Polish Retail-Sales Growth Unexpectedly Slowed in June
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-26T11:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/polish-june-retail-sales-accelerate-less-than-expected.html
Polish  retail-sales  growth
unexpectedly decelerated in June on limited hiring and pay
concerns, suggesting the slowdown of the European Union’s
largest eastern economy has worsened.  Sales advanced 6.4 percent from a year earlier, compared
with a 7.7 percent increase in May, the Warsaw-based  Central
Statistical Office  said today. The median estimate of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 9 percent. Sales rose 0.2
percent from the previous month.  “The current labor-market situation, with a moderate
increase in wages and a gradual decrease in employment in the
corporate sector, doesn’t support higher  consumer spending ,”
 Maciej Reluga , chief economist at Bank Zachodni WBK in Warsaw,
said in a note after the report. “Consequently, a further
weakening of consumption demand may be expected in the following
quarters.”  With the debt crisis intensifying in the euro area, where
 Poland  sells more than half its exports, Polish employers are
losing confidence in their prospects and limiting hiring. Job
growth at companies with more than nine workers rose 0.1 percent
from a year earlier in June, the least since April two years
ago. Industrial-output growth also missed the forecast, rising
1.2 percent, compared with May’s 4.6 percent increase.  Zloty, Bonds  Three-month forward rate agreements, used to speculate on
official borrowing costs, dropped 10 basis points in the last
two days to 32 points, heading for a new low after falling to 26
points last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The zloty
traded at 4.1817 per euro at 11:40 a.m. in Warsaw, little
changed from yesterday. The government’s two-year yield fell 6
basis points to 4.27 percent.  “The market interpreted the retail-sales figures as an
argument in favor of interest-rate cuts.” Reluga said. “June’s
data from the real economy should moderate the Monetary Policy
Council’s stance and trigger its transition to a neutral bias.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski is keeping  interest rates  at the
highest level since 2009 for a second year, diverging from
central banks worldwide as they undertake the broadest reduction
in borrowing costs in three years to avert a global slump
stemming from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis. Poland raised its
main rate by a quarter-point to 4.75 percent in May.  Jobs, Consumption  A weakening job market may sap household confidence and
income already hit by inflation of about 4 percent for a second
year. Individual consumption, which accounts for about 60
percent of the economy, will slow to 2.9 percent this year and
to 2.1 percent in 2013, the central bank said July 9.  The bank forecasts the economy will expand 2.9 percent this
year, compared with 4.3 percent last year. Still, growth is
slowing faster than the bank’s latest projections and will
“certainly” be less than its forecast, policy maker Andrzej Bratkowski told the central bank-operated obserwatorfinansowy.pl
website last week.  “I see no reason not to submit a cut motion in
September,” Bratkowski said in a July 24 interview with the
Rzeczpospolita newspaper. Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, another MPC
member, told reporters yesterday she would support a quarter-
point rate cut.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  