-- Porsche $190,000 911 Is Last of Breed, Barely Road Legal
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/porsche-190-000-911-is-last-of-breed-barely-road-legal.html
Stroll through any  Porsche (PAH3) 
dealership and you’ll experience lust and sticker shock. All
those gorgeous new 911 Carreras, from shiny S models to enticing
convertibles, tugging at your heartstrings and wallet.  What you won’t find in those showrooms is the purest and
baddest 911 of all, the $190,000  GT3 RS 4.0 . Five-hundred
horsepower from a naturally breathing 4.0-liter six-cylinder
engine, it is a lean racing machine. It’s street legal, but only
just.  This special, limited-production 911 belongs to the
previous generation known as Type 997. Porsche has since moved
on to a wider, longer foundation, the 991.  The company is slowly rolling out the new generation 911s
on that platform and we’ll likely see the all-new  911 Turbo  as a
2014 model.  However it’ll be a long, long time before we get a new
version of the GT3 RS 4.0. And it’s unlikely that the GT3 model
will come with a manual transmission.  So the GT3 RS 4.0 is not only the last of its generation,
it is the last of its breed. Only 600 were made.  Over four very lucky days, I got my hands and gas-pedal
foot on an all-white model in  Los Angeles . As tested, its price
was $204,950. That’s a heap of money for a 911. Not long after
my drive, it was sent to a dealership in  Dallas  and has been
sold. I’m still mourning its passing.  Why the fuss?  Driven Lawyer  Example: I arrived at a  business park  just outside the city
limits to give a ride to an entertainment-lawyer friend. A
stately fellow in his fifties, he is chauffeured to work every
day in his Bentley and is somewhat indifferent to cars.  He took a look at the broad rear wing -- big enough to fit
on a small aircraft -- and suddenly looked apprehensive. “I’ve
never been in a car like this,” he said as he buckled up.  The car’s front end is exceedingly low, so I took care
pulling out of the parking lot. I straightened the steering
wheel and dropped my foot. The rear wheels hooked up and the
resulting force was like taking a Muhammad Ali jab to the solar
plexus.  The 4.0-liter engine is the same one found in Porsche  GT3
RSR  race cars, with dry-sump lubrication and titanium connecting
rods. A serious piece of machinery. Its raw sound filled the
cabin, loud.  Screaming Stop  In second gear, we were at the speed limit, reaching 60
miles per hour in less than four seconds. Third gear and I
slammed on the brakes -- it was like deploying a parachute. The
911 came to a shuddering, screaming, dead stop.  The whole experience lasted less than ten seconds. My
companion’s face had turned a peculiar shade of red. Stoplight
red. “That’s enough,” he managed. We turned around and headed
back.  I hope I didn’t lose a friend.  The GT3 RS 4.0 belongs on a racetrack. The majority of GT3
owners do in fact take their rides to the racecourse, according
to Porsche. Confining the thoroughbred to regular roads is like
restricting  Michael Phelps  to the kiddy pool.  Sadly, I had no track available to me in L.A. Nonetheless,
driving in the famously car-centric town was good fun, even in
traffic.  Porsches are so common in Los Angeles that nobody takes
much notice. All 911s look basically the same. The latest,
seventh generation is clearly the same vehicle that launched in
the 1960s. It takes special knowledge to distinguish between the
20-something variations consumers can currently buy.  Lone Wolf  The GT3 RS 4.0 is clearly special. There’s that rear wing
and a side logo. More than that, though, it looks whittled down
and purposeful. Curb weight is just under 3,000 pounds. The
Porsche hood ornament is a sticker rather than a medal piece --
to save weight. It’s a wolf in wolf’s clothing.  Locals snapped pictures. Valets became animated. I blithely
drove to a press preview of a new electric vehicle. Auto
journalists gathered around the GT3, temporarily ignoring the
vehicle they’d come to see.  But the proof of excellence lies in the car’s perfectly-
powered, beautifully-weighted drive.  An L.A.-based friend had long been telling me about his
favorite canyon road, a one-way from the top of the mountains to
the Pacific. Upon seeing the GT3 he offered a deal: He’d give up
the location for a ride-along. Done.  Downhill Racer  After a labyrinthine drive along ridge roads, we turned
down a narrow asphalt route which scoots right off the mountain
and corkscrews downhill, broken up by hairpins and short
straightaways. There was little in the way of a shoulder, and no
homes or driveways. As a one-way, I could use the entire road.  Oh, those next few minutes. Less about speed and more about
the gorgeous rhythm through the turns. The steering spoke to me,
the short accelerations were explosive, the braking power
boggled.  At the bottom of the road, I shut off the engine and just
sat, alternately reveling and mourning. Hail to the GT3 RS 4.0,
the last of its kind.  The Porsche 911 GT3 RS 4.0 at a Glance  Engine: 4.0-liter six-cylinder with 500 horsepower and 339  pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 3.8 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 13 city, 19 highway.  Price as tested: $204,950.  Best features: Purity and performance.  Worst features: Rarity and eye-watering price.  Target buyer: The Porsche lover who wants to own a piece of  history.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Lance Esplund on  art  and  Jim
Pressley ’s book review.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 