-- Portugal’s Luz.On Seeks to Export Solar Energy to Germany
-- B y   J o s e p h i n e   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-07-26T18:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/portuguese-plan-to-export-sunshine-to-germany-as-austerity-bites.html
EDP-Energias de  Portugal  SA’s former
head of finance plans to avoid austerity-driven cuts in support
for solar projects in the country by exporting power to  Germany .  Rui Horta e Costa, the founder of solar company Luz.On and
past chief financial officer of Portugal’s largest utility, is
seeking to develop parks delivering power to northern European
countries that still pay preferential tariffs for renewables.  “What I’m interested in is not in supplying renewable
energy to Portugal,” Horta e Costa said in a phone interview.
Northern nations such as Germany “are still incentivizing the
use of renewable energy with significant tariffs,” he said.  Portugal, which with  Spain  has the most sunshine in  Europe ,
halted licensing of new renewable developments in January after
pressure from Europe amid the euro-region crisis. Germany still
offers feed-in tariffs and the 2009 European Union Renewables
Directive allows countries to count imports in its targets for
boosting clean energy use, Horta e Costa said.  “Europe is very dependent on oil, which it doesn’t
produce,” he said. “It’s an uncomfortable position to be in
when you think that in energy terms we are very vulnerable to
what happens in other places outside Europe.”  Obstacles to the Luz.On’s plan include the variations in
nations’ energy-export laws, even as the European Commission’s
renewables road map said it planned to “liberalize the internal
 electricity market ” to spur investment and help meet targets.  “You need to make sure that the European market allows
energy to circulate freely,” Horta e Costa said, adding the
region needs to link national grids through a new regulator.  “We would be able to create not only a cluster of energy
producing facilities in Portugal but also the equipment supply
for those,” he said. “That means the creation of jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josephine Forster in London at 
 jforster13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  