-- Potash Forecast Misses Estimates as Output Seen Declining
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-07-26T20:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/potash-forecast-misses-estimates-as-output-seen-declining.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer, forecast lower-than-
expected third-quarter profit as scheduled maintenance reduces
output and raises costs.  Earnings will be 70 cents to 90 cents a share, the
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company said today in a statement.
The average of 22 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
95 cents.  “With our potash production expected to decline in the
third quarter as a result of significant scheduled maintenance
and capital downtime, we anticipate a higher per-tonne cost of
goods sold compared to the second quarter,” Potash Corp. said.  The company, which said it increased potash stockpiles
ahead of the planned temporary shutdowns, expects record
shipments in  North America  in the second half of the year.
Drought in some parts of the U.S. has kept dealers from
committing too far ahead of orders, it said.  The shutdowns are for routine maintenance and the tie-in of
expanded production capacity at the Allan potash mine in
Saskatchewan,  Bill Johnson , a spokesman, said today in a phone
interview.  Potash, a form of potassium used to strengthen roots and
help plants resist drought, represented 46 percent of the
company’s 2011  revenue . Phosphate and nitrogen fertilizers
accounted for the rest.  Potash Corp. rose 0.6 percent to C$45.54 in Toronto. The
shares have risen 8.2 percent this year.  Falling Income  Second-quarter net income fell 38 percent to $522 million,
or 60 cents a share, from $840 million, or 96 cents, a year
earlier. Profit excluding one-time items was $1.01 a share, a
penny less the $1.02 average of 24  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales rose to $2.4 billion from $2.33 billion,
exceeding the $2.38 billion average of 15 estimates.  Potash Corp. forecast full-year profit of $2.80 to $3.20 a
share.  The company’s total potash sales in the first six months
were 3.9 million metric tons, less than the record 5.3 million
metric tons sold a year earlier, “largely because of buyer
destocking during the first quarter of this year,” Potash Corp.
said.  “As with any basic materials customers, they will try to
time their purchases for a lower price,” Jason Miner, a
Princeton, New Jersey-based chemicals analyst at Bloomberg
Industries, said by phone before the results were released.  Global Demand  Potash Corp. sees global potash demand at 53 million to 56
million metric tons this year, unchanged from its previous
forecast.  “Our expectation of weaker Indian demand is likely to
result in totals at the lower end of this range,” the company
said.  Completion of an expansion of the company’s potash
production facilities in  New Brunswick  will cost an additional
C$500 million ($496 million), raising the total cost of the
project to C$2.2 billion, according to the statement.  “The adjusted cost estimate reflects our expectations for
remaining work at New Brunswick and does not impact our
estimates for other projects,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  