-- Prologis May Sell About $800 Million of U.S. Properties
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-07-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/prologis-may-sell-about-800-million-of-u-s-properties.html
Prologis Inc. (PLD) , the world’s largest
warehouse owner, may sell about $800 million of U.S. properties
by the end of 2012 amid growing investor demand for industrial
buildings, Co-Chief Executive Officer Hamid Moghadam said.  “It’s more of a seller’s market than a buyer’s market in
the U.S.,” Moghadam said in a telephone interview. “We’re just
pushing the timetable.”  Prologis this year has already disposed of about $470
million of property in the Americas that it either owns or is in
funds it manages, the San Francisco-based company said yesterday
when it reported second-quarter results. The $800 million in
planned sales would be in addition to those transactions,
Moghadam said. Prologis is selling properties in smaller markets
and areas less important to global trade.  Investment funds have been active buyers of industrial real
estate this year.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , based in  New York , last
month reached an agreement for control of Walton Street Capital
LLC assets valued at about $2.1 billion, one day before $2.45
billion of debt on the industrial properties was due.  “The stuff that we’re selling is clearly not in the best
markets, and within the better markets it’s certainly not the
best assets,” Moghadam said. “We’re not selling anything that
we weren’t going to sell anyway.”  Prologis reported that second-quarter core funds from
operations rose to $201.3 million, or 43 cents a share, from
$109.7 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier. The metric excludes
items including gains and losses on real estate transactions.
Prologis and AMB Property Corp. combined a year ago in the
biggest merger of U.S. real estate investment trusts.  Prologis rose 1.8 percent to $32.25 yesterday in New York
trading. The shares have gained almost 13 percent this year,
matching the increase in the Bloomberg REIT  Index. (BBREIT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  