-- PulteGroup Gains Most in 3 Years After Beating Estimates
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-07-26T20:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/pultegroup-profit-tops-estimates-on-cost-cuts-sales-gain.html
PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, rose the most since 2008 after reporting
a better-than-estimated profit and 32 percent jump in orders for
the second quarter.  Net income was $42.4 million, or 11 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $55.4 million, or 15 cents, a year earlier, the
 Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based company said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg
 survey  was for earnings of 6 cents a share.  U.S. homebuilders are becoming more profitable as record-
low  mortgage rates  and stabilizing  prices  lure buyers to new
houses. PulteGroup, which had losses in six of the last eight
quarters, has been focusing on reducing expenses after the
acquisition of Centex Corp. in August 2009, and selling out of
older, less profitable communities.  The company had “an exceptional quarter,” Stephen East,
an analyst with International Strategy & Investment Group LLC,
wrote in a note today. It “has turned the corner and is
accelerating, we expect its equity to outperform as well.”  PulteGroup jumped 18 percent to $11.86 in New York trading,
the biggest increase since November 2008. It was the best
performer in the 11-member  Standard & Poor’s  1500
homebuilder index, which advanced 6.4 percent.  Order Growth  PulteGroup’s second-quarter orders increased to 5,578
homes, with 7 percent fewer communities. Backlog, an indication
of future sales, climbed 31 percent to 7,560 homes.  Revenue from home sales rose 14 percent to $1.02 billion,
driven by an 8 percent increase in the average selling price to
$268,000. Home closings climbed 5 percent. The adjusted gross
margin on home sales, a measure of profitability, increased to
20.3 percent from 17.1 percent a year earlier.  “This is the best financial performance in years, and
we’re doing a few high fives,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Richard J. Dugas said during a conference call with
analysts today.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. this week reiterated its buy
 rating  on PulteGroup and raised the homebuilding industry to
attractive from neutral, saying the market is poised for a
“strong” recovery. Builders broke ground on 760,000 houses
last month at an annual pace, up 6.9 percent from May and the
fastest rate in almost four years, the Commerce Department
reported last week.  Michigan, Chicago  PulteGroup is seeing improvements in markets across the
country, Dugas said. The Southwest is the top region and
 Michigan  is an “amazing story” because of the renewed  auto
industry , he said. While Chicago continues to “struggle,” it
seems to have bottomed, he said.  A broad recovery remains uneven. Sales of new U.S. homes
unexpectedly dropped in June from a two-year high. Purchases
decreased 8.4 percent from the prior month to a 350,000 annual
rate, the weakest since January, the Commerce Department said
yesterday. Contracts to buy existing homes fell 1.4 percent in
June, the National Association of Realtors said today.  Low  inventory  may be limiting home sales. There were
144,000 newly constructed houses on the market in June, little
changed from a record low of 143,000 in May, according to the
Commerce Department.  “Along with low  interest rates , higher rental lease costs
and several years of pent-up demand, we believe that the most
significant driver of the industry’s success in 2012 is the low
level of home inventory available to prospective buyers,” Dugas
said during the call. “Consumers do not have a lot of choices,
as many of the newer existing homes are often in the wrong
location while older homes are not always in great condition.”  PulteGroup is limiting sales in some markets where demand
is becoming “overheated,” Dugas said.  “Such actions are not widespread, but it is a dramatic
change from just a year ago,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  