-- Puma Confirms 2015 Sales Aim as Focus Shifts to Emerging Markets
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-07-26T10:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/puma-confirms-2015-sales-aim-as-focus-shifts-to-emerging-markets.html
Puma SE (PUM) , the sporting-goods maker
that cut its 2012 sales and profit forecasts last week, repeated
it will meet its 2015 revenue target, calling the goal
“ambitious but achievable,” as it opens stores in  emerging
markets  and closes outlets in Europe and  North America .  Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker is aiming for
revenue of 4 billion euros ($4.9 billion) by 2015, a target it
set in 2010. The company, based in Herzogenaurach, Germany,
today reported a 29 percent drop in second-quarter net income to
26.7 million euros after business slowed in Europe.  Puma is preparing for Europe to be in the doldrums “until
at least 2013,” General Manager Finance Michael Laemmermann
said today on a conference call.  Spain , which together with
Germany reported an increase in sales in the second-quarter, is
expected to continue its “good performance” he said. Puma sees
continued growth in  China , where sales rose at least 10 percent.  The shares rose as much as 6.1 percent in Frankfurt
trading, the  biggest intraday gain  since Feb. 17.  Puma is streamlining its European operations as consumers
cut back in the wake of the region’s financial crisis. The maker
of 100-euro Usain Bolt  running shoes  today reiterated a forecast
of “mid-single digit” percentage growth in full-year sales,
after last week cutting the forecast from “high single-digit.”  The manufacturer will accelerate a reorganization program,
which is intended to “reduce complexity” and will result in as
much as 100 million euros in one-time costs, Puma said. Over the
next two years, cost savings from the reorganization will
probably equal this one-time cost, Chief Executive Officer Franz Koch said on the conference call.  Puma will combine national units into seven regional
groupings in Europe to share back-office functions, it said. The
program will eventually be expanded  worldwide .  The company, as well as larger competitors  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and
 Adidas AG (ADS) , stand to benefit from major sports events taking
place this year such as the European soccer championships in
Poland and Ukraine and the London Olympics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  