-- Qantas Rises on Emirates Alliance Report: Sydney Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-07-26T03:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/qantas-rises-on-emirates-alliance-report-sydney-mover.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , working to end
losses on overseas routes, rose the most in six weeks in Sydney
trading after the Australian Financial Review said the carrier
was close to forming a long-haul alliance with Emirates Airline.  Australia ’s  biggest carrier  climbed 9.6 percent to A$1.085
as of 1:41 p.m. local time, headed for the largest gain since
June 12. Bond risk fell the most since October.  Under the plan, Sydney-based Qantas would route European
traffic through Emirates’ hub in Dubai, giving passengers a
greater range of connections, the Financial Review reported
today, without giving a source for the information. The
Australian carrier has lost market share on Europe routes to
Middle East airlines because it only offers one-stop services to
five cities on the continent.  “If this is a reality, it’s brilliant for Qantas,” said
Tony Webber, managing director of Webber Quantitative Consulting
Pty. and a former Qantas chief economist. “There’s lots of
Aussies who want to go to other parts of  Europe  than the ones
that are served by Qantas, and people from all over Europe want
to come to Australia.”  Qantas and Emirates are in late-stage talks about the plan,
according to the report. As part of the arrangement, Qantas
would shift some long-haul flights to Dubai from  Singapore  and
halt services to  Frankfurt . That would leave  London  as the only
European city served by planes in Qantas livery.  Qantas is in talks with Emirates among other airlines on
possible alliances, it said in a statement to the Australian
stock exchange. “Strengthening alliance partnerships is one of
the four pillars of the Qantas Group’s five-year strategy.”  Commercial Arrangement  Emirates was examining a “commercial arrangement” with
Qantas, President  Tim Clark  said in a June 11 interview with
Bloomberg Television. The carrier has no plans to buy a stake in
the Australian carrier, he said. Qantas Chief Executive Officer
Alan Joyce also said in May that talks were under way.  Credit-default swaps that insure Qantas debt fell 25 basis
points to 420 basis points as of 10:17 a.m. in Sydney, according
to Deutsche Bank AG. The swaps are set for the biggest daily
decline since Oct. 17, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  Separately,  Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  is also
interested in reviving talks with Qantas on international
cooperation, the Edge Financial Daily said today, citing Germal
Singh, its senior vice president for international affairs.
Malaysian Air Chairman Md Nor Yusof said he couldn’t immediately
comment when called by Bloomberg News. Malaysian Air and Qantas
broke off talks on a partnership in March.  Qantas has forecast that  losses  on international routes
likely more than doubled to A$450 million ($464 million) in the
12 months ended June because of higher fuel costs and market
share losses. The airline also predicted its first net loss
since listing.  Virgin-Etihad  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  has increased competition
for Qantas on Europe routes through a tie-up with part-owner
Etihad Airways PJSC. The deal lets Virgin sell tickets to about
30 European destinations, with only one stop in  Abu Dhabi ,
Dubai’s neighboring emirate.  Qantas could potentially add more than 40 one-stop
destinations through an Emirates deal, based on route maps on
the airlines’ websites. British Airways is the carrier’s main
European partner at present.  The airline could also save as much as A$600 million of
 capital spending  over the next five to six years by dropping the
Frankfurt route and tying up with Emirates,  Russell Shaw , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney, said by phone. The
main saving would be avoiding the need to replace three Boeing
Co. 747 aircraft, he said.  “There’s also an opportunity for Qantas to win a little
bit of market share back,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  