-- Raytheon Raises 2012 Forecast After 10% Profit Increase
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-07-26T20:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/raytheon-raises-2012-forecast-after-10-profit-increase.html
Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the world’s largest
missile maker, raised its full-year profit forecast after
second-quarter net income increased 9.8 percent.  Profit from continuing operations will be $5.15 to $5.30 a
share compared with an earlier forecast of $5 to $5.15 a share
made in April, the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company said
today in a statement.  Net income from continuing operations increased in the
quarter to $472 million, or $1.41 a share, compared with $430
million, or $1.20 a share, a year earlier, Raytheon said.
Excluding certain items, profit was $1.55 a share, exceeding the
$1.22-a-share  average estimate  of 21 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales declined 3.4 percent to $5.99 billion.  Raytheon fell 52 cents to $54.56 at the close in  New York 
trading and has gained 13 percent this year.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bill Swanson is
counting on the company’s variety of products and services as
well as international business to weather U.S. defense spending
cuts that may reach $1 trillion over the next decade.  Foreign orders may contribute as much as 30 percent of
Raytheon’s bookings this year, up from 25 percent at the end of
the first quarter, Chief Financial Officer Dave Wajsgras said
today in a phone interview.  The Pentagon plans to cut about $490 billion from planned
spending over a decade, and an additional $500 billion in
automatic defense cuts known as sequestration will go into
effect starting in January unless lawmakers and the White House
agree on an alternative deficit-reduction plan.  No Panic  Unlike other defense contractors such as  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  whose executives have said the
budget cuts would lead to employees being fired and profit and
 cash flow  being squeezed, Raytheon is flexible enough to operate
under such budget cuts, Wajsgras .  “We are not in a panic mode,” Wajsgras said. “We’ve been
managing the company from a cost efficiency standpoint for a
number of years. I’m quite comfortable with how we’ll perform in
the future.”  By later this year or early next year, Raytheon expects
orders for missile defense systems, precision missiles, command
control and communications systems and air-traffic control radar
from countries in the Middle East, Swanson said today on a
conference call with analysts. He cited  Turkey ,  Kuwait , Oman,
 Saudi Arabia  and the United Arab Emirates as among the potential
customers.  U.S. Leaving  With U.S. forces out of  Iraq  and planning to pull out of
 Afghanistan , nations in the region realize they “have to do
more, and they’re thinking about it and have to take action
seriously” by building up their weapons inventories, Swanson
said.  Raytheon’s second-quarter results were aided by higher
sales and profit in its space and airborne systems unit.
Operating income at four of five units increased during the
quarter, according to the company.  Sales at the network-centric systems unit fell 15 percent
and profit declined 28 percent because of weak orders from the
U.S. Army and a lower volume of orders overall, the company
said. Demand for Army sensors and communication equipment “has
not been at the same demand level as in the past,” Wajsgras
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  