-- RBS Wins Dismissal of Mill Financial Claim
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-26T16:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/rbs-wins-dismissal-of-mill-financial-claim.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  won
the dismissal of a breach-of-contract claim in a lawsuit brought
by a lender over a $70 million personal loan to former Liverpool
soccer club owner  George Gillett .  Mill Financial sued Gillett in November 2010 in  New York 
state court over the loan, seeking $117 million in principal,
fees and legal expenses. The Springfield, Virginia-based lender
added Edinburgh-based RBS to the suit last year.  Liverpool’s banks forced a sale of the club to Boston Red
Sox owner John W. Henry’s New England Sports Ventures -- now
known as Fenway Sports Group -- for 300 million pounds
($471 million) in October 2010 after Gillett and Liverpool
co-owner  Tom Hicks  failed to pay back debt.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten in an
order dated yesterday granted a motion by RBS to dismiss the
breach of contract claim, while denying a motion to throw out a
second claim for breach of implied of covenant of good faith and
fair dealing.  Mill Financial seeks “purely consequential” damages in
the suit based on the theory that it lost its ability to profit
from related transactions, a legal remedy that was barred from a
contract between Mill Financial, RBS and Wachovia Bank, Bransten
wrote.  ‘General Damages’  “Plaintiffs have not alleged that they sustained general
damages as a result of RBS’ breach of the Tri-Party Agreement,
nor have they provided any affidavit in support of this
contention,” Bransten said. “Plaintiffs allege only
consequential damages that stem from their preclusion from
either refinancing the club’s debt to RBS or buying the club
outright.”  Bransten gave the plaintiffs 30 days to refile the claim to
include damages that aren’t prohibited by the agreement.  Ed Canaday , a spokesman for Royal Bank of  Scotland ,
declined to comment on the ruling in a telephone interview. Tad
O’Connor, an attorney with Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP
who is representing Mill Financial, declined to comment
immediately.  The case is Mill Financial LLC v. Gillett, 10-652055, New
York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan  (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 