-- Treasury's Miller Says Markets Will Innovate on Libor
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-26T19:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/treasury-s-miller-says-markets-will-innovate-on-libor.html
The U.S. Treasury Department’s top
domestic finance official said she expects markets to
“innovate” in response to concerns about the London interbank
offered rate.  “There are other alternatives that are being developed and
used in markets, and I think we’ll have robust debates about
survey-based, transaction-based references,”  Mary Miller , the
Treasury’s undersecretary for domestic finance, said at a
conference in  Washington  today. “Probably you’ll see a
regulatory response, and that’s under way and will play out this
fall. But I also think the markets are going to innovate around
this.”  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for securities worldwide,
was hurt by Barclays Plc’s admission that it submitted false
rates. A probe by U.K. and U.S. authorities cost the London-
based bank a record 290 million-pound ($449 million) fine and
led to the ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond .  Miller also said the Volcker rule ban on proprietary
trading is “still very much a work in progress” and there is
widespread demand for “a simpler rule, one that is workable for
the regulators, workable for the industry.”  The Volcker rule, part of the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul
law, is intended to limit activities that put customers’
federally insured deposits at risk. Regulators have said they
hope to finish the rule by the end of the year and have given
banks until July 2014 to implement it as long as they make a
good-faith effort to comply.  Miller also reiterated the Treasury’s view that the U.S.
will reach the $16.4 trillion federal debt ceiling in the fourth
quarter of this year and can use “extraordinary measures” so
that Congress doesn’t have to raise the limit until 2013. The
measures Treasury can take include suspending the sale of bonds
to finance state and local infrastructure projects.  Miller was speaking at a conference held by Deloitte LLP,
the Bretton Woods Committee and the University of  Maryland ’s
business school.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  