-- Treasuries Fall as Draghi Pledge to Save Euro Curbs Haven Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-26T21:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/treasuries-fall-on-draghi-comments-as-u-s-sells-7-year-notes.html
Treasuries fell after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the ECB was ready to do
whatever it takes to preserve the euro, damping demand for the
safest assets.  Longer maturities led losses as the yield at a $29 billion
auction of seven-year Treasuries exceeded forecasts in the final
of three note sales this week totaling $99 billion. The yields
on Spanish debt dropped after climbing to euro-era records this
week amid concern its banks’ and region’s debts will force it to
seek a bailout.  “There is some hope that positive steps are being taken,”
said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at BNP
Paribas SA, one of 21 primary dealers obligated to bid in
Treasury auctions. “The general rallying trend in Treasuries is
still in place. Any selloffs should be met with pretty swift
buying.”  The  yield  on the benchmark 10-year note rose four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.44 percent at 5 p.m. in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The 1.75
percent note maturing in May 2022 fell 3/8, or $3.75 per $1,000
face amount, to 102 27/32. The yield dropped to a record 1.379
percent yesterday.  The yield on the current  seven-year note  rose four basis
points to 0.94 percent.  Today’s record low auction yield of 0.954 percent compared
with a forecast of 0.948 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
10 of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary dealers. The previous
auction low yield was 1.075 percent in June.  Volume, Volatility  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $222
billion, trading below the $240 billion average this year.  Volatility was little changed at 62.6 basis points, close
to the lowest since May 10, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s MOVE index. It dropped to a five-year low of 56.7 basis
points on May 7, and has averaged 75.2 basis points this year,
touching a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15. It reached
a record high of 264.6 basis points in October 2008 as the
financial crisis intensified. The index measures price swings
based on options.  The euro jumped against the dollar by the most in almost a
month, climbing as much as 1.4 percent, after Draghi’s comments
earlier.  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said during a speech in
 London  today. “And believe me, it will be enough.”  ‘Firm Action’  Draghi’s comments came as Spanish policy makers called on
the ECB to do more to fight a renewed bout of financial turmoil
that pushed the yields on the country’s bonds to the highest
level in the euro era this week. Yields on the Spanish
government’s 10-year bonds declined to 6.93 percent today after
climbing to a euro-era record of 7.75 percent yesterday.  “We’re waiting to see some real concrete measures from the
ECB,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government and agency debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors. “We
need firm action. It’s a buy-the-dip opportunity on
Treasuries.”  At today’s auction, the bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing total bids with the amount of securities
offered, was 2.64, compared with an average of 2.83 for the
previous 10 sales.  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 46.3 percent of the notes, the most
since August, compared with an average of 39.7 percent for the
past 10 sales.  ‘Ongoing Demand’  “That’s consistent with ongoing demand triggered by
lowered growth estimates for the balance of the year, both
domestic and overseas,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
There’s also “the general level of uncertainty triggered by the
broader European sovereign-credit issues.”  Direct bidders , non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 7.1 percent of
the notes, compared with an average of 14.1 percent at the last
10 auctions.  Seven-year notes have returned 4.5 percent this year,
compared with a 3.2 percent gain by Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The seven-
year securities returned 13.7 percent in 2011, while Treasuries
overall gained 9.8 percent.  The government sold $35 billion of two-year notes on July
24 at a record low yield of 0.22 percent and the same amount of
five-year notes yesterday at a yield of 0.584 percent, also a
record.  GDP, FOMC  A report tomorrow is forecast to show the  U.S. economy 
probably expanded in the second quarter at the slowest pace in a
year. Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services the nation produced, rose at a 1.4 percent annual rate
after a 1.9 percent gain in the prior quarter, according to the
median forecast of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  next meets on July 31 and
Aug. 1. While policy makers refrained from introducing a third
round of asset purchases at their meeting last month, Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated in two days of testimony in
 Washington  ending July 18 that it’s an option. The benchmark
rate has been in a range between zero and 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  ‘Less Effective’  “The Fed will extend its forward guidance to ‘at least
through late-2015’ on Aug. 1, rather than through ‘mid-2015,’’
 Ethan Harris , co-head of global economics research, and  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy at Bank of America Corp. in
New York, wrote in a note to clients today.  The primary dealer also expects the Fed to announce on
Sept. 13 a $600 billion program to purchase Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities, through another quantitative easing
program, dubbed QE3, up from a previous forecast of $500
billion, they wrote.  About 65 percent of QE3 is priced in, much lower than
before QE2 was announced, they wrote, noting that QE3 will be
‘‘much less effective’’ than the first two QE programs, both in
terms of boosting risky assets and stimulating the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  