-- Three Slovenian Banks Downgraded as Bad Debt Boosts Capital Need
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-26T12:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/three-slovenian-banks-downgraded-as-bad-debt-boosts-capital-need.html
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
three Slovenian banks today as their bad debt portfolios signal
a need to futher boost capital of the three lenders.  The agency downgraded Nova Ljubljanska banka’s deposit
ratings to B2, from Ba2, and standalone credit assessment to
caa1, from b2.  Nova Kreditna banka Maribor  had its deposit
ratings downgraded to B3, from Ba2, and standalone credit
assessment to caa1, from b1. Deposit ratings for  Abanka Vipa (ABKN) 
were downgraded to Caa1, from Ba3, and standalone credit
assessment to caa2, from b2, it said in a statement.  All three banks, with negative outlook, face “rapid
problem loan formation and the erosion of their risk-absorption
capacity.”  Slovenian banks are relying on funding from the  European
Central Bank  after surging bad loans and higher borrowing costs
limited their access to wholesale funding. Slovenia had to
provide a 381 million-euro ($469 million) capital increase for
Ljubljana-based NLB after the second-biggest investor in the
bank,  Belgium ’s  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , failed to win European Commission
approval to participate in the effort.  “Overall, the downgrades reflect the significantly
increased pressure on the banks’ capital adequacy, which is
driven by on-going and severe asset-quality deterioration,”
Moody’s said. NLB and Abanka announced in the second quarter
they would recapitalise, providing “temporary relief only and
the amounts raised, in Moody’s opinion, do not provide these two
banks with a sustainable financial position to absorb future
losses.”  The capital position of NKBM, the second largest bank, also
deteriorated in the first half of 2012 and the plan to replenish
capital “via asset sales remains challenging in the current
market,” said Moody’s.  Slovenia’s fragile banking industry is under strain as the
second recession in three years pushes more and more companies
into bankruptcy and forcing lenders to set aside record loan-
loss reserves.  Finance Minister Janez Sustersic has said the euro-region
country isn’t considering a bailout for its banks. Still, the
country plans to transfer non-performing loans from some of the
biggest banks to a state-owned wealth fund to help spur lending
to the economy, he said on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  