-- Reed Elsevier CEO Engstrom Says Breakup Is Not on Board Agenda
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-07-26T09:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/reed-elsevier-first-half-profit-rises-on-events-exhibitions.html
Reed Elsevier  Plc’s chief executive
officer said that the owner of the LexisNexis database doesn’t
plan to break up its business, after analysts said such a move
would increase value.  “I spent a lot of time in the past two months meeting with
shareholders” and a breakup “is not something they are asking
for or pushing for,” Erik Engstrom said in an interview today.
“This is not on the agenda.”  Reed Elsevier may sell individual assets that don’t fit
with a strategy to grow organically, Engstrom said. The company
has been disposing of trade magazines as print media declines
and is focusing on online subscriptions and research products.
Reed is “not very acquisitive,” Engstrom said.  First-half profit, adjusted to exclude effects of
acquisitions and divestitures, rose 11 percent to 561 million
pounds ($868.7 million), Reed said today. Revenue rose to 3.05
billion pounds, compared with the average estimate of 3.02
billion pounds in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.  “The results are slightly ahead of expectations and show
how resilient Reed is as a group,” said Alex DeGroote, a media
analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co.  The shares rose as much as 6 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since July 2010, and were up 4.5 percent at 539.5 pence as
of 10:29 a.m.  Share Buyback  The Anglo-Dutch publisher, which also owns the Gray’s
Anatomy textbook line, predicted underlying revenue and profit
growth for the year in line with its expectations.  The company, which announced this year it was selling
Variety magazine and some Australian titles, said completed and
planned disposals will be “mildly dilutive” to earnings per
share in the short term. To offset this, proceeds from asset
sales will be used to buy back shares this year.  The company ended efforts in 2008 to sell its trade-
magazine unit, which once published more than 400 titles, after
bids for the business declined amid economic uncertainty. Since
then, Reed Elsevier has sold titles piecemeal. Today the
division has fewer than 100 titles, Engstrom said.  “We’ve disposed of businesses that in 2008 represented 45
percent of revenue” in the trade magazine unit. This year, Reed
Elsevier also sold its Totaljobs jobs website for 110 million
pounds to Axel Springer AG.  The company gets half its revenue from the U.S. and about
20 percent from continental  Europe , Engstrom said.  A breakup of Reed “could yield a 20 percent to 30 percent
increase to the value of the company,”  Claudio Aspesi , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a note in February.
Investors had been concerned since 2009 about the performance of
the U.S. legal research business, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  