-- Renren Tumbles to Six-Month Low as Zynga Drags Down Facebook
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-26T21:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/renren-tumbles-to-six-month-low-as-zynga-drags-down-facebook-1-.html
Renren Inc. (RENN) , the operator of a real-
name social networking website in  China , sank to the lowest
level in six months after U.S. online games developer  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) 
and social network  Facebook Inc. (FB)  fell.  American depositary receipts of Beijing-based Renren
 tumbled  5.1 percent to $3.9 in New York, the lowest level since
Jan. 13. They earlier lost as much as 8 percent to $3.78.  Zynga, the biggest developer of games played on Facebook’s
social network, sank 37 percent to $3.18, the biggest drop since
its December initial public offering, after missing analysts’
second-quarter revenue and profit estimates. Facebook slumped
8.5 percent before second-quarter results showed operating
margin narrowed from a year earlier. Facebook’s shares slid in
after-market trading.  Renren fell “in sympathy with Facebook on concern that
their games revenues are unstable,” Andy Yeung, a New York-
based analyst for Oppenheimer & Co., said by phone. Investors
also need to see “how quickly the Chinese social media can
monetize their user traffic in advertising dollars as a lot of
users are migrating from desktops to smartphones.”  Renren is  scheduled  to report its second-quarter results on
Aug. 7 after U.S. markets close. Sales will rise 39 percent from
a year earlier to $42.3 million, from a 56 percent increase in
the prior three months, according to the average  forecast  of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Yeung lowered his estimate for Renren’s second-quarter
revenue by $2.4 million to $42 million as “their advertising
sales may be pretty weak in the quarter given the current
economic slowdown and increased competition from other social
media,” he said. “That will be partly offset by the strength
from the gaming side as they launched some in-house games last
quarter.”  Renren had 154.2 million active users by the end of the
first quarter, it said in a May 14 statement. Facebook said it
had 955 million active users as of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  