-- Apple Provides Lessons for RIM’s BlackBerry Comeback Bid
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-07-27T12:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/rim-channels-apple-in-blackberry-comeback-bid-corporate-canada.html
(Corrects date of Apple’s stock-price low in 18th paragraph
of story that ran July 26.)  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s decline
has die-hard BlackBerry fans harking back 15 years to the days
when another fruit-themed company was losing market share,
posting losses and spurring talk of its imminent demise.  In 1997,  Apple Computer Inc. (AAPL)  lost more than $1 billion, saw
sales tumble 28 percent and was as little as 90 days away from
bankruptcy. Co-founder Steve Jobs returned to Apple that year
and did many of the things RIM is attempting now: He simplified
the company, embraced a new operating system and revamped the
culture to focus on products that were true breakthroughs.  RIM faces long odds in trying to replicate Apple’s success
story -- for one, it lacks  Steve Jobs . A RIM comeback also
hinges on challenging a hit product that Jobs himself
introduced: the iPhone. Still, RIM has rabid fans and can rely
on Apple’s approach of controlling both hardware and software,
letting it make products that tightly integrate the two pieces.  “Apple and RIM are both innovative companies with very
loyal customers,” said Ron Adner, an  associate professor  of
strategy and entrepreneurship at the  Tuck School  of Business at
 Dartmouth College  in  New Hampshire . “For RIM to follow that
story line, they need a lot of innovation in not a lot of time
-- not impossible, but not likely.”  RIM Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins took the helm in
January and made some big changes, including a plan to fire
almost a third of the  workforce  and shut down manufacturing
sites. The Waterloo, Ontario-based company also hired JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and  RBC Capital Markets  to study strategic options.
Heins says selling the company isn’t the goal of the review. RIM
would prefer to find a partner or license its operating system.  ‘Own Path’  With the changes under way, Heins, 54, says his company
will surprise critics with its transformation.  “The trait that distinguishes innovative companies is the
ability to keep conventional wisdom in perspective and focus
instead on the unique value they provide customers,” he said in
an e-mail interview. “They follow their own path, which is what
RIM is doing -- and we know we must get it right.”  Even so, Heins’s product changes haven’t been as big as
those enacted by Jobs, who died last year. Immediately after
taking over Apple in 1997 following a 12-year absence, Jobs cut
about 70 percent of the company’s products -- including printers
and the Newton personal digital assistant. He trimmed research
spending and eliminated the corporate-development department.  Board Shakeup  Jobs also replaced most of the board and began reworking
the corporate structure and supply chain. The common theme:
focus only on what was necessary to maintain the company’s hold
on its loyal fans.  From that position of retrenchment, Jobs pursued an
ambitious expansion. He personally helped create Apple’s “Think
Different” campaign -- not just to get customers to buy current
products but to inspire Apple’s own employees to build them.
Apple released the iPod music player and iTunes in 2001, the
iPhone in 2007 and the iPad in 2010. The company dropped the
word “computer” from its name in 2007, reflecting that
transformation. Four years later, it overtook  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
to become the world’s most valuable business.  RIM needs to show that it’s not just trying to play catch-
up, said Adner, author of “The Wide Lens: A New Strategy for
Innovation.” Take the example of the BlackBerry PlayBook. When
the Apple iPad tablet took off, RIM hurried to offer its own
device. The result of that rush job was a product that lacked
built-in e-mail -- one of the BlackBerry’s main selling points.  “It was lunacy,” Adner said.  ‘Bold Retreat’  Instead, RIM needs to make a “bold retreat” to get out of
markets where it can’t win, such as consumer technology,
focusing instead on its corporate customers, he said.  Charlie Wolf , an analyst who has covered Apple since 1985
and watched its comeback unfold, isn’t counting out RIM yet. The
real test will be whether its new BlackBerry 10 software can
deliver, he said.  “I don’t think we should dismiss BB10 -- it would be
foolish,” said Wolf, who works for Needham Securities Inc. in
 New York . “But to begin to attract new users, it’s got to be
superior and markedly superior to the iPhone. And it’s an
incredibly tall order.”  Like Apple’s bruising at the hands of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in
1996, RIM has been battered by competitors. Sales fell 43
percent last quarter from a year earlier, as U.S. and Canadian
consumers dumped their BlackBerrys in favor of Apple’s iPhone
and devices based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform. The company
expects a second straight operating loss this quarter.  Market Share  The sales declines may slow as RIM’s customer base is
whittled down to the BlackBerry faithful, though that’s no
recipe for growth, said Daniel Kunstler, a former technology
analyst who was among the first to upgrade Apple to a buy rating
in August 1997.  Fifteen years ago, Apple’s market share was plunging. Its
portion of the personal-computer market had fallen by almost
half over a three-year period, according to  Standard & Poor’s .
The stock also was getting battered, falling to a split-adjusted
$3.19 in July 1997. It now trades at almost $575. RIM shares,
meanwhile, are currently trading below $7, down 95 percent from
their mid-2008 peak of $147.55.  Kunstler, based in  San Francisco , says the comparison
between RIM and Apple is flawed because the Canadian company
lacks a couple of key ingredients: Jobs’s own imagination and
his ability to coax and cajole his teams into executing their
ideas and delivering products on time.  Product Fumbling  “Before Jobs returned, Apple had been fumbling very badly
for a number of years on the product side,” Kunstler said. The
product discipline he instilled in the company is hard to
replicate, he said.  In a bid to tighten its product focus, RIM plans to sell
fewer BlackBerry models when the new generation arrives --
probably no more than four, Heins says. Even so, the products
will be late. Last month, Heins delayed the arrival of RIM’s
first BB10 phone until early 2013, meaning it will now debut
more than a year after it was originally expected.  Heins took over as CEO from  Mike Lazaridis  and  Jim Balsillie , who ran the company as a team. Lazaridis, RIM’s
founder, remains a director, is vice chairman and heads up the
board’s innovation committee -- its own attempt to think
different. The company’s next breakthrough may be just as hard
for outsiders to predict as its initial success, Lazaridis said
in an e-mail.  ‘Game-Changing Innovation’  “One thing we’ve seen over the years is that game-changing
innovation can come from anywhere, including a company that got
its start over a bagel shop in Waterloo, Ontario,” he said.  Jobs had instant credibility with Apple employees because
he helped start the business and wasn’t around during most of
the lean years. Lazaridis doesn’t have that distinction: RIM
gained and then lost most of its value under his stewardship.
He’s also been criticized for not anticipating the popularity of
camera phones and mobile browsers. By stepping aside this year,
Lazaridis put Heins, a former Siemens AG executive who joined
RIM almost five years ago, in the role of would-be savior.  RIM declined to say if Heins is taking cues from Jobs’s
career. His inspiration comes from 78 million BlackBerry fans,
who want to see the company succeed, Heins said.  “The excitement and commitment that all of these people,
our customers, fans and employees, show on a daily basis gives
me all the inspiration I need to navigate through this period
and guide RIM to once again transform the way people communicate
and to generate long-term value for our shareholders,” Heins
said in an e-mail.  NeXT Software  The linchpin of Apple’s operating-system comeback was NeXT,
an OS Jobs had built while in exile from Apple. The company
acquired the business and then retooled it to create the basis
of the Mac OS X. Similarly, RIM bought QNX Software Systems for
$200 million in 2010 and began reconfiguring it as the basis for
BB10. RIM’s future depends whether the new operating system can
similarly disrupt the market, said  Mike Abramsky , principal at
Toronto-based consulting firm Red Team Global.  “That’s the $64,000 question,” said Abramsky, a former
analyst who tracked both Apple and RIM. “It’s almost like they
have to revolutionize the market the way Apple did to change
their fortunes around -- and that I think is beyond them.”  RIM also needs to appeal to developers, who would have to
make the apps required for BB10 to compete with Apple and
Android devices, said Jean-Louis Gassee, a venture capitalist
who worked at Apple for almost a decade. No matter how good BB10
is, it will lag too far behind Android and Apple, he said.  Needs Ecosystem  “Assuming Thorsten Heins manages to lead his engineers
into creating an OS on par with Android and Apple, RIM does not
have the ecosystem,” Gassee said. “The killer problem is the
ecosystem.”  One outcome for RIM would be to sell off the company --
something Apple had discussed doing before Jobs returned. Mike Kwatinetz, a partner at venture firm Azure Capital Partners in
San Francisco, would like Microsoft to buy RIM.  Tony Imperati, a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, declined to comment on that possibility.  “RIM needs to somehow change the war,” said Kwatinetz, a
loyal BlackBerry user who covered Apple as an analyst during its
turnaround. “They just do e-mail better than anybody.”  Barring a Microsoft deal, RIM should focus solely on
corporate customers, who have no interest in “Angry Birds”
games or YouTube videos, Kwatinetz said. RIM doesn’t have much
of an alternative, he said. “Are they really going to outflank
Apple as a consumer company?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  