-- Roche First-Half Profit Drops on Costs to Shut N.J. Site
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-07-26T07:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/roche-first-half-profit-drops-on-costs-to-shut-n-j-site.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s first-half profit
sank 17 percent on costs to shut a U.S. research site and
restructuring at two other units.  Net income fell to 4.37 billion Swiss francs ($4.42
billion) from 5.26 billion francs a year earlier, the Basel,
Switzerland-based company said in a  statement  today. Earnings
per share excluding some items were 6.94 francs, compared with a
6.95-franc average estimate of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Cancer drugs helped boost sales 3 percent to 22.4
billion francs, beating the 22 billion-franc average estimate.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer medicines,
announced the closing of its Nutley,  New Jersey , research and
development center in June after the failure of its good-
cholesterol medicine dalcetrapib. The closing will lead to
annual savings of 370 million francs, the company said.  “Our recent decision to close the Nutley site and the
related consolidation of our research and early development
activities at other sites will free up resources that we can
invest in our promising clinical programs,” Chief Executive
Officer Severin Schwan said in the statement.  Roche rose 0.2 percent to 168.20 francs at 9:05 a.m. in
Zurich. The shares had returned 10 percent including reinvested
dividends this year through yesterday,  compared with  a 12
percent return for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   Closing Costs  Closing the Nutley site cost 858 million francs as of June,
while reorganizing Roche’s diabetes and applied science units
cost 289 million francs. Roche booked 530 million francs for
other restructuring, including abandoning dalcetrapib.  Roche has had “meaningful” success recently with clinical
trials of experimental cancer therapies T-DM1 and pertuzumab,
 Tim Anderson , a Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in  New York ,
wrote in a note to clients before the results.  Pertuzumab, sold under the brand name Perjeta, won approval
in the U.S. in June for patients with a fast-growing type of
 breast cancer . Roche repeated it plans to file for regulatory
approval of T-DM1, a breast cancer drug that carries
chemotherapy directly into tumor cells, in the U.S. and Europe
by the end of the year.  Higher sales of cancer medicines and the Pegasys drug for
hepatitis helped offset the impact of austerity measures in
Europe, where governments are pushing drug prices lower in an
effort to rein in spending. Sales in western  Europe  fell 3
percent.  ‘Relatively Stable’  “I see a relatively stable situation at the moment in
Europe,” Schwan said in a conference call with reporters today.
He said he expects “very moderate growth” in the near future
in Europe, offset by the U.S. and continuing double digit growth
in  emerging markets .  Public and private customers in Europe had run up 2 billion
euros ($2.43 billion) in unpaid bills by the beginning of the
year, Schwan said. The Spanish government’s bill-repayment
program helped cut that figure by 24 percent to about 1.5
billion euros, he said.  Roche repeated the forecast it issued in February, saying
it expects percentage sales growth this year in the low- to mid-
single-digit range at constant exchange rates for the company
and the pharmaceutical division. Roche also expects diagnostic
sales to outpace the market. Core earnings per share should
increase by a high single-digit percentage, the company
repeated.  “Overall the numbers are good,” said  Andrew Weiss , an
analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich who recommends buying the
shares. “It’s a strong set of numbers based on good quality and
growth.”  Roche will hold a conference call for analysts and
investors at noon. Roche doesn’t report quarterly earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  