-- Roche’s Lucentis Backed by FDA Panel for Diabetic Blindness
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-07-26T16:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/roche-s-lucentis-backed-by-fda-panel-for-diabetic-blindness-1-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Lucentis won the
backing of U.S. regulatory advisers for expanded use to treat a
leading cause of blindness associated with diabetes.  A Food and Drug Administration advisory panel voted at a
meeting today to recommend the agency approve a 0.5 milligram
and 0.3 milligram dose of Lucentis to treat diabetic macular
edema. The FDA is supposed to decide whether to clear wider use
of the drug next month and doesn’t have to abide by the panel.  Lucentis, if approved, would be the first drug cleared for
diabetic macular edema. More than 500,000 people in the U.S.
have the disease, Anthony Adamis, vice president and global head
of ophthalmology at Basel-Switzerland-based Roche’s Genentech
unit said in a telephone interview.  “I’m very excited,” Susan MacDonald, a panel member and
director of comprehensive ophthalmology at the Lahey Clinic
Medical Center in Peabody,  Massachusetts , said during the
meeting. “Having had patients go blind and not having had a way
to treat them, this is a very big moment.”  The existing option for patients is to receive laser
therapy. In addition to Roche’s Lucentis injection, Tarrytown,
New York-based  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN)  is studying its
Eylea drug to treat the condition.  Lucentis Sales  Lucentis brought in  $1.7 billion  for Roche last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alimera Sciences Inc. (ALIM) ,
based in Alpharetta,  Georgia , and  Psivida Corp. (PSDV)  also are
developing a diabetic macular edema treatment known as Iluvien.
The FDA has twice rejected Iluvien, most recently in November.  The FDA pooled results from two Roche clinical trials and
found 39 percent of patients who used the 0.3 milligram dose
were able to read three additional lines of letters on an eye
chart after two years compared to 41 percent who had the same
effect on the 0.5 milligram dose, according to an FDA staff
 report  released July 24.  Genentech  recommended approval of the 0.3 milligram dose in
its application to the FDA since there isn’t evidence of
additional benefit of the higher dose, Terence Hurley, a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mail.  Patients who received the monthly injection also were
significantly more likely than those who received fake doses of
the drug to achieve 20/40 vision, enough eyesight to drive.  Roche’s Avastin  Lucentis and Eylea are drugs known as anti-vascular
endothelial growth factors. Roche’s cancer drug Avastin also is
an anti-VEGF treatment doctors commonly use to treat wet age-
related macular degeneration even though it doesn’t have FDA
approval for the disease. While drugmakers can’t promote
medicines for uses they aren’t approved for, physicians can
prescribe them for indications not on the label.  Lucentis costs 40 times as much as Avastin. Sixty percent
of Medicare beneficiaries with macular degeneration received
Avastin in 2008, Philip Rosenfeld, an ophthalmology professor at
the University of Miami’s Miller School of Medicine, told a
Senate committee a year ago. The repackaging of Avastin for the
eye disease was linked in September 2011 to eye infections, some
of which resulted in blindness.  Medicare payment advisers determined in March that anti-
VEGF treatments improve health outcomes and said they didn’t
have enough evidence to judge between the drugs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  