-- ThromboGenics Gains as Panel Backs Drug: Brussels Mover
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-27T20:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/thrombogenics-wins-fda-panel-backing-for-eye-disease-drug.html
ThromboGenics NV (THR)  rose the most in
more than five years after it won the backing of U.S. regulatory
advisers for ocriplasmin, its lead drug candidate for a type of
eye disease.  ThromboGenics jumped 13 percent to 26.37 euros in Brussels
trading, its biggest single day gain since January 2007. The
Heverlee, Belgium-based company has a market value of 944.4
million euros ($1.16 billion).  Food and Drug Administration advisers voted 10-0 yesterday
that the benefits of ocriplasmin outweigh its risks as a
treatment for vitreomacular adhesion, or VMA, where a gel inside
the eye liquefies to cause vision loss. The FDA is scheduled to
decide by Oct. 17 whether to approve the sale of ocriplasmin and
isn’t required to follow panel recommendations.  Approval may give ThromboGenics, with  2.4 million euros 
($3.4 million) in sales last year, the first drug against a
disease that is currently treated only with surgery.
Ocriplasmin, which the company has proposed selling under the
brand name Jetrea, could help about 500,000 people in the U.S.
and the major European markets, and reap as much as $700 million
in annual sales, according to Jefferies International.  “The FDA referred to VMA as a ‘ticking time bomb,’ which
we believe bodes well for an approval in October,” Philippa Gardner, a Jefferies analyst in  London , wrote in a note today.  Better Than Surgery  While panel members raised concern the medicine may not
benefit a high proportion of patients, they said it was better
than the alternative of surgery.  “I suspect the sponsor and the ophthalmology community
will identify which patients will have a higher potential for
benefit,” said Susan MacDonald, a panel member and director of
comprehensive ophthalmology at the Lahey Clinic Medical Center
in Peabody,  Massachusetts , during the meeting.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  bought marketings rights for the drug outside
the U.S. in March in a deal worth as much as 375 million euros.
The European Medicines Agency accepted ocriplasmin for review in
October, and ThromboGenics has said it expects that regulator’s
approval by the end of this year.  FDA staff found side effects including eye pain, perceived
flashes of light, blurred vision and impaired vision happened
two to four times more often in patients receiving ocriplasmin
than those getting a placebo in a trial, according to a  report 
posted on the agency’s website July 24.  Advisers voted 6-3 that additional studies aren’t needed to
evaluate the safety of the effect of ocriplasmin on the retina
before the drug is approved.  Post-market studies on the adverse complications “would be
nice,” said Michael Repka, chairman of the panel and professor
of ophthalmology and pediatrics at the Wilmer Ophthalmological
Institute at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  