-- Obama Pledges to Seek Consensus on Reducing Gun Violence
-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/romney-rejects-new-gun-laws-after-colorado-shooting.html
President  Barack Obama  vowed to seek
a consensus on reducing gun violence in the wake of a mass
shooting in Colorado last week, while his Republican challenger
 Mitt Romney  said the U.S. doesn’t need new limits on firearms.  Obama, addressing a conference of the National Urban League
in  New Orleans  yesterday, said the nation must look beyond a
single tragedy and find a solution to the everyday violence that
“plagues so many cities.” He repeated his support for
reinstating the federal assault weapons ban to keep them out of
the hands of criminals.  “These steps shouldn’t be controversial,” Obama said.
“They should be common sense.”  Less than a week ago, a shooting at a movie theater in
Aurora,  Colorado , left 12 people dead and 58 injured. James Holmes, a 24-year-old graduate student being held in the
incident, allegedly carried out the attack with a semi-automatic
rifle, a shotgun and a handgun, which authorities said were
purchased legally.  Earlier yesterday, Romney said he didn’t believe the U.S.
needed new gun laws.  “We can sometimes hope that just changing a law will make
all bad things go away. It won’t,” Romney told NBC News in
 London , where he is beginning a trip that also will take him to
Israel and  Poland . “Changing the heart of the American people
may well be what’s essential to improve the lots of the American
people.”  Volatile Issue  Gun control has been a volatile issue in U.S. politics. Two
months before the 1994 election, Congress passed a 10-year ban
on assault weapons and then-President  Bill Clinton  signed it.
Clinton, in his 2004 memoir, attributed the Democrats’ midterm
loss of control of Congress to the gun issue.  During his 2008 campaign, Obama promised to reinstate the
ban, and Romney signed an assault weapon ban as Massachusetts
governor.  In the NBC interview, Romney said the Massachusetts law was
a compromise supported by advocates of gun rights and those who
wanted greater restrictions.  “A lot of what this young man did was clearly against the
law,” Romney said of the Colorado shooting. “But the fact that
it was against the law did not prevent it from happening.”  In his speech to the Urban League, Obama told members of
the civil-rights group that each day in the U.S. the number of
young people who die violently “is about that same” as the
number who perished in Aurora.  Second Amendment  To reduce the toll of gun violence, Obama said that
criminals and fugitives should be banned from gun purchases, and
that a “mentally unbalanced” person should not be able “to
get his hands” on a gun.  The president said that, while tragedies such as the movie
theater attack spur talk of new legislation, “too often the
efforts are defeated by politics and by lobbying.”  Obama said he supports the Second Amendment right to own
arms and that hunting and shooting are part of “a cherished
national heritage.”  Still, he said many gun owners “would agree that AK-47s
belong in the hands of soldiers, not in the hands of
criminals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in Washington at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  