-- Romney Riles Londoners With Comments on Olympic Games
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-27T12:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/romney-stresses-importance-of-u-s-u-k-alliance-in-london-talks.html
It was supposed to be  Mitt Romney ’s
flawless world stage debut. Instead, the Republican presidential
candidate spent the start of his overseas trip fending off a
furor over his London Olympics comments and scrutiny of a
fundraiser with bankers linked to the Libor rate-fixing scandal.  “There’s a guy called Mitt Romney who wants to know
whether we’re ready,” London Mayor  Boris Johnson  told 80,000
cheering people gathered at Hyde Park for the arrival of the
Olympic torch last night. “Are we ready? Are we ready? Yes, we
are!”  Romney worked to put the controversy behind him today,
scheduling an interview at Olympic Park to quell the storm of
criticism over his comment that the city appeared to be 
unprepared to host the games.  “After being here a couple of days, it looks to me like
London’s ready,” he told NBC’s “Today” program. “What
they’ve done that I find so impressive is they took the venues
and put them right in the city.”  Romney’s critical remarks about the Olympics, also to NBC,
overshadowed the former Massachusetts governor’s meetings in
London yesterday with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
other top British political leaders, carefully choreographed by
campaign aides to boost his  foreign-policy  credentials.  In the July 25 NBC interview, Romney described reports of
difficulties recruiting enough security staff for the games,
which begin today, as “disconcerting” and said, “It’s hard to
know just how well it will turn out.”  ‘Middle of Nowhere’  When British reporters called Cameron’s attention to those
comments at a news conference in the Olympic Park, he offered a
sharp retort, saying London is hosting the games in one of the
“busiest, most active” cities in the world.  “Of course it’s easier if you hold an  Olympic Games  in the
middle of nowhere,” Cameron said, a remark interpreted by the
American media as a reference to the 2002 winter games organized
by Romney in  Salt Lake City ,  Utah .  A few hours later, the two men exchanged pleasantries about
the Olympic torch relay in the White Room at Cameron’s office in
10 Downing Street, a salon traditionally used to greet foreign
leaders, which now overlooks the Olympic beach-volleyball court.  “I’m very delighted with the prospects of a highly
successful Olympic Games,” Romney told reporters after the
meeting, in an effort to end the controversy.  ‘Mitt the Twit’  While Romney’s refined remarks satisfied Johnson, who told
BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program in an interview this morning
that Romney has been “fulsome now in his praise,” they didn’t
stop a slew of jeering headlines in the British press.  “Mitt falls at the first hurdle,” wrote the Guardian,
while the Sun, Britain’s biggest-selling newspaper, headlined
its story “ Mitt the Twit .”  “Mitt Romney is perhaps the only politician who could
start a trip that was supposed to be a charm offensive by being
utterly devoid of charm and mildly offensive,” wrote the  Daily
Telegraph  in a  commentary .  Democrats quickly seized on the gaffe, with the national
party creating a Twitter hash-tag called #RomneyShambles to
collect all the negative comments. And White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  kicked off his regular reporters’ briefing
with an announcement that President Barack Obama had been
briefed on security at the games and “has the utmost
confidence” in the U.K.’s ability to manage them.  ‘Not Worried’  Romney backers said the wave of negative press didn’t
concern the campaign. “We’re not worried about overseas
headlines; we’re worried about voters back here at home in
America,” Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal  told reporters on a
conference call.  London is the first leg of a three-country trip by Romney
intended to show voters at home that though he has little
diplomatic experience, he could be a credible commander in
chief.  In meetings with Cameron and other leaders, Romney stressed
the “special relationship” between the two countries. He cited
“our commitment to common values, our commitment to peace in
the world and our desire to see a stronger and growing
economy,” at a joint press appearance with  Ed Miliband , the
leader of the opposition  Labour Party .  Even the scripted meetings prompted some criticism, after
Romney volunteered to reporters that he had met with officials
from MI6. His admission broke with the British protocol of
keeping meetings with the Secret Intelligence Service secret.  Foreign Policy  Romney refused to elaborate on his discussions or his
positions on the diplomatic and military issues facing the two
countries.  “I don’t want to refer to any comments made by leaders nor
do I want to describe foreign-policy positions I might have on
foreign soil,” he told reporters outside 10 Downing Street.  Romney policy adviser Lanhee Chen told reporters that
economic topics dominated the meetings, with Romney and British
leaders analyzing the potential impacts of Europe’s debt crisis.
Cameron quizzed Romney on the U.S. so-called fiscal cliff of
expiring tax rates and automatic spending cuts set to kick in
after the election, unless Congress takes action.  The leaders also discussed foreign affairs, in
conversations focused on the escalating conflict in Syria,
threat of a nuclear Iran and the Middle East peace process, the
aide told reporters.  U.K. Visit  It’s common for American candidates to visit the U.K.
during their presidential campaigns. President  Barack Obama 
stopped over shortly before formally accepting his party’s
presidential nomination in 2008. Romney met with British
officials during a July 2011 trip to London.  This time the former head of Boston-based Bain Capital LLC
arrived in the midst of a recession in Britain and a  European
debt crisis .  The U.K. economy shrank the most since 2009 in the second
quarter, increasing pressure on Cameron to abandon Britain’s
austerity program, the largest since World War II. Britain’s
government blames the euro-area turmoil for pushing the country
into the first double-dip recession since the 1970s.  Romney’s evening fundraiser with American bankers,
including executives from  Barclays (BARC)  Plc, the first bank to admit
that its employees were involved with manipulating the London
interbank offered rate, a global benchmark, drew criticism on
both sides of the Atlantic.  Co-hosts for the events included Patrick Durkin, a
Washington-based lobbyist for Barclays; Eric Varvel, the chief
executive officer of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s investment bank;
Dwight Poler, a managing director at Bain Capital Europe; Raj Bhattacharyya, a managing director at Deutsche Bank AG; and
Whitfield Hines, a managing director at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Barclays Ex-CEO  The fundraising events were scheduled to also be hosted by
former Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond , who resigned on July 3 amid
political pressure over the Libor scandal. He dropped his
fundraising role soon after.  That didn’t stop 11 members of the British House of Commons
from putting forward a parliamentary motion demanding that the
bank stop working to raise money for Romney and concentrate on
repairing trust in the financial system.  Romney was cautious about discussing his policies or
criticizing Obama in remarks before the donors, who paid $2,500
apiece to hear Romney speak at a reception. Those who donated at
least $25,000 were also invited to a private dinner with the
candidate. The event raised at least $2 million, according to
campaign fundraiser  Spencer Zwick .  Romney did take a dig at Obama.  “I’m looking forward to the bust of  Winston Churchill 
being in the Oval Office again,” he told the 250 donors
gathered under the crystal chandeliers of the Mandarin Oriental
hotel.  Obama’s decision soon after he took office to ship a bust
of the British World War II leader previously displayed in the
White House back to the U.K. prompted attacks from Republicans.  Later this week, Romney will travel to Israel and Poland
for meetings with local leaders, policy speeches and visits to
historical sites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in London at  llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  