-- Karl Rove Is Back in $1 Billion Spending Drive to Oust Obama
-- B y   P a u l   M .   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-07-26T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/rove-back-big-time-in-1-billion-spending-drive-to-oust-obama.html
On the evening of June 29, Amedeo
Scognamiglio, a jewelry designer on the Isle of Capri, met
friends for drinks at the elegant Grand Hotel Quisisana. Around
midnight, Scognamiglio says, “I noticed some familiar American
faces.”  He took to Twitter. “What,” he wanted to know, “is Karl Rove doing at the Quisisana with Steve Wynn?!” The answer came
zinging right back from @KarlRove: “Part of a group enjoying
really good Bellinis on a beautiful Capri night!” Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its July 30 issue.  Rove is a tech-geek. On Sept. 11, 2001, he was the only
White House staff member connected to BlackBerry e-mail on Air
Force One as the plane ferried President  George W. Bush  back and
forth across a panicked nation.  When he made his Bellini Twitter message, Rove was on the
Amalfi Coast honeymooning with his third wife, Karen Johnson, a
Republican lobbyist. On Twitter, Rove didn’t refer by name to
Wynn, though the two men are friends. Earlier in June, the
casino mogul joined a select group of guests at the Rove-Johnson
nuptials in Austin. All of this, be assured, has more than
gossip-page significance: Wynn is just one of many mega-wealthy
backers whose enthusiasm and checkbooks have fueled a Karl Rove
Renaissance that’s redefining the business of political finance.  Bush’s Brain  The bespectacled 61-year-old, once known as Bush’s Brain,
left the White House five years ago. His patron was sinking in
the polls, and Rove himself had barely escaped criminal
indictment. Now he’s back -- big time, as his friend former Vice
President  Dick Cheney  might say.  In a performance that rivals Rove’s nurturing of a famously
inarticulate Texas governor into a two-term president, the
strategist is re-engineering the practice of partisan money
management in an effort to drum Barack Obama out of the White
House.  Consider the case of Wynn, the founder, chairman and chief
executive officer of Las Vegas-based  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  Variable
in his political allegiances, the gambling magnate has said
publicly that he voted for Obama in 2008, only to change his
mind over what he came to perceive as the president’s regulatory
hubris.  In swooped Rove. As first reported by Politico, he
persuaded Wynn that the best way to oust Obama was to contribute
millions of dollars to a Washington-based group Rove co-founded
in 2010 called  Crossroads GPS .  Undisclosed Donors  Wynn’s preference for anonymity in such transactions posed
no obstacle. That’s the whole idea behind Crossroads GPS.
Although its initials stand for “Grassroots Policy Strategies,”
the organization was set up to receive unlimited, undisclosed
contributions from industrialists, financiers, and other loaded
insiders such as Wynn.  “We do not comment on specific donations,” says a Wynn
spokesman.  In the realm of campaign finance, the Internal Revenue
Service classifies Crossroads GPS as a nonprofit, nonpolitical
“social welfare” organization -- a 501(c)(4) in tax code
parlance -- that doesn’t have to identify its backers.  Crossroads GPS channels money into “issue” advertisements
that implicitly attack Obama and other Democrats.  ‘Crushing Unemployment’  “It wasn’t supposed to be this way,” a female narrator
intoned in one weeklong, $8 million ad campaign GPS ran in mid-
July in Florida, Michigan, Ohio, and six other hotly contested
states. “Over three years with crushing  unemployment ; American
manufacturing shrinking again,” the ad continued. “President
Obama’s plan: spend more. He’s added over $4 billion in debt
every day. The economy is slowing, but our debt keeps growing.”  To maintain its supporters’ anonymity, a social welfare
group like GPS mustn’t have a “primary purpose” of a political
nature, and it can’t coordinate strategy with candidates. In an
election season, however, only a very naïve or obtuse viewer
would miss the point of the organization’s prolific ads.  For conservative donors willing to reveal themselves, Rove
designed a sister group, a super-political action committee
called American Crossroads, which operates from the same offices
as GPS, with some of the same executives, employees,
copywriters, and consultants.  It, too, is technically independent from the campaign of
the presumptive Republican nominee, Mitt Romney. Known as a 527,
it does report its donors to the Federal Election Commission,
and it can indulge less coyly in pushing Romney and other
Republicans.  9-State Blitz  On July 19 the Crossroads super-PAC began a separate nine-
state $9.3 million ad blitz defending Romney from Democratic
charges that he helped move American jobs overseas during his
tenure as chief executive of the Boston-based private equity-
firm Bain Capital LLC.  Of Obama, the ads assert: “The press, and even Democrats,
say his attacks on Mitt Romney’s business record” are
“‘misleading, unfair, and untrue.’”  Democrats, for their part, are doing the same sort of
thing, with their own 527s and 501(c)(4)s. The supposedly
unaffiliated Democratic super-PAC buying ads for Obama is called
Priorities USA Action.  Back in the 2000s, Rove says in an e-mail interview, it was
Democratic-leaning labor unions and liberal plutocrats such as
hedge-fund financier  George Soros  and insurance tycoon Peter Lewis who provoked the unlimited-outside-money boom.  Fundraising Wars  Whoever started the fundraising wars -- and in 2010, the
Supreme Court played an important, if misunderstood, enabling
role with Citizens United v. FEC -- the Crossroads operation is
way out in front this election cycle.  Along with the billionaire Koch brothers, the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, and other conservative allies, the Crossroads-led
offensive is collectively poised to spend more than $1 billion
on the 2012 elections, according to Republican operatives.  That’s roughly twice what Democrats expect to spend by
means of their super-PACs and social-welfare groups.  “What we have,” says Brendan Doherty, a political scientist
at the U.S. Naval Academy and author of new book The Rise of the
President’s Permanent Campaign, “is an irrational, incoherent,
out-of-control campaign finance apparatus” that shifts influence
from traditional parties to wealthy secret donors and
corporations.  ‘Stronger Parties’  Not to worry, Rove reassures. He says his goal is to
solidify Republican control in Washington, not subvert the party
system. And he’s adjusted to changing circumstances.  “I like stronger parties, rather than weaker parties,” he
explains, “but the campaign-finance reforms of the last 40 years
have tended to weaken parties and strengthen outside groups.”  “I’m focused on operating within the system we have,” he
says.  In the summer of 2007, Rove limped away from the Bush White
House substantially depleted. The previous year he’d appeared no
fewer than five times before a federal grand jury investigating
official leaks to the media about Valerie Plame’s identity as an
undercover operative for the Central Intelligence Agency.  Plame’s husband, a former U.S. ambassador, incurred White
House wrath by publicly questioning the invasion of Iraq in
2003. Although Rove denied outing Plame, he said in his 2010
memoir, “Courage and Consequence: My Life As a Conservative in
the Fight,” that he came whisker-close to facing criminal
charges.  The controversy “had exhausted more than my physical
reserves,” he wrote. “It had also burned through a significant
portion of my family’s finances.”  Next Chapter  Almost immediately, Rove drafted his next chapter. He
engaged attorney Bob Barnett, the go-to Washington literary
representative, to sell his memoir. The spirited 608-page work
settled scores aplenty and became a New York Times bestseller.  Continuing to repair his personal brand, Rove signed on
with  Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. to write a column for the Wall
Street Journal editorial page and comment frequently on Fox
News.  His reinvention as a media wise man betrayed more than a
whiff of chutzpah. The election victories for which Bush called
Rove “the architect” had led to quagmires in Iraq and
Afghanistan. At home, the Bush team left behind failed overhaul
initiatives on Social Security and immigration, record deficits,
and the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Data Rich  Still, whatever the outcome of his patron’s governance,
Rove has few rivals in his mastery of campaign mechanics. Rather
than using the Journal and Fox gigs to coast, he’s offered data-
rich, partisan-spiced procedural analysis, and built up a
substantive personal website. An historian by avocation, he’s
posted reviews of the last 60 books he’s read.  Perched safely on the sidelines, he also dodged the
Republican disaster in November 2008. At the center of that
debacle, presidential nominee  John McCain , a senator from
Arizona, distanced himself from outside political action
committees and accepted public financing, a decision that had
the effect of limiting what he could spend in his race against
Obama.  The Democrat turned down public money, revealed himself to
be a fundraising dervish, and outspent his opponent by almost 2
to 1. Rove watched carefully.  “After seeing their success and recognizing liberal groups
and unions would systematically spend hundreds of millions of
dollars every cycle,” he says, some on the right “decided to
create an enduring entity as a counterbalance.” Those entities
are the Crossroads groups.  Court Ruling  Rove’s return to the arena coincided with a major campaign-
finance ruling by the Supreme Court. It irritates Rove that
Obama has succeeded in crafting the conventional wisdom on
Citizens United. According to Obama’s account, a 5-4
conservative judicial pronouncement liberated a cabal of
zillionaires and corporations to start a hostile takeover of
American politics.  In his State of the Union Address in January 2010, the
president blamed the justices, some of whom were seated before
him, for empowering “America’s most powerful interests, or
worse” allowing “foreign entities” to “bankroll” elections.
Television cameras caught Justice  Samuel Alito  mouthing the
words, “Not true.”  Rove agrees with Alito. Obama’s bit about “foreign
entities” giving to campaigns was wrong; that remains illegal.
Citizens United did clarify that corporations have a First
Amendment right to political speech in the form of spending for
advocacy.  Precedent Discarded  The majority tossed out an important 1990 precedent and
invalidated certain legislative restrictions on how and when
companies and unions can deploy political dollars. Spending has
increased dramatically in the wake of Citizens United, much to
the advantage of Republicans, and yet the notion that the ruling
sparked a brand new conservative bonanza is misleading.  “The left,” Rove says, “pioneered the use of 527s and
501(c)(4)s years ago, spending millions of dollars to influence
public opinion and the policy landscape, on issues spanning the
environment to the Iraq War. Drawing on their example,
Crossroads was being planned before Citizens United, and would
exist with or without Citizens United.”  A quick look at campaign-finance history illustrates what
he means. Secret contributions and sundry other corrupt actions
culminating in the Watergate scandal led to reform legislation
in the mid-1970s. Before the ink had dried on the new rules, the
Supreme Court intervened in 1976, in Buckley v. Valeo, to remind
lawmakers that the First Amendment complicates any inclination
to limit political expression.  Soft Money  The upshot was a problematic system that curbed
contributions to candidates in the interest of reducing quid pro
quo corruption, while encouraging open-ended expenditures in the
name of free speech. Cue the K Street loophole artists.  By the 1990s labor unions and companies had perfected the
“soft money” gambit, funneling hundreds of millions of dollars
to political parties, rather than particular candidates. The
Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, known as McCain-
Feingold, was supposed to wall off soft money.  In doing so, the law inadvertently redirected the cash flow
to 527s, such as Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, to which
conservatives could give unlimited amounts to assail the Vietnam
war record of 2004 Democratic presidential nominee  John Kerry , a
senator from Massachusetts.  Another alternative was the 501(c)(4) social-welfare group
devoted to issue advocacy, which didn’t require the disclosure
of donors’ names. Six years before Citizens United, the basic
technology for an outside-spending arms race was in place.  Soros Effort  In 2004 a 527 called America Coming Together led a $200
million initiative, partly financed by Soros and Lewis, to
unseat George W. Bush. One reason many forget this liberal
financial surge is that it failed; Kerry, a diffident
campaigner, lost by 34 electoral votes. Republicans, for their
part, didn’t fully appreciate the advent of outside groups
because they were lulled by Bush’s talent for gathering direct-
contribution checks with the assistance of “bundlers,” the
dedicated supporters and lobbyists who aggregate individual
donations.  Rove and his consultant friend  Ed Gillespie  -- now a paid
senior adviser to the Romney campaign -- had warned from the
inception of McCain-Feingold that it would lead to problems for
Republicans. Borrowing from the chorus of the classic Sonny
Curtis song, Gillespie joked that as RNC chairman for the 2004
election cycle, he “fought the law, but the law won.” In 2009,
Rove and Gillespie decided it was time for Republicans to stop
whining and turn the tables.  Wealthy Benefactors  As they began planning how to make Obama a one-term
president, Rove and Gillespie saw most Republican outside
organizations as either one-shot affairs, like the Swift
Boaters, or preachers to the base that pushed candidates to the
extreme right. The anti-tax  Club for Growth  fit in the latter
category. Some wealthy political benefactors had their own
groups, Rove says, most of which were run by a single strategist
who siphoned off enormous fees for as long as the sponsor would
tolerate it.  Rove pitched his proposed startup as a more professional
alternative, one built to have impact in 2010 yet endure long
beyond.  “The business model of a consultant-driven, vendor-directed
entity that hired itself increasingly lacked credibility with
donors and was unsustainable,” Rove explains. Among those who
were convinced and made big contributions: Richard Baxter Gilliam, a Virginia coal mogul; Houston homebuilder Bob Perry;
and Harold Clark Simmons, a Dallas industrialist.  RNC Vacuum  A vacuum at the once-mighty RNC made Rove’s work easier,
and more urgent. At RNC headquarters, Michael Steele, the
chairman for the 2009-10 cycle, was ineffective as a fundraiser
and prone to mishaps, such as getting into public scraps with
the radio host Rush Limbaugh and suggesting that Republicans
needed a “hip hop” overhaul.  To guide Crossroads, Rove convened a board of directors of
conservative notables -- Chairman Mike Duncan of Kentucky had
served as chairman and treasurer of the RNC; Director Jo Ann Davidson of Ohio had also led the RNC and oversaw the 2008
Republican convention -- a signal that it would be beholden to
no single candidate or contributor.  The board hired as chief executive officer Steven Law, an
affable attorney and campaign veteran who had worked on Capitol
Hill for Senator  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican who’s
now the chamber’s minority leader, and for President Bush in the
Department of Labor. As general counsel of the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce in 2007-08, Law spearheaded a successful drive to kill
the proposed Employee Free Choice Act, a pro-union measure. The
locus of the party’s financial strategizing shifted to Rove’s
living room on Weaver Terrace in Northwest Washington.  ‘Weaver Terrace Group’  During sessions of the “Weaver Terrace Group,”
representatives of the embryonic Crossroads organization
gathered with counterparts from groups such as the Chamber of
Commerce, Americans for Tax Reform, and Americans for
Prosperity, the funding vehicle affiliated with the billionaires
David and  Charles Koch . Crossroads served as referee, says CEO
Law.  “Conservative activists tend to act like six-year-olds on
soccer teams,” he explains, “with everyone grouping around the
ball and getting in each other’s way. Karl’s idea was that all
of these organizations should share information, coordinate
polling, reduce redundancy.”  Broadcast Ads  Together with a follow-on ruling by the federal appeals
court in Washington, Citizens United knocked several crucial
holes in McCain-Feingold. Corporate and union money, for
example, could now be used without restriction for
“electioneering communications,” meaning radio and TV ads that
mention a candidate’s name within 30 days of a primary or 60
days of a general election.  More important than the incremental increase in campaign-
law porosity was the passionately phrased celebration by Justice
 Anthony Kennedy  of political spending in its manifold forms.
Kennedy’s majority opinion declared that “the appearance of
influence or access” won’t “cause the electorate to lose faith
in our democracy.”  Kennedy continued: “The fact that a corporation, or any
other speaker, is willing to spend money to try to persuade
voters presupposes that the people have the ultimate influence
over elected officials.” In Kennedy’s syllogism, democracy
benefits from more speech. Political money is speech. Therefore
democracy benefits from more political money.  The Citizens United decision all but erased any lingering
taint from writing large campaign checks.  ‘Simply Brilliant’  “The decision is simply brilliant,” says the white-collar
defense attorney  John Dowd , a partner in Washington with the
politically active law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld. “I’m
a big believer in the First Amendment and more speech by
everyone, not just the liberal elite.”  Dowd, whose most recent high-profile client was the Galleon
Group LLC hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , who was convicted
last year of securities fraud and conspiracy, has been a steady
Crossroads contributor in $10,000 increments.  “I see Karl from time to time, and he’s a very gifted
analyst who does his homework,” says the lawyer. “His people
have a capability I don’t have as a citizen to decide how to get
the word out.”  The word that Dowd and many other Rove contributors want
amplified is not the tear-the-walls-down Tea Party howl. If
there is an establishment Republican alternative to the Tea
Partiers, it is embodied by Rove.  Questioning Palin  In October 2010 he used an interview by the Telegraph in
London to question Sarah Palin’s suitability for the White
House. He helped marginalize Christine O’Donnell, the right-wing
senatorial aspirant from Delaware with a colorful financial
history and a past interest in witchcraft.  O’Donnell, Rove told Fox viewers, “does not evince the
characteristics of rectitude and truthfulness and sincerity and
character that the voters are looking for.” She lost in November
2010 to Democrat  Chris Coons .  In their rookie election cycle, the pair of Crossroads
groups aimed to raise $45 million. They ended up with $71
million.  “Being the outsiders, trying to stop an incumbent is good
for raising opposition money,” Law says, voicing a basic tenet
of attack-ad finance. For Democrats in 2010 -- and in 2012 -- it
has been more of a challenge to ask for large checks to maintain
the status quo.  Senate Scorecard  Focusing primarily on Senate contests, while other
conservative groups battled on the House side, the Crossroads
groups tallied a 16-14 record in the 30 races they joined in
2010. Rove’s minions didn’t dislodge Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  even though they spent $4.3 million on ads in his
home state of Nevada.  Crossroads executives argue that the most relevant measure
of their impact in 2010 was that along with the other outside
Republican groups, they stretched Democrats’ resources and
sharpened the right’s attack on taxes and cap-and-trade climate
legislation. Overall, Republicans won a tremendous midterm
victory, retaking the House and gaining ground in the Senate.  Crossroads’ headquarters is a plain set of offices on the
12th floor of a blocky Washington building. The first thing
greeting a visitor is a poster hijacked from a liberal protest.  “Indicted:  Karl Rove  and American Crossroads and Crossroads
GPS,” says the ersatz wanted notice. The mock charges include
“conspiracy with billionaires to elect politicians who will do
their bidding at the expense of the health and security of the
99 percent.”  Lean Staffs  The Crossroads groups are staffed leanly, with about 20
people, half of them junior researchers peering at laptops.
Apart from his satirical mug shot, Rove is nowhere to be seen on
this day. He holds no official position at Crossroads, draws no
salary from the groups, and doesn’t get reimbursed for plane
fare or lunches.  He spends most of his desk time at Karl Rove & Co., a
legally separate firm a few blocks away that oversees his media
activities and well-paid public speaking. Rove, according to
colleagues, devotes about a third of his working hours to
Crossroads, almost all of it fundraising and private kibitzing
with donors. At those skills, he has few rivals.  “What Karl says goes,” says contributor John Dowd. “I trust
him.”  Institutional Hats  Determining which institutional hat Rove is wearing at any
given moment isn’t easy. Is he on Crossroads duty or personal
business when he socializes with  Steve Wynn  in Capri? Rove talks
to candidates, yet the Crossroads groups by law aren’t permitted
to “coordinate” with those candidates. Crossroads can’t endorse
Romney, yet it defends him against Obama’s outsourcing assault.  When Romney hosted a gala retreat for individual
contributors at a Utah resort in late June, Rove spoke on a
panel and mingled as a featured guest. While he presumably
didn’t coordinate with the campaign, how to categorize what he
did do?  There is no shortage of cross-pollination. Crossroads co-
founder Gillespie, who has his own consulting firm, is now
working for Romney. Crossroads’ political director,  Carl Forti ,
helped start and advises the Romney-devoted super-PAC Restore
Our Future.  The Federal Election Commission invites cynicism. Its six
commissioners are divided 3-3 along partisan lines, setting the
stage for stalemate on meaningful issues. Although the terms of
five of the six commissioners have expired, Obama gave up on
nominating replacements after his first selection stalled in the
Senate.  Complaint at FEC  With a tone that can only be described as half-hearted, the
Obama campaign’s chief counsel, Robert Bauer, filed a complaint
about Crossroads GPS with the do-nothing agency in June. In a
personal letter he simultaneously sent to Rove and Law, Bauer
said the filing lays out “the case -- obvious to all -- that
Crossroads is a political committee subject to federal reporting
requirements.”  Bauer predicted that the Rove camp will “fight this out”
until after the election, at which point disclosure would be
moot.  Crossroads denies the Bauer allegation, and Rove offers no
apology.  “It’s ironic,” he says, “that many of those who are
squealing the loudest now” about Crossroads “are the same
people who were mute when groups on the left were pioneering the
use of 527s and 501(c)(4)s.”  ‘Liberals Cheered’  “Liberals cheered then but are now quick to try and stop
conservatives from using the techniques they used in the past,”
Rove says.  He and his acolytes are clearly enjoying themselves. This
is something that Rove’s many psychoanalysts in the media and
among Democrats seem to forget: He really loves the fight.  On the day in late February when Bob Kerrey, the former
Nebraska senator, announced he would seek his old seat, American
Crossroads decided to remind the politician that he’d been out
of office for more than a decade, most recently serving as head
of the New School, a liberal institution in the un-Nebraskan
environs of New York.  “A huge cooler of frozen Runzas was delivered to our house
in Manhattan when Bob was in Omaha to declare his candidacy,”
Kerrey’s wife, Sarah Paley, wrote in an article in the July
issue of Vogue. Cabbage-and-beef Runza sandwiches “are to Omaha
what Philly cheesesteaks are to Philadelphia or muffulettas are
to New Orleans,” Paley explained. Rove’s group wanted “to
reinforce the notion that Bob was a carpetbagger.”  Fringe Candidates  On a more serious level, Rove has spent much of last year
steering his own party away from fringe presidential candidates
with no chance of getting elected. Former pizza executive  Herman Cain  wasn’t “up to the task,” Rove told his Fox followers.  Once Romney shook off his primary competitors, Rove turned
his energies to promoting the former Massachusetts governor,
with whom he wasn’t previously close. Unlike the 2010 midterms,
when Rove and Crossroads concentrated on turning out diehard
conservatives, 2012 is all about independents, according to Law,
including those who voted for Obama in 2008 and now may be
disappointed by the faint economic recovery.  In his July 19 Wall Street Journal column, “Obama Gets Down
and Dirty,” Rove warned of “the danger for Mr. Romney” posed by
Obama’s attack about outsourcing and tax returns.  “If these charges go unrefuted,” Rove wrote, “they could
discourage swing voters from going for” Romney in November.
“This is an opportunity to remind voters -- in a tone of
disappointment and regret, not anger and malice -- that Mr.
Obama’s negative attacks will not put anyone back to work,
reduce our growing national debt, or get America moving in the
right direction.”  On the very same day, Crossroads took a tougher tone,
rolling out its ad campaign calling Obama’s contentions
“misleading, unfair, and untrue.” A clever one-two punch,
delivered entirely independent, needless to say, of the Romney
campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  