-- Russia Raised Share of U.S. Assets, Cuts French Holdings
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-07-26T15:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/russia-raised-share-of-u-s-assets-cuts-french-german-holdings.html
Russia  boosted the share of U.S.
government notes in its currency reserves at the end of last
year as it lowered holdings of French, German, U.K. and Danish
assets, the central bank said.  U.S. assets  including  government bonds  and deposits rose to
33.8 percent as of Dec. 31, a gain of 1 percentage point from
three months earlier, the central bank said in a  report  on its
website today. Bank Rossii decreased investments in  France  to
26.4 percent from 28.3 percent, and the portion of U.K. assets
shrank to 9.2 percent from 9.9 percent. Canadian holdings more
than doubled to 1.9 percent from 0.7 percent at the end of the
third quarter.  While President  Vladimir Putin  has criticized the dominance
of the  U.S. dollar  and pledged this week to maintain the euro’s
share in his country’s holdings, its reserve managers were
boosting allocations to the world’s biggest economy even after
last year’s borrowing-limit debate in Congress and  Standard &
Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. government’s credit rating one step
to AA+ in August.  The worsening debt turmoil in the euro area forced  Spain 
and Cyprus to seek external aid last month. U.S. Treasury yields
dropped to a record this week as Moody’s Investors Service cut
its outlook on the top credit ratings of Germany, the
 Netherlands  and  Luxembourg  on July 23, citing “rising
uncertainty” over Europe’s crisis.  Aussie, Loonie  The Russian central bank signaled last year that it
probably won’t add currencies to its reserves after expanding
into Canadian and Australian dollars. Russia, which holds the
world’s fourth-largest foreign-currency and gold  reserves  after
China,  Japan  and Saudi Arabia, plans to create an agency to
bolster returns earned by the government’s two sovereign wealth
funds, Putin said in May.  The central bank, which now manages the holdings, added the
Aussie this year, with plans to raise its portion to at least 1
percent, according to First Deputy Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev.  “We’d of course like to be changing the structure of our
currency portfolio and diversifying  currency risk ,” Ulyukayev
said in an  interview  to Ekho Moskvy radio in May. “To do that,
you need to add new currencies. And we’re doing that.”  Russia’s international currency and gold reserves rose for
the first time in four weeks, adding $2.4 billion to $507.7
billion as of July 20, the central bank said in a  statement  on
its website today.  Japan, Finland  Among the countries that saw their share in Russian
reserves grow last year were Japan, the Netherlands and Finland,
while holdings of assets in international financial institutions
slid to 1.5 percent from 2 percent, according to the report.  Investments in U.S. assets rose to as high as 41 percent at
the end of the third quarter in 2010, Bank Rossii  data  show. The
 Finance Ministry  excluded Ireland and Spain from a list of
countries approved for bond investment by Russia’s two sovereign
wealth funds in November 2010 before adding Spain back on the
list four months later.  The funds, which are managed by the central bank under
guidelines set down by the Finance Ministry, can also invest in
state debt of Austria, Belgium, Britain, Germany, Canada,
Denmark, Luxembourg, Netherlands, U.S., Finland, France and
Sweden.  International Monetary Fund data show the  dollar  accounted
for 62.2 percent of global currency reserves in the first
quarter, unchanged from the previous three months and down from
72.7 percent in 2011. The  euro’s share  fell to 24.9 percent from
a peak of 28 percent in 2009.  A  category  the Washington-based IMF calls “ other
currencies ,” which strategists say includes the Australian,  New
Zealand  and Canadian dollars was at 5.2 percent, down from 5.3
percent in the preceding quarter and compared with 1.8 percent
at the end of 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  