-- MLS Rallies to Beat European Champion Chelsea in All-Star Game
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-07-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/mls-rallies-to-beat-european-champion-chelsea-in-all-star-game.html
Eddie Johnson scored in injury time
at the end of the game to cap a 3-2 comeback win for the Major
League Soccer All-Stars against European champion Chelsea.  The All-Stars trailed 2-1 with 17 minutes to go at PPL Park
in Chester, Pennsylvania, last night before Chris Pontius, who
was chosen the game’s Most Valuable Player, tied it. Johnson
sealed the win 55 seconds into added time.  The All-Star squad included  David Beckham  of the  Los
Angeles Galaxy ,  Thierry Henry  of the  New York  Red Bulls and
 Landon Donovan , the career scoring leader for the U.S. national
team. The MLS also beat Chelsea 1-0 in the 2006 All-Star Game,
while Manchester United won the past two years, 5-2 and 4-0.  “I’m glad we could make our fans proud,” All-Stars
captain Dwayne De Rosario said at the trophy presentation.  Chris Wondolowski put the All-Stars ahead after 21 minutes.
He beat Chelsea captain  John Terry  to a cross from Henry and
shot past starting goalkeeper Henrique Hilario from about six
yards (5.5 meters).  Wondolowski, 28, has scored a league-high 17 goals in 20
games for the San Jose Earthquakes this season. With 12 games
remaining, he has the chance to eclipse the single-season MLS
scoring record of 27 set by Roy Lassiter in his debut campaign
for the Tampa Bay Mutiny in 1996.  The All-Stars’ lead lasted 11 minutes, until Chelsea won a
corner from which Terry scored with a header. England
international midfielder  Frank Lampard  put the Premier League
team ahead in the 59th minute as he tapped in from close range
after goalie Dan Kennedy missed a cross from Ramires.  Tying Goal  The All-Stars tied it 14 minutes later with a sweeping
move. Beckham flighted a long, cross-field pass from his own
half to De Rosario, who cut the ball back for his DC United
teammate Pontius to slide a low shot past Chelsea substitute
keeper Ross Turnbull from about 12 yards.  Johnson of the Seattle Sounders secured the win when he
collected a pass from Kyle Beckerman and scored with a shot that
deflected off the heel of a Chelsea defender and over Turnbull
into the net.  Chelsea in May defeated Germany’s Bayern Munich 4-3 in a
penalty shootout to win the European  Champions League  for the
first time.  Also last night, Roma beat Liverpool 2-1 in an exhibition
game at Fenway Park in  Boston . Liverpool is owned by Fenway
Sports Group, while Roma belongs to Boston Red Sox minority
owner Thomas DiBenedetto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 