-- SABMiller Sales Beat Estimates on East Europe Soccer Push
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-07-26T11:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/sabmiller-sales-beat-estimates-on-east-europe-soccer-push.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
biggest brewer by volume, said sales growth quickened in the
first quarter as revenue unexpectedly rose in Europe, helped by
the Euro 2012 soccer tournament.  So-called organic lager volume, which excludes acquisitions
and disposals, increased 5 percent in the three months ended
June 30, the London-based company said today in a statement.
That compared with the 2.6 percent median estimate of 12
 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg News and the previous quarter’s 3
percent growth.  The volume of beer sold in Europe rose 7 percent, SABMiller
said, topping the median estimate of 10 analysts for unchanged
sales on that basis. Sales rose 11 percent in  Poland , one of the
host countries of Euro 2012. Volume in  Romania  and the Czech
Republic rose, aided by new packaging and products. Western
European beer volume was “depressed” by economic turmoil and
rainy weather, the brewer said.  “SABMiller posted an excellent growth performance,” with
Europe the primary reason that sales exceeded analysts’
predictions, Anthony Bucalo, an analyst at  Banco Santander  in
 London , wrote in a research report today. “We would expect
consensus estimates to increase 1 percent to 2 percent on this
news and we would expect the stock to trade accordingly.”  Stock Jumps  SABMiller rose as much as 3.3 percent to 2,725 pence, the
biggest intraday gain since June 6, and was trading up 2.9
percent at 12:29 p.m. in London. The shares have increased 20
percent this year.  The company, which owns the Grolsch and Peroni brands, is
among brewers benefiting from growth in  emerging markets  as
economic turmoil and waning  consumer confidence  weigh on demand
in western Europe and the U.S. SABMiller, formed in  South
Africa , gets the majority of earnings from  Latin America , where
it sells beers including Aguila and where sales rose 6 percent.  The company bought Foster’s Group Ltd. last year for A$10.5
billion ($10.9 billion), winning about half the Australian beer
market. Volumes on a pro-forma basis slid 13 percent at
Foster’s, affected by the termination of some sales licenses,
SABMiller said. Mexican brewer Grupo Modelo SAB ended Foster’s
license to distribute Corona Extra in the country, SABMiller
said in March.  New CEO  SABMiller is holding its annual shareholders meeting today
in Bagshot, England, where Chairman Meyer Kahn will step down
and be succeeded by current Chief Executive Officer Graham Mackay. Alan Clark will become chief operating officer today and
succeed Mackay as CEO at next year’s annual meeting.  Beer sales in  Africa , which represented about 11 percent of
revenue last year, rose 9 percent on an organic basis in the
quarter. Sales in the Asia-Pacific region rose 7 percent,
propelled by a 24 percent increase in India. South African
volumes increased 1 percent.  The company’s MillerCoors LLC joint venture in the U.S.
with  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP)  reported sales to retailers that
slid 1.4 percent as growing demand for craft-style beers
including Blue Moon and Leinenkugel’s, as well as Coors Lite,
failed to offset declines in Miller Lite sales.  The volume of soft drinks sold increased 6 percent on an
organic basis.  Group organic revenue at constant exchange rates rose 8
percent as the company increased some prices and sold more
expensive variants of beer, SAB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  