-- Saint-Gobain Boosts Cost-Savings Plan as It Trims 2012 Outlook
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-07-26T17:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/saint-gobain-boosts-cost-savings-plan-as-it-trims-2012-outlook.html
Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA ,  Europe ’s
biggest supplier of building materials, is seeking an additional
160 million euros ($197 million) in cost savings as it reduced
its full-year outlook because of Europe’s economic crisis.  “In view of the deterioration in the economic climate
since the beginning of 2012, we are now expecting for the year
as a whole a measured rise in our sales prices, a limited
decline in our volumes, and second-half operating income to be
moderately down on our first-half performance,” Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Andre de Chalendar said in a statement today.  The CEO forecast in June that 2012 revenue growth excluding
exchange rates and acquisitions would be “moderate,” mainly
led by price increases, while operating income and profitability
“should prove resilient.”  The additional savings, to occur in the second half, are
part of a planned 500 million euros in full-year reductions, the
company said. The CEO said last month that first-half earnings
would drop on lower glass sales as government austerity measures
and rising unemployment hurt Europe’s car market.  Japan ’s Asahi
Glass Co. on July 11 cut its 2012 forecast for sales and profit,
citing a drop in European construction and solar-panel markets.  Saint-Gobain (SGO) , based in Courbevoie near Paris, said in the
statement that operating income fell 12 percent in the first
half from a year earlier to 1.51 billion euros. Analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg had  expected  on average a profit of
1.54 billion euros. Net income fell 34 percent to 506 million
euros, trailing the average estimate of 695 million euros.  ‘Scaling Back’  “We expect the business trends observed in the second
quarter to continue through the second half, although  Asia  and
emerging countries should witness timid growth,” de Chalendar
said. “Against this backdrop, in the second half of 2012 we are
firmly reinforcing our new action plan: focusing on sales
prices, stepping up our cost cutting program and scaling back
our  capital spending  and financial investments compared to
second-half 2011, while maintaining a tight rein on operating
working capital.”  The cost-savings plan will have a full-year impact of 750
million euros in 2013, the company said.  De Chalendar also confirmed “a target of maintaining high
levels of free  cash flow  and a strong balance sheet” for the
full year.  Saint-Gobain rose 4.4 percent to 27.48 euros at the close
in Paris, before the company announced its earnings. The shares
have declined 7.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  