-- Samsung Rises After Forecast for Higher Phone, TV Demand
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-07-27T04:24:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/samsung-profit-misses-estimates-on-handset-output-chip-prices.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest maker of TVs and mobile phones, jumped in Seoul trading
after forecasting higher demand for panels and handsets, and
retaining its position as the world’s biggest phone seller.  Emerging markets  may spur demand for digital appliances,
 Asia ’s biggest electronics maker said today after  second-quarter
profit  missed analysts’  estimates . Demand for TVs in developed
markets may fall because of  Europe ’s economic slowdown, the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said.  The forecast and phone-sales data helped lift the  shares  as
much as 4.7 percent as Samsung topped  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the $219
billion smartphone market with such products as the Galaxy S
III. Samsung is introducing TVs with new display and Web
technologies while diversifying into semiconductors for mobile
devices to keep its dominance across the businesses and weather
a global economic slowdown.  “The third quarter is crucial,” Lee Jin Woo, a  fund
manager  at Seoul-based KTB Asset Management Co., which oversees
$5.8 billion in assets, said by phone. “Galaxy S III phone
sales and the magnitude of a turnaround in chips will be the
key.”  Sales of the new Galaxy S III smartphone are “strong” and
Samsung expects the model to be “a huge success,” helping
boost third-quarter performance, Kim Hyun Joon, a vice president
at the mobile-phone business, said on a conference call after
the earnings announcement.  ‘Strong Result’  “We hope to see another strong quarterly result,” he
said. “We will try to make the most of market opportunities.”  The  shares   changed hands  at 1,226,000 won, up 4.6 percent
as of 1:22 p.m., the most since July 13. The stock has gained 16
percent this year, compared with a 42 percent jump in Apple’s
shares and a 32 percent drop in shares of Sony Corp. in  Tokyo .  Samsung today said  net income  in the three months ended
June 30 rose 48 percent to a record 5.19 trillion won ($4.5
billion). The  average  of 25 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was profit of 5.54 trillion won. Sales at 47.6
trillion won also trailed estimates for 49.8 trillion won.  Companywide  operating profit  in the second quarter jumped
79 percent to a record 6.72 trillion won, beating the estimate
for 6.58 trillion won. Samsung announced a 500 won per share
interim dividend.  Record Smartphone Sales  Operating profit at the  telecommunications business  more
than doubled to 4.19 trillion won, Samsung said in the
statement. That fell short of the 4.4 trillion-won median of
four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung’s second-quarter smartphone shipments more than
doubled to 50.5 million units, a record volume for a single
vendor, even as global sales grew at the slowest pace in almost
three years, researcher  Strategy Analytics  said today.  Samsung led the market with a 34.6 percent share, almost
double the 17.8 percent for Apple, which sold 26 million
iPhones, the Boston-based researcher said. Including basic
types, Samsung sold 93 million phones in the three months,
keeping its lead over Nokia for a second straight quarter.  Samsung and Apple combined controlled almost half of the
global smartphone market, International Data Corp. said in a
separate statement today. Smartphones allow users to shoot high-
definition images, read books and browse the Internet.  “Smartphones have been the least affected by the macro
economy, and Samsung has the strength to expand its market
share,” Lee Sun Tae, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co., said before the announcement.  Apple Sales Miss  Apple this week reported quarterly sales and profit that
missed estimates for the second time since 2003 after selling
fewer iPhones than expected.  Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of televisions and flat-
panel screens, reported profit in the businesses even as
industrywide demand slows.  Earnings at the consumer-electronics division that makes
TVs jumped 66 percent to 760 billion won, exceeding the 542.5
billion-won median of the analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The display business had a profit of 750 billion won,
also higher than the 600 billion-won estimate.  While flat-screen TV sales aren’t picking up, the company
is benefiting from demand for displays used in mobile devices.
Operating profit at the unit making panels for smartphones,
including the Galaxy models, more than tripled in the second
quarter, accounting for 86 percent of earnings at the display
business, according to IBK Securities Co. estimates.  Memory Chips  Profit at the chip business fell 38 percent to 1.11
trillion won, the world’s biggest maker of computer-memory chips
said. Demand for PC memory probably will stay weak through the
third quarter while competition in DRAM chips for mobile devices
may intensify, Samsung said today.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM averaged
$1.03 in the last quarter, compared with $1.82 a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung, the exclusive manufacturer of Apple-designed chips
powering the iPhone and the iPad, has been diversifying from PC
DRAM to more profitable semiconductor products used in mobile
devices and servers.  Last month, the company said it plans to spend 2.25
trillion won to build a new plant making mobile-phone
processors. Samsung plans to  spend  15 trillion won on the
semiconductor business this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 