-- Sanofi Pledges ‘Thoughtful’ Job Cuts to Avoid Peugeot Drama
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-07-26T16:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/sanofi-second-quarter-profit-slips-on-copies-of-plavix-avapro.html
Sanofi (SAN)  says pressing ahead with a
plan to reorganize drug research in France is critical. So is
caution in a country on the brink of labor unrest.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher , speaking after
PSA Peugeot Citroen and Alcatel-Lucent SA unveiled a combined
13,000 job cuts this month, said shutting labs in Toulouse and
Montpellier will be done “thoughtfully.”  The 52-year-old executive wouldn’t put numbers on Sanofi’s
intended French job cuts, saying he needs to consult unions and
draw up a more specific proposal to be unveiled in September.
Overhauling pharmaceutical research at France’s largest
drugmaker may take a few years, he said.  “He’s walking on eggshells,” said Jerome Forneris, who
helps manage $8 billion at Banque Martin Maurel in Marseille,
including Sanofi shares. “These days you want to look for
consensus, negotiate, compromise. You don’t want to risk being
another Peugeot.”  Europe ’s second-biggest carmaker this month announced
measures to shut a factory near Paris and slash 14,000 jobs --
8,000 more than originally intended. Socialist President
 Francois Hollande , elected in May after pledging to block “a
parade of firings,” and his government are trying to strong-arm
the company into revising its plan.  Arnaud Montebourg , the government minister mandated with
promoting employment, called Sanofi’s job cuts plan “abusive,”
coming from a drugmaker that earned 8.8 billion euros ($10.7
billion) in 2011 and  pledged  to raise its dividend payout to
50 percent within two years.  No Apology  While he’s working to placate unions and politicians,
Viehbacher is sending a message to shareholders -- he won’t
back down.  “I won’t apologize for being a profitable company,” he
said on a conference call with reporters after announcing a
9.8 percent drop in second-quarter earnings to 1.94 billion
euros. “This is what companies are supposed to do.”  Viehbacher is betting time will take the bite out of the
Sanofi’s measures and subdue labor unions. He first stressed the
need to reorganize research in his first speech to employees the
week he took over as CEO in December 2008. In November 2011,
Sanofi said it would start a second overhaul of its research
that would lead to job cuts in several countries. In early July,
the company met with French unions to outline its plan. The
scope of the measures won’t be clear before September.  Genzyme Praise  The Canadian executive has focused Sanofi on areas such as
consumer health care, diabetes and  emerging markets , the so-
called growth platforms aimed at providing a more stable source
of revenue for Sanofi and reducing its dependence on a handful
of patented drugs such as the blood thinner Plavix. Acquisitions
include last year’s purchase of Genzyme Corp., the biggest maker
of treatments for rare genetic diseases, for $20.1 billion.  Viehbacher has criticized Sanofi scientists for failing to
develop enough new products, while praising the open,
collaborative nature of Genzyme’s labs.  “Out of our research in France, we haven’t really
developed a new molecule in 20 years,” Viehbacher said today.
Sanofi has half of its research and development activity in
France, compared with about 9 percent of sales, according to
the company.  The reorganization may lead to between 1,200 and 2,500 job
losses in  France , according to Jean-Francois Chavance, a CFDT
labor union representative.  Viehbacher declined to comment on that estimate today. He
also pointed out the company will focus on places where
scientists are most likely to be productive because of the
fertile research environment.  Fertile Ground  “We’ve decided to align our research operations in areas
that have been determined by outside experts as being the
richest eco-systems for research in France, which are notably in
Paris, Lyon and Strasbourg,” Viehbacher said. The company
employed more than 110,000 people globally at the end of 2011.  Sanofi today said earnings excluding some costs dropped to
1.94 billion euros, or 1.48 euros a share, from 2.15 billion
euros, or 1.64 euros, in the year-earlier period. That exceeded
the 1.84 billion-euro estimate of 11 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Profit was hurt by generic competition to Plavix and
the hypertension drug Avapro in the U.S.  Sanofi rose 3.4 percent to 63.75 euros, the highest price
since January 2008. The shares have  returned  22 percent over the
past year including reinvested dividends, beating the 20 percent
gain in the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  