-- Saying ‘You’re Fired’ Is the Only Answer Here
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-07-26T22:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/saying-you-re-fired-is-the-only-answer-here.html
Never underestimate the government’s
capacity for incompetence when it comes to overseeing large
financial institutions. The latest example: an ill-advised
consulting contract between  Freddie Mac ’s outside auditor and
the federal agency in charge of running the company.  Freddie Mac, the housing financier with a $2.1 trillion
 balance sheet  that was seized by regulators in 2008, remains
under the control of its conservator, the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency . Yet its  shares  and bonds are still publicly
traded. And it continues to file reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which means it must follow the SEC’s rules.  Some of those regulations seem to have been ignored when
the FHFA hired Freddie Mac’s auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, in May to provide advice on managing the company. The
firm’s work includes consulting services that are barred under
the SEC’s  auditor-independence rules , as far as I can tell. The
agency and the accounting firm say they are following the rules.
Their explanations aren’t convincing.  The contract came to light this week after the housing-
finance agency released a copy to  Vern McKinley , a consultant
working with the Washington-based advocacy group Judicial Watch,
in response to a Freedom of Information Act request. The agency
hired Pricewaterhouse to create contingency plans that would be
used if the government someday decides that Freddie Mac,  Fannie
Mae  or any of the  Federal Home Loan Banks  should be taken into
receivership and liquidated.  (Pricewaterhouse audits the 12  Federal Home Loan Banks ,
none of which is in conservatorship. Fannie Mae’s auditor is
 Deloitte & Touche LLP .)  Promoting Confidence  The reason for having auditor-independence rules is to
promote confidence in the integrity of companies’ financial
statements. Auditors are supposed to be watchdogs for the
public, not beholden to their clients. To be sure, the system is
a bit of a charade. The client pays the firm for its audit, so
there always are conflicts of interest.  The independence problem in this instance arises from the
FHFA’s connection to Freddie Mac. In substance, the agency is
 Freddie Mac. (FMCC)  Here’s how the company explained the relationship
in its latest  annual report :  “As our conservator, FHFA succeeded to all rights, titles,
powers and privileges of Freddie Mac, and of any stockholder,
officer or director thereof, with respect to the company and its
assets,” the company said. “FHFA has delegated certain
authority to our board of directors to oversee, and to
management to conduct, day-to-day operations. The directors
serve on behalf of, and exercise authority as directed by, the
conservator.”  With that in mind, the auditor-independence problems become
obvious. There are three main principles underlying the SEC’s
rules: An auditor can’t function in the role of management. It
can’t audit its own work. And it can’t serve in any advocacy
role for an audit client.  The contract, under which Pricewaterhouse will receive
about $757,000, calls for “providing general advice on
receivership preparation, assisting the FHFA in developing pre-
and post-receivership procedures, implementing those
procedures,” and “assisting the FHFA in the operation and
administration of a receivership.”  That means Pricewaterhouse is giving advice on how to run
Freddie Mac, and even could be called upon to help operate the
company at some point. The contract says the firm’s work
includes making recommendations regarding “valuation services”
and “human resources.” The SEC’s  rules  list those as services
that auditors are prohibited from providing to audit clients.  PR Work  Additionally, the contract calls for Pricewaterhouse to
offer advice on “public relations,” which is an advocacy role.
Other services include making recommendations on risk
management, claims management, asset management, and securities
management.  A Pricewaterhouse spokesman,  Chris Atkins , released this
statement: “PwC takes its auditor independence requirements
very seriously. Our acceptance of the FHFA engagement was in
consideration of the SEC’s auditor independence rules. The scope
of services being performed for FHFA is consistent with those
rules.” Asked to explain how, he declined to comment.  The housing-finance agency released a statement from its
general counsel, Alfred Pollard. “This is not a contract for
PwC to perform work for Freddie Mac or any other entity
regulated by FHFA,” he said. Additionally, Pollard said
“measures are in place to ensure against conflicts of interest
and to maintain independence, including a process that prevents
PwC employees working on this FHFA contract from working on
contracts for a regulated entity.”  Nothing in his statement addressed the point that the
agency, as Freddie Mac’s conservator, is standing in the
company’s shoes, or that Pricewaterhouse is providing advice on
how to manage the company’s affairs. A Freddie Mac spokeswoman,
Sharon McHale, declined to comment.  The independence issues here were easily avoidable. There
are plenty of firms the agency could have hired instead. Plus,
Pricewaterhouse was the auditor for Freddie Mac when it was
seized in 2008. The company has never acknowledged anything
wrong with its books, even though its asset values obviously
were overstated before it collapsed. There’s no good reason to
hire Pricewaterhouse for this work.  In a world where rules were consistently enforced, the SEC
would be cracking down. Of course, we know better than to expect
the government to enforce rules against itself. Here’s what the
SEC should be demanding that the housing-finance agency tell
Pricewaterhouse: As Freddie Mac’s auditor, you’re fired.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a special signed editorial,  Michael R.
Bloomberg  on the long road to  sane gun policies .  Also, the editors on  bringing back earmarks  and on  easing
austerity  in the U.K.;  Jonathan Alter  on the collective effort
to  “build that” ; Stephen L. Carter on why all  NCAA punishments 
should be as harsh as  Penn State ’s;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on why
 Obama would be better than Romney  on  Iran ;  Pankaj Mishra  on the
challenge of  Asian state capitalism ; William Pesek on  U.S.-China
relations ; Kim Schoenholtz and Lawrence White on  remaking Libor .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  