-- LSE-LCH Deal Will Damage Competition, Equiduct Tells OFT
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-07-26T12:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/lse-lch-deal-will-damage-competition-equiduct-tells-oft.html
Equiduct Systems Ltd., the European
trading system owned by Citadel LLC and  Knight Capital Group
Inc. (KCG) , told U.K. antitrust regulators that London Stock Exchange
Group Plc’s proposed acquisition of a majority stake in
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. will stifle competition.  The  Office of Fair Trading  should impose remedies before
approving any transaction and ensure access to the clearinghouse
is maintained, Chief Executive Officer Peter Randall wrote in a
letter to the regulator obtained by Bloomberg News. The OFT,
which is studying the deal, should also seek the appointment of
independent directors to ensure fairness, Equiduct wrote.  LSE (LSE)  is seeking to convince regulators in the U.K.,  Spain 
and  Portugal  that the acquisition of a stake in LCH.Clearnet,
 Europe ’s biggest clearinghouse, won’t stifle competition. LSE
owns clearing and settlement units Cassa di Compensazione &
Garanzia and Monte Titoli SpA, which it acquired with its 2007
purchase of Borsa Italiana SpA. The European Commission blocked
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s takeover of NYSE Euronext in February,
partly over concern it would reduce competition in clearing.  “In the event the LSE acquires LCH it will in essence have
control of three separate clearing facilities,” Equiduct, a
London-based trading system aimed at retail brokers, wrote in
the  letter . “It should not be inconceivable therefore that the
LSE will look for synergies and since the Italian clearing
operations have already migrated onto their proprietary
Millennium technology infrastructure that the same fate awaits
the newly acquired entity.”  Majority Stake  LCH and LSE shareholders in April backed the
clearinghouse’s proposal to sell a majority stake to LSE for 463
million euros ($562 million). The U.K. regulator is consulting
on the deal before making a final verdict.  LCH.Clearnet, whose SwapClear service began clearing
interest-rate contracts traded between banks in 1999, has seen
its market share in equities eroded by new entrants even as
regulators mandated more clearing to reduce financial risk.  “There must at least be a risk that access and migration
policies will be discriminatory,” Equiduct wrote. “The OFT
should be particularly careful in ensuring that, conditional
upon the transaction being approved, there are strong remedies
for anti-competitive behaviour.”  Frank Shepherd, a spokesman for the OFT, and Lucie
Holloway, a spokeswoman for LSE, both declined to comment.  ‘Numerous Hoops’  “There are numerous, complicated hoops to jump through,”
Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London ,
said today. “Users are sensitive about clearing access,
regulators about clearing location, and competition authorities
will ponder fixed-income clearing market share. I’d expect the
deal to go through because of the crucial support of major
dealers.” He rates LSE hold.  LCH.Clearnet attracted interest from Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.
and NYSE Euronext before agreeing to the LSE bid. The firms
intend to complete the transaction by the fourth quarter.
LCH.Clearnet shareholders, which include banks and brokers that
use its services, will retain at least 40 percent ownership.  The LSE offer values LCH.Clearnet at 813 million euros,
according to a March 9 statement. Shareholders of LCH.Clearnet
will get 19 euros a share in cash plus 1 euro a share from a
special dividend.  Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  is trying to diversify
LSE’s business away from traditional equities after losing
market share to alternative trading systems. In December, LSE
agreed to buy the 50 percent of FTSE International Ltd. it
didn’t already own from Pearson Plc for 450 million pounds ($697
million) in cash. LSE scrapped a bid for TMX Group Inc. last
year after failing to win support from the Canadian company’s
shareholders.  LSE said in May that second-half profit quadrupled, boosted
by money earned from deposits at its Italian central
counterparty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  