-- SEC May Require More Cyber Risk Disclosures Under Senate Bill
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-07-26T20:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/sec-may-require-more-cyber-risk-disclosures-under-senate-bill.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission would consider stronger guidelines for company
disclosures about the risks of computer attacks, under a
cybersecurity bill being debated in the Senate.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobby, criticized the provision in a letter to senators
yesterday, saying it’s designed to force companies to tell the
public about breaches of their  computer networks .  The bill “aims to ‘name-and-shame’ companies and could
compromise their security,” R.  Bruce Josten , the Washington-
based Chamber’s executive vice president of government affairs,
said in the letter. “The Chamber strongly rejects mandating
businesses to publicly disclose sensitive security
information.”  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who leads
the Senate Commerce Committee, pushed to include the provision
in a revised bill aimed at boosting the nation’s computer
defenses.  “The SEC provision protects investors, the public and the
companies themselves,” Vincent Morris, a spokesman for
Rockefeller, said in an e-mail. “So it’s our feeling that the
Chamber should not try and undermine that piece.”  Material Effect  Under guidance issued last October, the staff of the SEC’s
division of corporation finance recommended that financial
statements address the threat posed by hackers if a network
breach is “reasonably likely” to have a material effect on a
company, including the theft of intellectual property or
increased security costs.  The cybersecurity bill would require the SEC to review that
guidance and decide whether it should be updated or issued as a
formal commission guideline. The bill would also require the SEC
to submit annual reports to Congress on cyber risks disclosed in
the previous year.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  “A good board thinks about protecting the company from
cyber risk anyway,”  Charles Elson , director of the John L.
Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the  University of
Delaware , said in an interview. “Mandating disclosure will
create a bureaucratic response rather than a thoughtful
review.”  Security Standards  Rockefeller is among a group of senators led by  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent, and  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican, pushing for the Senate to pass cybersecurity
legislation before its summer recess that starts Aug. 6.  The senators revised their cyber-defense bill last week in
an effort to pick up Republican votes, outlining a system of
voluntary security standards for critical infrastructure such as
power grids and chemical plants, rather than mandatory
government rules contained in a previous bill.  The Senate voted today to proceed to a vote on the bill.  The Chamber of Commerce opposes the bill’s approach, saying
the voluntary standards could be used to impose new obligations
on participating companies.  The Lieberman bill is S. 3414.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  