-- Securities Lawsuits Decreased in First Half of 2012
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-26T11:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/securities-lawsuits-decreased-in-first-half-of-2012.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest
bank, said its Mexican unit paid a $27.5 million fine to the
nation’s regulators for non-compliance with  money-laundering 
systems and controls.  The infringements relate to the late reporting of 1,729
unusual transactions and the failure to report 39 others, the
London-based bank said in a statement yesterday.  HSBC Mexico is “aware of the importance of strengthening
compliance and risk management controls for the overall
financial system,” it said in the statement. “It has already
taken actions and invested resources to address the past
failures for which it has been fined.”  HSBC executives have been grilled by U.S. lawmakers this
month over claims that bank affiliates gave terrorists, drug
cartels and criminals a portal into the U.S. financial system by
failing to guard against money laundering.  The fine is the largest levied by Mexico’s banking
regulator, Guillermo Babatz, president of the National Banking
and Securities Commission, or CNBV, said in an interview
broadcast in Mexico by Radio Red. Other banks operating in
Mexico are being fined for similar reasons, though for lesser
amounts, he said, without providing details.  HSBC has taken steps including closing accounts where there
is “insufficient information” about a customer or if they are
considered “high risk,” the bank said. The unit stopped the
purchase, sale and deposit of U.S. dollars in cash at branches
on Jan. 1, 2009.  The bank paid the fine this morning for “grave”
administrative failures that have since been corrected, HSBC
Mexico’s chief Luis Pena Kegel said in an interview on Radio
Red. The fine hasn’t affected HSBC Mexico’s finances, he added.  “The bank today is very different from the bank that was
subject to fines,” Pena Kegel said.  Compliance Action  Visa Europe May Get Antitrust Complaint on Credit Cards, EU Says  Visa Europe Ltd. may receive an antitrust complaint from
European Union regulators over credit card fees, the EU’s
competition commissioner said.  “We are preparing a supplementary statement of
objections,”  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters yesterday.  Visa Europe reduced similar fees for  debit cards  last year
to settle a 2009 EU complaint. Almunia said earlier this month
that he hoped the operator of the largest payment-card network
in the 27-nation EU would reduce cross-border fees for credit
cards and deferred-debit transactions to the same level as
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  He said in May that total costs retailers face
to handle payments haven’t decreased since 2006.  “Visa Europe is committed to continuing dialogue to reach
a commercially acceptable agreement for setting credit and
deferred debit interchange,” said Amanda Kamin, a spokeswoman
for the company in London. “We believe this can be done
amicably and relatively speedily.”  Visa Inc. (V) , MasterCard and some of the biggest U.S. banks
this month agreed to a U.S. settlement of at least $6.05 billion
in a price-fixing case brought by retailers over credit-card
swipe fees.  Visa Europe split from Visa Inc. before the U.S. card
company’s initial public offering in early 2008.  Retailers have long complained about the cost they are
charged to accept card payments. Unlike for checks, banks charge
interchange fees to process debit- and credit-card payments.
Card operators set the amounts, own the payment networks and
pass the money to the lenders. The retailer’s bank pays the fees
to the customer’s card issuer.  Google Could Face More Antitrust Probes, EU’s Almunia Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  may face further antitrust probes by the
European Union, the bloc’s competition chief said, even as the
owner of the world’s biggest search engine works to resolve an
existing investigation.  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said the
current investigation doesn’t cover areas such as applications
for mobile phones. Regulators will review the “solutions that
Google will present to us and hopefully we will reach a
settlement” for the existing investigation, he said.  While “we have not opened any other investigation, I don’t
exclude in future” that further probes will be started, Almunia
told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  Almunia asked Google in May to make an offer to settle
concerns that it promotes its own specialist search services,
copies rivals’ travel and restaurant reviews, and that its
agreements with websites and software developers stifle
competition in the advertising industry.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Google continues “to work cooperatively” with the
commission, said Al Verney, a spokesman for the company in
Brussels.  Broadband Research’s Kinnucan Pleads Guilty in Tip Case  Broadband Research LLC founder John Kinnucan, who once
publicly refused to cooperate with an FBI probe of insider
trading, admitted to passing material nonpublic information to
hedge-fund clients.  Kinnucan, who was indicted in February, pleaded guilty
yesterday in Manhattan federal court to one count of conspiracy
and two counts of  securities fraud . He told U.S. District Judge
 Deborah Batts  that he gave tips to hedge fund clients of his
expert-networking firm, including two in New York.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara accused Kinnucan, 55, of passing tips about  SanDisk
Corp (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  and  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  The U.S.
alleged that Kinnucan “befriended” employees of technology
companies to obtain inside information from them.  He paid his sources in a variety of ways, prosecutors said,
including buying them meals at high-end restaurants and shipping
them expensive food, as well as giving them confidential
information about other technology companies.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Katherine Goldstein yesterday told
the judge that the government had evidence proving Kinnucan
shared tips he had obtained from employees at public companies
“through monetary and non-monetary benefits.”  Jennifer Brown, a public defender representing Kinnucan,
said after court that her client was remorseful for all of his
actions.  Kinnucan also agreed to pay a fine of up to $5 million and
forfeit up to $164,000.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Diamondback’s Scolaro Aided FBI in Insider Probe, U.S. Says  Anthony Scolaro, a former portfolio manager for Diamondback
Capital Management LLC, provided “substantial assistance” to a
federal probe of insider trading at  hedge funds , according to
U.S. prosecutors.  Scolaro, who pleaded guilty in November 2010 to conspiracy
and securities fraud, made at least 43 recorded calls with
various individuals that were monitored by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, assistant U.S. attorneys Reed Brodsky and Antonia
Apps said in a letter to the court filed yesterday in Manhattan.  He also helped develop “leads and other valuable
information” in connection with a search executed at
Diamondback, as well as the government’s crackdown on so-called
expert-networking consultants, according to the letter.  “Scolaro’s cooperation provided the government with
valuable information about the hedge fund industry and the use
of matchmaking firms. Scolaro’s cooperation led directly to
several investigations,” Brodsky and Apps said.  Scolaro is scheduled to be sentenced on July 30 by U.S.
District Judge William Pauley in New York. He admitted to
participating in an insider-trading scheme with Franz Tudor, a
former Galleon Group LLC fund manager in a conspiracy that began
in October 2007 and ended in 2008.  In late November 2010, FBI agents from New York and Boston
executed search warrants at the offices of Level Global
Investors LP as well as Diamondback, firms founded by alumni of
SAC Capital Advisors LP. Agents that day also searched the
offices of Loch Capital Management in Boston.  The case is U.S. v. Scolaro, 11-cr-429, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Fidelity Joins BlackRock in Weighing Libor Action Against Banks  BlackRock Inc.,  Fidelity Investments  and Vanguard Group
Inc., firms that collectively manage more than $7 trillion, are
gauging how their clients have been hurt by Libor manipulation
and whether to take legal action as at least a dozen banks are
being investigated for rate-rigging.  The money managers can take cues from Charles Schwab Corp.
and the city of Baltimore, which in lawsuits predating the
record fine levied on London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month, sued
lenders for artificially suppressing Libor, or the London
interbank offered rate. Schwab alleged last year that returns on
money funds and short-term debt strategies were depressed by the
banks’ actions, while Baltimore’s lawsuit against Barclays and
other banks stems from lower returns on  interest-rate swaps .  Libor-related litigation “has the potential to be the
biggest single set of cases coming out of the financial crisis
because Libor is built into so many transactions and Libor is so
central to so many contracts,” said  John Coates , a professor of
law and economics at  Harvard Law School  in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. “It’s like saying reports about the inflation
rate were wrong.”  Global regulators are reviewing the rate-setting mechanism
and contemplating criminal charges against bank traders who
manipulated Libor, a benchmark  interest rate  for about
$500 trillion in financial products. While Libor affects a broad
range of investments from money funds to leveraged buyout
financing, firms seeking to sue may struggle to quantify losses
and pinpoint which banks are responsible for them, according to
interviews with more than half-a-dozen industry executives,
lawyers and former regulators.  BlackRock, which oversees $3.56 trillion; Fidelity, which
manages $1.6 trillion; and Vanguard, with $2.1 trillion, said
they’re examining the damage to their funds.  “On behalf of our clients and shareholders, we have been
following developments in the Libor market and the related
litigation activity for some time,”  Vincent Loporchio , a
spokesman for Boston-based Fidelity, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We have noted recent news with interest and
continue to evaluate our options.”  BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, said
litigation surrounding Libor is complex and that “it will be
some time before greater clarity emerges,” according to Bobbie
Collins, a spokeswoman for the New York-based company.  For more, click here.  Ex-UBS Client Sentenced to 4-Month-Term for Swiss Accounts  Luis Quintero, a former  UBS AG (UBS)  client from Miami Beach,
Florida, was sentenced to four months in federal prison for
failing to disclose $4 million in Swiss bank accounts, the  Miami
U.S. Attorney ’s Office said.  Quintero, a 64-year-old wholesale perfume importer, pleaded
guilty in April and agreed to pay a $2 million fine for failing
to file a Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts for the
calendar year 2006, according to court records.  Born in Cuba, Quintero immigrated to the U.S. when he was
10 years old. He owned Genesis International Marketing Corp.,
which sold designer perfumes and cosmetics, primarily in airport
and duty free shops in the Caribbean and Latin America,
according to court records. He was sentenced July 24 in Miami
federal court, according to an e-mailed statement.  U.S. prosecutors have charged about 50 Americans with tax
crimes since 2009, when UBS avoided prosecution by paying
$780 million, admitting it helped thousands of U.S. citizens
evade taxes and turning over the names of 250 clients to U.S.
authorities. Zurich-based UBS later revealed another 4,450
accounts.  Quintero’s attorney, Ian Comisky, declined to immediately
comment.  The case is U.S. v. Quintero, 12-cr-20192, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Compliance Policy  European Funds Face Tougher Rules for Securities Lending  Europe’s top markets regulator proposed tougher rules for
managers of funds for retail investors, tightening guidelines on
securities lending and moving profits from such loans directly
to investors.  Fund managers lending securities to other funds, typically
for the purpose of short selling, should ensure they can recall
the securities and cancel the arrangement at any time, the
European Securities and Markets Authority said yesterday. The
profits of the transaction should go directly to investors
because they bear the risk, the ESMA said.  European regulators are trying to make investors aware of
the lending process and remove the incentive for funds to lend
more assets by requiring them to pass on the profits from the
practice to customers. Investors risk losing their assets if the
counterparty borrowing them is declared bankrupt, as happened
with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  “These comprehensive guidelines are aimed at strengthening
investor protection and harmonizing regulatory practices across
this important European Union fund sector,” Steven Maijoor,
chairman of Paris-based ESMA, said in a e-mailed statement
yesterday.  European funds lend about 30 percent more of their
securities than do counterparts in North America, according to
CACEIS Investor Services, a custodian and trading unit of  Credit
Agricole SA. (ACA)   Peter de Proft, director general of the  European Fund and
Asset Management Association , declined to comment on ESMA’s
proposals before consulting with his members. The European
Federation of Investors didn’t return a call seeking comment.  ESMA, set up in 2011 to harmonize market rules across the
27-nation EU, is overhauling regulations governing fund
managers. The agency last month proposed that bonuses for senior
hedge-fund managers should be deferred to align their personal
interests with the amount of risk their firm takes.  Bank-Rate Rigging Faces Tougher EU Rules, Antitrust Scrutiny  The European Union pledged tougher supervision of interbank
lending rates and said it may expand antitrust probes as part of
a response to the global scandal triggered by the manipulation
of Libor.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, said
he’s aiming to present proposals by year end for overhauling
governance of Libor, Euribor and other market indices. EU
Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia also said that he may
expand probes into bank-rate rigging.  “The international investigations under way into the
manipulation of Libor have revealed yet another example of
scandalous behavior by the banks,” Barnier told reporters in
Brussels. The commission is also examining whether interbank
lending rates should be set using real transaction data rather
than estimates, he said.  Confidence in Libor, the benchmark interest rate for more
than $500 trillion of securities, has been shaken by Barclays
Plc’s admission that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond ,
who resigned as London-based Barclays’s chief executive officer
after the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($450 million), told
British lawmakers this month that other banks also lowballed
Libor submissions.  The Barclays fine has provoked renewed calls for tougher
oversight of the financial system and pushed regulatory probes
of interbank lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  Libor, the London interbank offered rate, is determined by
a daily poll carried out on behalf of the British Bankers’
Association that asks banks to estimate how much it would cost
to borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. Similarly, Euribor, the euro equivalent, is overseen
by the European Banking Federation in Brussels.  The EU last year opened formal investigations into possible
rigging of these two rates and Tibor, their Tokyo equivalent.  These probes are continuing, Joaquin Almunia, the EU’s
antitrust chief, said in Brussels yesterday.  The commission yesterday proposed a draft law that would
make rigging of market benchmarks punishable with jail terms and
other criminal sanctions. Any attempted manipulation could be
punished with fines and other administrative penalties.  These plans need approval by lawmakers in the European
Parliament and national governments before they can take effect.  Viviane Reding , the EU’s justice policy commissioner, told
reporters at the same briefing that the Bank England had failed
to act on warnings that Libor may have been manipulated.  Banks to Face Basel Capital Rules for Derivatives Trades  Banks will be forced to put more capital behind derivatives
trades in a push by global regulators to bolster market
stability and reinforce clearinghouses.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision said an amount
equal to 2 percent of a bank’s trades through clearinghouses
should be added to the risk-weighted assets used to determine
the lender’s total capital requirements.  The interim rules are “one of the final pieces” in
overhauling bank capital requirements in the wake of the 2008
financial crisis, the Basel group said in a statement on its
website  yesterday . “Further work in this area is planned for
2013,” it said. The group also published provisional rules on
standing funds that are tapped when a bank can’t complete a
trade.  Global regulators have sought tougher rules for derivatives
since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
government rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of
the largest traders in credit-default swaps. The plans include
pushing more transactions through clearinghouses in a bid to cut
complexity and risk.  Regulators have in turn  called for  tougher safeguards for
these platforms because of the increased threat that their
collapse could damage the global financial system.  The 2 percent rule will apply to trades with clearinghouses
that meet international standards, the Basel group said.
Transactions that take place with less well regulated clearers
would face tougher rules, linked to the platform’s credit
rating. The measures will take effect in January 2013.  Testimony and Reports  Geithner Tells Republican Critics U.K. Had to Repair Libor  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner yesterday
rebutted Republican critics, telling lawmakers that U.K.
regulators bore responsibility for addressing possible
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate after he told
them of his concerns when he was president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York in 2008.  “We brought those concerns to their attention and we felt,
and I still believe this, that it was really going to be on them
to take responsibility for fixing this,” Geithner told the
House Financial Services Committee yesterday.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
worldwide, has been shaken by Barclays Plc’s acknowledgment that
it submitted false rates.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the Fed’s response to
Congress last week, saying the central bank cooperated with
other regulators and suggested a fix. Documents released by the
New York Fed showed that Geithner sent an e-mail in June 2008 to
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  recommending changes to how
Libor is calculated.  Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Republican from Texas
who requested documents from the New York Fed on the  Libor
probe , said Geithner’s recommendations to the British were not
enough.  “If they were having structural problems, I thought your
e-mail was appropriate, but what was being disclosed here was
fraud, this rate was being manipulated,” Neugebauer said.
Geithner defended his actions by saying he raised concerns on
Libor to the British authorities and U.S. regulators, including
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  For more, click here.  Peregrine Has U.S. Futures Regulators on Defense in Congress  U.S. futures regulators, scrutinized for missing warning
signs before the collapse of Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
defended their oversight to congressional lawmakers yesterday
and called for new rules.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the nation’s
derivatives overseer, identified lapses in financial controls in
at least three reviews of Peregrine since 2000,  Gary Gensler ,
the agency’s chairman, told a House Agriculture Committee
hearing yesterday. Gensler called for new reviews of self-
regulatory organizations, including the  National Futures
Association , the company’s primary overseer.  “The question remains: Who is minding the store?”
Representative Frank D. Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican and
chairman of the panel, said at the hearing. “New regulations
mean nothing when regulators are not enforcing the existing
rules on the books. What we need is regulators doing their
job.”  About $220 million in segregated client money is
unaccounted for at Cedar Falls, Iowa-based Peregrine, which does
business as PFG Best. Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Russell Wasendorf Sr. was ordered held in custody July 13
following a suicide attempt and a signed confession that he had
defrauded customers for 20 years.  Gensler said the futures-regulatory system “clearly
failed” to protect Peregrine customers. “I think that we have
to take a close look at all that CFTC did to oversee the NFA and
also the markets such as Peregrine,” Gensler said.  The CFTC relies primarily on NFA and other self-regulatory
organizations as front-line monitors of futures market
participants. In turn, the CFTC oversees NFA and conducts
periodic reviews to ensure the self-regulator is properly
overseeing the industry. The agency also performs limited-scope
reviews of futures brokers. Two such reviews of Peregrine
conducted by the agency in 2007 and 2008 didn’t detect
fraudulent activity.  For more, click here.  To view Gensler’s testimony, click here.  Securities Lawsuits Decreased in First Half of 2012, Study Finds  Federal securities class actions decreased in the first
half of 2012 compared with last year largely because of a
decline in Chinese reverse mergers and the lowest number of
mergers and acquisitions since the third quarter of 2009,
according to a study.  According to the  Stanford Law School  Securities Class
Action Clearinghouse and Cornerstone Research, 88 federal
securities class-action, or group lawsuits were filed in the
first six months of this year, a reduction of 6 percent from
both the first half and second half of 2011.  Stanford Law School and Cornerstone reported five
securities class actions filed over the reverse-mergers in the
first half of the year, a 79 percent decline compared with the
same period last year, and seven such filings related to mergers
and acquisitions in the past six months, a 67 percent decline
from the same period in 2011.  The decline in filings stemming from Chinese reverse
mergers isn’t a surprise because “that sector of the market has
already been badly hit by concerns over the integrity of Chinese
private-company financial statements and these deals have been
disappearing from the market,”  Joseph Grundfest , a professor at
Stanford Law School, said in an e-mailed statement.  Fewer lawsuits over mergers and acquisitions are directly
related to a low deal count, Grundfest said.  While class actions over such Chinese deals dropped,
filings against foreign issuers as a percentage of all lawsuits
were greater than every year since 1997, with the exception of
last year, according to the study.  Future filings may result from allegations of Libor
rigging, according to Grundfest.  Regulators in the U.S. and Europe are probing more than a
dozen banks worldwide over allegations they manipulated Libor, a
benchmark for financial products valued at $360 trillion
worldwide.  In the Courts  DZ Bank Sues UBS Over $160.4 Million in Mortgage Securities  UBS AG (UBSN)  was sued in New York by  DZ Bank  AG, Germany’s
largest cooperative lender, which claimed fraud over
$160.4 million in residential mortgage-backed securities.  DZ Bank, based in Frankfurt, sued yesterday in state
Supreme Court in Manhattan seeking damages for claims including
fraud, fraudulent inducement and negligent misrepresentation.  Christiaan Brakman, a New York-based spokesman for Zurich-
based UBS, declined to comment on the lawsuit.  DZ Bank has also sued Barclays Plc,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and HSBC Holdings Plc in the same court this year over
residential mortgage-backed securities.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s.  The housing market collapsed, and the crisis swept up
lenders and investment banks as the market for the securities
evaporated.  The case is Deutsche Zentral Genossenschaftsbank AG v. UBS
AG, 652575/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  