-- Senate Republicans Push on Offshore Drilling, Keystone XL
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-07-26T18:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/senate-republicans-push-on-offshore-drilling-keystone-xl.html
Senate Republicans introduced a bill
to expand offshore drilling, cut regulations and override U.S.
State Department rejection of the Keystone XL pipeline as both
parties seek to make energy a winning election-year issue.  The Senate legislation is made up of provisions the
Republican-led House has already passed and that haven’t
advanced in the Senate, which is led by Democrats. White House
aides have President  Barack Obama  has opposed legislative
efforts to speed Keystone and expand offshore drilling.  “This administration and congressional Democrats have
repeatedly taken steps to restrict and inhibit American energy
production,” Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky  said today in a statement.  The legislation adds to a list of energy bills introduced
by members of both parties that probably have little chance of
advancing this year, given the congressional calendar and
disagreement between parties. Lawmakers plan to begin a five-
week recess on Aug. 3, and then adjourn before the election.  Republicans have made unsuccessful attempts to force
approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone project, which would
carry crude from Alberta’s oil sands to refineries in the  Gulf
Coast .  President Barack Obama rejected a permit in January over
concerns a rupture might threaten an aquifer in Nebraska. The
administration is reviewing a new proposal from the Calgary-
based company.  Democrats, Taxes  Democrats have run into obstacles in pushing legislation to
repeal billions of dollars in tax subsidies for large oil and
gas companies.  At a news conference today, Representative  Chris Van Hollen , a Maryland Democrat, said Republicans want to protect
tax “giveaways” to oil and gas companies that make billions of
dollars in profit.  Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska, who would take over
leadership of the energy committee if Republicans take control
of the Senate in November, introduced legislation yesterday to
expand offshore drilling by giving oil and gas producers greater
access to the waters off the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, along
Alaska’s shore and the  Gulf of Mexico .  Obama’s Interior Department plans as many as 15 lease sales
in its 2012-2017 offshore development plan.  Murkowski said in a statement her bill would improve energy
security and create jobs, and “send a clear message that
America is serious about developing its energy resources.”  Jobs and  energy security  have been cited by Republican
leaders as the party pushes greater development of fossil-fuel
resources such as oil, coal and natural gas.  The legislation passed by the House yesterday would
schedule 29 sales by 2017 with more drilling off the California
and Virginia coastlines.  The administration said it “strongly opposes” the House
measure and senior Obama advisers would recommend a veto,
according to a July 23 statement of administration policy.  Obama has said he supports an “all-of-the-above” energy
plan that includes fossil fuels, nuclear power and clean-energy
innovation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  