-- East Coast Storms Ground Planes, Cut Power to Thousands
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-26T23:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/severe-storms-possible-derecho-forecast-for-u-s-northeast.html
Hundreds of flights were canceled
and almost 300,000 customers lost power as severe thunderstorms
accompanied by rain, hail and possibly derecho winds swept into
the Northeast.  A tornado reported in Elmira,  New York , tore down trees,
ripped roofs from buildings and trapped people in vehicles,
according to the U.S.  Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,
 Oklahoma . A tornado watch was issued for parts of New York,
Pennsylvania,  Vermont ,  Connecticut  and  Massachusetts .  The storms broke out along a cold front that stretched from
New York across the U.S. to northern Texas, said Corey Mead, a
meteorologist at the center.  Some 300,000 homes and businesses were without power in New
York, Pennsylvania and Ohio as of 7 p.m. local time, according
to company websites. Hail the size of quarters fell in parts of
Pennsylvania, said AccuWeather Inc.  At least 842 flights in the U.S. were canceled as of 6:45
p.m.  LaGuardia Airport  in New York was the hardest-hit with 162
grounded, said  FlightAware , a tracking company based in Houston.  A flash flood watch was posted for parts of Massachusetts,
Connecticut and Rhode Island, where as much as 4 inches (10
centimeters) were possible, the weather service said.  Forecasters were watching to determine if the storm met the
criteria for a derecho, Mead said.  Wind Damage  “At this point it is fair to say it is going to probably
be a derecho,” Mead said. “There is definitely going to be a
continuous pattern of wind damage across New York, Pennsylvania
and southern  New England .”  A derecho struck the mid-Atlantic last month, leaving 4.3
million people without power from New Jersey to  North Carolina 
as it unleashed winds of as much as 91 miles (146 kilometers)
per hour, as powerful as a Category 1 hurricane. Twenty-four
deaths were linked to the storm and its aftermath, according to
the  Associated Press .  Even if a derecho doesn’t form, the storms have already
left snapped trees, damaged buildings and downed  power lines 
from Ohio to New York, according to the storm center.  A  derecho  is defined as an event that has wind gusts of at
least 58 mph and leaves a swath of damage for a minimum of 240
miles, according to the center’s website.  A University of Iowa science professor,  Gustavus Hinrichs ,
came up with the term in a paper published in a meteorological
journal in 1888, according to the storm center. The word means
“straight ahead” in Spanish and Hinrichs used it to contrast
the windstorms with tornadoes that have twisting winds.  Earlier Storms  A less-intense wave of thunderstorms earlier today snarled
air traffic along the East Coast from Boston to Philadelphia.
Delays of more than three hours were reported at LaGuardia and
in  Newark , New Jersey, according to the  Federal Aviation
Administration .  Delays of 90 minutes or more have lasted all day at
LaGuardia, Newark and John F. Kennedy International Airport in
New York, the FAA said.  FirstEnergy Corp., based in Akron, Ohio, said about 116,700
customers in  Pennsylvania  and 13,400 customers in Ohio had lost
electricity by 7 p.m. American Electric Power Co., based in
Columbus, Ohio, said more than 51,000 customers were blacked
out, while NYSEG, a unit of Iberdrola SA, had about 31,100
without service in New York, according to the utility’s website.  The storm threat prompted New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo
to cancel events in Rochester and Syracuse and to go to New York
City to help manage preparations, according to a statement from
his office.  Consolidated Edison Inc., which provides electricity to
most of the New York City area, struck a deal with its largest
union today to end a two-week lockout and allow personnel to
prepare for the storm, Cuomo said. The union’s 8,500 members
still must vote to approve the contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  