-- Shale Writedowns Begin as Lower Prices Follow Record M&A
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t ,   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-07-26T23:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/shale-writedowns-begin-as-lower-prices-follow-record-m-a.html
The record slump in natural-gas
prices signals companies from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to  Ultra
Petroleum Corp. (UPL)  are at risk of writing off billions of dollars
of assets following a bubble in U.S. shale-gas acreage.  The clearest sign came yesterday, when  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and
 Encana Corp. (ECA)  said they were writing down a total of $3 billion
in the value of their gas properties in North America.  “This is not something we are alone in facing as natural-
gas prices remain low,” Encana Chief Financial Officer Sherri Brillon said at a June 21 investor meeting when she warned of
impending impairment charges.  Energy companies have been struggling to adjust to lower
prices since a glut in supplies from booming shale production
deflated gas futures to a 10-year low this year. Producers have
cut gas output, shifted drilling to look for crude and curtailed
spending to compensate. Bankers may reduce lines of credit in
2013 for some companies as the value of reserves are diminished
by lower prices, said  Ted Harper , who helps manage more than $8
billion for Frost Investment Advisors in Houston.  “There’s a myriad of little knock-on effects that come
about as a result of these re-determinations and shifts in book
value,” Harper said.  Encana, Canada’s biggest gas producer, wrote down $1.7
billion on its North American assets, with $1.1 billion of that
in the U.S. and the rest in Canada. More writedowns will
probably be needed based on expectations for future gas prices,
Encana Chief Executive Officer Randy Eresman said in a
conference call with investors yesterday.  Decade Low  Gas sank to $1.902 per million British thermal units in
April, down 86 percent from $13.694 in 2008 and the lowest price
in a decade.  BG Group, the U.K.’s third-largest oil and gas producer,
wrote down $1.3 billion on its U.S. shale fields after cutting
its long-term estimate for U.S. benchmark Henry Hub prices to
$4.25 per million Btu from $5. BG entered its first U.S. shale
project in 2009.  “When you have a new price outlook, it’s necessary to test
your assets against the impairment process,” BG CEO Frank Chapman said on a conference call. “Our strategy is to create
value over a wide range of Henry Hub prices.”  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , based in Houston, recorded impairment
charges of $73 million on its U.S. assets in the second quarter
mainly because of lower prices, the company said in a filing
yesterday. Additional writedowns may be necessary, the company
said.  More Impairments  In May,  Exco Resources Inc. (XCO) , based in Dallas, reported a
$276 million writedown on its assets, and  Quicksilver Resources
Inc. (KWK) , based in  Fort Worth , Texas, wrote down $63 million. Gas
prices averaged $2.49 per million Btu that month.  Also in May, Ultra Petroleum, based in Houston, warned in a
conference call that it might need to take a writedown during
the second quarter. It reports earnings Aug. 2.  “We do think that natural-gas prices have bottomed and we
see a few encouraging signs,” CEO Michael Watford said in a May
3 conference call with analysts.  BHP, Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL) , China’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM)  are among foreign oil and gas companies to buy U.S.
shale assets in the past two years.  BHP, Australia’s largest oil and gas producer, indicated in
May that it was considering taking impairments on the value of
the U.S. shale gas assets it acquired for $20 billion in 2011.
BHP bought assets from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  for $4.75 billion
last year and acquired Petrohawk Energy Corp. for $15.1 billion
in August.  $2.5 Billion  Investors have been braced for BHP to write down from $5
billion to $10 billion of its investment,  Peter O’Connor , a
 Bank of America  Merrill Lynch analyst wrote in a May 31 note to
clients. The Australian company probably will write down its
investment in the Fayetteville Shale gas formation of Arkansas
by less than $2.5 billion, given expected U.S. prices, he
estimated.  BHP probably can avoid writing down its purchase of
Petrohawk because production from the field it acquired is
higher in more valuable oil and natural-gas liquids, O’Connor
wrote.  A spokesman for BHP declined to comment.  The property writedowns take a big toll on earnings, said
 Mike Dunn , an analyst who covers Encana at FirstEnergy Capital
Corp. in Calgary. Encana’s net loss of $1.48 billion in the
second quarter was largely driven by the impairment charge.
Lower profits at BG,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
were driven by declining oil and gas prices.  Declining Profit  Exxon’s profit from U.S. wells tumbled 53 percent during
the second quarter to $678 million, even as its domestic gas
output increased 1.4 percent from a year earlier, the company
said in a public filing yesterday.  Impairments in asset values don’t affect cash flows that
most investors are more concerned about when picking stocks,
Dunn said.  Statoil, Exxon and Shell are among companies saying they’re
not expecting to have to write down the value of their
properties.  Exxon, which became the largest U.S. gas producer by virtue
of its $35 billion acquisition of XTO Energy in 2010, doesn’t
expect the current gas slump to prompt any writedowns,  David Rosenthal , a spokesman, said during a conference call with
analysts yesterday.  ‘Constant’ Review  Statoil has seen no need to write down the value of its
holdings in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale, CFO Torgrim Reitan
said in a conference call yesterday.  “We’re looking constantly at impairment issues,” Shell
CEO  Peter Voser  said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday. “But so far so good, there’s nothing to report.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  