-- Shell Profit Falls More Than Expected as Oil Prices Drop
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2012-07-26T15:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/shell-profit-drops-with-oil-as-maintenance-limits-production.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, reported a larger decline than expected in
second-quarter earnings as crude prices dropped and maintenance
work on fields held back production.  Profit fell 13 percent, excluding one-time items and
inventory changes, to $5.7 billion, The Hague-based Shell said
today in a statement. That missed the $6.3 billion average
 estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Benchmark Brent
crude futures slid 7 percent from a year earlier to average
$108.76 a barrel on slowing global economic growth.  “I am concerned that the economy slows down,” and “it’s
a patchy picture at the moment,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter
Voser  said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “But I take a
much longer, longer view on the three-to-five year time horizon
and I see demand coming back strongly.”  Shell Class A  shares  fell 2.3 percent to 2,137.5 pence in
 London .  Shell profit missed analyst estimates mostly because of
“planned maintenance activities, which impacted production
volumes,” Jean-Charles Lacoste, an analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux SA, said in a report. At the same time, “natural gas
realizations in the Americas decreased by 52 percent.”  Norway’s Statoil  BG Group Plc, the U.K.’s third-largest natural-gas
producer, today said profit declined by 77 percent because of a
charge on U.S. assets, where gas prices fell to the lowest in a
decade this year. Norway’s Statoil ASA also said profit dropped.
Exxon Mobil Corp. earnings missed analyst estimates.  Net income dropped to $4.06 billion from $8.66 billion a
year earlier. Shell produced 3.103 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the quarter, up from 3.046 million a year
ago. The company plans to raise volumes to about 4 million
barrels a day as soon as 2017.  Shell in April indicated that field maintenance would cut
extraction by about 50,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in
the second quarter. Voser said today that Shell has extended
works at its Pearl gas-to-liquids plant in Qatar into the third
quarter. The start of the expanded Motiva refinery at  Port
Arthur  in  Texas  resulted in a leak and fire in June, closing a
crude unit until 2013.  Repair Costs  Shell and partner Saudi Arabian Oil Co. still have to
estimate the costs of the Port Arthur refinery repair and its
impact on earnings, Voser said. “None of us are happy with this
incident and we are working hard to turn this around.”  The company’s net gearing dropped to 8.1 percent from 12.1
percent a year earlier.  Voser is examining plans to expand into East Africa, where
explorers have made the largest natural-gas discoveries in a
decade. Shell, which has indicated interest in Mozambique gas
fields, has started talks with Anadarko Petroleum Corp. after it
dropped a bid for Cove Energy Plc, Anadarko’s partner in the
African nation.  “ East Africa  is obviously a new gas province, which is
coming up fast,” Voser said today. “We have exploration there
in Tanzania, but we are watching the situation very carefully”
and “this is a province which is of interest.”  Shell said it had paid $500 million for Hess Corp.’s share
in the U.K.’s Schiehallion field.  Alaska Drilling  The Anglo-Dutch company plans to invest $1 billion in
exploration off  Alaska  this year after several years of delays.
The company, which has invested about $4.5 billion in
preparation, had a setback this month when a drilling ship
slipped mooring and drifted toward shore, once again raising
environmental concerns.  “Ice conditions will dictate how long drilling season will
last,” Voser said. The company plans to drill at least two
wells this year starting as soon as August.  In February, Voser agreed to raise the dividend this year
for the first time since 2009 on a forecast for a 50 percent
increase in  cash flow  from operations through 2015 because of
new projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin and Francine Lacqua in London at 
2268 or  egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  