-- Shell May Trim 2012 Alaska Drilling for Inspections, Ice
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-26T10:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/shell-may-trim-2012-alaska-drilling-for-inspections-ice.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  may have to
scale back its Arctic oil-exploration this year after
unrelenting ice and trouble passing U.S. Coast Guard inspections
delayed the planned July start of drilling.  The company’s fleet remains in Dutch Harbor,  Alaska , days
away from the Chukchi and Beaufort seas off the state’s north
coast, waiting for ice to break up and the U.S. to issue final
permits for drilling five test wells. Arctic conditions require
Shell to quit work by late October, before ice reforms.  Europe’s biggest oil company has spent about $4.5 billion
since 2005 on leases, permits and equipment to reach an
estimated 20 billion barrels in fields off Barrow, Alaska -- the
northernmost U.S. city. In comparison, Shell today reported
second-quarter  earnings  excluding one-time items and inventory
changes, fell 13 percent to $5.7 billion.  “They should have started drilling by now, because their
window of opportunity is very short,” said  Tad Patzek ,
professor and chairman of the Petroleum & Geosystems Engineering
Department at the  University of Texas  at Austin. He estimates
that if the rigs get on site by mid-August, they will drill
three wells “at best” this year.  The company isn’t considering asking to remain in the water
past the deadline to compensate for delays. Arctic waters are
accessible only from July through October, and the permit issued
to the company requires work to stop before ice and limited
daylight might hinder operations.  Arctic Versus Mexico  The exploratory wells mark the industry’s return to a
region Shell abandoned in the 1990s as  oil prices  fell and the
deep waters of the  Gulf of Mexico  offered better prospects.
Shell’s plight may discourage companies such as  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
and  Statoil ASA (STL) , which also hold leases in the region, and delay
a potential discovery that Mead Treadwell, Alaska’s lieutenant
governor, compared with  Prudhoe Bay , North America’s largest oil
field.  The Coast Guard said the barge Arctic Challenger that will
haul Shell’s oil-recovery equipment isn’t ready to join the
fleet and needs improvements in its fire detection and
extinguishing systems.  Environmental groups seeking to block exploration say at
least two events suggest Shell isn’t ready: On July 14, the
Noble Discoverer lost its anchor and drifted toward shore in the
Aleutian Islands. The company this month also asked the
Environmental Protection Agency to ease air restrictions for the
vessel, which has been unable to meet limits set before the rig
headed for Alaska.  “There’s been one problem after another,” Cindy Shogan,
executive director of the Alaska Wilderness League, said in an
interview in Washington July 23. “We’ve said all along Shell
isn’t ready, and they’re just demonstrating that.”  Ice Monitoring  Shell is still monitoring the sea ice and declines to
speculate on the timing or number of wells it will drill,
spokeswoman Kelly op de Weegh said in an e-mail.  “We remain committed to reducing the environmental
footprint of our Arctic offshore operations, and we continue to
work with EPA to establish revised emissions standards that can
be realistically achieved,” she said. “We remain confident we
are setting a very high bar in the Arctic.”  Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar , whose agency grants permits
to drill, said Shell still has a few conditions that must be met
and the final authorization might be issued “sometime in the
month of August,” according to an June 26 interview in
Trondheim,  Norway .  Analysts said Shell’s fleet will move into position as soon
as obstacles are cleared, to make the most of the shrinking
drilling season.  ’Intellectual Capital’  “It’s a lot of cash, a lot of capital -- money capital and
intellectual capital -- that is tied up in this exercise,”
 Philip Weiss , an analyst at Argus Research Co. in  New York , said
in an interview. “They’ve got nothing to show for it.”  Shell plans exploratory wells, which Patzek said may as
long as a month to drill each. Wells in the region aren’t
expected to be producing oil until after 2020, according to
Shell.  To satisfy regulators and environmentalists, the company
agreed to employ a bowhead whale monitoring program, suspend
drilling activity while Native Alaskans are hunting in the area
and build vessels and a containment system that would help put a
wild well under control in harsh Arctic conditions.  The company can work in the  Beaufort Sea  from July until
October, and in the  Chukchi Sea  from July through September. The
sun remains below the Barrow horizon from late November through
late January, proving limited daylight for drilling work.  Shell isn’t considering making a request to extend the
drilling period past those deadlines to compensate for the time
lost early in the season,  Curtis Smith , a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  ‘Less Time’  “The shortened window give Shell less time to actually
drill to depth,” Robert Dillon, spokesman for Senator  Lisa Murkowski , a Republican from Alaska, said in an e-mail “The
most important thing, though, is that Shell is able to
demonstrate once again that it is able to drill safely in the
Arctic and that it’s able to continue exploration next summer.”  Shell’s equipment for the job and emergencies includes 33
vessels including the Noble Discoverer and the Kulluk, and 600
workers, Steve Phelps, Shell’s manager of exploration for Alaska
said in June 12.  “This is a game for seniors, not juniors, this is a game
for people who have long-term vision and deep pockets, it’s high
risk, but potentially- high reward,”  Peter Hutton , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in London, said in an interview. “It
requires patience from the operator but also from investors”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  