-- LSI Gains on Signs Hard-Drive Slump May End This Year
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-26T20:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/lsi-gains-on-signs-hard-drive-slump-to-end-san-francisco-mover.html
LSI Corp. (LSI) , a maker of chips used in
computer-disk drives, rose the most in three years after it
posted higher-than-expected growth from a new business and said
demand for its main product will recover in the fourth quarter.  LSI  jumped  16 percent to $7.04 at the  New York  close, its
biggest one-day increase since March 2009.  The Milpitas, California-based company yesterday forecast
third-quarter sales of $620 million to $660 million, compared
with an average analyst  estimate  of $650 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The outlook wasn’t all that bad, a little bit lower than
consensus but better than some investor expectations,” said
Ruben Roy, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. “You’ve got
the bad news out of the way.”  The company  said  revenue from its acquisition of SandForce,
which makes controller chips for solid-state disk drives, rose
42 percent in the second quarter from the preceding three months
and sales in the business including SandForce will more than
triple this year.  LSI’s main business is controllers for traditional spinning
magnetic-disk-based computer hard drives. The company’s stock
had fallen after its largest customer,  Seagate Technology Plc (STX) ,
said on July 6 that quarterly sales and profit margin would miss
its previous forecast, citing reduced hard-drive shipments.  LSI Chief Executive Officer Abhi Talwalkar yesterday said
he expects shipments of hard disks to fall in the third quarter
as customers reduced unused stockpiles, before returning to
normal seasonal levels in the fourth quarter.  The stock has gained 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  