-- Siemens Cautions on Outlook as Earnings Fall Short
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-07-26T09:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/siemens-cautions-on-outlook-as-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates.html
Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, said reaching its full-year earnings goal
has become harder after reporting fiscal third-quarter profit
and sales that fell short of analysts’ estimates.  It has become “clearly more ambitious” to reach the
target of 5.2 billion euros ($6.31 billion) to 5.4 billion euros
in net income from continuing operations, Munich-based Siemens
said today. Profit on that basis climbed to 1.23 billion euros
in the three months ended June 30, from 763 million euros a year
earlier. The average  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 1.4 billion euros.  Siemens shares dropped the most in six months in  Frankfurt 
as lower-than-expected orders highlighted caution among
customers. Siemens cut its earnings forecast from 6 billion
euros in April after delays in linking up off-shore wind parks
to Europe’s power grid resulted in charges. Its outlook
contrasts with that of  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , which today said it’s more
optimistic about its targets than three months earlier.  “The market seems to no longer believe that the lower band
of the profitability goal is attainable,” said Sjoerd Ummels, a
Brussels-based ING analyst with a hold recommendation on the
stock. Declining industrial profitability means Siemens must
“address capacity being out of sync with underlying demand.”  Shares Fall  Siemens traded 2.7 percent lower at 64.60 euros as of 11:42
a.m. The stock is down 13 percent this year, cutting the
company’s market value to 59 billion euros. ABB climbed as much
as 4 percent today.  Revenue exceeded the value of future orders received for
the second consecutive quarter, with the book-to-bill ratio
declining to 0.91. That doesn’t augur well for the coming
months, Ummels said.  Given the 3.6 billion-euro profit reported in the nine
months to the end of June, Siemens will have to generate 1.6
billion euros in the fourth quarter to reach the bottom end of
its full-year target, about 30 percent more than it has on
average earned in the previous quarters this year.  Sales in the third quarter rose 10 percent to 19.5 billion
euros, as the energy and health-care divisions drove profit
higher. Siemens had costs last year that depressed earnings.  Abandoned IPO  An initial share sale in the Osram lighting unit has now
been all but scrapped in “overwhelming” favor of a spinoff
that would allocate Osram shares to existing Siemens
stockholders, the company said today. The unit’s IPO was
initially delayed in September, and the spinoff would likely
happen in early 2013, after approval at the January
shareholders’ meeting. Siemens is the world’s second-largest
maker of lighting equipment behind  Royal Philips (PHIA)  Electronics NV.  A spinoff would mean the public listing of Osram will be
“more independent of capital market conditions,” and give the
business more flexible financing options, Siemens said.  Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser has cautioned that
Siemens would experience a “rocky road” to meet its goals,
with  China  set to remain weak until 2013. ABB, the Swiss maker
of factory robots and power transmission equipment, said today
it’s more confident about its short-term outlook as China starts
to rebound. Net income at the Swiss company fell 27 percent to
$656 million.  Siemens, which was founded in 1847, plans to implement a
cost-saving program, whose details are still being developed, in
order to make the company more “lean, fast and agile”,
Loescher said in a conference call with journalists.  Details will be announced once it has been presented to
senior management, and will entail more than simply cutting
jobs, he added.  Falling Orders  Siemens’s new orders fell 23 percent from a year earlier to
17.8 billion euros, mainly after the company had booked a 6
billion-euro train order from Deutsche Bahn AG last year, which
Siemens said was the largest order in its history.  Growth at the health care and energy sectors led the profit
increase, with profit climbing to 396 million euros at health
care and to 683 million euros at the energy unit. The industry
division’s profit declined 26 percent to 523 million euros,
while the infrastructure and cities segment saw profit hold
steady at 215 million euros.  “The development looks like it will continue to be under
pressure this year,” Heinz Steffen, an analyst at Fairesearch
in Kronberg,  Germany , said by telephone. “That’s particularly
the case in the industry segment, and other sectors such as
infrastructure and cities don’t look to be progressing either.”  General Electric Co. (GE) , based in Fairfield,  Connecticut , said
July 20 its earnings from continued operations advanced 7
percent to $4.01 billion, exceeding analyst estimates, as
declining wind-turbine demand failed to stop energy earnings
growing and the financing arm’s profit grew by a third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  