-- Siemens Spreads Efficiency Program to Solar Unit
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-07-26T12:58:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/siemens-spreads-efficiency-program-to-solar-unit.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  said it’s making changes
at its solar-energy business after it lost money because of
cancellations from customers and support from European
governments flagged.  Siemens, which built a solar-thermal power plant in
Lebrija,  Spain , is suffering from “major cancellations that
have grown enormously” as countries with high solar radiation
are cash-strapped, Chief Financial Officer Joe Kaeser said today
during a call with reporters. He didn’t detail the nature of the
changes, which he said were a realignment.  “The solar business in general, and at Siemens in
particular, didn’t turn out to deliver what we hoped for and
what has been expected, so there has to be some material
realignment in that sector,” Kaeser said. “We have started
that already in the second quarter, and that will continue.”  The changes are part of a broader cost cutting program
announced by Siemens to make the company more “lean, fast and
agile,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said today. The
company is still working on details of that program and will
make an announcement after the annual meeting of senior managers
later this year.  Siemens,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Areva SA (AREVA)  acquired stakes
in the last three years in solar-thermal equipment makers,
backing a technology valued for its ability to store and supply
power around the clock unlike photovoltaic, or PV, panels which
directly convert sunlight into electricity. In the U.S.,
developers have ditched solar-thermal for photovoltaic panels
whose prices fell 51 percent last year.  Siemens bought Solel Solar Systems for $418 million in 2009
to boost the solar thermal power business. It booked charges of
more than $300 million at the unit two years later.  The acquisition was followed by austerity programs in
countries that are suitable for the technology, such as Greece,
Italy and Spain, as governments fight sprawling national debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  