-- Singapore Exchange 4Q Profit May Drop Amid Equities Slump
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-07-26T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/singapore-exchange-4q-profit-may-drop-amid-equities-slump.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , operator of
Southeast Asia’s biggest stock market, may report a 13 percent
drop in fourth-quarter profit today as it faces the biggest
slump in equity trading in four years.  The bourse will post net income of S$69.3 million ($55
million) in the three months ended June 30, according to the
average of six analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
value of daily equity volume slipped 22 percent from a year
earlier to S$1.1 billion in the quarter, taking the full-year
decline to 20 percent, the most since 2008, Bloomberg data show.  “The prospects for a turnaround in trading volumes don’t
look that great,” said  Sam Hilton , Hong Kong-based analyst at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asia Ltd. “It’s challenging because
that’s driven by the global macroeconomic environment. Lighter
listing activity is also not helping.”  Companies raised about $518 million from initial public
offerings in Singapore this year, or 7.4 percent of the amount
in the same period in 2011. The decline in equity trading
outpaced those in  Tokyo  and Hong Kong, a city that drew global
brands including  Prada SpA. (1913)   Singapore also lost IPOs such as Manchester United Ltd.,
the English soccer team with a record 19 national league
championships, which will list in the U.S. Formula One’s stock
sale in the city, where it hosts the Grand Prix’s first night
race, may also be put on hold.  Derivatives Potential  Singapore Exchange , under pressure to expand since
Australian regulators rejected its $8.7 billion bid for ASX Ltd.
in April 2011, has started new products to its derivatives
business. Of the exchange’s 60 members, 40 participate in the
 derivatives market , according to the bourse’s website. The ASX
and Singapore Exchange said this week they are tying up with
data centers to offer better connectivity for investors.  “Equities is still the bulk of the revenue, so that will
be the key consideration,” said Leng Seng Choon, an analyst at
DMG & Partners Securities in Singapore. “I see growth potential
in derivatives, but the question is how many more months or
years will it take to increase revenue share?”  So-called open interest for equity and fixed-income
derivatives increased 33 percent in June, according to a
 Singapore  Exchange  statement  on July 4. Trade in listed equity-
derivatives globally dropped 11 percent in the first half and
remained stable for fixed income, the  World Federation of
Exchanges  said this week.  Index Futures  The bourse also trades 12 index futures. The Nikkei 225
Index Futures, also available on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
and Osaka Securities Exchange, was the most active, with 29.9
million contracts in the year ended June, according to exchange
 data . The MSCI Taiwan Index Futures, exclusive to the Singapore
bourse, was the second-most popular, followed by  India ’s Nifty
Index Futures, also traded on the CME and Indian bourses.  “The key advantage they now have is that they have
reasonable volume in many key Asian indices, so really a one-
stop shop,” Arjan Van Veen, an analyst at Credit Suisse in  Hong
Kong , said in an e-mail.  Singapore Exchange shares climbed 8 percent this year,
outperforming the Australian and Hong Kong bourses. The
benchmark Straits Times Index has gained 14 percent in 2012,
luring the region’s biggest investors to a rally that trails
only  Denmark  among developed nations.  While Singapore Exchange rejected market speculation last
week that it was in merger discussions with the London Stock
Exchange Group Plc, Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. and the
Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. have turned to mergers to
expand.  Exchange Mergers  Hong Kong Exchanges, the world’s second-biggest exchange by
market value, has bid $2.2 billion for the London Metal
Exchange, the world’s largest metals bourse, and TSE is seeking
to buy Osaka Securities Exchange Co., valuing its smaller rival
at 129.6 billion yen ($1.7 billion).  Mergers and acquisitions is “not really on my agenda,”
Singapore Exchange’s Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said
in an interview with the Financial Times published this week.
Carolyn Lim, a spokeswoman at the exchange, declined to comment
on the report.  Singapore Exchange renewed 50-year-old Bocker’s contract
with a 33 percent pay rise last month, extending his service
through June 30, 2015. Under the Swede, the bourse rolled out
one of the world’s fastest trading systems, abolished the lunch
break and introduced new products such as commodities contracts
with the London Metal Exchange.  Singapore is among the proponents of a proposed link among
Southeast Asian bourses which would facilitate cross trading of
stocks in Singapore,  Malaysia ,  Vietnam ,  Indonesia , the
 Philippines , and  Thailand .  “At the operational level, SGX is doing everything that
they can,” Neo Chiu Yen, an analyst at ABN Amro Private
Banking, which oversees $207 billion in assets, said in a phone
interview. “Whatever investment SGX made, they should reap the
benefits when market volumes come back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  