-- Soggy Summer in North Europe Delays Grain for Region’s Beer
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-07-26T13:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/soggy-summer-in-northern-europe-delays-grain-for-region-s-beer.html
Torrential rains that lashed
northern  Europe  since last month delayed crop development from
the U.K. to  Sweden , threatening to erode the quality of grains
used in the region’s beer, whiskey and vodka.  Rain in the U.K. and  Ireland  that topped records in June
have persisted through July, with parts of England receiving a
month’s worth of precipitation in a two-week period, according
to their national weather forecasters. The barley harvest in
 Germany , the European Union’s biggest beer producer and
consumer, was interrupted last week as rain made some fields
inaccessible, farm lobby Deutscher Bauernverband said.  Lack of sun and soggy conditions have slowed the maturation
of wheat and barley plants in the U.K. to about 10 days behind
the normal pace, said  Charlotte  Garbutt of the Agriculture and
Horticulture Development Board. The weather in the next four
weeks will be “crucial” for crop development, Irish Brewers
Association senior executive Thomas Burke said in an e-mail.  “Beer does require certain consistent and high quality
ingredients from farmers,” said Pierre-Olivier Bergeron,
secretary general of The Brewers of Europe, a Brussels-based
trade group representing the makers of 90 percent of the EU’s
beer. “The brewer may have to work harder to source his
ingredients this year.”  Malting Barley  The global benchmark price of wheat has rallied 43 percent
since mid-June on the Chicago Board of Trade as the worst U.S.
drought in 56 years sapped grain and oilseed crops. In Paris,
malting barley for November delivery is up 20 percent to 270
euros ($332) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe.  While areas of southern and eastern Europe contend with dry
weather, conditions are “overly wet” further west, the EU’s
crop forecasting unit wrote in a July 23 report. The French
government cut its condition rating last week for soft wheat
crops in the northern  region  of Picardie, the country’s second-
biggest growing area. The U.K., which has experienced sunnier
weather this week, may see rain return by tomorrow, with
heaviest totals in the southeast, the  Met Office  forecast.  Stockholm  had the wettest June on record since 1786 while
temperatures across  Sweden , Europe’s biggest vodka exporter,
were the coldest for the month since 1991, according to the
Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute in Norrkoping.
This month, some areas had 200 percent of the normal amount of
rain through July 24.  Absolut Vodka  The heaviest rains missed the country’s Skane region, where
the winter wheat used in  Pernod-Ricard (RI)  SA’s Absolut vodka is
grown, said Elin Wibell, a spokeswoman for the company in
Stockholm.  “Lack of sun has delayed the harvest a bit,” Wibell said
in an e-mail July 23. “The region where we get our winter wheat
has been spared from the heavy rains. The heavy rains and
flooding was further north in the region of Blekinge.”  Rains have caused more damage to spring crops including
 barley , said Erik Hartman, the secretary-general of the Swedish
Feed and Grain Association in Stockholm. Some fields are
suffering from fusarium, a fungus that can cut yields, he said.  “In the middle part of Sweden the rain has been heavy, and
spring crops are not looking good at all,” Hartman said by
telephone July 18. “We are a few weeks before the harvest so
quite a lot can happen, both in a positive and negative
direction.”  Anheuser-Busch  EU soft wheat production may total 93.8 million tons this
year, down from 94.7 million a year earlier, farm lobby Coceral
said June 29. Barley output was pegged at almost 43 million
tons, up from 41.7 million tons a year earlier.  Leuven, Belgium-based  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s
biggest brewer, is “monitoring the situation very closely,”
Karen Couck, a spokeswoman for the company, said by e-mail July
23. While the company does “not expect a significant impact for
AB InBev overall,” the wet weather situation “varies zone by
zone,” she said.  It’s still too early to know if rains will affect barley
used in  Scotland ’s whiskey, said Rosemary Gallagher, a
spokeswoman for the Edinburgh-based Scotch Whisky Association.
The U.K. is Europe’s biggest whiskey producer and exporter,
according to Eurostat, the EU’s statistics office.  “The industry monitors conditions and is in regular
contact with relevant organizations, such as farmers and
malsters,” she said by e-mail on July 18.  The U.K.’s wheat harvest typically starts in early August,
while some barley in southern areas of the country has already
being collected “under quite wet conditions,” said Garbutt, a
senior analyst at the AHDB’s grain unit in Kenilworth,  England .  “Crops really needed some sunshine to get through the
harvest and fill the grain, and obviously we’re not seeing
enough of that,” Garbutt said by telephone July 18. “It’s
created a lot of uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  