-- Solarworld-Led Group Files China Anti-Dumping Case in Europe
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-07-26T14:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/solarworld-led-group-files-china-anti-dumping-case-in-europe.html
Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s largest
solar-panel maker, led a group of manufacturers in requesting
the European Commission investigate whether Chinese competitors
dumped products at below-market rates on regional markets.  The EU ProSun group filed the anti-dumping complaint in
Brussels after a similar request in the U.S. resulted in duties
on solar imports from  China . The group has 25 members including
companies from  Italy ,  Spain  and Germany’s Sovello GmbH, EU
ProSun President Milan Nitzschke said today.  “A majority of the European solar industry backs the
complaint,” Nitzschke said by e-mail. “Chinese companies are
offering their products below manufacturing costs despite their
own massive losses.”  The filing highlights tensions with China over aid for
wind-power and solar companies, which have grabbed market share
from European rivals that once dominated the industry. The
increased competition has slashed profit margins, cutting solar-
panel prices by half last year and tipping more than a dozen
companies into bankruptcy.  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  of Germany, once the biggest solar-cell maker,
surrendered its lead to China’s Suntech Power Holdings Co. in
the past four years and sought court protection from creditors
in April.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  of Denmark is cutting a 10th
of its workers as its market share slips away to China’s Sinovel
Wind Group Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.  State Support  The Asian nation has supported companies with credit lines
from state-owned China Development Bank Corp., helping Suntech
and peers Yingli Green Energy Holdings Co.,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and
LDK Solar Co. ramp up production even as panel prices fell.  Solarworld’s complaint in the U.S. led President  Barack Obama ’s administration in March to impose anti-dumping duties on
Chinese solar manufacturers. The Commerce Department in May
ruled that they sold products below cost and introduced levies
ranging from 31 percent to 250 percent.  Representatives from Chinese solar companies including
Suntech, Yingli and Trina outlined their stance in Beijing
today.  The anti-dumping case is “unreasonable,” “groundless”
and motivated by Solarworld’s commercial interests, Yingli Chief
Strategy Officer Wang Yiyu said. The European Union  enjoyed a
 trade surplus  by selling solar manufacturing equipment and raw
materials to China in recent years, Wang said.  Chinese Call  In a joint statement, the companies called on the EU to
exercise caution when determining the start of an anti-dumping
investigation. They also urged the Chinese government to protect
their interests.  “Suntech rejects Solarworld’s allegations that it has
received illegal subsidies,” Jerry Stokes, Suntech’s European
unit president, said in a statement yesterday. “We hope the
European Commission will recognize that any protectionist
measures would harm the entire European solar industry and that
a misguided trade war would undermine years of progress.”  Chinese companies provided about 68 percent of solar panels
last year compared with 40 percent in 2009, the London-based
researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimated. Companies in
EU countries produced about 11.5 percent of panels in 2011
versus 19 percent in 2009 while the U.S.’s share has dropped to
9 percent from 23 percent in the same period.  German Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said July 19
that the country would support the commission should it start an
anti-dumping probe.  45-Day Clock  Joe Hennon, a spokesman for the European Commission,
declined to say today in Brussels whether the EU agency had
received the complaint. Regulators have 45 days after receiving
a complaint to assess it and decide whether to open an
investigation.  The commission will probably find reasons to hear the case,
Jefferies Group Inc. analysts said in a note to investors on
July 24.  While the case is harder to win in Europe because of EU
rules related to World Trade Organization regulations, the
implications of possible EU dumping tariffs are “much more
serious” than the U.S. case because of “substantially” higher
volumes sold in  Europe , Jefferies said.  Jenny Chase, BNEF’s head solar analyst, said the U.S. case
has resulted in higher capacity utilization for Taiwanese cell
makers, with few signs that module prices are going up.  “Taiwanese, Korean and Southeast Asian manufacturers are
the most likely beneficiaries of EU anti-dumping tariffs and
might even have to increase capacity to supply the market,” she
said today by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  