-- South Africa’s PPI Unchanged at 6.6%, Higher Than Predicted
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-07-26T11:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/south-africa-s-june-ppi-unchanged-at-6-6-higher-than-predicted.html
South African producer-price
 inflation  was unchanged in June, higher than economists
expected, easing pressure on the central bank to cut  interest
rates  to spur  Africa ’s largest economy.  The cost of goods leaving factories and mines increased 6.6
percent from a year earlier, Pretoria-based Statistics  South
Africa  said on its website today. The  median estimate  of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 5.9 percent. Prices rose
4.4 percent in the month.  The increase was “mainly due to higher electricity
tariffs,”  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , South Africa’s fourth-biggest
bank, said in an e-mailed note to clients. “Producer inflation
is expected to moderate in the months ahead.” Interest rates
“will remain stable well into 2013,” the lender said.  The Reserve Bank last week cut its benchmark lending  rate 
by half a percentage point to 5 percent to help buffer the
economy from a slowdown in  Europe  as a debt crisis in the region
curbs demand for exports. The bank lowered its growth forecast
for this year to 2.7 percent from 2.9 percent.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the state-owned power utility,
raised tariffs by 16 percent this year, partially offsetting the
benefits of lower commodity prices on inflation. The rand has
dropped 8 percent against the dollar since the beginning of May,
raising import costs.  The rand was at 8.3177 against the dollar as of 1:05 p.m.
in Johannesburg from 8.4242 before the data was released.  Rate Cut  Rising producer costs may add to pressure on consumer-price
 inflation , which slowed to 5.5 percent in June from 5.7 percent
the month before. The central bank, which is required to keep
consumer-price inflation within a range of 3 percent to 6
percent, expects the rate to average 5.6 percent this year.  Traders have been boosting bets the  Reserve Bank  will cut
the repurchase rate again before the end of the year as
inflation and growth slow. The yield on forward-rate agreements
due in December fell 54 basis points, or 0.54 percentage points,
to 4.7 percent in the past month.  Next year, the statistics agency plans to split the
producer-price index into five separate measures -- agriculture,
mining, electricity and water, intermediate manufacturing and
final manufacturing -- and won’t publish an aggregate headline
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  