-- Spain's Montoro Slams ECB for Failing to Warn on Debt
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-07-26T16:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/spain-s-montoro-slams-ecb-for-failing-to-warn-on-debt.html
Spanish Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro attacked the  European Central Bank  for lacking
commitment to the currency union and failing to warn  Spain  about
the risks of its foreign borrowing.  “We need clear rules and institutions that are committed
to them,” he told the Spanish senate today, according to a
version of his speech the ministry distributed by e-mail.
“There can be no banking union without a central bank like that
of the  United States .”  Montoro joined Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia Margallo
in criticizing the central bank even as their colleague, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos, courts policy makers in northern
Europe to win support for Spain’s bid to rein in its debts and
restart its economy.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year
debt instead of German bunds touched a record 650 basis points
yesterday before ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said
policymakers may consider granting the European bailout fund a
banking license to boost its firepower.  Yields tumbled further today before Montoro spoke as ECB
President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever is necessary to
defend the currency union. Spanish 10-year yields fell as low as
6.928 percent, their lowest level in more than a week.  Garcia Margallo said on July 21 that the ECB was “hiding”
as it declined to intervene while Spanish yields soared,
according to a report in  Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung . Last
month, he said German lenders helped cause Spain’s debt crisis
through profiteering. Montoro said today that institutions such
as the ECB didn’t warn Spain enough about the risks of taking on
too much external debt.  ‘Long-Term View’  If  Germany  “throws one country to the wolves that will
affect everyone, so they should take a more long-term view,”
Garcia Margallo told Onda Cero Radio on June 14.  De Guindos won support from German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  at a meeting in Berlin this week after which
they issued a joint statement praising Spain’s budget-cutting
efforts and arguing the country’s surging borrowing costs
exaggerate the problems in its economy. De Guindos also
negotiated an interest rate of 1.5 percent for Spain on as much
as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) of loans for bailing out the
country’s banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  