-- Spain at 7% Stresses Inadequacies of Rescue Options: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-26T11:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/spain-at-7-stresses-inadequacies-of-rescue-options-euro-credit.html
Money managers with more than $800
billion are betting European policy makers can only offer  Spain 
a temporary respite from record borrowing costs.  Yields on Spain’s two-, five-, 10- and 30-year  government
securities  climbed to euro-era highs this week amid speculation
the nation will need a bailout to backstop its regions and
banks. While the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development called for the  European Central Bank  to buy Spanish
debt, investors including AllianceBernstein Ltd. and M&G Group
Plc said policy makers are hamstrung in how to rescue an economy
twice the combined size of Greece, Ireland and  Portugal .  “This crisis is unprecedented so the responses need to be
unprecedented,” said Arif Husain, the London-based director of
European fixed-income at AllianceBernstein, which oversees $407
billion. “Anything the ECB can do would prove temporary. The
whole problem is that anything that’s happening at the moment is
unconvincing, and markets hate uncertainty.”  Spain’s  10-year yield  reached as much as 7.751 percent
yesterday, and was at 7.05 percent as of 12:20 p.m.  London  time.
Five- and 30-year yields also reached the most since the common
currency was introduced in 1999 this week, while the cost of
insuring against a default climbed to its highest ever.  The bond market rallied today after ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled that officials are prepared to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” Draghi said during a
speech in London.  Solvency Problem  “It’s difficult to see what the ECB can do because the
problem is a solvency problem, not a liquidity problem,” said
Ralf Ahrens, who helps manage about $19 billion as head of fixed
income at Frankfurt Trust and owns fewer Spanish bonds than are
in the benchmarks against which it measures performance. “It
can’t be solved by printing money. The Spanish government needs
to convince the market it can deal with the economic problems.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB supported the  bond market  in
previous periods of turmoil by buying securities in the
secondary market and by offering unlimited three-year loans
under its Longer-Term Refinancing Operations, some of which
banks reinvested in sovereign debt.  The central bank channelled 1 trillion euros ($1.2
trillion) to regional banks via two rounds of extraordinary
lending in December and February, temporarily reversing a sell-
off in Italian and Spanish bonds.  Temporary Fix  While the rate on Spain’s two-year note fell to as low as
2.15 percent following the second portion of the funding, they
rose to as high as 7.147 percent yesterday. It fell 60 basis
points to 5.81 percent today after Draghi’s comments.  “People are talking about the possibility of another LTRO,
but this would surely prove even more temporary than before,”
said Michael Riddell, a London-based  fund manager  at M&G, which
oversees about $320 billion. “All the liquidity injection
managed to achieve last time was to channel insolvent government
debt down the throats of insolvent banks at prices where the
banks are now even more underwater than they were at the
beginning of this year.”  Spain requested 100 billion euros of international aid for
its banks last month, becoming the fourth nation in the euro-
region to seek assistance. The risk for Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is that the additional burden of helping regional
governments pushes bond yields to unaffordable levels.  European leaders agreeing that the Spanish bank aid doesn’t
end up on the nation’s balance sheet may be an option to restore
investor confidence, AllianceBernstein’s Husain said in a July
23 phone interview.  Burden Sharing  “Spain looks a completely different country if they can
isolate the banking issues, and that problem is then put on the
European balance sheet as opposed to Spain’s,” Husain said.
That would prompt him to possibly buy the securities, he said.  A full-blown Spanish bailout can be averted if the ECB
starts buying the nation’s bonds in large quantities, OECD
Secretary General Angel Gurria said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in London on July 24.  The bond-buying program should be reactivated “more
decisively and with bigger numbers” as “you have to stabilize
the yields,” Gurria said. “Just do it.”  The ECB bought more than  200 billion euros  of debt from
 Greece , Ireland, Portugal,  Italy  and Spain using its Securities
and Markets Program, which began in May 2010. While the
initiative helped slow the ascent of yields, Greece, Ireland and
Portugal all asked for official assistance.  The central bank said July 23 that it didn’t settle any
government bond purchases for a 19th consecutive week.  Inefficient Market  “Draghi and his colleagues are aware that the SMP isn’t an
efficient answer to the problems in the bond market,” Ahrens
said. “The question is whether they start it again to buy some
time. If the situation deteriorates and yields go up further,
then there will be a temptation to restart bond buying.”  While Bank of Spain Governor Luis Maria Linde said June 17
that the ECB could restart its bond-buying program, the ECB
ceased purchases in February amid concern from some officials
that it was a form of monetary financing, which is prohibited
under the institution’s founding treaty.  “Based on the way the ECB has conducted monetary policy to
date, you would conclude that another LTRO is the most likely
outcome,” said Alex Johnson, the London-based head of global
fixed income at Fischer Francis Trees & Watts, which has $56
billion in assets. “That may be helpful in the shorter term,
but it would appear that this is something that needs to be
resolved at the political level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at   magilbert@bloomberg.net  