-- Spain’s Olympians Grumble at Bosco’s Opening Ceremony Outfits
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-26T23:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/spain-s-olympians-grumble-at-bosco-s-opening-ceremony-outfits.html
Spanish Olympic water polo player
Roser Tarrago says the Bosco di Ciliegi ankle-length dress
she’ll wear at the  London  Games opening ceremony today was last
in fashion 50 years ago.  “Maybe I will give it to my grandmother afterwards,”
Tarrago, 19, said yesterday of the Russian clothing maker’s
garment. Spain’s El Pais newspaper said in a July 20 column that
only a “veteran LSD addict with sunglasses” could bear to look
at one of Spain’s paisley-style polo shirts.  Bosco di Ciliegi , the apparel provider of the Russian
Olympic team since 2002, is struggling to win over some
Spaniards as it goes head-to-head with the U.S.’s outfitter
 Ralph Lauren  Corp. and  Italy ’s Giorgio Armani SpA. More than 1
billion people will watch the opening ceremony, according to
U.K. tourism agency Visit Britain.  Bosco founder Mikhail Kusnirovich is using the London Games
to target customers outside  Russia , and said such criticism by
athletes only serves to promote his brand.  “Spanish people will be at the cash tills to buy our
clothes,” Kusnirovich said in an interview yesterday. “I
understand that for some Spanish fans they are unusual designs
but we have to be recognized very fast -- you only have a few
seconds on TV.”  Bosco, which was founded in 1991, has annual sales of 600
million euros ($737 million). The company also supplies the
Ukraine team with its uniforms, and in 2009 agreed to pay as
much as $100 million to be the official clothing supplier of the
 2014 Sochi Winter Games .  Gaudi Influence  Bosco’s Spanish team designs are influenced by Catalan
architect Gaudi and  Spain ’s Moorish era, company literature
says. The Spanish Association of Fashion Designers criticized
the designs in May when Bosco released pictures of the uniforms,
which were distributed to athletes as recently as last week.  Ona Meseguer, a Spanish water polo player, says she’d
prefer a more conservative style like those favored by Armani or
Ralph Lauren to Bosco’s flashier creations.  “It might suit the Russians and Ukrainian athletes, but
not us,” Meseguer, 24, said.  To be sure, gymnastics coach Jesus Carballo says he’s a fan
of one of Bosco’s simpler garments: a bright red polo jersey
with yellow trim.  “This is the red that the Spanish soccer team has made
famous,” Carballo said as he wore the shirt yesterday. “I like
it.”  Bosco has opened its first two stores in London to coincide
with the Games and is renting out a 19th-century building off
the upscale  Pall Mall  to entertain guests.  On the stairway, there were three mannequins yesterday in
the tracksuits that Spanish, Russian and Ukrainian athletes are
contracted to wear if they win a medal, Kusnirovich said.  “When these guys are on the podium, we don’t want them to
go unnoticed,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at the Olympic Park in London at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  