-- Spreadtrum Jumps as City Stimulus Spurs Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-07-26T20:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/spreadtrum-jumps-as-city-stimulus-spurs-rally-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities rose the most in a
week in New York trading after more cities in the world’s
second-largest economy rolled out measures to bolster growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. gained 1.9 percent to 85.94 in New
York yesterday.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a chipmaker for
mobile devices which counts  HTC Corp. (2498)  as a customer, jumped the
most in seven weeks after Morgan Stanley raised its
recommendation.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA)  traded at the
biggest premium to  Hong Kong  shares in seven weeks as the nation
said it will expand a tax incentive program.  Changsha, the capital of Hunan province, unveiled an 829.2
billion  yuan  ($130 billion) investment plan, China News Service
reported yesterday. The report follows plans announced by the
cities of Nanjing and Ningbo over the past two weeks to
introduce measures to boost consumption. China will expand a
trial tax program to transportation and service businesses in 10
more provinces and cities beginning Aug. 1 after testing it in
Shanghai, the cabinet said in a July 25 statement.  “Investors are more excited about riskier assets today
because of the Chinese announcements about spending,” Derrick Irwin, who helps manage $2.5 billion in the Wells Fargo
Advantage Emerging Markets Equity Fund, said in an interview
from Boston yesterday. “These types of actions, while perhaps
not as broad brushed, are still done with the intent of driving
investment-led growth.”  China ETF Rallies  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1.7 percent to $33.24,
extending a two-day rally. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
advanced 1.7 percent, the most in two weeks, to 1,360.02, as
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to defend
the euro while U.S. jobless claims fell and durable-goods orders
rose.  Local Chinese governments are stepping up efforts to
stimulate their regional economies after the country’s  gross
domestic product  fell to a three-year low in the second quarter
while growth in industrial production and retail sales slowed in
June. China’s GDP expanded 7.6 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said on July 13.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated his call made earlier this
month that the government enact structural tax changes to stanch
a six-quarter slowdown in the  economy . The shift to a value-
added tax may save Chinese companies 90 billion yuan ($14
billion) in tax payments this year,  Zhu Jianfang , an economist
with Citic Securities Co. in Beijing, said in a note yesterday.  ‘Booming’ Market  American depositary receipts of Shanghai-based Spreadtrum
gained 5.3 percent to $18.62, the most since June 6, as Morgan
Stanley raised its recommendation to overweight from equal-
weight and increased its 12-month price target by 31 percent to
$24.  Spreadtrum will benefit from China’s “booming” low-end
smartphone market and increased margins in its sales of feature-
and smartphones, Bill Lu, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in Hong
Kong, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday.  Shanghai-based China Eastern, the country’s second-largest
carrier, jumped 4.6 percent to $17.24, trading at a 0.9 percent
premium to its Hong Kong shares, the highest since June 7.  China
Southern Airlines Co. (1055) , the nation’s biggest carrier by
passengers, rose the most in two weeks as the Guangzhou-based
company said it will fly its Airbus SAS A380s double-deckers on
the Guangzhou-Los Angeles route starting in October. China
Southern added 4 percent to $24.65.  Facebook Earnings  Renren Inc. (RENN) , the Chinese social networking website, tumbled
5.1 percent to $3.90, the lowest since Jan. 13, as  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ,
the biggest developer of games played on  Facebook Inc. (FC) ’s  social 
network, missed analysts’ second-quarter revenue and profit
estimates. Facebook, the world’s most popular social-networking
site, posted a narrower profit margin as sales and marketing
costs surged, a sign that the company is chasing growth through
higher spending. Shares slid in late trading.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , China’s biggest online book
retailer, fell for a second day, losing 3.7 percent to $4.93 as
Chief Executive Officer Li Guoqing said the Beijing-based
company will probably sell its new electronic reader at a loss
in a bid to boost content sales. Li spoke in an e-mail interview
yesterday.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
traded in Hong Kong slipped 0.1 percent to a two-week low of
9,210.92. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.5 percent
yesterday to 2,126.00.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  