-- Spreading Brazil Strike Delays Release of June Jobless Rate
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-07-26T13:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/spreading-brazil-strike-delays-release-of-june-unemployment-rate.html
A spreading strike by Brazilian
civil servants delayed the release of the nation’s June
 unemployment rate  today, leaving economists unable to gauge the
strength of the labor market that the government is counting on
to fuel faster growth in the remainder of the year.  The Rio de Janeiro-based national statistics agency said
that because of a month-long strike by some of its employees it
was able to analyze data for only five of six metropolitan areas
normally studied in its monthly survey. The national rate will
be released at an undefined date once data collected in  Rio de
Janeiro  is analyzed, the agency said.  Over 100,000 workers at public universities, state-run
power company Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA and several
regulatory agencies have walked off the job in the past month
demanding wage increases to keep pace with  inflation  that has
stayed above the government’s 4.5 percent target since 2010.  The first coordinated strike against President Dilma Rousseff’s government has intensified in recent days, delaying
the unloading of ships at  Brazil ’s ports and forcing the federal
government to issue a decree yesterday allowing it to work with
local authorities to guarantee essential services.  The statistics agency said today that no other economic
report has been affected by the strike, and confirmed that the
existing calendar for future releases will be maintained. On
Aug. 1, the agency known as IBGE for its Portuguese initials is
scheduled to release industrial production data for June.  Insufficient Data  Economists said that today’s report was insufficient to
allow them to make an analysis of national labor market trends.
Unemployment in the  Sao Paulo  metropolitan region, the country’s
largest, rose to 6.5 percent in June from 6.2 percent, according
to the report. The jobless rate also rose in Recife, to 6.3
percent, and fell in  Belo Horizonte ,  Porto Alegre  and Salvador.  “It’s not a precise number,” said Alexandre Barbosa,
chief economist at Banco Cooperativo Sicredi, said in an
interview from Sao Paulo. “It could be that Rio de Janeiro had
very different movement than the other regions.”  Analysts had been forecasting that the national
 unemployment rate  would fall to 5.7 percent from 5.8 percent in
May, according to the  median estimate  of 21 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Slower Job Growth  Rousseff’s government has reduced  interest rates , enacted
tax cuts and increased subsidized credit to businesses in a bid
to spur economic growth that was half the pace of the U.S. in
the first quarter. With industrial production falling and
indebted consumers cutting back,  Latin America ’s largest economy
is generating fewer jobs than last year even as joblessness
remains at historically low levels.  “The number of new entrants in the job market has
diminished, and this has allowed Brazil, even though it’s
creating less jobs, to keep the unemployment rate stable,”
 Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco West LB do Brasil
SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo before today’s report.  Brazil  created  858,334 formal jobs in the first half of
2012, down 32 percent from a year ago, according to  figures  from
the Labor Ministry. That was the lowest number for that period
since 2009.  Slow Expansion  Brazil’s economy  expanded  at an annualized rate of 0.8
percent in the first quarter. The central bank forecasts 2.5
percent growth this year, down from 2.7 percent last year and
7.5 percent in 2010.  Swap rates on the contract maturing due January 2013, the
most traded in Sao Paulo, rose 3 basis points to 7.70 percent at
9:39 a.m. Brasilia time. The real rose 0.5 percent to 2.0222 per
 U.S. dollar .  The  auto industry , a mainstay of Brazil’s economy, has
recently sent mixed signals on employment.  While the local units of Volvo and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-
Benz have ordered layoffs and furloughs, and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
this week suspended production at its units near Sao Paulo amid
a dispute with unions,  Fiat SpA (F)  said July 23 that it plans to
hire 600 employees in Brazil to boost production as government
tax cuts and lower interest rates sustain demand.  Car sales reached 1.72 million in the first half of the
year, down 1.2 percent from last year, according to Brazil’s car
dealership association, known as Fenabrave.  Brazil’s central bank has reduced the Selic target lending
rate by 450 basis points since August to a record low 8 percent.  Bank President Alexandre Tombini said this week that
Brazil’s labor market has so far been little affected by the
slowdown as companies hoard labor in anticipation of a pick-up
in growth in the second half of the year as the rate cuts and
other stimulus measures work their way through the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  