-- Sprint Sales Top Estimates as Customers Pay Higher Bills
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-07-26T20:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/sprint-sales-top-estimates-as-customers-pay-higher-bills.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, jumped the most in almost three
years after iPhone demand helped bolster spending on data plans,
lifting the company’s sales above analysts’ estimates.  Sprint shares  rose 20 percent to $4.05 in  New York , the
biggest one-day gain since November 2009. The stock has now
climbed 73 percent this year.  Sales rose 6.4 percent to $8.84 billion,  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based Sprint said today in a statement. Analysts had
estimated $8.73 billion on average, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Its net loss widened to 46 cents a share, bigger
than the 41 cents predicted, because the company is funneling
money into an infrastructure-upgrade plan called Network Vision.  “I’d say we are in the middle of the turnaround,” Chief
Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  said in a phone interview. “We need
to execute on our Network Vision, which is critical, but right
now we feel very good about our competitive position.”  Sprint’s contract customers spent $63.38 on average a month
last quarter, up $4.31 from a year earlier, which the company
said was the biggest year-over-year increase in the history of
the U.S. wireless industry. Analysts projected $60.02, according
to a Bloomberg survey. Sprint has added the iPhone to its
lineup, prodding subscribers to spend more on data plans so they
can surf the Web, watch videos and use the Siri voice assistant.  ‘Solid Quarter’  “It was a solid quarter,” said Kevin Smithen, an analyst
at Macquarie Securities USA Inc. in New York. The results show
that Sprint was smart to get the iPhone, he said, despite a
costly purchase agreement it made with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  “People will
question why they got the iPhone. Now they have the answer.”  Sprint also increased its operating-income forecast for
2012 to $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion, excluding some items, up
from about $3.9 billion.  “We are doing a good job on managing customer phone
upgrades and we are getting a better financial performance from
our Network Vision investment,” Hesse said in the interview.
“All of those things give us the confidence to significantly
raise our forecast for the year.”  Even so, Sprint continues to struggle with a customer
exodus. Its contract subscriber base has shrunk for five years,
contributing to 19 straight quarterly losses. Sprint lost
246,000 contract customers in the second quarter -- spurred by
the company phasing out its once-popular Nextel network.  Nextel Closure  Sprint’s customer losses widened from the 101,000 it shed a
year earlier. The latest number also exceeded the loss of
238,250 estimated in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts. The
shrinking customer number puts Sprint further behind  Verizon
Wireless , which added 888,000 contract customers in the second
quarter, and  AT&T (T)  Inc., which netted 320,000.  Many of Sprint’s ex-customers were using the Nextel
network, which relies on outdated technology. The company has
said it will shut down the Nextel network as early as June 30,
2013. Excluding former Nextel users, Sprint’s customer loyalty
improved, Smithen said.  “Going into this week, I think you saw people getting a
little nervous, but with this report, I think you’ll see some
bounce in the stock,” Smithen said.  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , whose biggest customer is Sprint, also saw
shares jump today. The stock rose as much as 11 percent to $1.
Sprint relies on Clearwire’s wireless broadband network to serve
its subscribers.  LTE Upgrade  Sprint is overhauling its network to use a faster
technology called LTE, or long-term evolution. The standard will
help the company catch up with AT&T and Verizon, and accommodate
the next iPhone, expected later this year.  Sprint started LTE service this month in five major cities:
Atlanta,  Dallas , Houston,  San Antonio  and  Kansas City . The
company will add four more cities -- Baltimore; Gainesville,
 Georgia ; Manhattan/Junction City,  Kansas ; and Sherman-Denison,
 Texas  -- by early September. AT&T is in 47 cities with LTE,
while Verizon Wireless, which had a one-year head start on the
upgrades, has the service in 337.  To keep customers from leaving for AT&T and Verizon, Sprint
signed a four-year, $15.5 billion contract with Apple to sell
the iPhone. While the device has helped Sprint entice users, it
also added another expense to the money-losing business. The
crunch has forced Sprint to seek new sources of funds.  In May, the company signed a $1 billion vendor financing
deal with Ericsson AB, allowing it to purchase equipment through
a  credit line . In November, the company sold $4 billion of
bonds, with $2 billion more following in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  