-- Starwood Hotels Earnings Drop as Demand in Europe Weakens
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-07-26T21:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/starwood-second-quarter-earnings-fall-on-tax-charge-europe.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, said second-
quarter earnings fell after demand in  Europe  remained weak and
an income-tax expense wiped out revenue gains.  Net income decreased to $122 million, or 62 cents a share,
from $131 million, or 68 cents, a year earlier, the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based company said in a statement today. Revenue
climbed 13 percent to $1.61 billion. Analysts expected earnings
of 62 cents, the average of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  A drop in demand in Europe because of financial-market
turmoil and the sovereign-debt crisis has weighed on Starwood,
which has 12 percent of its rooms on the continent. Europe was
the only among the company’s five regions where revenue per
available room, a measure of occupancies and rates, fell in the
second quarter.  “Europe remains sluggish,”  David Loeb , a Robert W. Baird
& Co. analyst in  Milwaukee , wrote in a note to investors today
after Starwood announced earnings. “Going into the quarter, we
believed key risks would be Starwood’s exposure to and outlook
on Europe.”  Revenue per available room, or revpar, for hotels owned or
leased for at least a year fell 8 percent in Europe, including
currency impacts. The euro has declined 16 percent against the
dollar in the past 12 months.  In constant dollars, revpar on the continent gained 2.3
percent. Same-store occupancies in Europe dropped to 69.7
percent from 70.5 percent.  Starwood booked an income-tax expense of $56 million,
compared with a credit of $16 million a year earlier.  Asset Sales  Revpar increased 6.9 percent, excluding currency impacts,
for hotels worldwide open at least a year. It rose 7.3 percent
in constant dollars in  North America  and 9.3 percent in the  Asia 
Pacific region.  Starwood expects revpar at hotels it operates globally to
increase 6 percent to 8 percent this year in constant dollars.
The company is continuing to seek buyers for hotels in its
portfolio as it focuses on managing properties rather than
owning them, Chief Executive Officer Frits van Paasschen said
during a conference call with investors today. He said he
expects to complete several sales by the end of the year.  “Compared to three to six months ago, we have more hotels
on the market and have more discussions,” van Paasschen said.
“We think that shows a great confidence and better financing
conditions among buyers.”  The hotelier climbed 6.4 percent to $52.71 at the close of
 New York  trading. The increase was the largest since Oct. 10.  Miami Beach  At the St. Regis Bal Harbour in Miami Beach,  Florida , where
Starwood started selling vacation units at the end of last year,
more than 60 percent of inventory has been purchased, Chief
Financial Officer Vasant Prabhu said during the call. The sale
of the remaining units is scheduled for completion by early
2014, he said. The resort opened in January.  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) , the largest publicly traded
U.S. hotel chain, fell the most in almost 11 months on July 12
after cutting its forecast for hotels outside the U.S. on
weakening demand in Asia and the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  