-- Sugar Traders Are Most Bearish Since April: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-27T16:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/sugar-traders-most-bearish-since-april-on-brazil-commodities.html
Sugar traders are the most bearish
in three months on speculation that drier weather will
accelerate harvesting in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer.  Ten of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect
raw sugar to drop next week and three were bullish. A further
three were neutral, making the proportion of bears the highest
since April 13. Sugar output in Brazil’s center south, the
biggest producing region, rose 2 percent in the first half of
this month, industry group Unica said July 25. Cane-growing
areas will be mostly dry through the start of August, according
Somar Meteorologia, a Sao Paulo-based weather forecaster.  Prices rebounded from a 21-month low last month and entered
a  bull market  on July 9 after rain in May and June delayed
Brazil’s harvesting and exports. Sugar is now poised for its
worst weekly performance since March as the drier weather eased
concern about the crop and refocused attention on the prospects
for a glut. Czarnikow Group Ltd., which traded the commodity in
90 countries last year, is forecasting a second consecutive
surplus in the season that starts Oct. 1.  “The harvest in Brazil is catching up and that is a good
bearish signal for the market,” said Jonathan Bouchet, a trader
at Boman Capital SA, a Geneva-based hedge fund. “The weather in
 South America  at the moment is adequate to harvest and ship,
which will increase supplies and keep pressure on prices.”  Standard & Poor’s  While raw sugar rose as much as 27 percent since June 4 on
the ICE Futures U.S. exchange, futures are still 3.8 percent
lower for the year at 22.41 cents a pound. The  Standard & Poor’s 
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 0.7 percent and the MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 4.9 percent. Treasuries
returned 3.1 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Sugar also jumped in the past several weeks as India’s
monsoon, which brings 70 percent of the country’s rain, was 22
percent less than average in the June 1-July 23 period,
according to the national weather office. The monsoon deficit
will probably narrow, the  India Meteorological Department ’s
Director General L.S. Rathore said yesterday. India is the
world’s second-biggest sugar producer.  Rains that delayed the harvest in  Australia  are ending, and
should allow mills in the Burdekin area, accounting for 40
percent of the country’s sugar output, to re-open by early next
week, Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a
report yesterday. Australia is the third-biggest exporter.  Weather Patterns  Thailand , the second-biggest exporter, had 50 percent to 75
percent of its normal precipitation this month, according to
 Falls Church , Virginia-based Computer Sciences Corp., which
provides services including tracking weather patterns using
satellite data. That may ease as tropical storm Vicente brings
more rain this week, the Thai Meteorological Department said
July 24.  Global sugar stockpiles will reach a four-year high of 31.6
million metric tons by the end of the 2011-12 season and climb
another 4.7 percent in the following year, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture .  The commodity slumped 38 percent since reaching a 30-year
high of 36.08 cents in February 2011 as farmers from Thailand to
Brazil planted more cane and beets. Global output will exceed
demand by 8.4 million tons in the 2012-13 season, according to
Czarnikow, which had sales exceeding $3 billion in physical
trading last year. Production in Brazil’s center south from July
1 to 15 rose to 2.64 million tons, Unica said.  China Imports  The changing weather in Brazil has yet to be reflected in
speculative wagers in U.S. futures markets.  Hedge funds  and
other money managers increased bets on a price rally in the six
weeks ended July 17, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. They held a net-long position of 109,518 U.S. futures
and options, the most since April 3.  China , the third-biggest user after  India  and the European
Union, imported about 2.7 million tons from the start of the
season in October through June, from 910,000 tons a year
earlier, customs data show. The nation will import 3.1 million
tons in 2011-12, the International Sugar Organization estimates.  Worldwide purchases may climb even with mounting concern
that global growth is faltering. Consumption expanded every year
since 1995, USDA data show. Reports showed this week the U.K.
economy shrank the most in three years last quarter, German
business confidence declined more than forecast and U.S. new-
house sales unexpectedly fell last month.  U.S. Drought  In other commodities, 17 of 26 people surveyed anticipate
higher corn prices next week and three said the grain will
decline, while 16 of 26 said soybeans will rally and four
expected lower prices. Traders are bullish for a 14th week after
the worst U.S. drought in more than a half century hurt crops
and drove prices to a record July 23.  The USDA has declared 44 percent of U.S. counties as
disaster areas because of drought, and the agency cut its
forecasts for domestic corn and soybean production July 11. Corn
rose 22 percent to $7.8875 a bushel this year as soybeans jumped
33 percent to $16.075 a bushel.  Fifteen of 30 traders and analysts surveyed expect gold to
climb next week and six were neutral. Futures on the Comex
exchange in  New York  are up 3.5 percent since the start of
January at $1,622.10 an ounce. Holdings in bullion-backed
exchange-traded products are about 0.7 percent below the record
2,413.6 tons set July 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Ten of 20 people surveyed said copper will rise next week
and six predicted declines. The metal for delivery in three
months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, slipped
0.4 percent this year to $7,566.75 a ton.  Global Growth  The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities dropped 2.2 percent since
reaching an 11-week high on July 19. Growth in China, the
biggest consumer of everything from copper to soybeans, slowed
for a sixth consecutive quarter, the government said July 13.
The global economy will expand 3.5 percent this year, from 3.9
percent in 2011, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  “Global growth is still enough to see an increase in
demand, but it’s going to be pretty modest,” said  Robin Bhar ,
an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London. “For commodities,
the big factor has to be for less uncertainty and more clarity
on China.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  