-- Swaps Outlook Bleakest Since ’09 as Growth Slows: Credit Markets
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-26T15:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/swaps-outlook-bleakest-since-09-as-growth-slows-credit-markets.html
Investors are the most pessimistic
about the outlook for corporate credit in three years as the
global economy shows signs of faltering, with euro-area leaders
struggling to contain the sovereign-debt crisis and U.S.
 unemployment  stuck above 8 percent for 41 months.  A three-month forecast for a benchmark credit-default swaps
index in the U.S. swung negative in July, dropping to -19.1 from
15.2 at the start of April, according a survey by the
International Association of Credit Portfolio Managers. The
outlook for a European index fell to -30 from -9.8. Negative
readings indicate expected deterioration in credit conditions.  Investor confidence in a global recovery is waning five
years after a crisis in the U.S. triggered a worldwide economic
slowdown.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 growth
forecast to 3.9 percent as  China’s economy  grows at the slowest
pace in three years as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
warns that  Europe ’s financial woes are creating “spillover
effects” in the rest of the world.  “The issues in Europe remain unresolved, and there’s
increasing signs that it’s having an impact in other
geographies,” Som-lok Leung, executive director of IACPM, said
in a telephone interview from  New York . “In the U.S., the just-
muddle-along economy seems to be doing worse than just muddling
along.”  Spanish Yields Rise  The collapse of the U.S. subprime market in 2007 prompted
the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression and the
aftershocks are still being felt worldwide with proposed
regulatory changes to increase government controls over the
financial system.  China ’s growth has slowed to the weakest pace
since 2009 and Europe, struggling to contain its sovereign debt
crisis, is flirting with economic contraction.  Concern that  Spain  will need a bailout sent 10-year yields
on its bonds to a euro-era record this week. As the currency
bloc’s policy makers weigh the possibility of funding another
rescue, U.S. politicians are grappling with a $607 billion so-
called fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases
set to take effect next year.  Spain is “the boogeyman in the closet,” Timothy Cox,
executive director of debt capital markets at  Mizuho Securities 
USA Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview. “We still
have some work to do in Europe and even in the States, as
companies are still not hiring people and still trying to cut
meat from the bone to meet earnings targets.”  Rate Swaps  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined for a second
day, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreasing 2.9 basis points to a mid-price of
112.6 basis points as of 11:37 a.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, increased 0.02 basis point to 21.5 basis
points as of 11:37 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  China’s Pace  Bonds of AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 110 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:38 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The mine operator’s
$750 million of 5.125 percent, 10-year notes rose 1.4 cents from
their issue price yesterday to 100.75 cents on the dollar to
yield 5.02 percent as of 11:25 a.m. in New York.  The IMF lowered its 2013 global growth forecast from an
April estimate of 4.1 percent as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs a
recession in Spain and slows expansions in  emerging markets  from
China to  India . The National Bureau of Statistics in Beijing
said July 13 that gross domestic product in the world’s second-
largest economy expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, the weakest pace since the global financial
crisis.  “There’s no bright spot,” said Cox of Mizuho Securities.
“That’s one of the downsides of a global economy. Everybody is
affected by things in  Germany  and in  Asia  that in the past we
could be a little bit more insulated from.”  Spanish Effects  IACPM’s negative outlook for the Markit CDX North America
index released yesterday follows seven straight positive
readings. The -19.1 grade is the lowest since the measure
plummeted to a -38.1 reading at the end of the second quarter in
2009, according to an e-mailed statement. Pessimism about third-
quarter performance on Markit iTraxx Europe index is at the
highest since a reading of -57.5 at the end of June 2009.  The industry association derives its index from a quarterly
survey of money managers at 84 financial institutions from
Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank (DBK)  to  Barclays (BARC) , Britain’s second-
biggest bank by assets. The most recent survey, conducted in the
first two weeks of July, reflects forecasted changes from prices
as of June 29, according to IACPM’s Leung.  “The biggest thing that happened between when we did the
first-quarter survey, which was at the end of March, and the end
of June was what was happening in Spain,” Leung said.  ‘Looking for More’  Euro-area finance chiefs last week approved a bailout of as
much as 100 billion euros ($121.5 billion) for Spanish banks.
Spain’s access to financial markets is being crimped by  yields 
that reached as high as 7.751 percent yesterday and rescue
requests from as many as seven of the nation’s regions.  “People are looking for more” action from the  European
Central Bank  and currency bloc leaders to stem the fiscal
turmoil in Spain, Kathy Jones, a fixed-income strategist in New
York for Charles Schwab Corp., which has $1.76 trillion in
client assets, said in a telephone interview. “They’re looking
for the ECB to come in and support the banking sector. They’re
looking for some sort of mutualization of debt. They’re looking
for a lot of things that just don’t seem to be on the horizon.”  Europe’s debt woes have helped push U.S. Treasury  yields  to
record lows, touching 1.38 percent yesterday. Bernanke told the
Senate Banking Committee in  Washington  on July 17 that reducing
unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow” and repeated
that the central bank is ready to take further action to boost
the recovery, while refraining from pledging any new policies.  ‘Unsustainable Path’  Bernanke told lawmakers that U.S. fiscal policies are on an
“unsustainable path” that must be corrected with a
“credible” plan to control deficits, while avoiding damage to
the recovery from spending cuts and tax increases that will take
effect next year if Congress doesn’t act.  “People are willing to loan to the U.S. government with
all the talk about the fiscal cliff and the political
imbroglios,” Bonnie Baha, head of global developed credit at
 Los Angeles  based DoubleLine Capital LP, which oversees $39
billion, said in a telephone interview. “What does that tell
you? It’s very worrisome to say the least. I don’t think we’d be
at these kinds of rates if Europe were in better shape.”  In June, Fed officials cut their forecast for economic
expansion this year, estimating growth of 1.9 percent to 2.4
percent, compared with a previous outlook in April of 2.4
percent to 2.9 percent. Central bank policy makers also said
they expect the  unemployment rate  to average 8 percent to 8.2
percent in the fourth quarter of this year.  Cutting Costs  Slower growth and stubbornly high unemployment has kept
corporate hiring depressed and discouraged consumer spending,
even as second-quarter earnings point to better than forecast
results, said Cox of Mizuho Securities.  “Companies are beating expectations, but I think if you
drill down to see where earnings are coming from and how
companies are achieving them, is it really because of growth or
is it really because of them cutting?” Cox said. “Think about
what you’re doing, you’re letting workers go that can no longer
buy the goods and services that you might be producing. At some
point, that comes back to haunt you.”  In the U.S., company sales rose an average 3.3 percent in
the second quarter among 190 members of the  S&P 500 index  that
have reported results for the quarter, the weakest since a
 decline  of 9.6 percent in the third quarter of 2009, Bloomberg
data show. While 71.4 percent of reporting companies beat
analysts’ estimates on profits, 41.4 percent topped on sales.  “The bottom line is we’re still in the deleveraging cycle,
which means slower growth and lower demand and it’s going to
take some time,” Jones said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  