-- Swedish Krona Advances as Economic Strength Saps Rate Bets
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-07-26T10:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/swedish-krona-strengthens-after-unemployment-confidence-data.html
Sweden’s krona strengthened against
both the euro and dollar after better-than-estimated
unemployment data and a rise in  consumer confidence  sapped
speculation about an  interest rate  cut in September.  The krona climbed as much as 0.53 percent against the euro
and traded 0.3 percent higher at 8.4434 as of 12:20 p.m. in
 Stockholm . It gained 0.4 percent versus the dollar to 6.9369.  Sweden’s consumer confidence index rose to 5.6 from 3.1 the
previous month, the Stockholm-based National Institute of
Economic Research said today. Unemployment gained to 8.8 percent
in June from 8.1 percent a month earlier, lower than an estimate
of 8.9 percent according to a Bloomberg survey of 10 economists.  “This strengthens the view that the Riksbank will stay on
hold in September,” Torbjoern Isaksson, an economist at  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) , said by phone from Stockholm. “So far the Swedish
economy has been surprisingly resilient.”  The country’s central bank earlier this month kept its
benchmark interest rate unchanged and signaled it may cut rates
by the end of the year. Swedish growth is slowing this year as
 Europe ’s deepening debt crisis weighs on trade for the export-
dependent economy.  Other reports also released today showed the country’s
trade balance improved as exports rose 2 percent in June, while
consumer borrowing growth slowed to 4.5 percent from 4.6 percent
in May.  While exports have been “sluggish” and the manufacturing
industry is facing difficulties, “incomes are rising and
Swedish households are keeping up their spirits,” said
Isaksson. Nordea estimates the Riksbank will cut rates in
October and again in December as the labor market deteriorates
in the second half, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  