-- Swiss Stocks Rally Most in Five Weeks; ABB, Syngenta Gain
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-26T16:05:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/swiss-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-abb-syngenta-advance.html
Swiss stocks  surged the most in five
weeks as European Central Bank president  Mario Draghi  said
policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the euro
and ABB Ltd. and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  advanced after reporting earnings.  ABB, a maker of factory robots and power-transmission
equipment, rallied 5.2 percent after saying it’s more confident
about the short-term outlook. Syngenta rose 3.6 percent as the
world’s biggest producer of crop chemicals said first-half net
income gained.  Nestle SA (NESN) , the largest food maker, gained 1.7
percent as competitor Unilever had better-than-estimated sales.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  jumped 1.6 percent to 6,277.74 at
the close in Zurich, the biggest gain since June 19. The
benchmark measure has still  dropped 1 percent from its 2012 high 
on March 16 amid concern the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis
has hurt the economy. The broader Swiss Performance Index rose
1.5 percent today.  “Draghi’s comments are a bullish sign for markets,” said
Graham Bishop, an equity strategist at Exane BNP Paribas in
London. “The tone got more aggressive and the message is clear:
that markets should not fight the ECB.”  Swiss stocks extended gains after Draghi said it’s within
the central bank’s mandate to tackle “premia” on  government
bonds  when they “hamper the functioning of the monetary policy
transmission channel.”  ‘Believe Me’  “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it
takes to preserve the euro,” Draghi said during a speech in
London today. “And believe me, it will be enough.”  The volume of shares in SMI-listed companies changing hands
today was more than double the 30-day average today, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. bookings for  durable goods , which are meant to last at
least three years, rose 1.6 percent in June, mirroring the May
advance, a Commerce Department report showed today in
Washington. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had called for a 0.3 percent gain.  Fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time applications
for  unemployment insurance , data from the Labor Department
showed, as the figure dropped by 35,000 in the week ending July
21 to 353,000.  ABB (ABBN)  rose 5.2 percent to 16.61 Swiss francs, the biggest
jump in 10 months. The company said it has received more orders
at its power and automation businesses in China in recent
months, as well as “sustained order growth across the portfolio
in the U.S.”  Second-quarter net income fell 27 percent from a year
earlier to $656 million, missing the average estimate of $710.8
million in a survey of analysts by Bloomberg.  Syngenta Results  Syngenta advanced 3.6 percent to 332 francs, the largest
increase since October, after reporting first-half profit that
met analysts’ estimates and saying the outlook for  Latin America 
is positive as soybean prices rise to a record.  Net income increased 5 percent to $1.5 billion, after
currency adjustments, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey expected $1.46 billion.  Nestle, which has a  26 percent weighting in the SMI , rose
1.7 percent to 58.65 francs, the biggest advance in four months.
Unilever, the maker of Flora spreads, reported a 5.8 percent
increase in underlying revenue in the second quarter, topping
the average estimate of 32 analysts surveyed by the company for
a 4.8 percent gain.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, advanced 2.7 percent to
10.33 francs after Draghi’s speech. A gauge of lenders was the
best performing among 19 industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index. (SXXP)   Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  climbed 8.2 percent to 13.15 francs even
after the maker of banking software reported second-quarter
earnings that missed estimates. The company reiterated its full-
year growth forecasts and analysts at Deutsche Bank AG and
Kepler  Capital Markets  upgraded the shares.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the biggest maker of computer
mice, dropped 1.6 percent to 8.81 francs after reporting a
first-quarter loss that was more than twice as big as analysts
had estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  