-- Swiss Haven Status Pulling 10-Year Borrowing Costs Toward Zero
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-07-26T16:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/swiss-haven-status-pulling-10-year-borrowing-costs-toward-zero.html
Switzerland ’s bond market shows the
nation is being paid to borrow for as long as five years, and
analysts say a hunt for the safest assets may send yields on
even longer-maturity debt below zero.  Swiss borrowing costs for  seven years  slid to a record-low
0.151 percent on July 23, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They’re following the course of five-year yields,
which turned negative on May 31 for the first time since
Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1994.  “We cannot rule out that 10-years will approach the zero
level, and then probably find a way below it,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Munich.
“Investors who are purchasing Swiss  government bonds  with
yields at 0.5 percent will probably also purchase bonds at zero
yields or even at negative yields.”  A rate below zero means investors who hold the debt to
maturity will receive less than they paid to buy it. The risk of
greater losses on alternative investments, including a slump in
Italian and Spanish securities in the past quarter, is boosting
demand for Switzerland’s bonds as a store of wealth, even as
inflation threatens to destroy more of their value.  Swiss  five-year  notes yielded 0.01 percent at 5:39 p.m. in
 London , after closing at minus 0.007 percent yesterday. The  two-
year  yield was at minus 0.406 percent, after falling to a record
of minus 0.462 percent two days ago. Ten-year bonds yielded
0.527 percent.  Money Back  Swiss debt has returned 1.8 percent in the past three
months, the least from AAA rated countries, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. While that trails German debt’s 3.1 percent
return, it compares with losses of 7.4 percent for  Spain ’s bonds
and 3.8 percent for  Italy ’s.  Investors are ready to pay to be “sure they will get their
money back,” said Yannik Zufferey, head of Swiss fixed-income
in London at Lombard Odier Investment Managers, the asset-
management unit of Geneva’s oldest bank, which oversees $174
billion. “It is getting less and less attractive,” but
investors including pension funds and insurance companies are
prepared to buy longer-dated debt “at almost negative yields,”
he said in a phone interview on July 23.  Krone Cap  The  Swiss National Bank  imposed a limit on the franc at
1.20 per euro in September to protect exporters after it
appreciated to a record high of almost parity. Should the
currency be allowed to rise, it would boost the return for
investors in Swiss bonds. Denmark, whose krone is pegged to the
euro, also has negative bond yields, with the two-year rate at
minus 0.269 percent.  The franc was at 1.20097 per euro today compared with an
average of 1.4856 over the past 10 years.  The central bank’s currency limit is leading to the
creation of additional liquidity that is being invested in
government bonds, according to Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “At some point, probably rather
than buying bonds at high negative yields, people would just
leave the money in cash. The yields are too low.”  Switzerland has been facing deflation, on an annual basis,
since October, with a report on July 6 showing consumer prices
fell 1.1 percent in June from a year earlier. While that’s
boosted the return of bonds’ fixed payments, analysts predict
consumer prices will rise 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter,
according to the median of four estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Yields are not where they are because of inflation
expectations,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed markets
debt at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “We are in extraordinary
times and we see extraordinary levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  