-- Syngenta Profit Meets Estimates as Brazil Seen Lifting Sales
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-07-26T07:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/syngenta-profit-meets-estimates-as-brazil-seen-lifting-sales-1-.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s biggest
producer of crop chemicals, reported first-half profit that met
analysts’ estimates and said the outlook for  Latin America  is
positive as soybean prices rise to a record.  Net income increased 5 percent to $1.5 billion, after
currency adjustments, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said
in a release. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey expected $1.46
billion. Sales  increased  7 percent to $8.27 billion, analysts
estimated $8.19 billion.  “The price of soy beans has gone up,” Chief Executive
Officer Mike Mack said in an interview, as drought in the U.S.
raises crop prices. “Brazilian farmers have a great deal of
incentive to have a very big crop, so we are looking forward to
a big second half down there in Latam.”  Price increases are “taking the sting” out of the most
damaging U.S. drought in corn since 1956, Mack said. Syngenta is
seeking to leverage its base of crop protection clients to push
sales of corn and soy bean seeds in the U.S. in its battle for
market share with Dow Chemical Co., DuPont Co.,  BASF SE (BAS) ,
 Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  Bayer AG. (BAYN)   The Swiss company climbed 0.7 percent to 322.8 francs as of
9:10 a.m. local time.  Syngenta has already secured more than 60 percent of its
budgeted sales for  North America , Chief Financial Officer John
Ramsay said. There will be some decline in fungicide demand in
that market in the second half, Ramsay said.  Monsanto has said it gained market share in the first half
in corn and soybean sales while DuPont said it probably
maintained market share. Syngenta said the corn seed market was
unexpectedly large this year at 96 million acres and Mack sees
Syngenta with a market share “right in line with where it was
last year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  