-- Syria Pounds Rebel-Held Areas as U.S. Warns of ‘Massacre’
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-07-27T17:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/syrian-troops-pound-rebel-held-areas-of-aleppo.html
Syrian troops loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad clashed with rebels in Aleppo as the  Arab League 
called on Assad to secure his chemical weapons.  Opposition groups also reported fighting in the northern
province of Idlib, Daraa to the south and the suburbs of
Damascus, the capital, where the government used helicopter
gunships to blast rebel hideouts, according to the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights . Protests against Assad erupted in
Homs, Hama and other provinces after Friday prayers, Al Arabiya
television reported.  United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay “expressed particular concern about the likelihood of an
imminent major confrontation” in Aleppo,  Syria ’s largest city,
according to a  statement  posted on the UN website today.  Also at the UN, the Arab League circulated a draft
resolution for the 193-member General Assembly calling on
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to arrange for “prompt
investigations” of Syria’s stockpile of chemical weapons. The
League also demanded Assad secure the arsenal amid reports of
movement of such weapons.  The largely symbolic resolution is meant to show the scale
of international opinion since such assembly measures are only
binding if approved by the  Security Council , where Russia and
 China  have protected Syria with their veto power. A vote is
expected Aug. 1.  Death Toll  International and regional efforts have failed to end the
violence in Syria, which began in March 2011 and has left at
least 19,000 people dead, including about 5,000 government
troops, according to the Observatory. At least 40 people were
killed today, including 10 in Daraa, nine in Damascus and its
suburbs and six in Aleppo, the opposition Local Coordination
Committees in Syria said in an e-mail.  Syrian state media said the army killed four “terrorists”
after prayers in Daraa, and authorities dismantled eight bombs
near a mosque in the Damascus suburb of Hajar al-Aswad.  The International Committee of the  Red Cross  is moving some
of its foreign staff out of Damascus to  Beirut  in neighboring
Lebanon due to “security conditions,” spokeswoman Carla Haddad
Mardini said today by phone from Geneva. A 50-member team,
including 11 expatriates, will remain in the city, she said.  “The situation in Aleppo is extremely volatile and in
Damascus, too, thousands of people have fled their homes in
search of safety,” the Red Cross said in a statement.  Aleppo is Syria’s commercial capital with a  population  the
U.S. Central Intelligence Agency estimates at 3 million.  “Vicious Assault”  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  demanded that Assad’s
government call off the assault and urged all countries to join
in condemnation, including Russia and China. Russia and China
used their vetoes in the UN Security Council on July 19 to block
for the third time a Western-drafted resolution that called for
an arms embargo and other sanctions on the Middle Eastern
nation.  “I am deeply concerned by reports that the Syrian
government is amassing its troops and tanks around Aleppo and
has already begun a vicious assault on the city and its civilian
population,” Hague said in an e-mailed statement. “This
utterly unacceptable escalation of the conflict could lead to a
devastating loss of civilian life and a humanitarian disaster.”  The U.S. has “grave concerns” about Assad’s military
actions, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
yesterday in  Washington . The U.S. is alarmed that “we will see
a massacre in Aleppo, and that’s what the regime appears to be
lining up for,” she said.  Placing Blame  U.S. Ambassador to SyriaRobert Ford stressed in a
statement to the Syrian people today the need for individual
accountability for crimes being committed in the country and the
importance of justice rather than retribution in a post-Assad
era.  “Neither a community nor an ethnicity must be blamed for
the actions of individuals in the regime,” he wrote. “It must
be clear that only individuals who committed crimes against
humanity will be identified and held accountable for their
abhorrent actions.”  Internationally backed initiatives, such as the Syrian
Justice and Accountability Center, will “coordinate efforts to
research and collect evidence of human-rights violations for use
in future Syria-led transitional justice processes,” according
to Ford.  Turkey  warned it may take action against Kurdish groups
with links to the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, that have
taken control of several towns in northern Syria near the
Turkish border.  “We won’t allow such a structure on our borders,” Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said in a television interview today,
according to the state-run Anatolia news agency. He accused
Assad’s government of permitting the Kurdish groups to seize
border areas in order to stir up ethnic conflict and threaten
Turkey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  