-- U.K. Stocks Gain as Draghi Pledges to Preserve Euro
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-07-26T15:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/u-k-stocks-retreat-for-a-fifth-day.html
U.K. stocks  rebounded from a four-
day decline after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said the lender will act to preserve the euro amid surging bond
yields for the currency zone’s most-indebted members.  Unilever gained 5.4 percent after posting second-quarter
sales that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Rolls-Royce Holdings
Plc (RR/)  jumped 6.7 percent after reporting first-half profit that
beat projections.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  dropped 2.3 percent
after saying second-quarter net income fell more than predicted.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  surged 74.84 points, or 1.4 percent to
5,573.16 at the close in  London , its biggest rally since June
29. The gauge  tumbled 3.8 percent over the past four days  amid
concern the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis is worsening and
as a report showed the U.K. economy shrank for a third quarter.
The broader FTSE All-Share Index also added 1.4 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index advanced 2.3 percent.  “Draghi’s comments  about high yields and the fact that
they curtail the transmission of monetary policy is crucial,”
 Derek Halpenny , European head of global markets research at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “What the markets are looking for, given these
comments, is for words to be backed up by action. The markets
are bracing for some reactivation and actual buying in the
secondary  bond market .”  Draghi’s Comments  Draghi said that ECB policy makers will act to preserve the
euro and counter rising bond yields in the 17-nation currency
bloc.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary-policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” Draghi said during a
speech in London today. “We have to cope with the financial
fragmentation, address these issues. Within our mandate, the ECB
is ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. And
believe me, it will be enough.”  Spanish policy makers have called on the ECB to do more to
staunch the crisis as  yields on the country’s benchmark bonds 
rose to euro-era records this week.  In the U.K., 12 companies in the FTSE 100 reported their
earnings today. Of the 166 companies listed in the U.K. that
have posted half-yearly results this earnings season, 97, or 58
percent, have  beaten analysts’ estimates , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The volume of shares changing hands on the FTSE 100 today
was 9.5 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unilever, Rolls-Royce  Unilever climbed 5.4 percent to 2,256 pence after saying
underlying revenue rose 5.8 percent in the second quarter,
topping the average estimate of 32 analysts surveyed by the
company for a 4.8 percent increase.  Rolls-Royce jumped 6.7 percent to 885 pence after saying
 first-half underlying pretax profit  increased to 637 million
pounds ($999 million). That exceeded the average analyst
prediction of 617 million pounds.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  added 3.1 percent to
706.5 pence as the U.K.’s largest pay-TV broadcaster posted a
full-year operating profit that beat analyst projections and
said it will buy back 500 million pounds of shares.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  advanced 3.9 percent to 2,742 pence after the
company posted first-quarter sales that rose faster than
analysts had forecast. So-called organic lager volume increased
5 percent in the three months ended June 30, compared with the
2.6 percent median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shell lost 2.3 percent to 2,137.5 pence as  Europe’s biggest
oil company  said second-quarter profit fell 13 percent,
excluding one-off items and inventory changes, to $5.7 billion.
That missed the $6.3 billion  average estimate of analysts  in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Lamprell Plc (LAM)  plummeted 31 percent to 84.75 pence after the
oil and gas rig engineer said that rising costs will cause a
loss of about $45 million in the first half. The company said
that it will seek waivers from banks on loan covenants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  