-- U.S. Corn and Soybean Acreage Forecast Cut Again by Cordonnier
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-26T09:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/u-s-corn-and-soybean-acreage-forecast-cut-again-by-cordonnier.html
U.S. corn and soybean acreage will
be lower than expected earlier this month as drought prompts
farmers to abandon more area or harvest fields for silage,
according to Soybean & Corn Advisor Inc.’s Michael Cordonnier.  The outlook for corn harvested acreage was reduced to 84
million acres (34 million hectares), 4.3 million acres lower
than a July 10 forecast, Cordonnier, the president of Soybean &
Corn Advisor, wrote in an online  report  yesterday, his second
cut this month.  About 26 percent of the U.S. corn crop was in good or
excellent condition as of July 22, down from 31 percent a week
earlier, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . For
soybeans, 31 percent got the top ratings, down from 34 percent a
week earlier.  “One of the results of this unrelenting heat and dryness
is that the crop abandonment will be much greater than normal
and more corn acres will be needed for silage this year,”
Hinsdale, Illinois-based Cordonnier wrote.  The harvested corn area would be little changed from last
year’s acreage, based on USDA data.  An estimated 13 percent of corn will not be harvested for
grain, compared with a USDA estimate for 7.8 percent, Cordonnier
wrote. During the 1988 drought, 14 percent of corn wasn’t
harvested for grain, he said.  “The only reason why I did not make it as bad as in 1988
is because the corn hybrids today are better suited to tolerate
dry conditions than the hybrids that were used in 1988,” the
analyst wrote.  The estimate of harvested soybean acreage was lowered by
500,000 acres to 73.3 million acres as less of the oilseed was
planted after winter crops and as a lack of rain may leave some
plants too small to harvest, Cordonnier wrote.  “For the soybean crop, the situation is not as dire as it
is for the corn, at least not yet,” Cordonnier wrote.
“Soybeans require much less water compared to corn so they are
better able to tolerate dry conditions, at least during the
first half of the growing season.”  Peak water demand for soybeans is now starting as pods
begin to fill, according to the analyst.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  