-- U.S. Banks Discover Profits in Card Rules They Sought to Kill
-- B y   K a r e n   W e i s e
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/u-s-banks-discover-profits-in-card-rules-they-sought-to-kill.html
Responding to an outcry from
consumers, in 2009 Congress overhauled rules for credit-card
issuers.  The bipartisan Credit Card Accountability Responsibility
and Disclosure Act ended some questionable -- and lucrative --
bank practices, like charging hidden fees and offering low
introductory  interest rates  only to jack them up suddenly. The
industry hated the reforms and issued dire predictions that
they’d mean the end of plastic.  Three years later, card issuers are sheepishly, if quietly,
admitting that they’re seeing a surprising benefit from the
conservative lending the law was designed to promote, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its July 30 issue.  “If there is a silver lining to the CARD Act -- I’m not
here to say the CARD Act was good for our business, so nobody
misunderstand the comment -- but if there were a silver lining
to it, it forced rationality,” Mark Graf, chief financial
officer of  Discover Financial Services (DFS) , said at an industry
conference in May.  Rationality means not giving credit cards to just anybody -
- especially those who’ve shown they’re at high risk of falling
behind on their payments or defaulting. That seems obvious
enough, yet it wasn’t the case when, as Graf put it, the
industry was engaged in a “silly race to the bottom.”  Before the law was passed, banks didn’t have to be as
careful about picking customers. If a borrower missed payments,
the lenders would raise his rates, cut his credit limit, and
bury him in nuisance fees. That’s one way to manage risk and
discourage bad behavior, but it’s hardly the most efficient, and
it infuriated cardholders.  Teaser Rates  The CARD Act outlawed that practice, so now companies must
account for a customer’s likelihood of default before they issue
the card. They can still offer low teaser rates, but they can
only raise the permanent rate in limited cases, such as when the
account is 60 days delinquent.  That’s helped reduce late payments to the lowest level on
record. And so-called charge-offs, the debts lenders deem
uncollectible, are at their lowest since the end of 2006. In
May, the industry identified $276 million in charges they assume
won’t be paid, down from a peak of $821 million in August 2009.  Even stricter rules could be on the way.  Customer Grievances  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is using its new
powers under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law to monitor the
industry and track customer grievances. On July 18, the bureau
brought its first enforcement case, against  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  The McLean, Virginia-based lender agreed to pay
$210 million, including as much as $150 million in customer
refunds, to settle complaints that telemarketing companies it
hired tricked customers into paying for a service that monitored
their  credit rating  and other unnecessary add-ons.  Capital One didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing. The CFPB is
pressing for a standard, two-page credit-card contract in plain
English, free from the microscopic lawyer language where fees
can be buried.  No surprise that the banks are against it. Nessa Feddis,
vice president at the  American Bankers Association , has written
to the bureau saying the simplified disclosure form leaves out
important information such as details about penalties.  “It sounded like a good idea,” she said, “but it just
doesn’t work as a matter of practice.’”  If the CARD Act is any indication, lenders may not always
feel that way. Sanjay Sakhrani, a credit-card analyst at KBW
Inc. who has outperform ratings on Capital One, Discover, and
New York-based  American Express Co. (AXP) , said pushing credit-card
issuers to do something they didn’t want to do has helped the
industry.  The law “forced their hand to assume the worst-case
scenario,” he said. “And the best-case scenario is playing
out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Weise in  New York  at 
 kweise@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  