-- Orders Signal Slowdown in U.S. Business Spending: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-26T20:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/u-s-durable-goods-orders-rose-1-6-in-june-on-aircraft-demand.html
A slump in June orders for equipment
such as computers and machinery signals U.S. business investment
will probably cool in the second half of the year and contribute
less to the economic expansion.  Bookings for  non-defense  capital goods excluding aircraft,
a proxy for future corporate spending, dropped 1.4 percent, the
third decrease in the past four months, according to Commerce
Department data issued today in Washington. Another report
showed  claims  for  unemployment benefits  declined more than
forecast last week, which may have resulted from difficulty
adjusting data for seasonal shutdowns of auto factories.  Softening overseas demand, slowing U.S.  consumer spending 
and gridlock in Washington over fiscal policy may prompt
businesses to put off replacing old equipment, hurting profits
at companies like  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  A report tomorrow is projected to
show the world’s largest economy expanded in the second quarter
at the weakest pace in a year.  “Business investment has definitely shifted lower,” said
 Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC in
 New York . The  European debt crisis  and fiscal cliff “will put
downward pressure on orders, which will translate into weaker
growth in the U.S.”  Stocks jumped today as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the central bank will do whatever it takes to
preserve the euro. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.7
percent to 1,360.02 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury
securities  fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note
up to 1.43 percent from 1.40 percent late yesterday.  Draghi’s Statement  Draghi’s statement at the Global Investment Conference in
London today suggested the ECB may intervene in bond markets
after a surge in yields of Spanish and Italian securities
threatened the existence of the 17-nation currency union.  The U.S. Commerce Department’s report showed total orders
for durable goods, those meant to last at least three years,
climbed 1.6 percent for a second month, exceeding the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News that called
for a 0.3 percent gain. The increase was paced by bookings for
civilian aircraft and military hardware that are often volatile.  Orders  excluding  the volatile transportation category
unexpectedly dropped 1.1 percent in June, the most in five
months. Demand for computers and communications equipment
slumped 4.9 percent last month, while orders for machinery
decreased 1.1 percent.  Bookings for non-military capital goods excluding aircraft
fell at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the second quarter, the
first decrease since the same period in 2009, when the U.S. was
still in a recession.  Little Momentum  “Global activity has shifted lower,” said Porcelli, who
correctly projected the gain in total orders. “It is difficult
for demand to gather much momentum at this stage.”  The report contained better news for estimates of business
investment last quarter. Shipments of non-military capital goods
excluding aircraft, used in calculating gross domestic product,
increased 1.2 percent in June after rising 1.1 percent the prior
month.  “The strength in underlying shipments bodes well for
business investment in Q2, although the weakness of orders
suggests that firms have become more uncertain about the outlook
for demand,”  Peter Newland , an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
New York, said in a note to clients.  Xerox, the Norwalk, Connecticut-based provider of printers
and business services, cut its full-year profit forecast as the
economic slump in  Europe  crimped demand for technology.  ‘Economic Uncertainty’  “The economic uncertainty has created more pressure
especially in Europe and especially in our technology
business,”  Ursula Burns , chief executive officer, said on a
July 20 conference call with analysts.  The economy grew at a 1.4 percent annual rate, down from a
1.9 percent rate in the first quarter, economists forecast a
Commerce Department report tomorrow will show, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Consumer spending
probably rose at a 1.3 percent pace following a 2.5 percent gain
in the first three months of the year.  First-time  applications  for jobless benefits fell 35,000 in
the period ended July 21 to 353,000, the Labor Department said.
Economists forecast 380,000 claims, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The report extended a period of volatility typically seen
in July. Changes in the annual auto plant shutdowns that occur
this time of year have made it difficult to adjust the data for
seasonal variations, the Labor Department has said.  Employment Outlook  Statistical noise aside, slowing economies in Europe and
China, which have reduced global demand for goods, may continue
to curb employment. The  U.S. presidential election  and a looming
battle over tax cuts and  government spending  may also be making
businesses reluctant to hire.  “All in all, the labor market is gradually healing,” said
 Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “We’ve got to take this report with a
grain of salt. The jobs market is still tough and we’re setting
ourselves up for a soft second half of the year.”  Other reports today showed consumer sentiment fell last
week and Americans signed fewer contracts last month to buy
previously owned homes.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 38.5 in
the week ended July 22, the lowest level in two months, from
minus 37.9 in the previous period. An index of the buying
climate, one of the three components of the index, fell to minus
44.7, its lowest reading since May.  ‘Deep Funk’  “Household opinion on the state of the American economy
remains mired in a deep funk that does not bode well for the
spending outlook for the remainder of the year,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “A
further deterioration in the BCCI buying index suggests a soft
labor market and tepid income gains point to a further loss of
momentum in the household sector early in the third quarter.”  The index of pending purchases of existing homes  decreased 
1.4 percent in June to 99.3 after a revised 5.4 percent gain in
May that was less than initially reported, figures from the
National Association of Realtors showed.  A lack of inventory may be hurting the market even as
record-low  mortgage rates  make buying a home more affordable.  “We’ve been seeing a steady decline in the level of
housing inventory, which is most pronounced in the lower price
ranges popular with first-time buyers and investors,”  Lawrence Yun , the Realtors chief economist, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  