-- Human Genome Investors Denied Time to Weigh Glaxo Deal
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-07-26T20:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/human-genome-investors-denied-time-to-weigh-glaxo-deal.html
Human Genome  Sciences Inc. investors
lost a bid to extend  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s deadline of tomorrow
to decide whether to tender their shares for a $3 billion
buyout.  U.S. District Judge Sue L. Robinson ruled today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , that the shareholders aren’t entitled to
more time to consider the offer, saying they won’t be harmed and
haven’t demonstrated a likelihood  of success in their suit.  Glaxo and Human Genome “followed the tender offer rules
‘just like a cookbook,’” Robinson wrote in her nine-page
decision.  The investors today also lost a parallel action in state
court in Rockville,  Maryland , where Human Genome is based,
according to  David Clarke , a lawyer who represents the company
in that case.  “The judge found that the disclosures were adequate,” and
rejected the shareholders’ request for more information and
time, Clarke said in a phone interview.  The ruling couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court
records.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, agreed to acquire
Human Genome for $14.25 a share, according to a statement on
July 16. London-based Glaxo sought to acquire its Benlysta lupus
treatment partner for months, offering $13 a share in April. The
deal accepted by Human Genome’s executives is valued at $3.6
billion including debt and cash.  Shareholders’ Argument  The shareholders argued they needed more time “to digest”
Glaxo’s new offer because of a $1.25-a-share increase in the
offer on July 16, according to Robinson’s ruling.  An extension of the tender offer isn’t warranted because
the only component of the deal that changed was the price, which
requires 10 days’ advance notice before closing a tender offer,
Robinson wrote.  Robinson also decided that “no shareholder is being
required or pressured to render a final decision on the tender
offer by the closing date.” The agreement has provisions that
extend the offering period if a majority of the shares aren’t
tendered by the closing date, she said in court papers. If a
majority should be tendered, those that remain will be cashed
out.  Blake A. Bennett, a lawyer representing the shareholders,
said in a phone interview he couldn’t immediately comment on the
ruling.  Attorneys Edward Welch and Edward Micheletti, who
represented Human Genome and its directors in the Delaware case,
declined to comment on the decision.  The cases are David v.  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI) , 12-CV-
965, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington); and
Howell v. Watkins, 3625331, Circuit Court for Montgomery County,
Maryland (Rockville).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 