-- Uncovered Stocks Get Analyst Notice With Mexico Bourse Program
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-07-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/uncovered-stocks-get-analyst-notice-with-mexico-bourse-program.html
Chemical distributor  Grupo Pochteca
SAB (POCHTECB)  and paper maker  Bio Pappel SAB (PAPPEL*)  are among the 20 companies
taking part in a Mexican stock exchange pilot program to broaden
analyst coverage and boost trading on the bourse.  The program creates a panel of industry group
representatives, who select equity analysts to research and
write about companies without coverage, said Francisco Valle,
head of promotion and issuers at the exchange. The analyst
reports will be made public through the bourse’s website, he
said yesterday in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  Other companies picking up coverage under the program
include real-estate developer  Dine SAB (DINEB) , broadcaster Grupo Radio
Centro SAB and pharmacy operator Farmacias Benavides SAB,
according to Valle. Analysts received their first assignments
yesterday and the first reports will be published within 90
days, he said.  “We’re going to help create a parallel professional
analysis industry in  Mexico ,” Valle said. “We’re also going to
have better pricing and therefore greater trading.”  Similar programs have produced successful results in
markets including Australia and  Malaysia , he said.  The research groups participating as analysts include
Prognosis Economia Finanzas e Inversiones SC, 414 Capital Inc.
Bursametrica SA and the local unit of  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Companies that participate in the program will pay $18,250
annually, Valle said. The exchange will partially subsidize the
fee for those that have a float of at least 30 percent, have at
least 300 investors, maintain a website and have an investor
relations department, he said.  “The idea is to make these companies known to the broad
investor public,”  Gerardo Copca , an analyst with Metanalisis
SA, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. 