-- Unilever Rises to Highest Since 1999 as Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-07-26T08:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/unilever-rises-to-highest-since-1999-as-sales-top-estimates.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods maker, rose to the highest since 1999 after
reporting second-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates as
growth of personal-care products and in  Asia  helped offset
declines in  Europe .  The shares  advanced  as much as 4.8 percent. Underlying
revenue rose 5.8 percent in the second quarter, the maker of
Flora spreads said today in a statement. That topped the average
 estimate  of 32 analysts surveyed by the company for a 4.8
percent increase.  To counter weakening developed markets, London- and
Rotterdam-based Unilever has introduced products such as Magnum
ice cream bars and Clear shampoo in faster-growing emerging
countries including China and Pakistan. That’s helped them
outrun rivals including  Danone (BN)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , which
both cut their full-year profit forecasts last month as they
grappled with recession-wracked economies across developed
markets.  “We had hoped that Unilever could sail smoothly though
2012 despite the macro volatility, unlike some of its major
peers, especially Danone and P&G, and this seems to have been
confirmed,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein,
said in a note today.  Unilever rose to as  high  as 27.75 euros in Amsterdam
trading, the highest intraday price since Jan. 19, 1999.
Personal-care sales rose 10 percent in the quarter, fueled by
moving brands like Clear and Tresemme hair products into new
markets. Home care revenue increased 9.6 percent, helped by
higher sales of Sunlight hand-dishwashing products.  Doubling Sales  Higher prices for Unilever’s spreads and shampoos mostly
fueled the sales uplift. Underlying volume growth was 2.2
percent, slower than the 2.4 percent forecast by analysts, as
shipments of food, including soups and spreads, declined 2.4
percent, while ice cream and tea volumes fell 1.4 percent in the
quarter.  Polman wants to  double sales  by expanding in  emerging
markets , where underlying sales rose 11 percent in the quarter
as Europe struggles. European underlying sales declined 2.2
percent in the period, hurt by declining  consumer confidence  and
record rainfall in Northern Europe, which reduced sales of ice
cream.  “We were expecting Europe to be weak, but this is a little
worse than we were expecting,”  Warren Ackerman , an  analyst  at
 Societe Generale , said today.  While allowing that economic conditions across Europe “are
deteriorating,” Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Huet said
Southern European countries such as Greece and Italy comprise
just under 4 percent of total sales.  France  and the U.K.
“performed very well,” he said on a conference call with
reporters today.  In contrast, Unilever’s Indian unit, which makes up about 5
percent of revenue, doubled net income and boosted sales 14
percent in its first quarter, sending its shares soaring on July
24 to the highest level since Bloomberg started compiling data
in 1991. Sales were also “strong” in Turkey, Indonesia and
Vietnam.  Underlying sales growth excludes the effect of
acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations. Unilever’s
core operating margin, a measure of profitability, was
unchanged. Analysts had expected it to narrow by 20 basis
points.  “Looking forward, we expect continued volatility,
especially in commodity costs and economic conditions,” Chief
Executive Officer Paul Polman said in the statement. The company
remains “on track to deliver a modest improvement in core
operating margin” this year.  Huet said today there was “no change” to Unilever’s April
outlook for commodity cost inflation for the full year to be
“slightly higher” than a mid-single-digit increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  