-- Unilever Reports Faster Sales Growth Than Analysts Estimated
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-07-26T07:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/unilever-second-quarter-sales-growth-beats-analysts-estimates.html
Unilever (UNA) , the world’s second-biggest
consumer-goods maker, reported second-quarter sales that beat
analysts’ estimates as growth of personal-care products in  Asia 
helped offset declines in  Europe .  Underlying revenue rose 5.8 percent in the second quarter,
the maker of Flora spreads said today in a statement. That
topped the average estimate of 32 analysts surveyed by the
company for a 4.8 percent increase. Underlying volume growth was
2.2 percent, slower than the 2.4 percent forecast by analysts,
as the company sold 2.4 percent less food.  Unilever, based in London and Rotterdam, is among consumer-
goods companies grappling with recession-wracked economies
across southern Europe and the U.K. French yogurt maker  Danone (BN) 
and Procter & Gamble Co. the world’s biggest consumer-products
maker, both cut their full-year profit forecasts last month. To
counter weakening developed markets, Unilever has introduced
products such as Magnum ice cream bars and Clear shampoo in
faster-growing emerging countries including China and  Pakistan .  “Looking forward, we expect continued volatility,
especially in commodity costs and economic conditions,” Chief
Executive Officer Paul Polman said in the statement. The company
remains “on track to deliver a modest improvement in core
operating margin” this year.  Unilever  shares  rose as much as 4.3 percent to 27.60 euros
in Amsterdam trading. The stock is up 3.8 percent this year,
 while  P&G shares have tumbled 4 percent in that period.  Doubling Sales  Polman wants to double sales by expanding in its developing
markets, outside of the Americas and Europe, where underlying sales 
rose 10.7 percent in the quarter as Europe struggles. European 
underlying sales declined 2.2 percent in the period. In contrast, 
Unilever’s Indian unit, which makes up about 5 percent of revenue, 
doubled net income and boosted sales 14 percent in its first quarter, 
sending its shares soaring on July 24 to the highest level since
 Bloomberg started compiling data in 1991.  “We were expecting Europe to be weak, but this is a little
worse than we were expecting,”  Warren Ackerman , an analyst at
 Societe Generale , said today.  Underlying sales growth excludes the effect of
acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations. Unilever’s
core operating margin, a measure of profitability, was
unchanged. Analysts had expected it to narrow by 20 basis
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  