-- UnitedHealth Joins Medicare to Expose Double Billings by Doctors
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-07-26T16:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/unitedhealth-joins-medicare-to-expose-double-billings-by-doctors.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the largest publicly traded health insurers in
the U.S., agreed to share more information with regulators in an
industrywide partnership with the government to root out fraud.  The initiative targets theft of doctors’ identities and
overbilling, including in Medicare, the $500 billion U.S. health
insurance program for the elderly and disabled. The partnership
may lead to sharing billing claims data, which could be mined
for aberrations, said Richard Migliori, executive vice president
of health services for Minnetonka, Minnesota-based UnitedHealth.  “There are mutual interests here in doing a better job at
detecting what’s probably some $80 billion-plus per year in
fraudulent payments across private and public sectors,”
Migliori said in an interview. “There’s lot of enthusiasm for
doing this right.”  Today’s announcement falls short of a full data-mining
agreement, a long-range goal that the government said would help
spot fraud such as when doctors charge different insurers for
care delivered to the same patient on the same day in two
different cities. There are obstacles to providing that
information, particularly patient privacy and confidentiality
concerns related to sharing claims data, Migliori said.  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius ,
Attorney General Eric Holder and insurance industry leaders will
discuss the partnership at 1 p.m. local time at the White House
in Washington.  “This partnership puts criminals on notice that we will
find them and stop them before they steal health care dollars,”
Sebelius said in a statement.  Humana, Amerigroup  The collaboration includes America’s Health Insurance
Plans, the industry’s main lobby group in Washington, and the
Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, which represents state Blue
Cross and Blue Shield plans. Along with UnitedHealth,  Humana
Inc. (HUM)  and  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP)  are among companies participating,
according to the government.  The  Justice Department  has estimated that Medicare and
Medicaid, the health system for the poor, are plagued by at
least $60 billion in fraud a year. The Government Accountability
Office, the investigative arm of Congress,  reported  in 2009 that
an increase in bills from several states for home health care
was partly because of “fraudulent and abusive practices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  