-- Airline Index Slide Is Longest Since 2010 on United Miss
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-26T20:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/united-continental-profit-trails-estimates-on-higher-fuel.html
A U.S.  airline stock  index fell for
the eighth straight day, its longest slide in two years, after
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  posted a quarterly profit that
missed analysts’ estimates.  United dropped 5.9 percent to $19.20 at the close in New
York to pace a 0.8 percent decline in the Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index. United’s earnings excluding some items were
$1.41 a share, trailing the $1.66  average estimate  of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Fuel costs rose and a computer change damped sales,
Chicago-based United said. Revenue of $9.94 billion was less
than analysts’ $10.1 billion estimate as the world’s largest
carrier combined accounting systems under the 2010 merger of
former United parent UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines Inc.  “It is poor execution that, unfortunately, continues,”
said  Hunter Keay , a Wolfe Trahan & Co. analyst in New York who
rates the shares as outperform.  United has moved to reverse a slide in on-time arrivals and
an increase in lost bags and canceled flights, Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Smisek  said. The company is rebuilding its reserve
of spare jets at the United Airlines unit to 15, after stumbling
when it cut back to nine in adopting a preventive maintenance
program used by its Continental operations.  ‘I Apologize’  “I know we caused some customer disturbance because of all
the changes we implemented so quickly, and I apologize for
that,” Smisek said on a  conference call  with analysts.  Profit excluding some items fell to $545 million from $577
million, or $1.49 a share, a year earlier, United said in a
statement. Including $137 million in costs to repaint planes and
make other merger-related changes, $76 million in severance
expenses for early retirements and a $7 million gain on the sale
of three planes,  net income  was $339 million, or 89 cents a
share.  Because United disclosed the revenue issue on July 24, some
analysts hadn’t computed that change as part of their estimates,
Wolfe Trahan’s Keay said in an interview. Costs came in higher
than expected, he said, led by labor expense.  Spending for  fuel , the airline’s largest cost, rose 5.6
percent to $3.41 billion. United paid $3.30 a gallon under
contracts that lock in prices in advance, more than the $3
average spot price in  New York  Harbor after rates fell more than
5 percent from a year earlier.  Revenue Gain  Passenger revenue from each seat flown a mile increased 1.8
percent, compared with 8.5 percent at  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , 5.8
percent at  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and 3.7 percent at  Alaska Air
Group Inc. (ALK) , which reported second-quarter earnings today.  “We are seeing demand being relatively stable,” Chief
Revenue Officer Jim Compton said. “When we talk about the
economy being tepid, we are very much aware of, particularly
 Europe , and are keeping our eyes on that. We’re obviously
watching softness in the economy to see where that turns.”  Analysts have been tracking airlines’ revenue data for any
signs that a slowing U.S. economy has crimped demand and the
carriers’ ability to raise fares.  US Airways  fell 3.8 percent yesterday following executives’
comments about slower growth in revenue from each seat flown a
mile in July. That erased an earlier gain after the Tempe,
Arizona-based airline said second-quarter profit tripled, and
helped erase an advance for the Bloomberg airline index.  Delta Drops  Today’s decline in the airline index matched the longest
such skid for the gauge of 10 carriers since June 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) 
dropped 1.1 percent to $5.20, and Delta fell 0.6 percent to
$9.41. US Airways rose 0.4 percent to $11.19 today, its second
increase in the past trading nine days.  “With much of earnings season already behind us, we
believe the market should not be surprised that higher fuel and
sluggish demand trends are conspiring to trim (not devastate) 3Q
consensus expectations,”  Jamie Baker , a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst in New York, said today in a note to clients.  United said today that July passenger unit revenue will be
unchanged from a year earlier. It is decreasing capacity across
the Atlantic for the third quarter and full year, while Delta
earlier said it’s trimming flying to Europe by 5 percent after
Labor Day.  Limiting the supply of available seats helps airlines
retain pricing power. United said today its fleet of 1,250
planes, including regional operations, will stay at about that
level during the next five years.  Alaska Air said profit grew 24 percent, excluding special
items, to $110.8 million, or $1.53 a share, from $89.6 million,
or $1.22, a year earlier. Analysts had forecast $1.51.  Including costs to reduce the value of fuel purchase
contracts, the Seattle-based company’s net income more than
doubled to $67.5 million, or 93 cents, from $28.8 million, or 39
cents.  “Despite ongoing concerns about the macro economic
environment, demand during the quarter was strong,” CEO Brad Tilden said on a conference call. Sales climbed 9.3 percent to
$1.21 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  