-- Venezuela Hit With $600 Million of New Arbitration Claims
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2012-07-26T22:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/venezuela-hit-with-600-million-of-new-arbitration-claims-1-.html
The administration of Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez  faces new demands for compensation worth
at least $600 million at the  World Bank  after companies rushed
to present their claims before the South American nation pulled
out of the arbitration system.  Spain ’s Valle Verde Sociedad Financiera SL and Barbados-
based companies Blue Bank International & Trust Ltd and Transban
Investment Corp. filed separate claims to the bank’s
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, said
DLA Piper LLP, the  law firm  representing the investment firms.  Venezuela’s government officially requested to leave the
Washington-based ICSID on Jan. 25 after being a member since
1993, and companies faced a July 25 deadline to file new suits.
The court was already considering more than 20 claims filed by
companies against  Venezuela , stemming mainly from the seizure of
private assets by the state.  “These cases have been in gestation for a long period of
time,” Miami-based DLA Piper partner Pedro Martinez-Fraga said
today in a telephone interview from Miami. “The decision to
file, sometimes it’s precipitated by knowing that you won’t have
that remedy anymore.”  Valle Verde, which had a stake in the Casa Propia Entidad
de Ahorro y Prestamo lending and savings bank shut down by
Chavez last year, is seeking $200 million in compensation at the
ICSID, Martinez-Fraga said. Transban, which imported luxury BMW
and Mini Cooper automobiles into Venezuela, is seeking about
$100 million after currency controls implemented by Chavez
forced the company out of business, he said.  Blue Bank, which had a stake in a  venture  to develop the
iconic Humboldt hotel and cable car on the Avila mountain in
Caracas that was taken over by the government, is seeking as
much as $300 million.  Chavez said on Jan. 27 that Venezuela won’t accept any
rulings from the arbitration court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 