-- Virginia Has Most at Risk as Contracts Hit Cliff: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-07-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/virginia-has-most-at-risk-as-contracts-hit-cliff-bgov-barometer.html
Virginia, Maine,  New Mexico  and the
 District of Columbia  have the most in federal contracts to lose
from the looming threat of $1.2 trillion in automatic cuts to
 government spending .  The BGOV Barometer, ranking the states by the share of
their economies tied to federal contracts, shows  Washington ,
D.C., and neighboring Virginia relying on government awards for
more than 10 percent of their gross domestic products. Maine is
next, with 9.9 percent, followed by New Mexico, at 8.9 percent,
according to federal data compiled by Bloomberg.  Those states may be hit hardest by 10-year automatic budget
cuts, called sequestration, that will begin Jan. 2 if Congress
and the Obama administration fail to agree on a deficit-reduction plan.  The so-called fiscal cliff “would have a bigger effect on
states than the recession,” John McClain, senior fellow at
George Mason University’s Center for Regional Analysis in
Arlington,  Virginia , said in an interview. “We’re already
trying to swim upriver and this would just knock us down
further. It could be an economic disaster.”  Government contracting represents 17 percent of the economy
in the nation’s capital, and 14 percent in Virginia, home to the
Pentagon and headquarters of top federal contractors such as
 SAIC Inc. (SAI) , which is based in McLean.  Los Alamos  The government spent more than $500 billion on federal
contracts in 2011. Agencies awarded $77.6 billion in contracts
that year for work performed in Washington and Virginia.  SAIC in 2011 received $3.54 billion for work in Washington
and Virginia and was the top recipient of awards in both
locations. The company performs computer and engineering
services for agencies including the  Department of Defense  and
the  Justice Department .  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s shipyard in Maine, where it builds
vessels for the Navy, is the biggest U.S. vendor in the state
and one of its top employers. The Fall Church, Virginia-based
company won $4.53 billion for work in Maine, 88 percent of the
$5.12 billion in U.S. contracts in the state last year.  The top contractor in New Mexico last year was Los Alamos
National Security LLC, a joint venture that operates Los Alamos
National Laboratory. The venture includes Charlotte, North
Carolina-based  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC) , an energy company, and San
Francisco-based  URS Corp. (URS) , an engineering and construction firm.  The group won $2.46 billion for contract work at the Energy
Department lab.  ‘Ripple Effect’  The sequester would have a “ripple effect” on the states’
economies,  Todd Harrison , a senior fellow at the Center for
Strategic and budgetary Assessments, said in an interview.  Jobs generated from contracts would decline, which might
lead to a decrease in taxes paid to the state and more people
qualifying for government services, he said.  “People aren’t going to be out there spending money,”
Harrison said. “People aren’t going to be buying as much gas.
They aren’t going to be buying as many groceries.”  The D.C. government is trying to buffer itself from federal
cuts by encouraging more diversity in its economy, said Pedro
Ribeiro, a city spokesman. It’s trying to help companies that
have “little if any tie” to federal contracts, such as
LivingSocial Inc., which is the second-largest provider of
online daily deals and a rival to  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)   To prepare for the reductions, Virginia has created a $30
million contingency fund that may be used to help contractors
find alternative customers, Ric Brown, the state’s finance
secretary, said in an interview. Another $20 million may be
added to that fund, he said.  Even so, the state is preparing for “the unthinkable,” he
said.  “I’m worried with every day that passes,” said Brown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  