-- VW Calls for Marchionne to Quit as Head of Auto Group
-- B y   H e a t h e r   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-27T07:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/vw-calls-for-marchionne-to-quit-as-head-of-auto-group.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  threatened to leave
the ACEA European automakers association in response to comments
by  Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne , a measure
of rising tensions in the industry as sales slump.  According to a report in the  New York  Times published
yesterday, Marchionne suggested VW’s pricing strategy was
creating a “bloodbath.” The newspaper said that auto
executives, including Marchionne, who is also ACEA’s president,
accuse the German carmaker of exploiting the debt crisis to
expand its market share.  The comments “show once again that Marchionne is not
qualified to be ACEA president,” VW’s chief spokesman, Stephan Gruehsem, said in an e-mailed statement, calling for his
resignation from the post. VW is also considering leaving the
association itself, he said. A Fiat representative said the
Turin, Italy-based company didn’t have a comment.  The spat highlights the strained relationships in the
European  auto industry , a microcosm of the region’s debt crisis.
Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW yesterday reported record first-half
profit, while Fiat and  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  of  France  contend
with widening losses in  Europe .  “VW continues to ramp up the pressure,” said  Max Warburton , a London-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein.
“Everyone in the industry comments on it and knows it. It may
be ugly for those on the receiving end, but isn’t this how free
markets are supposed to work?”  Capacity Conflict  Marchionne has needled Volkswagen before, suggesting German
carmakers should do their share in closing excess capacity in
Europe. VW,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI)  resisted.
Their factories are running at more than 90 percent capacity,
versus rates of 60 percent to 75 percent for other auto
manufacturers in the region, according to UBS analyst Philippe Houchois.  European carmakers are extending discounts to attract
dwindling buyers, with ACEA predicting sales will fall to a 17-
year low this year.  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the
Center for Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-
Essen, cited price cuts of about 24 percent on VW’s Golf model
in  Germany .  Berstein’s Warburton said in a July 18 note that VW was
using “super-normal” profits from  China  to subsidize a price
war in Europe.  The region’s auto market faces an “elevated risk” as
competition has increased “significantly,” Christian Klingler,
VW’s sales chief, said on a conference call yesterday. Auto
pricing in Europe is “tense” and “pressure” will continue in
the coming months, he said.  Other German automakers aren’t publicly backing VW’s
criticism of Marchionne. Alexander Bilgeri, a spokesman for BMW,
said the Munich-based manufacturer doesn’t comment on “other
company’s issues.” Florian Martens, a spokesman for Daimler in
Stuttgart, didn’t immediately have a comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Harris in London at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  