-- VW Profit Rises as Audi Gains Offset European Slump
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-07-26T15:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/vw-profit-rises-as-audi-gains-offset-european-slump.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s largest
carmaker, reported slowing earnings growth as the impact of the
sovereign debt crisis weighed on demand in its home region.  Second-quarter operating  profit  rose 3.4 percent to 3.28
billion euros ($3.98 billion), the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
company said today. That compared with a first-quarter increase
of 10 percent. Second-quarter revenue gained 19 percent to 48.1
billion euros. Sales climbed 26 percent in the first quarter.  Volkswagen, which sells nearly 25 percent of all cars
bought in Europe, was unable to continue its global growth
momentum as the region’s car market drops for a fifth year. The
German manufacturer today stuck to its 2012 target of matching
last year’s record operating profit of 11.3 billion euros as
higher demand for Audi and VW brand cars in  China  and the U.S.,
the world’s two biggest auto markets, softens  Europe ’s slump.  “VW is not immune to the crisis,” said Michael Punzet, a
DZ Bank analyst in  Frankfurt  who recommends buying the shares.
“But the U.S. and Chinese markets can offset most of the
negative effects in Europe. Another advantage compared with VW’s
competitors is that its home market is still performing better
than, for example, the French or Italian.”  Shares in the German manufacturer, which plans to become
the world’s largest automaker by 2018,  dropped  as much as 4.80
euros, or 3.6 percent, to 128.85 euros, and were down 0.8
percent as of 5:00 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has
climbed 14 percent in 2012, valuing VW at 58.9 billion euros.  Audi Profit  Audi, which accounted for 46 percent of the group’s
operating profit in the second quarter, generated a return on
sales of 11.6 percent, beating  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, which
posted an 8.6 percent margin. VW’s Chinese joint ventures, which
aren’t included in the group’s operating earnings, recorded a
second-quarter profit of 930 million euros.  “Our strong position in the international markets will
enable us to outperform the market as a whole -- despite the
challenging environment,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in a statement.  European governments and households are cutting spending,
as the effects of the debt crisis extend beyond  Greece ,  Spain 
and  Italy . Business confidence in  Germany , Europe’s largest
economy, fell to its lowest level in more than two years in
July. Moody’s Investors Service this week lowered the outlook on
Germany’s Aaa credit rating to negative, citing the risk that
Greece could leave the euro and an “increasing likelihood”
that countries such as Spain and Italy will require support.  Pricing Pressure  The European auto market faces an “elevated risk,” as
competition has increased “significantly,” Christian Klingler,
VW’s sales chief, said today on a conference call. Auto pricing
in Europe is “tense” and “pressure” will continue in the
coming months.  VW’s second-quarter European sales declined 2 percent,
compared with 0.5 percent growth in the first three months,
according to figures from the ACEA auto industry group.  Volkswagen may face a tougher second half, as the German
market shows signs of softening. The VDA industry association
forecast German auto demand to slip to 3.1 million vehicles this
year from 3.17 million in 2011. Softer demand has increased
discounts in Germany, which reached a record level in July,
according to  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen .  VW’s third-quarter earnings will be “weak,” as spending
for introducing new models “peak” in the period, Chief
Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said on the conference
call. VW is preparing the introduction of a next-generation
Golf, one of its bestsellers. In the first half, research and
development costs totaled 4.4 billion euros, 25 percent more
than in 2011.  Weak Competitors  Other automakers have felt Europe’s slump even more.  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  is seeking to shut a factory in  France  and cut
14,000 jobs as part of a plan to cut costs by 2.5 billion euros
by 2015. Europe’s second-largest carmaker yesterday said its
auto operations lost 662 million euros in the first half.  Peugeot’s first-half sales in Europe tumbled 14 percent,
while  Fiat SpA (F) ’s and  Renault SA (RNO) ’s deliveries each dropped 17
percent, according to ACEA. VW’s first-half European market
share climbed to 24.1 percent from 22.7 percent a year earlier.  “The weakness of VW’s European competitors is the German
carmaker’s strength,” Credit Suisse analyst Arndt Ellinghorst
said. “This will support VW in the second half of the year when
sluggish European demand will impact performance.”  Smaller Gains  Volkswagen’s first-half deliveries gained 10 percent to
4.55 million, while revenue in the period climbed 23 percent.  “In the second half, VW will not be able to maintain
double-digit growth anymore,” said  Frank Schwope , an analyst at
NordLB, who recommends buying the stock. “Unit sales are more
likely to be up 5 percent throughout the rest of the year.”  VW expects little earnings contribution this year from  MAN
SE (MAN)  because of writedowns following the consolidation of the
truckmaker in November, the company said today.  VW, which is forging a trucking alliance between MAN, its
 Scania AB (SCVB)  affiliate and its own commercial vehicle operations,
raised its stake in the Munich-based company to more 75 percent
in June. MAN yesterday posted a 50 percent decline in second-
quarter operating profit to 218 million euros.  “MAN’s bad performance in the second quarter out yesterday
is dragging down VW’s shares”, Schwope said.  The owner of the Skoda and Bentley continued its expansion
by agreeing earlier this month to pay Porsche SE 4.46 billion
euros for the rest of the sports-car brand that it didn’t
already own, adding the iconic 911 to its lineup. Porsche’s
integration, expected to take place Aug. 1, will also make a
limited contribution to earnings this year, VW said today. Last
week, Audi completed the purchase of the Ducati motorcycle
brand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  