-- We Did ‘Build That,’ and Our Government Helped
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-07-26T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/we-did-build-that-and-our-government-helped.html
The flap over President  Barack Obama ’s “you didn’t build that” gaffe -- playing endlessly in TV
ads and sure to be a major theme of the  Republican National
Convention  in late August -- is at once sillier and more
significant than it seems.  It’s sillier because fair-minded observers -- including
neutral fact-checking referees -- agree that the president’s
words are shamelessly being taken out of context. For Romney to
base so much of his campaign on bogus editing is lame.  Yet the uproar is significant because -- properly framed --
this election offers a stark choice between do-it-yourself
libertarianism and Whig capitalism, between  Ayn Rand  and  Warren Buffett .  Here’s what the president actually said in Roanoke,
Virginia, on July 13:  “If you were successful, somebody along the line gave you
some help. There was a great teacher somewhere in your life.
Somebody helped to create this unbelievable American system that
we have that allowed you to thrive. Somebody invested in roads
and bridges. If you’ve got a business -- you didn’t build that.
Somebody else made that happen. The Internet didn’t get invented
on its own. Government research created the Internet so that all
the companies could make money off the Internet.”  Business Surrogates  Obama’s awkward “that” referred to “roads and bridges,” not
businesses. But the president wasn’t at his best that day, to
put it mildly. He needed to match his point about collaborative
success with paeans to those he saluted in his inaugural address
(and in many other speeches) as “the risk takers, the doers, the
makers of things.” His failure to bring business executives into
his White House and use them as surrogates means he has to
handle damage control on his own, which looks bad.  But the comment -- in any context -- was hardly the insult
“to every entrepreneur and every innovator in America” that
Romney alleges. The Republicans who pounced on this misstep
remind me of Democrats who took Romney’s “I like being able to
 fire people ” line as proof that he enjoys laying off workers. It
was no such thing, as even the Obama campaign recognized. Romney
was simply referring to the consumer’s ability to fire insurance
companies that provide poor service.  These gaffes don’t open a window on the values of the
candidates, only on the vapidity of the process.  Still, a larger question has been left dangling: Was the
president right that business has received critical help from
the government over the years?  On this, the evidence is in.  Alexander Hamilton ’s federally
chartered Bank of the  United States ; the Whig “internal
improvements” of the early Republic; the transcontinental
railroad; the land-grant colleges; the Interstate Highway
System; the Internet and other government-backed transportation,
communications and education endeavors aren’t just examples of
“ government spending ” long supported by both parties. They have
proved essential to the creation of thousands of small
enterprises.  All major energy sources have received government help in
one form or another, as have aviation, biotech, real estate and
scores of other industries. Even companies that don’t get direct
assistance from the federal government receive plenty of
downstream benefits through the  tax code .  We all should know that business can’t thrive without an
educated workforce and the fair application of the rule of law.
Even regulation -- the bogeyman of conservative business
interests -- is a necessary condition of a stable business
culture. The countries with the least regulation have the most
corruption, and vice versa.  Romney may understand this but the party that he represents
doesn’t.  Republican Resistance  Republicans in Congress have moved repeatedly to strip away
the underpinnings of a productive business environment: When it
comes to education, they favor slashing  student loans  and
research funding for higher education; on infrastructure, they
oppose many construction and transportation projects that many
conservatives supported until recently; on immigration, they
oppose comprehensive reform that business backs as essential to
a dynamic workforce, and on transparency, they oppose the
Disclose Act, which would help expose the kind of crony
capitalism that rots society.  The Republican agenda is essentially a down payment on a
libertarian America in all areas except defense and national
security. (Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , whose budget
is the party’s tax-and-spending blueprint, is a longtime devotee
of Ayn Rand). Anyone who doubts this should read the  Ryan plan ,
which guts social programs for the poor to pay for another 20
percent tax cut for the rich and does nothing to balance the
budget. It passed the House twice and could become law if Romney
wins the White House and the Senate goes Republican.  Romney said the president’s gaffes reflected his “strange”
views, and supporters such as former New Hampshire Governor John Sununu said such beliefs were “un-American.” In fact, it’s the
DIY libertarians -- who deny our 223-year nexus between
government and business -- who are out of sync with U.S.
history.  Buffett, an Obama supporter, likes to say he’s a member of
“the lucky sperm club.” He notes that if he were born under a
different system, he couldn’t have been as successful.  Like it or not, our private sector has always operated with
at least some indirect government help. And it’s perfectly
legitimate for the president to point that out.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: In a special signed editorial,  Michael R.
Bloomberg  on the long road to  sane gun policies .  Also, the editors on  bringing back earmarks  and on  easing
austerity  in the U.K.; Stephen L. Carter on why all  NCAA
punishments  should be as harsh as  Penn State ’s;  Jeffrey Goldberg 
on why  Obama would be better than Romney  on  Iran ;  Pankaj Mishra 
on the challenge of  Asian state capitalism ; William Pesek on
 U.S.-China relations ;  Jonathan Weil  on the  conflicts of interest 
at  Freddie Mac ; Kim Schoenholtz and Lawrence White on  remaking
Libor .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 