-- Wells Fargo to Boost Asia Staff as Morgan Stanley, RBS Trim
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2012-07-27T08:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/wells-fargo-to-boost-asia-staff-10-as-morgan-stanley-rbs-trim.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the most valuable
U.S. bank and largest home lender, plans to increase its
workforce in Asia by at least 10 percent over the next three
years as rivals slow their expansion in the region.  “We’re hiring,” John Rindlaub, president of Wells Fargo’s
Asia Pacific operations, said in an interview yesterday in Hong
Kong. “As the other institutions have either slowed their
growth or even cut back to reduce their expenses, we’ve been
able to add great people.”  The bank plans to hire more than 400 people for its 4,200-
person team in the region, including 20 in Hong Kong by the end
of the year and 15 to 20 in China over the next 12 months,
Rindlaub said.  Wells Fargo is expanding into Asia, seeking revenue growth
as record-low  interest rates  in the U.S. cut into margins and an
 unemployment rate  above 8 percent puts a damper on new credit.
Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf  has also made the San
Francisco-based bank one of the country’s most active in buying
loan portfolios and businesses from European lenders.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  cut 70 jobs, shutting its
cash equities,  equity capital markets  and corporate finance
units in Korea, as well as the cash equities operations in
Indonesia and Singapore, it said in March.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner
of the world’s biggest brokerage, is eliminating as many as 100
jobs, primarily in the trading business in Europe and Asia,
people briefed on the plans said this month.  ‘Traditional Banking’  “Many other large institutions have had large equity
capital markets and debt capital markets businesses which have
slowed down dramatically, and that’s one of the reasons for the
cutback,” said Rindlaub. “We don’t have a large exposure in
that area. A lot of our focus is on traditional banking
activities.”  Second-quarter  net income  at Wells Fargo increased 17
percent to a record $4.62 billion, or 82 cents a share, on
strength in mortgage banking and a drop in expenses.  The bank agreed in June to purchase WestLB AG’s
subscription-financing business and about $3 billion in loans.  Wells Fargo in Asia offers wholesale banking services for
financial institutions, large Asian companies and U.S. corporate
clients seeking to expand in the region. The Asian operations
are an “important part” of the bank’s international business,
which as a whole contributes about 3 percent of Wells Fargo’s
assets and 5 percent of loans, according to Rindlaub.  He “sees opportunity” to grow Wells Fargo’s Asia revenue
by at least 10 percent a year over the “next several years,”
he said.  Wells Fargo operates international branches in  Hong Kong ,
 Seoul , Shanghai, Singapore, Taipei and Tokyo, according to
 presentation material  posted on its website. The lender also
runs representative offices in 12 other Asia-Pacific cities
including Hanoi, Jakarta, Mumbai and Sydney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  