-- CEO Braly Gets Board Backing After Cut in Forecast
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-26T20:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/wellpoint-board-says-it-supports-ceo-after-cut-forecast.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ’s board, reacting to
criticism after the health insurer cut its profit forecast, said
the management team led by Chief Executive Officer Angela Braly
has its full support.  WellPoint, the second-largest U.S. health plan, yesterday
said net income this year will be $7.30 to $7.40 a share,
cutting its June 15 forecast because of higher costs and lower
enrollment. The shares fell 12 percent yesterday in the biggest
single-day drop since March 2008, and today lost another 1.2
percent to close at $53.39.  Braly earlier this year announced the Indianapolis-based
company would abandon markets for senior citizen plans in
 California  that caused losses. On July 9, WellPoint said it
would pay $4.9 billion for  Amerigroup Corp. (AGP) , which specializes
in government-backed Medicaid plans, and agreed last month to
pay $900 million for eyewear retailer 1-800 Contacts.  “The Board has been fully involved in the strategy
WellPoint is pursuing and is supportive of the strategy and our
management team,” lead director Jacquelyn Ward said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  WellPoint’s second-quarter earnings excluding one-time
items missed analysts’ estimates by 4 cents a share yesterday as
membership in medical plans fell 2.3 percent to 33.5 million.  BMO Capital Markets’ Dave Shove downgraded the stock today
to Market Perform in a note to investors. The company is “stuck
in reverse,” he wrote. Shove lowered his target price to $59
from $80, according to the note.  ‘Snatching Defeat’  WellPoint is “snatching defeat from the jaws of victory,”
wrote Bernstein Research’s Ana Gupte. She lowered her target
price for the stock to $72 from $79.  The missteps mean “time may be running out” for the
insurer’s management team, said Carl McDonald, a Citigroup
analyst in  New York , in a note to clients yesterday.  “Several
large holders were already frustrated.”  The earnings report and the forecast came a week after
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest health plan, raised its
forecast after increasing its member rolls.  The WellPoint results “put an exclamation point on the
differences between United and WellPoint,” McDonald wrote in
his note.  Braly, during a conference call with analysts yesterday,
said the company was “disappointed with the need to lower our
guidance, but believe it’s the right action to take, given the
challenging marketplace we see” and WellPoint’s need to invest.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  