-- Western Australia Set for Dry Weather, Curbing Crop Prospects
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-07-26T03:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/western-australia-set-for-dry-weather-curbing-crop-prospects.html
Grain-growing regions in  Western
Australia , the nation’s biggest wheat producer, will probably
remain dry this week, threatening to curb production prospects
as hot conditions harm crops from the U.S. to  Europe .  No rain is  forecast  in the state’s crop areas in the four
days to July 29, the Bureau of Meteorology said. An eight-day
outlook shows grain regions may get between 1 millimeter (0.04
inch) and 10 millimeters with as much as 25 millimeters expected
along the coast, a bureau weather model shows.  Corn and soybeans surged to records this week and wheat
climbed 17 percent this month as the worst drought since 1956
scorches fields in the U.S. and heat waves wither crops in
Europe. A drier-than-normal August to October is likely for
central parts of Western  Australia  as an El Nino event, which
can parch the country’s east, may develop this year, the bureau
said July 24. Global food prices will rebound after tumbling in
the second quarter, the  United Nations  said July 5.  “It’s been dry for quite some time,” said  Michael Creed ,
an agribusiness economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. “It’s
got a rather ordinary subsoil moisture profile so it doesn’t
bode too well for crop prospects.”  Most of Western Australia had below-average rainfall from
April to June and was exceptionally dry in July, said  David Jones , the Melbourne-based head of climate monitoring and
prediction at the Bureau of Meteorology.  East Coast  Southern areas of New South Wales, the second-biggest wheat
grower, may get as much as 10 millimeters of rain to July 29,
according to the bureau. Parts of Victoria may get between 10
millimeters and 25 millimeters, it said.  “It’s promising considering dry weather was forecast for
certain parts of New South  Wales  and Victoria through this
period,” Creed said by phone from Melbourne today.  Australia may  produce  24.1 million metric tons of wheat in
2012-2013, 6.2 percent lower than an earlier estimate, on
concern dry weather would curb plantings, the Australian Bureau
of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciences said June 13.
Output was a record 29.5 million tons in 2011-2012 as La Nina-
linked rains boosted yields on the east coast.  Australia is the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter
after the U.S., according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  On July 23, corn reached an all-time high of $8 a bushel,
soybeans set a record $16.915 a bushel and wheat traded $9.4725,
the highest prices since August 2008.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  