-- Bolt Says He’s Fit in Bid to Become an Olympic Legend in London
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-27T00:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/world-s-fastest-man-bolt-says-he-s-fit-to-become-olympic-legend.html
Usain Bolt said he’s fit enough to
successfully defend his Olympic sprint titles in  London  and
predicted the fastest competition in history.  The Jamaican, who won the gold medals four years ago in
Beijing and holds the world records in the 100 and 200 meters,
arrived in the U.K. capital with his teammates yesterday and
said he has had slight injuries to his back and hamstring.  He hasn’t raced since a double defeat to training partner
Yohan Blake at the Jamaican national trials, which ended July 1.  “I’ve trained great for the past 2 1/2 weeks and
everything is coming together,” Bolt said.  Bolt, who lowered his world record in the 100 to 9.58
seconds at the 2009 World Championships in Berlin, will have to
overcome the fastest field in Olympic history to retain his
crown.  Three of his challengers -- Blake and former world record
holder Asafa Powell of  Jamaica  and Tyson Gay of the U.S. -- are
the next fastest to have run the distance in the modern Olympic
era.  The nearest comparison to the showdown in London was the
1988 final in  Seoul , which included three sprinters who held the
world record at some time --  Carl Lewis , Ben Johnson and Calvin
Smith. That race ended with Johnson of  Canada  smashing the world
record before being thrown out for steroid use.  Fastest Field  U.S. sprinter Justin Gatlin, who’s also a contender, would
have been counted as fifth fastest of all time but the 9.77
seconds he set in 2006 was wiped out when he received a doping
ban. He won this year’s U.S. trials ahead of Gay in 9.80.  “Hands down I’m thinking this is going to be one of the
fastest 100 meters anybody has ever seen,” said Bolt, wearing
his country’s green and yellow uniform and a cap emblazoned with
his initials.  The 25-year-old sprinter said he’s focused on “becoming a
legend” by retaining his titles in London. His double defeat to
Blake at the Jamaican trials was a “wake-up call,” he said.  Blake clocked a personal-best time of 9.75 seconds in
Kingston to beat Bolt on June 30 by 0.11 seconds in the 100
meters, a time only Bolt, Powell and Gay have ever eclipsed. He
won the 200 meters a day later in 19.80.  “It opened my eyes,” said Bolt, who set the 200-meter
record of 19.19 seconds at the Berlin World Championships. “I
sat down and decided to re-think a few things.”  Blake won the 100-meter world title last year in Daegu,
 South Korea , after Bolt was disqualified for a false start.  Bolt, who’ll carry the Jamaican flag at today’s opening
ceremony, said there wasn’t one challenger that he feared the
most.  “Coming to the championships, I’m not going to think about
losing at any point in time,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at London’s Olympic Park at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  