-- Yuan Strengthens on U.S. Stimulus Speculation, Stronger Fixing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-07-26T08:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/yuan-strengthens-on-u-s-stimulus-speculation-stronger-fixing.html
The  yuan  advanced the most in a week
on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will unveil further measures
to aid growth in the world’s largest economy, boosting demand
for emerging-market assets.  The Chinese currency rebounded from the weakest level since
September 2011 after new home sales in the U.S. fell 8.4 percent
in June from a two-year high. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
meets next week. Stimulus measures in  China  are sufficient to
support expansion in the second-largest economy, Il Houng Lee,
the International Monetary Fund’s senior resident representative
in the country, said in an interview yesterday.  “Investors have revived hopes for quantitative easing in
the U.S., leading to a firmer yuan today,” said  Daniel Chan ,
executive vice-president at Glory Sky Global Markets Ltd.
“However, the yuan is only rebounding. Chinese officials are
still worried about exports as Europe’s debt crisis continues.”  The yuan rose 0.07 percent to close at 6.3841 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency fell to 6.3967 yesterday, the weakest level since
Sept. 29. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, was little changed at 1.5
percent today.  The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s  reference rate 
0.08 percent stronger at 6.3381 per dollar, raising it for the
first time in four days. The currency is allowed to trade as
much as 1 percent on either side of the fixing.  Offshore Markets  China may stage a yuan capital-account convertibility trial
in Hengqin district of the southern Chinese city of Zhuhai under
a financial reform plan for the  Pearl River Delta , Oriental
Morning Post reported today, citing the People’s Bank of China
and the National Development and Reform Commission.  Hong Kong  will allow non-residents to purchase an unlimited
amount of yuan at the offshore rate from Aug. 1, Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said yesterday.  “It will create demand for the Chinese currency,
supporting the  exchange rate  as well as other investment
products like Dim Sum bonds,” Chan said.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.05
percent to 6.3860 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards were little changed at 6.4351, a 0.8 percent discount
to the spot rate in Shanghai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  