-- Yukos Investors Win Tribunal Award From Russia, Lawyers Say
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-07-26T17:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/yukos-investors-win-arbitration-award-from-russia-lawyers-say.html
Spanish investors in jailed former
billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky ’s Yukos Oil Co. won an
arbitration award from  Russia , which nationalized the company,
the plaintiff’s lawyers said.  Covington & Burling LLP, which represented the Spanish
investors, said in a statement late yesterday that the Stockholm
Chamber of Commerce’s arbitration arm ruled that Russia used
“illegitimate” tax bills to bankrupt and nationalize Yukos,
which it valued at $60 billion.  “This ruling vindicates the rights of Spanish investors,
and indeed, all investors in Yukos,” said Marney Cheek, a
partner at Covington & Burling, in the statement. The  law firm 
last year  estimated  that claims against Russia related to Yukos
by minority investors were about $10 billion.  Yukos was dismantled and sold at auction, mostly to state-
run  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , to cover billions of dollars in back taxes
after Khodorkovsky was arrested in 2003. Khodorkovsky, once the
richest man in the country, is serving 13 years in prison for
two separate convictions for fraud and  tax evasion . He says he
was targeted by President  Vladimir Putin  for financing
opposition parties, an accusation the Kremlin denies.  Suvi Lappalainen, a spokeswoman for the Swedish tribunal,
said confidentiality rules prevent the body from commenting on
individual cases. All rulings are “enforceable,” she said by
phone today. The case was filed under a bilateral investment
treaty between Russia and  Spain .  Empty, Dated  “There is nothing to comment on here,” Sergei Storchak,
the Russian deputy finance minister who oversees foreign debt,
said in an e-mail today. “The press release is empty and
doesn’t even give the compensation amount. Most of the text is
dated.”  The U.S. and European Union criticized Khodorkovsky’s
latest conviction in December 2010, saying it showed a failure
to respect the rule of law that was harmful to the investment
climate.  The Dutch remnant of Yukos, run by former management of the
company, received $425 million from Rosneft in August 2010 after
a Dutch court ordered it to repay loans granted before
nationalization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  