-- Hyundai Motor Profit Rises 10% on Tucson Sales in Europe
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-07-26T09:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-26/hyundai-motor-profit-rises-10-helped-by-tucson-sales-in-europe.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South  Korea ’s
largest carmaker, reported second-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates as sales of the Tucson sport-utility vehicle
helped the company buck an industrywide drop in Europe.  Net income  climbed 10 percent to 2.55 trillion won ($2.2
billion) from 2.31 trillion won a year earlier, the Seoul-based
company said in a statement today. Profit beat the 2.43 trillion
won average of 26 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue increased 9.2 percent to 21.9 trillion won.  Sales climbed 15 percent in Europe, according to revised
company data, led by the sales of Tucson, at a time when
industrywide deliveries in the region dropped 3.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales may slacken in
the second half as the global economy slows. Still, Hyundai will
likely maintain its  operating profit  as it cuts costs in the
U.S. and the strong yen hurts Japanese automakers.  “Undoubtedly Hyundai’s volume sales will be affected by
the declining economy,” said Heo Pil Seok, chief executive
officer of Seoul-based Midas International Asset Management
Ltd., that oversees $2.65 billion in assets  including Hyundai
shares . “However, the company will be able to keep its edge as
the strengthening yen plays against Japanese competitors and low
incentives in U.S. cuts costs for the automaker.”  Operating Profit  Operating profit , or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, rose 18 percent to 2.5 trillion won.
That exceeded the 2.48 trillion won average analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai rose 1.6 percent to 223,500 won in Seoul trading,
extending the stock’s gain this year to 4.9 percent. The
benchmark Kospi stock index has fallen 2.4 percent.  The automaker’s earnings announcement comes amid strikes
held by its union. Hyundai’s union, which has a larger
membership than at any other South Korean company, has staged
two partial strikes during this month to demand higher wages and
reduced working hours.  Hyundai slashed its global industrywide automobile demand
forecast, citing a worse-than-expected economic situation in
 Europe  and  China . The company expects 77.1 million units to be
sold globally, down by about 500,000 units from its April
forecast, Chief Financial Officer Lee Won Hee said.  Industrywide demand in China will be 12.95 million
vehicles, a decrease from about 13.6 million units forecast in
April, and Europe’s demand will be 14.09 million, down by about
210,000 units from the earlier projection.  “The economic situation in Europe will worsen in the
second half of this year,” Lee said on a conference call.
“Still, Hyundai will be able to meet the global sales target we
set earlier this year.”  Labor Strikes  The company estimates a production loss of 8,630 units or
175 billion won during the two-day partial strikes that took
place on July 13 and July 20, according to an e-mailed response
to a Bloomberg query.  For the remainder of the year, Hyundai’s priority should be
to resolve a wage accord with its union before the effects of
the strikes hurt production beyond a manageable degree, said Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co.  “The aftermath of the strikes will cause this quarter’s
earnings to fall below the previous quarter’s results,” Lee
said. “The company will have to ramp up production to make up
for the loss in the fourth quarter.”  In  South Korea , its biggest production base, Hyundai’s
sales fell by 2.4 percent last quarter as the ripples from
Europe’s economic crisis and rising household debt undermined
consumption, according to an e-mailed statement from the  Korean
Automobile Manufacturers Association . The  Bank of Korea  today
reported second-quarter gross domestic product expanded at the
slowest pace in almost three years.  Sales Overseas  In the U.S., Hyundai sales in the quarter rose 7.2 percent,
trailing the industry’s 16 percent gain, as deliveries of its
Elantra small sedan fell 14 percent.  Increased deliveries of full-size sedans in the U.S. market
probably boosted Hyundai’s earnings last quarter because those
models typically generate higher profitability than smaller
vehicles, said Lee Sang Hyun, an analyst at  NH Investment &
Securities Co. (016420)  U.S. sales of Hyundai’s Azera and Genesis, which
compete against Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s 5-series and
Toyota’s luxury brand  Lexus ’ GS models, rose fivefold and 38
percent last quarter, respectively.  China Demand  In Europe, which is on pace for a fifth consecutive year of
vehicle-sales declines, Hyundai gained market share as it
benefited from demand for its Tucson SUVs and i20 hatchback.  Hyundai sales in China decelerated as the world’s second-
largest economy slowed and concerns are mounting demand may
slump further.  Guangzhou , the capital of  Guangdong province  bordering  Hong
Kong , began imposing a quota this month on new vehicle
registrations to control vehicle emissions and ease traffic
congestion. The restrictions in Guangzhou -- which followed
Beijing, Shanghai and Guiyang in implementing curbs on vehicles
-- led  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to say in a July 2 report that 11 other
cities are candidates to also implement limits on cars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  