-- A Resurgent Goldman Can Reshape Wall Street
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-03-10T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/a-resurgent-goldman-can-reshape-wall-street.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
announcement that it will now bestow coveted managing director
titles upon its rising vice presidents every two years, instead
of annually, may have shaken the foundation at its  New York 
headquarters. For the rest of the world, even the rest of Wall
Street, nothing much will be different.  If Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  really wants to
shake up the industry, Goldman Sachs should break further from
what remains of the Wall Street pack, and act like the leader it
is. It needs a revamped compensation system that rewards people
for taking prudent risks and penalizes those who take foolish
ones.  I first suggested such a system more than two years ago.
Ideally, it would apply the best of the incentives and risk-
management practices of the old Wall Street partnerships --
where partners had their own capital on the line and were
rewarded only if there was pretax income in a given year -- to
the current incentive system that, incredibly, continues to
reward bankers, traders and executives for taking huge risks
with other people’s money in expectation of a big bonus.  Financial Accountability  The current system has made the people who work on  Wall
Street  fabulously rich, and given the rest of us one financial
crisis after another. It makes no effort to hold financial
professionals responsible for their bad behavior. Instead, they
continue to reap all the financial rewards for taking risks with
the money of their depositors, counterparties, creditors and
shareholders, with little or no accountability when things go
awry. After what Wall Street put us through in 2008 and 2009,
you would think that the compensation system would have been
changed to prevent a repeat. You would be wrong.  Efforts to restore sanity, such as the plan from the
European Union to cap bankers’ bonuses at twice their salary,
are destined to fail: Bankers have already come up with an oh-
so-clever plan to raise base salaries enough that compensation
goes right back where it was before the cap.  Virtually nothing has changed about the Wall Street
compensation system since the crisis, and no one is calling for
the kind of reform that would actually change behavior. Bankers,
traders and executives still get paid to take risks with other
people’s money. These days, compensation and bonuses account for
40 percent to 50 percent of every dollar of revenue. That’s
great for Wall Streeters but lousy for the rest of us.  This is where  Goldman Sachs (GS)  can show real leadership. It
was the last major Wall Street partnership to go public, in May
1999, and it retains more vestiges of its former culture than
almost any other Wall Street firm; the others have given
themselves over fully to the corporate structure, with its neat
legal separation of liabilities from assets. Goldman Sachs has
found a little middle ground: Its top-echelon executives get
paid only if there is pretax income at the end of the year.
Needless to say, this pay structure makes this group of more
than 450 people -- out of the company’s 32,600 employees -- very
focused on prudent risk-taking and profit.  Goldman Sachs should build on this remnant of its old
partnership ethos by allowing the bank’s creditors and
shareholders to go after the assets of those top executives if
the bank gets into serious trouble. In  bankruptcy court  -- or
even in an out-of-court restructuring -- creditors could seek
recovery from these Masters of the Universe.  Reduced Risk  Had such a plan been in place when Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. failed in September 2008, creditors could have made a claim
on the billions of dollars’ worth of Manhattan co-ops, Hamptons’
beach houses,  Treasury securities  and artworks that Lehman’s top
bankers, traders and executives accumulated. Indeed, had such a
plan been in place in the years leading up the collapse of
Lehman, I bet the bank would still be around, because former
Chairman Richard Fuld and his acolytes would have been far more
prudent. They would have taken the time to analyze the risk the
company was taking on, which is exactly what Goldman Sachs did
in late 2006 when it decided to short the mortgage market to
take advantage of its competitors’ foolishness.  The past five years have been rough on Wall Street. Profit
is down, and regulation is increasing. Job cuts are coming fast
and furious, and those lucky enough to remain employed are
getting paid less.  UBS AG (UBSN)  provided the latest evidence of this
inexorable trend last month when it decided to spread the cost
of its $1.5 billion Libor-related fine to investment bankers and
others at the company, not just those in the trading area
responsible for the manipulation.  There is a serious leadership vacuum on Wall Street.
Goldman Sachs, if it’s as smart as it thinks it is, will move to
fill it. By showing creditors, shareholders, clients and
counterparties that top people will get paid only if the company
is profitable and that they will be held financially accountable
when things go bad, Goldman Sachs would take a huge step toward
restoring Americans’ confidence in Wall Street. Even better, it
would erode the crazy incentive system that has produced little
more in the past 25 years than one self-inflicted financial
crisis after another and a bunch of overpaid bankers, traders
and executives.  I guarantee you that if Goldman Sachs implements such a
plan, the rest of the serious players on Wall Street will
follow, and our fragile financial system will be much safer.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 