-- A Zillion Banks, One Set of Rules
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-10T22:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/a-zillion-banks-one-set-of-rules.html
Shortly after the financial crisis
spread around the globe like a plague, the world’s leaders
developed what they thought would be an antidote.  Working through the  Group of 20 , they agreed to adopt
common rules for all financial companies, no matter where they
operated. The global system would be less risky, the thinking
went, if derivatives dealing, an opaque  $639 trillion market ,
worked more like  stock trading  on exchanges. If large banks had
more capital, they would be able to absorb losses so taxpayers
wouldn’t have to. And if money-market funds and other parts of
the shadow banking system were more tightly regulated, there
would be fewer hidden risks.  Since that 2008 pact, progress has been made on the road to
convergence. One example: Starting on March 11, Wall Street’s
largest banks, including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., must process derivatives trades through
 clearinghouses , an accomplishment of the 2010 Dodd-Frank
financial reform law, itself part of the U.S.’s commitment to
convergence. By holding collateral and standing between buyers
and sellers, clearinghouses can prevent one participant’s
default from infecting all the others. In another step forward,
the EU decided in December to create a single bank regulator.  In Reverse  But the dream of convergence remains, well, a dream.
Conflicting national and regional laws, regulations and
accounting standards have blocked the world from getting on the
same page on financial reform. This, in turn, has jeopardized
the ability of regulators to work across borders to address the
next crisis. Shutting down a large failing bank that, say, loses
all its capital because of a trading strategy gone haywire isn’t
possible without universal rules for resolving sick banks.
Moreover, financial companies will be able to take advantage of
regulatory arbitrage -- shifting operations to countries with
the loosest rules.  What happened? Let’s take a tour.  In the U.S., regulators have been lobbied to a standstill.
They have yet to name a single nonbank financial company or
industry as systemically risky, despite the immense size and
vital roles played by money-market funds,  hedge funds , insurers
and nonbank lenders.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is backing away
from some of its early positions on derivatives, moves that
could have broken the big-bank stranglehold over the swaps
business. The agency looks likely to revoke a proposal that
would have required large investors to solicit quotes from at
least five dealers, as a way to promote pre-trade price
transparency.  Regulatory agencies have also stalled over the Volcker
rule, named after former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul A. Volcker. The measure is supposed to limit speculative trading by
federally insured banks. For more than a year, five agencies
have been debating with large banks and among themselves about
where to draw the line between trading and making markets for
clients, which the law exempts from the Volcker rule.  On  Capitol Hill , meanwhile, lawmakers from both parties and
both chambers want to  repeal  parts of Dodd-Frank, including the
requirement that banks move derivatives trading to separate
affiliates with their own capital.  Nasty Split  In  Europe , the situation is no more auspicious. A nasty
split has opened between the Continent and the U.K. The European
Parliament and national governments have moved in recent weeks
to tax financial transactions and cap bankers’ bonuses. This has
(rightly) rubbed the British the wrong way, as their model of
finance -- the Anglo-Saxon model -- is less regulated, more
centered on trading and pays bigger bonuses than its
counterparts in, say, France or  Germany .  Another rift is between Europe and the U.S. -- this one
over  capital requirements . New rules being written in  Basel ,
 Switzerland , have been watered down after much  bickering . The
level is now set at 7 percent of risk-weighted assets, up from 2
percent. Still, it falls short of the 10 percent initially
sought by the U.S., and way short of the 20 percent of total
assets that some  economists  and  academics  recommend. France and
Germany led the opposition, seeking to protect the interests of
their biggest lenders, which would have needed to raise more
capital than foreign competitors,  Bloomberg News  has reported.  Not only is the global financial system no safer now than
it was in 2008, it’s also clear that the project of convergence
is badly stalled. Is the world really prepared to let the great
convergence turn into the great divergence?  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 