-- Abe Success on BOJ Boosts Comeback as Japan Election Looms
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-03-11T07:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/abe-success-on-boj-boosts-ldp-comeback-as-japan-election-looms.html
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is riding
a popularity wave unseen by six immediate predecessors as he
pushes his  Bank of Japan (8301)  nominees through a divided parliament,
raising the odds of the ruling party winning a July election.  Buoyed by a surge in the benchmark  stock index  to a 4 1/2
year high -- spurred by his anti-deflation policy -- Abe has the
highest approval ratings since  Junichiro Koizumi  stepped down in
2006. This week he may secure his biggest achievement since he
took the helm in December, with the largest opposition party
signaling it will back Haruhiko Kuroda for BOJ chief.  With analysts from Citigroup Inc. to Barclays Plc raising
growth forecasts, an improving economic outlook gives the ruling
 Liberal Democratic Party  tailwinds heading into elections for
Parliament’s upper house, which it doesn’t control. A win may
bring an end to an annual revolving-door of leaders, and give
Abe a mandate to pursue free-trade talks opposed by farmers.  “This will be seen as a significant victory for his
inflation-targeting policies and for his political skill,” said
 Gerald Curtis , a professor of Japanese politics at  Columbia
University  in  New York , referring to approval of the BOJ picks.
“It’s probably enough for him to win convincingly in the upper
house election. Now the question is what he will do when he gets
to the really hard issues, like structural reform.”  The last time the LDP held a majority in both Diet houses
was during the 58-year-old Abe’s first term as prime minister,
in 2006-2007. In December, he led the party to victory in the
lower house pledging to fire “three arrows” into the economy
to end two decades of  stagnation .  Kuroda’s Support  His first shot is poised to hit home, with Kuroda, who has
backed greater monetary stimulus, today completing confirmation
hearings. Lawmakers in  Democratic Party  of Japan, which makes up
the largest party in the upper house, last month indicated they
will vote for Kuroda. The Diet also must vote on academic Kikuo
Iwata and BOJ staffer Hiroshi Nakaso as deputy chiefs.  Abe has also introduced a 10.3 trillion yen ($107 billion)
fiscal stimulus package as the second point of his three-part
plan. The third step is to cut regulation to give businesses
greater incentives to invest and hire. His political skills will
be tested as he seeks to implement plans outlined in a Feb. 28
speech to reduce record debt, give more autonomy to local
regions and restructure Japan’s bureaucracy.  Among the most controversial initiatives would be joining
negotiations for a U.S.-led regional trade agreement, a step
members of his own party including former defense chief Gen
Nakatani have opposed. Nakatani said on his website last month
it would have “immeasurable effects on agriculture.”  TPP Benefits  The so-called Trans-Pacific Partnership now includes 11
nations. Japan’s participation would boost its gross domestic
product by as must as 3.2 trillion yen, according to a 2010
government study.  Abe, who discussed the talks with U.S. President  Barack Obama  last month, said last week that “it’s in Japan’s interest
to pursue free trade” and that he won’t take too much time
before making a decision on the TPP. The ruling party holds its
annual convention at the end of this week.  American automakers oppose Japan’s participation unless it
eases barriers, and Japanese farmers argue the deal would mean
the collapse of their industry should a 778 percent rice tariff
be scrapped.  “Abe’s policies seem to be appealing to urban
businessmen,” said Aiji Tanaka, a political science professor
in Tokyo at  Waseda University . “If he pushes through the TPP,
he will start losing traditional LDP support,” he said,
referring to the rural districts that underpinned the party’s
half-century domination of  Japan ’s politics before it was
upended by the DPJ in 2009.  Broad Support  For now, the prime minister enjoys broad support, with his
approval rating at 75.8 percent in a poll published by
broadcaster Tokyo Broadcasting System today, almost unchanged
from last month. The poll of 1,200 people was carried out on
March 9 and 10 and the margin of error was 2.8 percent.  Investors also have applauded. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
has risen 27 percent and the yen is down 13 percent since the
LDP landslide in December. Adding cheer is a turnaround in the
economy -- fourth quarter GDP rose an annualized 0.2 percent,
and will increase 2 percent this quarter, a Bloomberg News
survey of economists indicates.  Meantime, the DPJ’s landslide defeat has left it reluctant
to confront Abe. The party ousted the LDP in 2009 only to see
initial public inspiration evaporate as it repeated the former
ruling party’s record of revolving-door leaders, Cabinet
reshuffles, gaffe-driven ministerial resignations and campaign-
finance scandal.  DPJ Collapse  “The DPJ has in effect collapsed, they can’t be
unreasonable anymore,” said Minoru Morita, an independent
political analyst in  Tokyo . “They were severely criticized by
the public in the election and they’ve decided not to oppose
appointments in most cases.”  An upper house victory would give Abe more than three years
before facing the electorate again, making him the longest-
serving premier since Koizumi. Today’s TBs poll found that 37.5
percent of respondents planned to vote for the LDP in July’s
vote, compared with 8.1 percent for the Democrats.  Abe quit after a year his first time as prime minister,
plagued by party scandals and pleading ill health. While an
election victory will mark another point of redemption, he must
grapple with Japan’s record debt and the impact of a planned
increase in the five percent sales  tax  starting next year.  “I think the real battle comes after the election,” said
LDP lawmaker Masahiko Shibayama. “What will he do about
spending cuts and the pain that will come from easing
regulations? He has strong support, but trust could disappear
rapidly if he gets this wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  