-- Abu Dhabi’s Merged Aldar Sorouh Properties Rated Buy at Arqaam
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-03-10T07:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/abu-dhabi-s-merged-aldar-sorouh-properties-rated-buy-at-arqaam.html
Aldar Sorouh Properties, the
company to be created through the merger of Abu Dhabi’s two
largest developers, was rated buy at Arqaam Capital.  The price target for the shares was set at 2.50 dirhams,
Dubai-based analysts led by Mohammad Kamal wrote in a March 7
note to clients. Abu Dhabi’s  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and Sorouh
Real Estate PJSC said on March 3 their merger will become
effective in June, creating the Middle East’s third-largest
publicly traded developer.  “We believe the market is not fully pricing in the impact
of the merger on balance sheets” and “is overestimating
leverage risk inherent in standalone businesses,” the analysts
wrote. “We see 77 percent in upside potential” in value
creation from monetizing land and long-term development value.  Abu Dhabi is trying to revive its real estate market after
values fell by more than 50 percent since the global credit
crisis in 2008. The merger has been blessed by Abu Dhabi’s
government which in 2011 bailed out Aldar with $9.8 billion.  Arqaam expects a “prolonged weakness in prices and rents
over the next 12 to 18 months” as Abu Dhabi’s residential
market is supplied with the wrong product. High-end properties
are 27 percent oversupplied while the mid-to-low end market is
still facing a shortage of around 35 percent, according to the
report.  “Developers have only just begun prioritizing fundamental
market needs over higher-margin luxury product,” Kamal wrote.
Mid- to lower-end supply will not be in the pipeline before the
second half of 2014, he wrote. Abu Dhabi needs around 61,000
homes in the mid and low markets, the report estimates.  Average rental rates have declined 11 percent on annual
basis to around 120,000 dirhams for a two-bedroom apartments,
Kamal wrote. Rents may fall by 8 percent to 10 percent in the
coming year, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  