-- Thailand Rating Raised by Fitch on Yingluck Stability
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-03-11T03:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/thailand-raised-by-fitch-on-yingluck-stability-southeast-asia.html
Thailand’s credit rating was
restored to BBB+ by  Fitch Ratings  four years after political
turmoil prompted a cut, signaling confidence in Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra’s ability to maintain social stability.  The long-term foreign currency-denominated debt was raised
one step by Fitch to three levels above junk on March 8,
bringing the rating back in line with rankings by  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service. The outlook is stable.  Yingluck has sought to avert political tensions since
taking power in 2011 by shelving measures that would bring back
 Thaksin Shinawatra , her brother who was ousted as prime minister
in a coup seven years ago. The upgrade comes as her government
prepares a bill to spend 2 trillion baht ($67 billion) by 2020
on high-speed trains and mass-transit networks.  The upgrade “adds more to the attractiveness of the
country, and equity markets will take it quite positively,”
said Vikas Kawatra, head of institutional broking at Maybank Kim
Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the country’s biggest brokerage.
“Things are going fine and there’s no need for Thaksin or
Yingluck to make any radical moves.”  Yingluck last year raised minimum wages and unveiled
incentives for car buyers and rice farmers to boost domestic
demand and counter falling exports. Economic growth surged last
quarter after a slump in the corresponding period in 2011, when
the worst floods in almost 70 years disrupted production for
manufacturers from  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  to Honda Motor Co.  Improved Image  “This will benefit our country a lot,” Yingluck told
reporters on March 8. “We can borrow at cheaper rates. Our
credibility will be better. Our overall image will be better.”  Thailand’s local-currency debt returned 3.6 percent in the
past year, trailing a 14 percent gain in the Philippine peso
notes, 11 percent advance for  Indonesia  and 3.7 percent gain for
 Malaysia , according to indexes compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.
Only  Singapore , among five major Southeast Asian countries,
returned less than Thailand at 2.3 percent.  Investors are paying less attention to the views of ratings
companies and relying more on their own analysis. Yields on
sovereign securities moved in the opposite direction from what
ratings suggested in 53 percent of the 32 upgrades, downgrades
and changes in credit outlook last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s worse than the longer-term average
of 47 percent, based on more than 300 changes since 1974.  The  Thai baht  is the best performer in  Asia  this year among
the 11 most active Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The
benchmark  SET Index (SET)  has risen 13 percent in that time.  Appropriate Rating  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said the
rating is appropriate for Thailand’s economy and will mean lower
borrowing costs for the government and private companies.  “Actually I want to see a higher rating,” Prasarn told
reporters on March 9. “We should look into the rating agencies’
conditions and try to comply. Many have suggested that we should
take care of our fiscal spending and political unrest.”  Thaksin has lived overseas since fleeing a 2008 jail
sentence on charges stemming from a military-appointed panel
after the coup. Yingluck has shelved proposals to pass a broad
amnesty that would include Thaksin and change the constitution
to give more power to elected officials.  Since taking office, Yingluck’s party has made inroads in
the capital, which had been a bastion of support for the
opposition Democrat party since Thaksin’s ouster. Bangkok
Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra, the Democrat incumbent, retained
his post this month with a margin of less than 10 percentage
points, the smallest in the past four governor elections won by
his party since 2004.  Emergency Rule  “Fitch has revised its assessment of the risks to policy
predictability and the investment environment from political and
social tensions,” the ratings company said. “The government
led by Yingluck Shinawatra has consolidated its position and has
faced no serious extra-legal challenges since its election in
July 2011.”  Fitch lowered Thailand’s rating on April 16, 2009, days
after then-Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  imposed emergency
rule and called off a regional summit of Asian leaders.
Protesters known as  Red Shirts  stormed the meeting venue calling
for the resignation of Abhisit, a Democrat who had taken power
five months earlier after a court used a clause in the post-coup
constitution to disband a party of Thaksin’s allies.  In 2010, the Thaksin-backed Red Shirts regrouped for a 10-
week occupation of parts of Bangkok that ended in a military
assault, arson attacks and more than 90 deaths. The following
year, Yingluck became Thailand’s first female prime minister
after her party won a parliamentary majority in national
elections by pledging to lift minimum wages and raising rural
incomes through higher rice prices.  Resilient Economy  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy has been
“resilient to repeated shocks,” including the flooding crisis
in late 2011, supported by flexible monetary and exchange rate
polices, Fitch said. The investment rate has also accelerated in
recent years, it said.  The  Bank of Thailand  held  interest rates  for a third
straight meeting last month after the economy grew faster than
estimated last quarter. The bank has resisted the government’s
calls for lower borrowing costs to curb capital inflows that
boosted the baht to a 17-month high in January.  “The Bank of Thailand has sustained consumer price
inflation in the low single digits for more than a decade and
the record of  price stability  compares favorably with ’BBB’
peers, enhancing the capacity of the economy to absorb shocks,”
Fitch said.  Fiscal Discipline  Fitch said it expects the budget to remain consistent with
the broader public debt to gross domestic product ratio
remaining below 50 percent even with the government’s planned
increase in infrastructure spending. The debt-to-GDP ratio was
30 percent at the end of the fiscal year on Sept. 30, it said.  Over the long-term, the government plans to invest in
infrastructure to increase imports and reduce pressure on the
currency, Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said in a Jan. 24
interview. The government approved the 2 trillion baht
infrastructure-spending plan last month, which will need
parliament’s approval.  The Democrat party, while supportive of infrastructure
investments, plans to oppose the government’s moves to borrow
money through a special law because it’s unnecessary and leads
to a lack of transparency, according to Korn Chatikavanij, the
party’s deputy leader and a former finance minister. The party
also estimates that Yingluck’s rice program will lead to losses
of about 200 billion baht per year, he said.  “If all governments feel that they can have a budget in
deficit and on top of that borrow without limits through off-
budget bills such as this, I can tell you that fiscal discipline
will go down the tubes,” Korn said by phone. “What looks like
a sustainable level of debt can easily balloon.”  Thailand ’s Cabinet last month approved a budget draft that
calls for a deficit of 250 billion baht in fiscal 2014,
narrowing from 300 billion baht in fiscal 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  