-- Malta’s Labour Wins First Election Since Euro Start
-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a
-- 2013-03-10T22:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/malta-s-labour-wins-first-election-since-euro-projection.html
Malta election first-count results
confirm early projections showing Malta’s Labour Party won the
vote for the first time since the euro’s start as voters
rejected the ruling Nationalist Party even after it helped
shield the nation from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Labour, led by 39-year-old former journalist Joseph Muscat,
claimed 55 percent of the vote, 11 percentage points more than
the Nationalists, according to results released tonight.  The margin of victory is the biggest since at least 1964
and initially suggests the Labour Party may have a parliamentary
majority of 9 seats out of a minimum of 65, the largest any
Maltese government has held since before independence from  Great
Britain  in 1964.  Nationalist Party Secretary-General Paul Borg Olivier,
whose party has governed for all but two of the past 25 years,
conceded defeat on state-run Malta television. Voting took place
yesterday, with turnout of 93.1 percent, down from 93.3 percent
at the last general elections in 2008.  ‘Humbled’ by Victory  “Our aim is to show there is a new way of doing things,”
Prime Minister-elect Muscat said on Malta television, adding
that he’s “humbled” by the victory and thanking outgoing Prime
Minister Lawrence Gonzi. Muscat will be sworn in tomorrow and is
due to join his European Union counterparts at a Brussels
meeting on March 14.  “We are as European as we are Maltese,” Muscat said in an
interview in Floriana after he addressed  Labour party  supporters
this afternoon. “We want to assure everybody that we are a new,
progressive voice around the European table,” he said.  The Labour Party will be “diligent but will safeguard
Malta’s national interest,” while working with European
partners to “rebuild a solid Europe which will protect its
citizens from further effects of a crisis that has brought
poverty and strife to many across the continent,” Muscat said.  His Labour Party, which last held national power in 1998,
benefited from public anger over rising power prices, an
unpopular overhaul of the public transport system and a
corruption scandal involving oil procurement.  EU Efforts  Gonzi’s Nationalist Party, which steered the country into
the EU in 2004 and to euro adoption in 2008, helped protect the
euro area’s smallest economy from the debt crisis that led
Mediterranean neighbors such as  Greece , Cyprus and  Spain  to seek
bailouts.  Under Gonzi, economic growth outpaced the euro-region
average and the  budget deficit  has fallen to within the EU’s
limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product. The jobless rate
of 6.5 percent last year was the fifth-lowest of the 17
countries using the euro. Malta’s debt rose to 73 percent of GDP
last year, less than the EU average of 93 percent.  Muscat’s calling for a “new beginning,” according to his
campaign platform. He says Labour is committed to controlling
 government spending  and will further reduce the deficit. He has
pledged to fight corruption, cut energy costs and lower income
tax rates if elected.  S&P Reaction  The Nationalists won the 2008 elections by just 1
percentage point, resulting in a parliamentary majority of a
single seat. Gonzi was forced to call yesterday’s election after
one of his allies, Franco Debono, voted with the opposition in
December to reject the 2013 budget.  Standard & Poor’s  reacted on Jan. 16 to the budget impasse
by cutting Malta’s rating one level to BBB+. S&P said the delay
in approving the budget “raises questions about the
government’s ability to restore the fiscal flexibility it has
gradually lost, and resolving the recurrent budgetary risks
caused by loss-making state-owned enterprises.”  S&P maintained a stable outlook on Malta, citing the
country’s “relative resilience to the ongoing political,
financial, and monetary challenges in the  euro zone .”  Malta tends to have the highest voter turnout in the
region, with more than 90 percent of eligible voters
participating in every general election since 1971. There were
more than 332,000 eligible voters out of a population of just
over 416,000, up from the 315,000 eligible voters in 2008.  European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso 
congratulated Muscat on the Labour Party’s victory in an e-
mailed statement promising the “continued commitment of the
European Commission to work side by side with Malta and to
overcome the challenges” faced by the union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blanche Gatt in London at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Stagno Navarra in Malta at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  