-- Angola to Save Symbolic Antelopes Threatened by Gem Mining
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-03-11T11:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/angola-to-save-symbolic-antelopes-threatened-by-diamond-mining.html
Angola , the fifth-largest diamond
producer by value, will do “all it takes” to protect an
endangered antelope species used as a national symbol from
mining in a nature reserve, state gem company Endiama EP said.  Endiama is considering moving the Capunda diamond
concession it granted to KCC Lda., Yango Lda. and AM&BC Lda. in
the Luando reserve, 400 kilometers (250 miles) southeast of
Luanda, the capital, Endiama spokesman Antonio Freitas said
March 7 in an interview. The giant sable, also known as palanca
negra, is the name of the national soccer team and the emblem of
the country’s airline.  “I can’t say for certain it will be moved, but it could
be,” he said at Endiama’s offices in Luanda. “People were a
little careless in identifying the location. The nature reserve
was even approved by the Ministry of Geology and Mines.”  There are fewer than 100  giant sable  surviving after 27
years of civil war that ended in 2002 and poaching, according to
Pedro Vaz Pinto, local project manager at the Kissama
Foundation, a  Pretoria , South Africa-based group leading the
preservation efforts. The animals weigh as much as 620 pounds
(280 kilograms) and stand 1.5 meters (5 foot) high at the
shoulder.  Angola sold 8.33 million carats of diamonds valued at $1.16
billion in 2011, according to the  Kimberley Process , an
international group with 54 participants representing 80
countries. The top producers by value that year were Botswana,
 Russia ,  Canada  and  South Africa .  Habitat Destruction  “Prospecting will mean opening roads and bridges, bringing
in people and setting up camps in the bush, destroying habitat
and a lot of disturbance,” Pinto said. The remote Luando
reserve lacks police to adequately discourage poaching, he said.
“This pressure on the animals could be the last nail in their
coffin.”  “Endiama’s main goal is to protect the palanca negra,”
Freitas said. “Management is meeting with all the companies to
find a solution to meet the needs of all involved and cause
minimal damage to the environment. We will do all it takes to
protect the animals and comply with Angola’s environmental
laws.”  Palanca negra is the Portuguese term for the sable.  There are 24 giant sable in semi-captivity inside a fenced
4,000-hectare (9,884-acre) camp at Cangandala and four herds
totaling 50 to 70 animals in the wild of the reserve, an 828
square-kilometer (320 square-mile) tract in Malanje province,
Pinto said.  “The response from Endiama is very encouraging, but we
need to see it being implemented because a concession in that
location must be blocked,” Pinto said. “This is an excellent
opportunity for Endiama to do the right thing and show they can
be a reliable partner to help protect our national natural
symbol.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  