-- Angry That Bin Laden In-Law Is in Court? Blame Congress
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-03-10T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/angry-that-bin-laden-in-law-is-in-court-blame-congress.html
As Sulaiman Abu Ghayth, son-in-law
of Osama bin Laden, was  pleading  not guilty to charges of
terrorist conspiracy in a federal court in New York, several
congressional Republicans were accusing the  Barack Obama 
administration of going easy on terrorism.  “We should treat enemy combatants like the enemy -- the
U.S. court system is not the appropriate venue,” said
Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan. “The president needs to
send any captured al-Qaeda members to Guantanamo.”  Actually, the administration made the right call in a tough
situation, which has been needlessly complicated by elected
officials of both parties.  What were the other options for handing Abu Ghayth, who was
captured in  Turkey  this year and taken into custody Feb. 28 by
U.S. officials in  Jordan ?  Well, placing him into the military tribunal system at the
U.S. naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, was a nonstarter for
two reasons.  First, Abu Ghayth’s alleged offense, conspiring with al-
Qaeda members to harm American citizens, isn’t recognized
internationally as a war crime. Recall that the conviction in a
military tribunal of Salim Ahmed Hamdan, a Yemeni who worked as
bin Laden’s chauffeur, was  overturned  by a federal court last
year because the charge, “material support for terrorism,”
wasn’t a recognized war crime at the time. Why step back into
that trap?  What’s more, the Hamdan reversal apparently played a large
role in the  decision  by Brigadier General Mark Martins, the
chief prosecutor at Guantanamo, to drop conspiracy charges
against Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four others awaiting trial
for the Sept. 11 attacks. If conspiracy is the best we can do
with Abu Ghayth (and, given the hazy nature of his al-Qaeda
past, it may well be), civilian court is the venue to try him.
In fact, civilian prosecutors favor a conspiracy charge because
it is a broad blanket that doesn’t require linking the suspect
to any individual plot.  Second, the stalemate between Obama and Congress over
Guantanamo’s prison, which the president pledged to close in his
first week in office, continues. Congress has made it impossible
for the people held there to be brought to the U.S. by refusing
to appropriate any money, and Obama refuses to allow any new
suspects to be brought to Cuba.  This has left the U.S. with a number of unpalatable
options, including annihilating suspects with drone attacks --
the current default option, it seems -- “renditioning” them to
the custody of foreign allies or hacking into the criminal legal
system.  Something has to give: Best would be for Congress to open a
detainment center in the U.S. If not, Obama has to consider
reopening Guantanamo to new inmates.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 