-- Archbishop of Canterbury Criticizes U.K. Welfare Reform Bill
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-10T16:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/archbishop-of-canterbury-criticizes-u-k-welfare-reform-bill.html
A move to cap welfare payment
increases at 1 percent was criticized by the Archbishop of
Canterbury, who said children and families would pay for it,
while the government defended the bill.  Prime Minister  David Cameron , seeking to reduce the  budget
deficit , wants to cap welfare payment increases at 1 percent
until 2016. The Welfare Benefits Up-rating Bill is before the
House of Lords. Currently, the benefits rise in line with
inflation, which the Consumer Prices Index puts at 2.7 percent.  “Children and families will pay the price” if plans to
change the benefits system go ahead in their current form,
Justin Welby, who officially takes the Archbishop’s office as
the Anglican church’s most senior cleric on March 21, said in a
report in the Sunday Telegraph. The opposition  Labour Party 
criticized the bill, saying it would affect new mothers.  “Simply increasing benefits isn’t the answer to tackling
poverty,” the Department for Work and Pensions said in an e-
mailed response to the criticism. “We must ensure that every
pound spent on welfare is helping people in the most effective
way it can.”  The legislation applies to a range of benefits and tax
credits, including income support, child benefit, working tax
credits and child tax credits.  In a letter to the Sunday Telegraph, 43 bishops said the
welfare changes will have a “deeply disproportionate impact”
on families with children. “About 60 percent of the savings
from the uprating cap will come from the poorest third of
households,” according to the letter.  Child Poverty  “Politicians have a clear choice,” Welby, who didn’t sign
the letter, was cited as saying in the Sunday Telegraph report.
“By protecting children from the effects of this Bill, they can
help fulfill their commitment to end child poverty.”
Speaking on the  BBC ’s Andrew Marr Show, Liberal Democrat
Lawmaker Paddy Ashdown, who sits in the House of Lords, said the
Archbishop of Canterbury’s comments are “important.”  “Of course, all of us are concerned about it, that’s why
indeed the Liberal Democrats have such a commitment to making
sure that our contribution to tackling the terrible deficit this
country was left, in large part but not exclusively by the
failures of the Labour government previously, are tackled with
fairness in mind,” Ashdown said.  Yvette Cooper , Labour’s equalities spokeswoman, who was
also speaking on the Andrew Marr Show today on Mother’s Day,
wouldn’t commit a future Labour government to reversing the
changes to welfare payments. She said if in power now her party
would stop the 1 percent cap, paid for by restricting pensions
tax relief on the “very highest earners.”  Cameron and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  are
“immoral” by targeting new mothers, she said. Around 340,000
women claim state-funded maternity pay every year, according to
Labour.  If the Lords make changes to the bill it will return to the
Commons for MPs to consider them. Both the Lords and Commons
must agree on the wording before the bill could become law.  -- Editors: Sharon Lindores, Stephen Cunningham  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  