-- Hard to Predict Rate Boost Chances, Bank of China’s Li Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-10T05:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/hard-to-predict-rate-boost-chances-bank-of-china-s-li-says-1-.html
China ’s inflation may remain under
control this year, making it difficult to predict whether the
central bank will need to increase interest rates,  Bank of China
Ltd.  President Li Lihui said.  The world’s second-largest economy is in “steady mode”
and is rebounding, Li said in an interview in Beijing, where
he’s attending the annual session of the National People’s
Congress, the country’s legislature.  Retail sales  and industrial output had their weakest
combined start to a year since the global recession in 2009,
data published yesterday showed, adding to signs of a moderating
rebound. A separate report showed inflation, distorted by a
week-long holiday, was the fastest in 10 months in February. The
government is targeting  economic growth  of 7.5 percent, the same
goal as last year, when actual expansion slowed to 7.8 percent,
the lowest since 1999.  “CPI will still be controlled relatively well this year,”
Li said. “Our projection is that it can be controlled at around
3 percent. Under this scenario, it’s hard to say at this point
whether the central bank will need to raise interest rates.”  Loan growth  in the country may be similar to last year, Li
said, even as Chinese companies reduce dependence on financing
from bank loans by turning to bond sales and other methods of
raising funding. Larger banks will have an advantage as the
process opens up new lines of business, he said.  “We can provide capital market services to our customers,
helping them to raise funds on the capital markets, such as
selling bonds, short-term notes or shares” he said. “Financial
disintermediation will prompt banks to transform their
businesses and innovate.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  