-- Aussie Weakens as China Data Signal Slower Start to Year
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-03-11T06:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/aussie-dollar-declines-as-china-data-signal-slower-start-to-year.html
  Australia ’s dollar dropped against
most major peers after Chinese factory output had its slowest
start to a year since 2009, damping the outlook for the South
Pacific nation’s commodity exports.  The so-called Aussie declined for a second day against its
U.S. counterpart before a report on U.S. retail sales forecast
to show continued improvement in the world’s biggest economy,
following better-than-expected payrolls data.  New Zealand ’s
dollar, known as the kiwi, traded near the lowest in more than
two months against the greenback.  “The combination of weaker Chinese industrial production
and a strong U.S. jobs number was never going to be good for the
Aussie,” said Hans Kunnen, the Sydney-based chief economist at
St. George Bank Ltd. “Aussie and kiwi will remain under
pressure in the short term.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.0221 as of
5:04 p.m. in Sydney, extending a 0.3 percent decline at the end
of last week. The  New Zealand dollar  slid 0.3 percent to 82.00
U.S. cents from March 8, when it touched 81.88 cents, the lowest
since Dec. 28.  Chinese  industrial production  increased 9.9 percent in the
first two months of 2013 from a year earlier, the statistics
bureau said March 9. That trailed the 10.6 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. China is the
largest  trading partner  of both Australia and New Zealand.  U.S. ‘Resurgence’  In the U.S., retail sales probably rose 0.5 percent in
February, a fourth consecutive gain, economists said before a
March 13 report. U.S employment rose a higher-than-estimated
236,000 last month, Labor Department figures showed Friday. The
jobless rate dipped to a four-year low of 7.7 percent.  “One of the downside risks for the Aussie has been a
resurgence of the  U.S. economy  and we’re seeing elements of
that,” St. George Bank’s Kunnen said. “Retail sales can be
another chapter in that resurgence.”  Futures traders decreased bets the Australian dollar will
gain against the greenback, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on
an advance in the Australian dollar compared with those on a
drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was 7,149 on March 5, compared
with 25,695 a week earlier.  The negative correlation between risk appetite and the  U.S.
dollar  continues to break down, analysts at National Australia
Bank Ltd. wrote in a research note today. That means that the
Australian dollar may fall below $1.02 even if data this week
don’t rekindle expectations for an early resumption of interest-
rate cuts by the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, it said.  Rate Expectations  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
currently see a 77 percent chance the RBA will keep the
overnight cash rate target at 3 percent when they next meet on
April 2. That’s up from 60 percent odds a week ago.  NAB releases its latest business survey tomorrow. A day
later,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  puts out a  consumer confidence 
survey, while a gauge of home loans will probably show a rebound
in January, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Australia’s  10-year yield  advanced as much as seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage point, to reach 3.62 percent, the
most since May 2. The three-year rate touched 3 percent, the
highest since April 30. The two-year yield rose to 2.94 percent,
the most since Sept. 17.  In New Zealand, the central bank will hold  interest rates 
steady at 2.5 percent for a 16th straight meeting on March 14,
according to every  economist  surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  “will probably keep its
outlook broadly unchanged, including its forecast that it will
start raising rates next year,”  Kieran Davies , chief economist
at Barclays Plc in Sydney, wrote in a research note today.  New Zealand’s  10-year yield  climbed eight basis points to
3.85 percent, the highest since Feb. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  