-- Beach Says It’s Exploring Major Australia Gas Field With Chevron
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-10T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/beach-says-it-s-exploring-major-australia-gas-field-with-chevron.html
Beach Energy Ltd. (BPT)  said the Cooper
Basin region in  Australia ’s outback, where it’s searching for
natural gas with  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , will be a “major onshore
petroleum province.”  The region, straddling the South Australia and Queensland
state borders, may have enough gas to allow exports, Reginald Nelson, managing director of the Adelaide-based company, said in
an interview yesterday with Australian Broadcasting Corp.
television, according to a transcript.  The investment of as much as $349 million by Chevron in
Beach’s exploration follows shale investments by ConocoPhillips,
Statoil ASA, BG Group Plc and Hess Corp. in Australia, a nation
estimated by the U.S. Energy Information Administration to have
the world’s sixth-biggest potential reserves.  “This reinvigorates the Cooper as a gas producing province
and it’s one of the major onshore gas producing areas in
Australia,” Nelson said. “If the volumes are there then
clearly there’s opportunities to look at export potential.”  Chevron’s is the biggest single investment in Australian
shale. Beach shares have risen 15 percent since the announcement
on Feb. 25.  The  Cooper Basin  may help supply $60 billion of projects to
export liquefied natural gas from Australia’s east coast,
according to a Jan. 11 report from  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia . Domestic gas prices in eastern Australia may double
to A$10 a gigajoule between 2014 and 2019 after the LNG projects
in Queensland begin shipments to Asia, according to Macquarie
Group Ltd.  Huge Volume  Beach’s discoveries may hold as much as 600 trillion cubic
feet of gas, compared with 6 trillion cubic feet produced in the
43-year lifetime of the Moomba field that Santos Ltd. operates
in the Cooper, Nelson said.  The huge volume of petroleum that’s in unconventional rock
formations, rather than easily tapped oil and gas wells,
challenges the idea that the world has hit a supply peak for the
commodity, he said.  “What we’ve tapped into to date in terms of oil and gas is
the so-called conventional, and that is oil and gas that has
really escaped from where it is formed,” he said. “Ninety
percent of it’s probably still down there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  