-- Bundesbank Enters as Japan’s Funds Dump Bonds: Australia Credit
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-11T06:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/bundesbank-enters-as-japan-s-funds-dump-bonds-australia-credit.html
Central banks are taking over as
leading buyers of Australia’s bonds after Japanese investors
sold the securities at the fastest pace in at least eight years.  Investors from the Asian nation with the region’s lowest
benchmark yields capped three months of selling in January, when
they offloaded a net 439.3 billion yen ($4.6 billion) in
Australian dollar debt, the most since 2005, the Tokyo-based
Ministry of Finance said March 8. Offshore investors bought
A$13.1 billion ($13.4 billion) of Australian fixed-income
securities, the world’s highest-yielding AAA debt, in the
fourth quarter including A$4.5 billion of sovereign paper,
 government data  released in Sydney last week showed. The
Bundesbank said last week the securities will play a role in
its reserves.  “What you’re seeing is sovereign buying in the Aussie
market filling the gap left by Japanese investors and our belief
is that a lot of that is coming from the European central
banks,” said Damien McColough, head of fixed-income research at
Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney. “Sovereigns are still buying
government bonds but they’re also buying supra-national and
state debt at a faster pace than they were previously.”  Central banks managing as much as $7 trillion, including
those in Germany, France and China, are holding Australian
dollars, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and documents
released by the nation’s Reserve Bank. At the same time,
prospects for Japan’s return to growth buoyed sentiment among
investors there, driving them away from top-rated Australian
debt into riskier assets such as equities.  Bundesbank Buying  “As a central bank, the Bundesbank manages foreign-
currency reserves primarily with safety and liquidity in mind,”
Germany’s central bank said March 8 in an e-mailed statement.
“The Bundesbank has a very long-term investment strategy. The
Australian dollar will in future complement the U.S. dollar and
Japanese yen, which have already long been used as reserve
currencies.”  Reserve managers poured funds into Australia as slow growth
and mounting debt in the biggest developed markets including the
U.S., U.K. and Japan spurred a hunt for alternative havens.
Australia, with A$267 billion in securities outstanding, is one
of only 10 nations that hold AAA scores from all three main
credit rating companies. Its bond market is the largest among
top-graded sovereigns after Germany, Canada and the Netherlands.  “The little Aussie bond market is the fourth-biggest AAA
in the world, and the size and risk characteristics of the
market, the liquidity of the currency and exposure to China all
remain in place,” said McColough. “There is a sense that the
worst of the Japanese selling is over and there’s the potential
for them to get back in.”  Yield Advantage  The Aussie was at 98.28 yen as of 5:18 p.m. in Sydney,
after reaching 99 yen on March 8, the highest level since August
2008. The Australian dollar advanced 0.3 percent last week to
$1.0236, extending its record eight-month stretch above parity
with the greenback. Investors may consider re-entering the
market if the Aussie were to decline to between 85-90 yen, said
McColough.  “Japanese investors started taking profit as the yen
weakened,” said Yoshisada Ishide, who manages the $10.2 billion
Daiwa SB Short-Term Australian Dollar Bond Open Fund.
“Investors concentrated their holdings in the Australian fixed
income market for safety when market sentiment was negative.
Now, people are starting to diversify their assets and going
into other markets such equities.”  Ishide said he prefers to hold debt by corporate issuers,
state governments and foreign borrowers over sovereign notes to
“enhance” his fund’s performance.  Higher Rates  Australia’s 10-year bonds yield at least 165 basis points
more than rates in the three larger AAA markets. The securities
offered a 6 percent return when adjusted for price swings over
the three years ended Dec. 31, the most among nine top-rated
markets covered by indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Treasuries
offered a risk-adjusted gain of 4.1 percent.  The South Pacific nation’s bond yields have climbed after
the Reserve Bank of Australia left interest rates unchanged at 3
percent last week and signaled previous cuts are starting to
have an impact.  The benchmark  10-year bond yield  reached 3.61 percent
today, the highest level since May. Japan’s 10-year rate was at
0.66 percent in Tokyo today after reaching an almost 10-year low
of 0.585 percent on March 5 amid speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
will buy longer-dated securities.  Growth Prospects  Better prospects for growth have spurred investors to
purchase higher-yielding Aussie debt including the bonds of
states, government-backed lenders and corporates.  The extra return investors demand to hold securities issued
by Australian provinces and highly-rated foreign-based borrowers
like Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau, Germany’s state-owned
development bank, was at 64 basis points on Feb. 25, the least
since August 2011. The premium investors demand to hold
corporate bonds declined to 144 on Feb. 18, the lowest since
December 2007.  Bold BOJ  “Japan is just in an unusual situation at the moment with
the market anticipating bold steps from the BOJ,” said Kieran Davies, chief economist at Barclays Plc in Sydney. Investors
there have become “far more adept at trading in and out of the
Australian bond market, depending on what the yen cross rate is
doing.”  Bond inflows have supported the so-called Aussie, the
world’s fifth most-traded currency, which climbed 20 percent
against Japan’s yen over the past six months.  Japanese investors  held  13.98 trillion yen of debt
denominated in Australian dollars as of the end of 2011, based
on the latest figures available from the Bank of Japan. At the
time, the figure was equivalent to A$178.1 billion compared with
Australia’s sovereign bond market of A$210.3 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  last week rose above the
level it was at before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed,
erasing losses acquired since the company’s bankruptcy froze
credit markets and sent investors in search of refuge assets.  The benchmark Japanese 10-year yield dropped to 0.585
percent on March 5, the lowest since June 2003. Japan’s Cabinet
Office said March 8 gross domestic product rose an annualized
0.2 percent in the three months through December, rebounding
from a contraction in the previous period.  Japanese investors sold 1.09 trillion yen in Aussie-dollar
bonds between November and January, more than twice the amount
of net purchases in the first 10 months of the year, finance
ministry data show.  “A large part of the reallocation toward Australia has
happened but if you get further increases in reserves growth you
will see central banks participating in the Australian market,”
said Davies at Barclays. “The frenetic buying is behind us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  