-- Californians Want Oil’s Tax Revenue Without the Oil
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2013-03-10T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/californians-want-oil-s-tax-revenue-without-the-oil.html
The only thing California’s
environmentally friendly Democratic legislators prefer to
regulating private industry is  spending  public dollars. So it’s
fascinating to watch them struggle with an unfolding dilemma.  The state can tap into a gusher of new revenue only if
legislators resist the muscular green lobby and allow  oil
companies  to take advantage of  vast petroleum reserves  in the
Monterey Shale geologic formation that runs south and east from
 San Francisco .  The federal government, which auctioned drilling leases in
a portion of the Monterey Shale late last year, estimates that
the formation holds more than 15 billion barrels of oil.  A Bloomberg report in December  said  that’s 64 percent of
all estimated U.S. shale oil reserves and double the amount in
 North Dakota ’s Bakken Shale and  Texas ’ Eagle Ford Shale
combined.  The lure is enormous, but so is the likely pushback in a
state where leaders are trying to craft a myopic alternative
future based on subsidized “green jobs.” Historically oil-rich
 California  has fallen to  fourth  in oil production in the U.S.
(behind Texas, North Dakota and  Alaska ).  The state’s new  cap-and-trade  system, which auctions off
pollution credits to reduce emissions from greenhouse-gas
producers, is going into full swing. This system will impose
significant new costs -- the state Chamber of Commerce views it
as a tax -- on manufacturers and especially oil producers.
Environmental groups are trying to stop the hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, technology that’s driving the potential
new oil boom.  Tax Plans  Equally dangerous to the burgeoning oil potential are plans
that would make it uncompetitive. For instance, State Senator
Noreen Evans, a Democrat from  Santa Rosa , has introduced a bill
that would impose a 9.9 percent severance tax on oil extraction
to fund California’s higher education and parks.  Evans and other prominent Democrats have long complained
that, unlike other states, California doesn’t levy a severance
tax on oil extraction. That’s true, but it imposes higher total
taxes and more onerous regulations on oil producers. If
California imposes such a levy, its  tax rate  on oil producers
would soar above that of  Wyoming , which has the highest,
according to a recent CalWatchdog  report .  There are good and bad signs when it comes to the
likelihood that the state will exploit this new economic
opportunity.  California’s Governor  Jerry Brown  has the reputation of an
environmental zealot, but he clearly understands the competitive
climate. At a recent governors conference in  Washington , Brown
called on other states to jump on board California’s
environmental agenda as a way to lessen the impact on the
state’s business development. Otherwise cheaper, traditional
energy in other states could make California less competitive.  Despite his push for cap-and-trade, Brown has been
applauded at times by the oil industry. In November 2011, he
removed two regulators who had slowed the granting of permits
for oil-drilling projects to a trickle. Bloomberg Government
reported that after one of those officials was appointed by
previous Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , drilling permits
dropped by 73 percent from the year before.  Furthermore, in December the Brown administration released
new fracking rules that a San Diego Union-Tribune  editorial 
called “welcome in their moderation and straightforwardness,”
Environmentalists, however, complained that they were designed
to advance rather than hinder the process.  Industry Critics  “Huge oil and gas corporations, backed by the powerful
Western States Petroleum Association, have already begun the
environmentally destructive practice of fracking in California -
- and Governor Jerry ‘Tunnel Vision’ Brown is doing nothing to
stop them,”  wrote  Dan Bacher on the LA Progressive website.  Environmentalists have also criticized Brown’s continuing
efforts to reform the California Environmental Quality Act -- a
relic from 1970 that’s under fire even from Democrats, as it has
slowed down projects they support.  Even with Brown’s overtures to the industry, there are many
political hurdles and environmentalist traditions that remain
before California can take advantage of the Monterey Shale.  Author Joel Kotkin argues in a new Manhattan Institute
 study  that U.S. economic growth remains dependent on “real”
industries such as oil production and manufacturing, not just on
the service-sector and technology jobs that have long captured
the attention of California political and opinion leaders.  These industries, which provide the high-income, blue-
collar jobs that Democrats say they care about, aren’t thriving
in densely populated metropolitan areas along the coasts.
Instead, the new U.S. growth  corridors  can be found in the  Gulf
Coast , the intermountain West, the Great Plains and the
Southeast, he wrote.  Many Californians and other Americans have come to think
that “in a postindustrial economy, dependence on raw materials
is increasingly irrelevant -- and even detrimental -- to future
growth,” Kotkin wrote.  Perhaps the potential riches of the Monterey Shale will
change that attitude. After all, in  a previous era , oil derricks
and wells lined part of the Southern California coast -- symbols
of the state’s emerging economic might -- without leading to
environmental Armageddon.  As the legislative session progresses, California’s leaders
will choose between two types of green -- environmentalism or
the lure of new cash. Which way they turn will say much about
the future of the state’s long-term economic competitiveness.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in  Sacramento , California. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 