-- Cattle Herds Shrinking as Plains Storms Fail to End U.S. Drought
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-03-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/cattle-herds-shrinking-as-plains-storms-fail-to-end-u-s-drought.html
Keith Kisling normally has 1,500
head of cattle on his land near the Oklahoma-Kansas border. Last
year’s U.S. drought changed all that. For the first time in four
decades as a farmer and rancher, he has none.  “We didn’t have wheat pasture this year,” leaving no
cheap forage for the young animals to eat before they are sold
to feedlots, Kisling, 65, said by telephone from Burlington,
 Oklahoma . “The ponds and creeks are dry.”  Even after storms dumped 22 inches (56 centimeters) of snow
over four days in February, water shortages and dirt-dry
pastures across the Great Plains are shrinking herds. Cattle
grazing in Kansas, Oklahoma and  Texas  on Jan. 1 fell 16 percent
from a year earlier to 1.34 million head, the fewest since the
government began collecting the data in 2002. Retail-beef prices
jumped to a record in January, the same month a shortage of
cattle forced Cargill Inc. to shut a Texas processing plant.  “The water problem has been catastrophic” for ranchers
who can’t be profitable without pastures or dormant wheat crops
for cheap feed, said  Lane Broadbent , a vice president at KIS
Futures Inc. in Oklahoma City, who has been a commodity broker
for more than two decades and co-owns a 400-acre wheat farm.
“When you have such dry weather, you get no grass.”  Cattle in the U.S. are raised from birth on pastures for
about a year, when they weigh 500 pounds (227 kilograms) to 800
pounds, and then are sold to feedlots. There, the animals
consume mostly corn until they are 1,200 pounds to 1,350 pounds
and are sold to slaughtering plants.  Feed Costs  Last year’s drought, the worst since the 1930s, cut corn
production by 13 percent and sent prices surging to a record in
August. Higher feed costs discouraged herd expansion, with calf
births dropping last year to 34.3 million head, the lowest since
1949, government data show. The feedlot herd on Feb. 1 totaled
11.073 million, down 6.2 percent from a year earlier. Cattle
futures reached $1.35175 a pound in Chicago on Jan. 11, the
highest ever for a most-active contract.  In  Kansas , the largest U.S. cattle producer behind Texas
and Nebraska, 15 percent of  rivers  and streams were at record-
low levels on average in December, the most since June 2006,
U.S. Geological Survey data show. By February, the rate of
record lows was 13 percent.  About 82 percent of  pastures  in the state were rated poor
or very poor as of March 3, compared with 52 percent a year
earlier, the worst conditions since the U.S. Department of
Agriculture began keeping the record in 2002. In Oklahoma, 77
percent had the worst ratings, up from 68 percent in 2012.  Drought  Every county in the two states was in some phase of a
 drought  as of March 5, according to the U.S. Drought Monitor.
Western Kansas and the Oklahoma panhandle had an “exceptional
drought” rating, reflecting long-term crop losses and low-water
emergencies. About 26 percent of the High Plains was in that
category, compared almost none a year earlier.  The snowfall in the southern Great Plains improved
prospects for winter-wheat crops that ranchers use as forage
when the plants are dormant. About 24 percent of the wheat in
Kansas, the biggest U.S. grower of winter varieties, was rated
good or excellent as of March 3, up from 23 percent a week
earlier, according to the USDA. In Oklahoma, 16 percent received
top ratings, compared with 9 percent a week earlier.  “Oklahoma and Kansas wheat have shown some improvement,”
 Brian Hoops , the president of Midwest Market Solutions in
Springfield, Missouri, said by telephone. “As we get into the
dormancy-breaking stage,” people are becoming more optimistic
because of the snow storms, he said.  No Help  The improvement in wheat  conditions  won’t help expand the
number of cattle grazing in Kansas and Oklahoma wheat fields
because ranchers would normally be taking the animals out of
fields to allow the crop to grow, said Bill Bullard, the chief
executive at R-CALF USA, or Ranchers-Cattlemen Action Legal
Fund, United Stockgrowers of America, which represents farmers
who raise cattle. The lack of water also will discourage
ranchers from bringing animals to their farms, he said.  “When you’ve had prolonged droughts as we have, and water
sources dry up, forage is useless,” Bullard said by telephone
from Billings,  Montana . “It’s extremely costly to pipe in water
in this situation, so it’s still a serious problem across the
region where the drought hit.”  To rebuild water levels in ponds and streams and to improve
wheat prospects, sustained rains will be needed from now until
the harvest begins in May, said Mary Knapp, the state
climatologist in  Manhattan , Kansas. Storms in February did
little for water levels, she said.  ‘Critical’ Weather  Improvement may not occur because the dry spell probably
will persist through the Great Plains from  Nebraska  to Texas,
according to a seasonal outlook from the U.S. Climate Prediction
 Center  in College Park,  Maryland .  The snowstorms during the last week of February are a
“starting point” for some spring growth and will help produce
forage and wheat crops, said Derrell Peel, an agricultural
economist at Oklahoma State University in Stillwater. The next
three months is “absolutely critical” for cattlemen, he said.
Without water, they may have to further reduce their herds.  “We have the potential to have some producers that are
growing forage, but still may have to make other arrangements
for animals because they don’t have any water available,” Peel
said. “In a lot of cases, that would mean they’d be forced to
sell those animals.”  Kisling, the Oklahoma farmer and rancher, said he normally
buys animals before November so they can eat pasture grass and
the leaves off his wheat plants until March 1, shortly before he
sells them to feedlots.  Cattle Losses  When only two-thirds of his wheat emerged after planting in
September and October, and most was too sparse to be eaten,
Kisling decided against buying any cattle this year. He
estimates he would have lost as much as $130 per animal, or
$195,000.  “We depend on the cattle to be our profit center, whereas
the wheat usually breaks even,” said Kisling, who declined to
say how many acres he has. “The cattle grazing the wheat is
pure income because we don’t have to pay for hay. If we have
wheat pasture by Nov. 1, we’ll have cattle again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  