-- Cheapest Treasuries Since 2011 Are Alluring to Gundlach
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-03-11T13:08:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/cheapest-treasuries-since-11-alluring-to-gundlach-as-pce-falls.html
The sudden slowdown in U.S.
inflation has left Treasuries at the cheapest levels in almost
two years, aiding the  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to tamp down
long-term borrowing costs while the economy improves.  Yields on 10-year  notes , the benchmark measure for
everything from home loans to corporate bonds, reached an 11-
month high of 2.08 percent on March 8. The securities pay
interest 0.88 percentage point higher than the personal
consumption expenditures index deflator, the Fed’s favored
inflation gauge, the widest gap since May 2011.  Growth in so-called real yields is what Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  needs to persuade bond investors that he has inflation
under control, even after pumping more than $2.5 trillion into
the economy to spur growth and bring down the jobless  rate .
 Jeffrey Gundlach , whose $39.5 billion DoubleLine Total Return
Bond Fund  beat  97 percent of its peers last year in part by
avoiding  U.S. government debt , said on March 5 that “relative
value has swung more to the favor” of Treasuries.  “The Federal Reserve and  Ben Bernanke  are not concerned
about inflation right now, and neither is the  bond market  over
the short term,” Donald Ellenberger, who oversees about $10
billion as co-head of government and mortgage-backed securities
at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh, said in a telephone
interview March 1.  Incomes Fall  The PCE gauge, which measures household spending, rose 1.2
percent in January from a year earlier, the smallest increase
since October 2009 and down from a recent high of 2.9 percent in
September 2011, the Commerce Department said March 1. The
central bank has said it wants to keep inflation below 2
percent.  That may be easier because payroll taxes rose in January,
and $85 billion in spending cuts went into effect after Congress
was unable to reach a budget agreement last month. Incomes
slumped 3.6 percent, the biggest monthly drop in 20 years, the
Commerce Department reported March 1.  “With all of the uncertainty over policy and the economy,
and with no inflation pressures to speak of, the market has
found equilibrium,” Ellenberger said.  Yields on 10-year notes rose 20 basis points, or 0.20
percentage point, to 2.04 percent last week in  New York  trading,
the biggest increase since the five days ended March 16, 2012,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield touched
2.08 percent, the highest since April 5, 2012, after falling for
the previous two weeks and sinking 11 basis points in February.
The 10-year notes yielded 2.05 percent at 9:04 a.m. in New York.  Unemployment Rate  The unemployment  rate  unexpectedly declined to 7.7 percent,
the lowest since December 2008, from 7.9 percent as the economy
added 236,000 jobs in February, the Labor Department said March
8. It’s still above the Fed’s target of less than 6.5 percent.
The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for an increase of 165,000. Average hourly earnings rose 0.2
percent to $23.82.  Real yields have begun to reward investors, recovering from
negative levels as recently as November, even though the gap
between the Fed’s inflation measure and the benchmark 10-year
note is still below its 10-year average of 1.38 percent.  Another measure of the relative value of U.S bonds with
maturities of more than 10 years shows them yielding 0.44
percentage point more than comparable global sovereign debt.
That makes the securities the cheapest since August 2011,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Term Premium  Treasuries have also gotten less expensive according to the
term premium, a model created by the Fed that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation. With a
30-day moving average of negative 0.65 percent, the measure
shows 10-year notes are the cheapest since May, after they were
the costliest ever in December.  While the U.S. is exhibiting slow growth, expected to grow
at a 1.8 percent this year, other developed countries have it
worse as the euro-area economy, still grappling with the effects
of a debt crisis, may shrink by 0.1 percent this year, surveys
of economists by Bloomberg show. The U.S. is also expected to
fare better than the average of 1.15 percent growth expected in
the Group of 10 developed nations.  There is “a long road ahead of these low rates,”  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at Wells Fargo
Capital Management in  Milwaukee , said in a telephone interview
March 5. “It’s easy to look at the U.S. and see all of these
problems, until you look around the world and see everybody has
these problems and more. As a consequence, you are seeing
dollar-denominated assets do well, and that includes
Treasuries.”  Fed Purchases  Consumer prices will rise 1.8 percent this year, according
to a Bloomberg survey of economists. A bond market measure used
by the Fed to forecast inflation for the five years starting in
2018 has  fallen  to 2.83 percent from a high this year of 2.89
percent on Jan. 29, and is about the average for this gauge over
the past decade.  Yields are also being held down by Fed purchases of $85
billion a month in Treasuries and mortgage bonds aimed at
boosting growth and demand for the safest assets amid a
dwindling supply.  Investors submitted $3.05 in bids for each dollar of the
$360 billion auctioned by the Treasury this year, second only to
last year’s ratio of $3.15.  Global supply of the highest-quality bonds, as measured by
ratings companies, is poised to fall to $6 trillion from $10
trillion before the global financial crisis, according to an
International Monetary Fund report in January. Reforms such as
the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law and global regulations set
by the  Bank for International Settlements  in  Basel ,  Switzerland ,
require institutions to hold more top-graded debt as a cushion
against potential losses.  Bull Market  “The shortage of debt and the sluggish recovery and
employment situation have paved the way for low yields for some
time,” James Sarni, senior managing partner at Payden & Rygel
in  Los Angeles , which oversees $75 billion, said on March 6 in a
telephone interview.  While Treasuries have lost 1.13 percent this year, the
worst start since 2009, the  bull market  for bonds that began in
1980 has shown few signs of reversing. Since the 2008 collapse
of the subprime-mortgage market triggered the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression, government debt maturing in
10 or more years has returned 48 percent, compared with the 28
percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index.  Longer term, the best may be over for bonds, according to
Zach Pandl of Minneapolis-based Columbia Management Investment
Advisers LLC. He says Treasuries may have zero total returns for
the next two years.  Inflation ’Overshoot’  The market expects inflation to rise, according to the 10-
year break-even rate, the difference in yields between
government notes and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities.
This measure has increased to 2.58 percentage points from a 2012
low of 2 percent in January. Yields will rise to 2.26 percent at
year end, according to the median forecast of analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  “Given the improving economy and the depressed levels of
rates, investors aren’t being compensated enough in Treasuries
and rising rates make sense,” Pandl, senior interest-rate
strategist for Columbia, which oversees $340 billion, said in a
telephone interview March 6. “Everyone recognizes that the Fed
is pursuing an aggressive policy that raises the probability of
an overshoot of their inflation target, even as inflation is
still low and employment still high.”  For now, demand is being boosted by the better returns,
converting bond bears to bulls as 10-year notes gained 1.24
percent in February, reversing in part the 1.98 percent losses
from January, according to Bank of America indexes.  Gundlach Buys  “Relative value has swung more to the favor of
Treasuries,” Gundlach, whose Los Angeles-based DoubleLine
manages about $53 billion, said in a March 5 webcast. After
telling investors that Treasuries were overvalued in July,
DoubleLine resumed buying  government securities  when yields
rose, he said.  Policy makers cut their target interest rate to a range of
zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008. Last year they said it
will stay there while unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and
inflation is no more than 2.5 percent. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  said at its January meeting it will continue asset
purchases until the labor market improves “substantially,”
according to minutes released on January 30.  Beige Book  Bernanke defended the Fed’s bond purchases in testimony to
Congress on Feb. 26, saying the benefits of reducing borrowing
costs and fueling growth outweigh any potential harm from rising
inflation as a result of the bond purchases. The Fed said price
pressures were “modest” in its  Beige Book  business survey,
released March 6, which is based on reports from its 12 regional
banks.  The tax increases and budget cuts that went into effect
Jan. 1 may trim as much as 0.6 percentage point off gross
domestic product, Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Elmendorf told lawmakers at a hearing on Feb. 13. GDP will
expand 1.8 percent in 2013, down from 2.2 percent in 2012,
according to the median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Bernanke has faced limited inflation so far, as the PCE has
averaged 2.1 percent since he took office in January 2006,
according to Commerce Department data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s below the 3.8 percent average from the January 1960 start
of monthly data until the beginning of his term.  “Unemployment is still high, inflation still benign, the
Fed is still supporting the market and there are still problems
globally, which means low yields,” Matthew Duch, a  fund manager 
at Calvert Investments in Bethesda,  Maryland , which oversees
more than $12 billion in assets, said in a telephone interview
March. 5. “You aren’t going to get outsized returns, but yields
certainly aren’t going to spike in this new rate environment any
time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  