-- China Plans Revamp of Railways, Energy, Food Safety Agencies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-11T04:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/china-restructures-energy-regulation-in-government-overhaul.html
China  plans to revamp government
bodies responsible for energy, railways and food safety as the
country’s new leaders seek to cut red tape and graft in the
biggest top-level reorganization since 2008.  The Ministry of Railways will be split and the food and
drug regulator will given more power in a bid to improve safety,
according to a plan announced yesterday. Maritime law
enforcement will be brought under one body as China tussles with
neighbors including Japan and  Vietnam  over territorial claims.  The changes may allow Xi Jinping, set to take over as
China’s president on March 14, to assert greater control over
vital sectors of an economy that grew last year at its slowest
pace since 1999. After the government swelled under outgoing
leader Hu Jintao, Xi may be seeking to devolve power to state-
owned companies and give ministries a greater regulatory role.  “Every 10 years a new generation of leaders come to power
and at least in the beginning want to show everyone they want to
make a change,” Ding Xueliang, a professor at Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology who teaches Chinese
politics, said by telephone. “There is more hope now because
there’s increasing domestic pressure and greater international
challenges, and the sense of crisis among the new leaders is
more striking than before.”  Maritime Law  The State Oceanic Administration will now oversee the coast
guard, the fisheries enforcement command and the maritime anti-
smuggling unit, which had all been under different
administrations, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  Tensions between China and its neighbors in the South China
Sea have spurred concern that competing territorial claims will
disrupt economic relations between the Association of Southeast
Asian Nations and the group’s largest trading partner.  The railway ministry’s administrative duties will be
transferred to the Ministry of Transportation and commercial
operations will be spun off to form a new company, China Railway
Corp., according to the plan. The reorganization won’t affect
investment, Railways Minister Sheng Guangzu told reporters in
Beijing yesterday.  The reorganization of the rail ministry comes almost two
years after a high-speed train crash killed 40 people near the
eastern Chinese city of Wenzhou. A government investigation
blamed the July 2011 disaster on mismanagement and design flaws,
and former Rail Minister Liu Zhijun was among officials held
responsible. Liu, who was ousted on corruption allegations, was
later expelled from the Communist Party.  Biggest Issuer  The rail ministry is the nation’s biggest issuer of
corporate notes, with 2.66 trillion  yuan  ($428 billion) of
liabilities, larger than  Denmark ’s economy.  “We view the reform positively,” Barclays Plc analysts
led by Patrick Xu said in a note to clients yesterday. “We
expect it will be easier for China Railway Corp. to restructure
its assets.”  The National People’s Congress is scheduled to approve the
plan March 14, according to an agenda for the annual meeting.
That’s the day Xi is expected to take the presidency as the
country wraps up a once-a-decade leadership transition. On March
5, outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao set a 2013 economic-growth target
of 7.5 percent, unchanged from last year when actual expansion
slowed to 7.8 percent.  Seventh Time  The changes announced yesterday mark the seventh time the
government has tried to restructure ministries in 30 years, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported. Several overlapping bodies
remain, such as ministries for agriculture and water resources
and another minister-level body that administers forests  “I have looked at restructuring for three decades and I
keep seeing the same agencies,” said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, head
of the department of government and international studies at
Hong Kong Baptist University. “There’s an impression of deja
vu.”  In other changes, the National Energy Administration will
take over power-market regulation. The administration is
currently a branch of the National Development and Reform
Commission, the nation’s top economic planner, and oversees the
oil, natural gas, nuclear and renewable energy sectors.  Natural Resources  Securing the natural resources needed to fuel China’s
economic growth has been a priority for the ruling Communist
Party, with the cabinet in 2010 forming an energy commission
headed by Wen. Chinese companies announced more than $25 billion
of overseas energy acquisitions last year, a 39 percent increase
from 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A new general administration will be responsible for
overseeing the safety of food and drugs, according to
yesterday’s plan. Other changes include merging the press and
broadcasting regulators and combining family planning with the
health ministry. The report showed the People’s Bank of China
will remain within the State Council.  Wen said in his annual work report to the National People’s
Congress on March 5 that China will reform and perfect the
nation’s safety supervision system for food and drugs. During
his tenure, the government faced safety scares ranging from
contaminated milk to chicken meat with excessive levels of
antibiotics.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Benjamin Haas in Hong Kong at 
 bhaas7@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  