-- China Streamlines Maritime Law Enforcement Amid Island Disputes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/china-bolsters-maritime-law-enforcement-amid-island-disputes.html
China  brought the  law-enforcement 
arms of its maritime agencies under one body, a move aimed at
protecting the country’s interests as it presses territorial
claims in the East and South China Seas.  The  State Oceanic Administration  will oversee the coast
guard, fisheries law-enforcement and the smuggling police, which
now fall under separate ministries, a report to the National
People’s Congress, the country’s legislature, said yesterday.
The administration also has a law enforcement arm.  The decision signals that China wants to better organize
its maritime assets as it wrangles with  Japan , the  Philippines 
and Vietnam in territorial disputes. The U.S. has expressed
concern that an accident or miscommunication could lead that
sparring to escalate further.  “The recent tension has convinced the central authorities
to better coordinate those agencies,” said Jean-Pierre Cabestan, head of the department of government and international
studies at Hong Kong Baptist University. “There’s been growing
concern among observes including foreign governments about
whether those agencies were coordinated or not. We have evidence
that they are not.”  The beefed-up maritime administration is part of a broader
overhaul of the government that was announced yesterday and is
set to be approved March 14.  Low Efficiency  The planned changes will “solve the problems of low
efficiency in maritime law enforcement” and “improve
protection and use of oceanic resources,” the report said.  Tensions between China and its neighbors have raised
concern that competing territorial claims will disrupt economic
ties in the region. The conflict with Japan over islands in the
 East China Sea , in an area that may hold enough oil to keep
China running for 45 years, has damaged a $340 billion trade
relationship between  Asia ’s two biggest economies.  Chinese law enforcement vessels have conducted numerous
patrols this year around the islands, known as Senkaku in Japan
and Diaoyu in China. That’s fueled questions about the
government’s intentions, U.S. Pacific Commander Admiral Samuel
Locklear told the House of Representatives Armed Services
Committee on March 5.  “I am particularly concerned that the activities around
the Senkaku Islands could lead to an accident and miscalculation
and escalation between China and Japan,” Locklear said. “The
close proximity of ships and aircraft from all sides of these
disputes raises the risks of escalation.”  In July,  Vietnam  protested China’s plans to set up a
military garrison on a disputed island in the South China Sea.
The Philippines in January sought United Nations arbitration
over China’s assertion of sovereignty over the Spratly Islands.  Hours after the maritime reorganization was announced
yesterday, the official Xinhua News Agency reported that three
Chinese Marine Surveillance Ships had begun a joint ship-
helicopter patrol in the South China Sea.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  