-- China Plans to Elevate Food, Drug Regulator to Ensure Safety
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-10T06:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/china-plans-to-elevate-food-drug-regulator-to-ensure-safety.html
China  unveiled a plan to elevate
the food and drug regulator to a ministry-level body with
broader powers, underpinning the government’s pledge to crack
down on safety violations and better protect consumers.  The new body will be responsible for overseeing the safety
and effectiveness of food and drugs produced, distributed and
consumed in China, according to a plan handed out to reporters
at a meeting of the National People’s Congress, the country’s
legislature, in Beijing today. A new health and family planning
commission announced today will assess food risks and formulate
safety standards, while the agriculture ministry will be in
charge of the quality of farm products.  “It’s an extremely powerful issue in China right now, so
there’s a lot of pressure on them to deal with food and drug
safety effectively,” said Andrew Batson, Beijing-based research
director for China-focused economic consultancy GK Dragonomics.
“As China gets richer, the government is increasingly expected
to not just deliver economic growth, but also an improving
quality of life.”  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in his annual work report to the
National People’s Congress on March 5 that China will reform and
perfect the nation’s safety supervision system for food and
drugs. During his tenure the government faced safety scares
ranging from tainted milk to fake medicines and chicken meat
with excessive levels of antibiotics.  Fake Medicines  Li Keqiang , set to replace Wen at the end of the
legislature’s annual session in Beijing this month, has also
called for a crackdown on illegal food markets and prevention of
safety risks. He was named in 2010 to head a food safety
commission dealing with errant producers after a tainted milk
scandal resulted in the death of at least six babies in 2008.  China in 2007 executed Zheng Xiaoyu after he was convicted
of taking more than 6.5 million yuan ($1 million) in bribes and
gifts while head of the food and drug regulator from 1998 to
2005. The regulator approved six types of fake medicines during
his tenure, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  New Agency  The current State  Food and Drug Administration , led by
Commissioner Yin Li, is a regulatory agency overseen by the
 Ministry of Health . The new body will consolidate its previous
role with the food and drug safety functions of the State
Council’s food safety commission, the national quality regulator
and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce.  The National People’s Congress is scheduled to approve the
plan March 14, according to an agenda for its annual meetings.  China’s growing middle class increasingly demands its
government deliver safe food to eat and clean air to breath
instead of just more economic growth, Batson said. In public
opinions surveys, Chinese rank food safety as the important
issue they’re most concerned about, above corruption, he said.  Safety Scandals  “There is a widespread perception in China that the food
safety system is broken, even though it’s not obvious that it’s
particularly worse than other  developing countries ,”  he said.  In recent years, a series of food and drug safety scandals
have grabbed national headlines. One of the worst cases involved
infant formula adulterated with melamine, an industrial chemical
that was used to boost protein levels in the milk. The poisoned
formula was blamed for the deaths of the infants in 2008 while
300,000 fell ill.  Faith in China’s domestic milk powder hasn’t recovered.
 Hong Kong , the Chinese territory that’s governed under separate
rules, has imposed limits on how much milk powder  mainland
visitors can buy after complaints their purchases were causing a
local shortage.  Illegal Carcinogen   More recently, six government officials in the eastern
Chinese province of Zhejiang were jailed after local
manufacturers were found using an industrial gelatin laced with
an illegal carcinogen to make drug capsules.  In January, China said it would offer rewards of as much as
300,000  yuan  to whistle blowers to encourage them to come
forward with tips on food and drug safety problems, Xinhua said.  Foreign companies have been affected as well. In late
February  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC food chain, pledged
to ramp up safety and tighten requirements for suppliers in
China to win back consumers after a probe by Chinese authorities
into chicken providers dragged down local sales.  Shanghai Food and Drug Administration said on Dec. 20 tests
conducted by a third-party agency from 2010 to 2011 found eight
batches of chicken supplied to Yum by Liuhe Group Co. had
antibiotics levels that didn’t meet prescribed standards.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  