-- Clegg Says Liberal Democrats Can Win as Poll Disagrees
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/clegg-says-liberal-democrats-can-win-as-poll-disagrees.html
The U.K.’s  Liberal Democrats  will
win more seats in the next election in 2015, the party’s leader
 Nick Clegg  will tell activists today, even as polls show it’s
losing ground with voters.  Clegg will use the party’s victory in a special election in
Eastleigh last week, where Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives came in third, to say the Liberal Democrats are
now a natural party of government. Backing them is no longer
just a way to show displeasure with the main political parties
and hard work could mean greater gains, he will say today.  “Liberal Democrats, I have spent nearly three years asking
you to hold firm,” he will say at the party’s spring rally in
Brighton, southern  England , according to extracts of his speech
released in advance by his office. “But today, Liberal
Democrats, I have a different message for you: win.”  A poll published yesterday of battleground districts, those
likely to change hands in an election, put Clegg on course to
have 17 seats in the House of Commons, compared with 57 seats
now, with Labour on 367 and the Conservatives 231.  The data gave  Ed Miliband ’s  Labour Party  an outright
majority of 84 seats, meaning Clegg would no longer hold the
balance of power. The survey by Michael Ashcroft, a upper-house
Conservative lawmaker who commissions polls, interviewed 19,119
voters online in 213 marginal parliamentary districts between
Jan. 29 and Feb. 18.  Under Pressure  Clegg is under pressure from rank and file activists
unhappy about the concessions the Liberal Democrats must give in
return for being in power with the Tories and concerned about
the party’s poll ratings.  “We didn’t win in Eastleigh in spite of being in power,”
Clegg will say. “We won in Eastleigh because we’re in power --
locally and nationally.”  While Clegg’s attack on Cameron’s party today will be
measured, his Business Secretary Vince Cable has had no such
reticence in attacking his coalition partners.  In remarks to a meeting of activists at the conference on
March 8, Cable said some Tory lawmakers are waging “jihad” on
state spending, saying it would be “utterly counterproductive”
to cut science and skills budgets any further, which form part
of his department’s spending.  Resisting Cuts  Cable is resisting cuts to his business department, arguing
last week that the U.K. needs to examine whether the economic
argument in the U.K. may have shifted in favor of debt-funded
 capital investment , with slow growth now a greater concern than
a loss of market confidence.  Conservative members of the Cabinet, Home Secretary Theresa May and Defense Secretary Philip Hammond are also expressing
concern over attempts to find 10 billion pounds ($15 billion) of
further savings across government.  The  Guardian newspaper  reported yesterday that Cable had
said political disagreements over future spending plans are so
intense that the Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s
planned spending review for early summer covering the fiscal
years 2015-16 may not take place at all. That claim was denied
separately by both Cable and Clegg’s spokespeople.  No Confusion  Taking a different tack today, Clegg will say that rather
than confusing voters, the coalition with the Tories allows the
Liberal Democrats to differentiate themselves.  “There is a myth that governing together in coalition
diminishes the ability of the smaller party to beat the bigger
party,” Clegg will say. “The opposite is true; the longer you
stand side-by-side with your opponents the easier your
differences are to see. We don’t lose our identity by governing
with the Conservatives. The comparison helps the British people
understand who we are.”  In a question-and-answer session with activists yesterday,
Clegg said 2015 would be dubbed “the scarcity election” with
voters unlikely to believe any party that promises “goodies.”  The Liberal Democrat leader did not call for new growth
measures, saying the U.K. is “carrying the weight of so many
mistakes in the past.”  “I am as restless as anyone else to see growth materialize
as fast as it should, but I don’t think we should kid ourselves
this will be easy,” Clegg said.  -- With assistance from  Robert Hutton  in  London . Editor:  Jeffrey
Donovan   To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  