-- Clegg Vows to Block U.K. Plan to Exit EU Rights Convention
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-10T14:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/clegg-to-block-u-k-plan-to-withdraw-from-eu-rights-convention.html
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg
vowed to block any attempt by his coalition government partner
to withdraw from the European Convention on Human rights, as he
told his Liberal Democrat party to stick to the center ground to
win votes at the 2015 election.  In a speech aimed at building up her support among
Conservative Party grassroot activists, Home Secretary Theresa May said yesterday the U.K. should “stop human rights
legislation interfering with our ability to fight crime and
control immigration” and consider withdrawing from the European
Court of Human Rights “and the convention it enforces.”  “The Conservatives would actively take away rights enjoyed
by British citizens just to appease their backbenchers,” Clegg
told his party’s spring rally in Brighton, south  England , today.
“Theresa May made a speech arguing the option of leaving the
convention should remain ‘on the table.’ Well, I tell you, it
won’t be on the cabinet table so long as I’m sitting round it.”  May’s intervention underlines the questions Prime Minister
David Cameron is now facing about his leadership direction
following the party’s third place ranking in a special election
in Eastleigh, southern England, last week, which the Liberal
Democrats won. At the same time, Clegg is also reassuring his
activists the coalition’s junior partners still have a voice in
government.  Natural Party  Clegg used the party’s victory to say the Liberal Democrats
are now a natural party of government. Backing them is no longer
just a way to show displeasure with the main political parties
and hard work could mean greater gains, he said.  “I have spent nearly three years asking you to hold
firm,” he told the rally. “But today, Liberal Democrats, I
have a different message for you: win.”  Clegg used his keynote speech to attack his coalition
partners. While he said Cameron tried to keep his party to the
political center ground, he is unable to control his lawmakers -
- such as May -- who want to appeal to the party’s traditional
concerns of law and order, immigration and maintaining the
military’s budget.  “The Conservative party knows it needs to stay on the
center ground to have any chance of speaking to ordinary
people’s concerns,” Clegg said. “At least the leadership seem
to. But they just can’t manage it, no matter how hard they try.
They’re like a kind of broken shopping trolley. Every time you
try and push them straight ahead they veer off to the right-hand
side.”  Mansion Tax  The opposition Labour Party’s treasury spokesman Ed Balls
today called on the Liberal Democrats to back his Parliamentary
motion on March 12 to impose a so-called “mansion tax” on
homes worth more than 2 million pounds ($3 million), which was a
Liberal Democrat idea blocked by the Tories in government. Clegg
said all Labour “is interested in is striking poses and playing
parliamentary games.” The deputy prime minister’s spokesman
told reporters in Brighton that the party had not yet decided
which way it will vote in the debate.  Clegg also said there is no chance of borrowing more to
kick-start the economy, despite calls from his Business
Secretary Vince Cable and some party members.  The U.K. will not “flinch on the deficit,” Clegg said.
“But to be unflinching is not to be unthinking. The idea that
the choice is between a cruel and unbending Plan A and a
mythical Plan B is simply not the case.”  “Balancing the books is a judgment, not a science,” Clegg
said. “And our plan has always allowed room for maneuver.”  Damage Limitation  The Liberal Democrat leadership has used the rally to
remind activists of their success in Eastleigh while also
engaging in damage limitation over allegations of sexual
harassment by former chief executive Chris Rennard -- denied by
the lawmaker -- and the conviction of ex-Cabinet minister Chris
Huhne for perverting the course of justice.  Yet, in a blow to Clegg’s leadership, today the Liberal
Democrats rejected government plans for so-called secret courts,
designed to hear terrorism trials. The measures have ignited
some activists’ concerns about civil liberties, as the bill
passes through Parliament. Dinah Rose and Jo Shaw, two prominent
party figures, publicly resigned today in protest at Clegg’s
handling of the bill.  Clegg appealed for the party to display “unity,” saying
it is achieving great things in government.  “I know some of you have had a quiet fear, ticking away at
the back of your minds,” he said. “The worry that the risk we
took was too big,” he said. “No, Liberal Democrats. It may
have been a risk, but we took it for the right reasons: to steer
Britain through a time of economic crisis; to govern in the
national interest; to govern from the center ground; to build a
stronger economy, in a fairer society, enabling everyone in
Britain to get on in life.  ‘‘And that decision will pay off -- for the country, and
for us too,’’ he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  