-- Compuware 18% Bump Seen After Spurning Elliott: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-03-11T20:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/compuware-18-bump-seen-after-spurning-elliott-real-m-a.html
Compuware Corp. (CPWR) , the software maker
that spurned an $11-per-share bid from activist shareholder
Elliott Management Corp., is poised to fetch at least 18 percent
more after leaving the door open for better offers.  The  stock  has traded above Elliott’s takeover price every
day since Jan. 25, when Compuware rejected the bid and said it
would evaluate “any credible offer it receives.” After
 Bloomberg News  reported that Compuware attracted buyout funds
including Apax Partners LLP and Hellman & Friedman LLC, the
stock closed last week at $11.95. That’s 8.6 percent above
Elliott’s bid, the most among pending or proposed U.S. deals of
more than $1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Compuware’s share gains are signaling that investors expect
the bidding to escalate, and MKM Partners LLC estimates the
Detroit-based business software firm may lure offers of at least
$13 a share. Private-equity firms might pursue the $2.5 billion
company for its cash-generating mainframe business, as well as
the opportunity to unlock value by selling off faster-growing
divisions and cutting costs, said shareholder Integrity Asset
Management LLC.  “Private equity would be a natural buyer for this
company,” Aaron Schwartz, a New York-based analyst at Jefferies
Group LLC, said in a telephone interview. “A mainframe business
that throws off a ton of cash, a mismanaged cost structure and a
growth business on an exit strategy -- that’s very appealing.”  A representative for Compuware declined to comment on
whether the company had received any additional offers and what
it would consider to be an appropriate bid.  Buyout Offer  Compuware provides mainframe programs, collaboration
technology and project-management tools, as well as performance-
management services for cloud and mobile applications. With
 customers  including Facebook Inc., Home Depot Inc. and
Amazon.com Inc., the company had  sales  of $971 million in the
most recent 12 months.  Elliott, after amassing an 8 percent stake in Compuware,
offered on Dec. 17 to buy the software maker for $2.3 billion.
The $11-a-share price represented a 20 percent premium to the
stock’s average during the prior 20 days. The hedge fund wrote
in a letter that the software maker’s “execution, profitability
and growth have meaningfully underperformed.”  Compuware rebuffed the bid a month later, saying it
“significantly undervalues” the company. At the same time, it
said it was being advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Allen
& Co. and would “carefully review and evaluate any credible
offer it receives, including from Elliott, that delivers full
value to its shareholders.”  Attracting Interest  The company also announced a plan to cut at least $60
million in  costs  and spin off its Covisint cloud-computing
software  unit  to shareholders after a planned public offering.  Since rejecting Elliott’s bid, Compuware has attracted
interest from private-equity funds including  Apax Partners  and
Hellman & Friedman and gave management presentations to other
potential bidders including Thoma Bravo LLC and Golden Gate
Capital Corp., people familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private, said last week.  Compuware’s  shares  topped $11 every day since the company
rejected Elliott’s bid and reached a more than two-year high of
$12.08 on March 7. They ended last week at $11.95, 8.6 percent
above Elliott’s initial bid. No other pending U.S. deal valued
at $1 billion or more was trading that far above the proposed
price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Bids  Today, shares of Compuware rose 0.8 percent to $12.04.  The interest from private-equity firms and Compuware’s
decision to hire financial advisers makes investors “more
optimistic that something will transpire as an alternative,”
 Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at MKM in  New York , said
in a phone interview. “It should work out higher.”  Moore estimates that Compuware could fetch $13 to $14 a
share in a takeover. Elliott may also return to Compuware with a
higher bid in the range of $12 to $12.50 a share, he said.  Elliot Sloane, a spokesman for Elliott, declined to comment
on Compuware’s potential to get other offers and whether it
would consider raising its bid. The New York-based hedge fund
now holds an 8.7 percent stake in the company, making it
Compuware’s second-biggest  shareholder , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Private-equity firms are likely drawn to Compuware’s free
 cash flow  generation and the potential for cost cutting and
asset sales, said Adam Friedman, a  money manager  at Rocky River,
Ohio-based Integrity. The firm, which oversees about $3.5
billion, including Compuware shares, is owned by Munder Capital
Management.  ‘Hidden Assets’  Friedman estimates suitors may offer $13 to $15 a share for
the company.  Compuware, with just $70 million in  debt  as of Dec. 31,
generated $133 million in free  cash flow  in the latest 12
months.  “There’s some hidden assets in there and it is under-
earning their potential,” Friedman said in a phone interview.
“There’s just a lot of low-hanging fruit on the cost side and
some good assets that you could either sell or run. And the cash
flow is pretty good.”  The company’s  operating margin  in the last 12 months of
11.3 percent trailed 71 percent of North American infrastructure
software companies valued at more than $1 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Buyout firms could unlock value by continuing with
Compuware’s plan to take Covisint public and seeking a sale of
the application performance management division to industry
suitors, said Schwartz of Jefferies.  IBM, CA  In addition to private-equity bidders,  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  CA Inc. (CA)  “stick out as potential
acquirers at least for parts of the business, and even
potentially the entire business,” Derrick Wood, a San
Francisco-based analyst at Susquehanna International Group LLP,
said in a phone interview. He estimates Compuware may lure
takeover bids of $12 to $13 a share.  James Sciales, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
and Dan Kaferle, a spokesman for Islandia, New York-based CA,
declined to comment on whether the companies would consider
purchasing parts or all of Compuware.  Even a boosted takeover offer of $13 a share may not be
enough to win over management, according to Susquehanna’s Wood.  “Based on that price, I think management would do
everything they could to argue they can create more value on
their own,” he said. “They will always think they are worth
more than what a financial buyer would be willing to pay.”  ‘Ripe’ Target  The company may prefer to wait to seek a sale until after
it sells shares in Covisint, which could help boost its
valuation, said Mark Jordan, a St. Louis-based analyst at Noble
Financial Group Inc.  Still, given shareholders’ frustrations with its lagging
performance, Compuware may be “ripe for a takeout,” Ted Crawford, who helps oversee about $300 million, including
Compuware shares, at Roumell Asset Management LLC, said in a
phone interview from  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland .  “There’s no poison pill,” Crawford said. “The  directors 
will lose a proxy fight because of the way things have been
managed to this point, and there seems to be a lot someone can
do relative to how this company has been managed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  