-- Cooking Oil Imports by India Seen Climbing for a Third Month
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-03-11T06:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/cooking-oil-imports-by-india-seen-advancing-for-a-third-month.html
Cooking oil imports by  India , the
world’s second-largest consumer, probably climbed for a third
month in February after palm oil prices tumbled and speculation
of a tax increase spurred buying by refiners and traders.  Purchases of vegetable oils, including those for industrial
use, jumped 11 percent to 975,000 metric tons last month from a
year earlier, according to the median of estimates from five
processors and brokers compiled by Bloomberg. Palm oil  imports 
rose 21 percent to 800,000 tons, the survey showed. The  Solvent
Extractors’ Association of India  will publish data this week.  Increased demand from India, the world’s biggest palm oil
importer, may help trim inventories in Indonesia and Malaysia,
the largest producers, and stem a 26 percent loss in futures in
 Kuala Lumpur  over the past year. Cooking oil consumption in
India, which meets more than 50 percent of its demand through
imports, is growing 4 percent to 5 percent annually as the
population expands 20 million every year and middle-class
incomes increase, according to the extractors’ association.  “People were expecting taxes to be raised in the budget,
so they imported heavily,” Sandeep Bajoria, chief executive
officer of Mumbai-based Sunvin Group, said by phone. “Demand is
growing in India and every year we are likely to import at least
800,000 tons more than a year ago.”  India, which imposed a 2.5 percent tax on unprocessed oils
in January while doubling the benchmark price to calculate the
tariff, left the levies unchanged in the annual budget on Feb.
28. Still, the government is poised to increase the taxes at
least twice later this year, according to Dorab Mistry, director
at Godrej International Ltd.  Swelling Inventories  The contract for delivery in May was unchanged at 2,448
ringgit ($787) a ton on the  Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange at the
12:30 p.m. break in Kuala Lumpur today. Futures fell 6.3 percent
in February, the most since September, on concern that
stockpiles among top producers may stay near record levels
because of falling demand.  Malaysian  inventories  fell 5.2 percent to 2.44 million tons
in February from a month earlier as production declined 19
percent to 1.3 million tons, the nation’s palm oil board said.  Indian reserves, including those at ports and in the
pipeline, probably rose to a record 1.8 million tons at the
start of this month, Bajoria said. Stockpiles may total almost 2
million tons, about 80 percent more than a year earlier,
according to Mistry. India buys palm from Indonesia and
Malaysia, and  soybean oil  from Brazil and  Argentina .  Ports Full  “Imports will slow down from March as stockpiles are high
and the ports are full,” said Pradip Desai, managing director
of Mumbai-based broker Palmtrade Services Pvt.  Imports of all cooking oils may surge to a record 10.7
million tons in the year that started Nov. 1, Dinesh Shahra,
managing director of  Ruchi Soya Industries Ltd. (RSI) , said on March
5. Purchases were 9.98 million tons last year, according to the
association. Palm oil imports may climb to an all-time high of
8.5 million tons this year, he said.  Crude soybean oil  imports fell 4.5 percent to 75,000 tons
in February from a year earlier, while sunflower oil purchases
may have fallen 28 percent to 80,000 tons, the survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  