-- David Suzuki Says Japan Wasted Time to Rework Atomic Plan
-- B y   I a i n   W i l s o n
-- 2013-03-10T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/david-suzuki-says-japan-wasted-time-to-rework-atomic-plan.html
Japan (MXJP0EN)  is wasting the opportunity of
the Fukushima disaster by failing to use the crisis and public
opposition toward nuclear reactors to form an energy mix more
reliant on renewable energy, Canadian author, environmentalist
and geneticist David Suzuki says.  “Fukushima gives the opening that if they really want to
get off nukes, then they really have to go and do something
else,” said Suzuki, who joined the board of the  Japan Renewable
Energy Foundation  last year at the urging of  Softbank Corp. (9984) 
founder Masayoshi Son.  Suzuki’s comments echo a common refrain among critics of
nuclear energy that leaders could have used the atomic meltdown
to push alternative forms of energy. That effort suffered a
setback last month when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told lawmakers
he’ll restart Japan’s reactors once safety measures are in
place.  “There’s a huge opportunity that the government, because
it is so tightly tied to the private energy sector, has refused
to acknowledge,” Suzuki said in an interview. “It is an
opportunity being squandered in the drive to get the reactors up
and running again.”  Two years after the March 11, 2011, earthquake and crisis
in Fukushima led to the closing of all except two of Japan’s 50
nuclear plants, Japan gets only a fraction of its energy from
clean sources. About 7.4 percent of primary energy came from
renewables in the year ending March 2012, with 3.4 percent from
hydro and 4 percent from others such as solar, geothermal and
wind, according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  Incentives for Renewables  Still, Japan has moved to bolster clean energy. The nation
began an incentive program in July, increasing solar capacity
and prompting investment interest from companies such as
Softbank and  Orix Corp. (8591)  Officials also are considering cutting
the time needed for environmental assessments for wind projects.  Aided by solar incentives, Japan may become the world’s
third-largest market for solar power in 2013 behind  China  and
either the U.S. or  Italy , according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. Domestic shipments of solar cells and modules more than
doubled to 1,003 megawatts in the three months to Dec. 31, the
Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association said on Feb. 26.  “Japan has a real opportunity now to confront its long-
term energy future, and the Japanese are such that if a man like
Mr. Son is able to get an organization to come up with a
blueprint, they well might be a country to say, ‘Yes, let’s do
it,’” Suzuki said in the telephone interview Feb. 21 from his
office in  Vancouver .  Geothermal Potential  Japan’s best hope may be its geothermal resources, said
Suzuki, subject of the 2010 film “ Force of Nature ,” a synopsis
of the geneticist’s views on his life’s work as a science
communicator and advocate for environmental preservation over
economic expansion.  “Geothermal can be a huge source of energy very quickly,”
Suzuki said, adding that Japan is also well-positioned to take
advantage of developments in tidal power.  “Japan is a model already to the lie that economic growth
is the key to our future,” he said. “If they can really show
an alternative to nukes and fossil fuels, then they will be the
poster boy for the renewable energy for the future.”  Geothermal Advantages  For a nation steeped in the traditions of a bathing culture
fueled by geologically-active hotsprings, Japan has a dearth of
projects harnessing the reserves of energy stored underground to
produce electricity.  Japan has 539 megawatts of geothermal capacity currently
operating, a quarter of its wind capacity and almost 14 times
less than solar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg New
Energy Finance for 2012.  One advantage to geothermal energy is that it offers a
relatively constant supply of energy, unlike wind and solar,
which fluctuate with breezes and clouds.  “The benefit is that it is baseload energy, unlike wind
and solar,” said  Yugo Nakamura , an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in  Tokyo . “Japan should take reasonable measures
to boost geothermal, but the country also needs to take every
measure to boost  energy supply  from all sources.”  Japan has the potential to produce 23,000 megawatts of
geothermal power, according to a  report  on the global market
prepared by the Washington, D.C.-based Geothermal Energy
Association in May.  “I know the PM is under huge pressure from the energy
sector to get those reactors back up and running again,” said
Suzuki, who took the  top spot  as  Canada ’s most trusted
individual in a 2011 survey conducted by Reader’s Digest
magazine. “It is unfortunate because the grassroots in  Japan 
are desperate to get off nukes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iain Wilson in Sydney at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  