-- Medicines Co. to Revive Defunct Blood Thinner After Trial Result
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-03-10T16:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/medicines-co-to-revive-defunct-blood-thinner-after-trial-result.html
Medicines Co.’s blood thinner was
22 percent more effective reducing heart risk after a stent
procedure than Plavix, a study said, paving the way for the
company to apply for U.S. regulatory clearance.  The drug, Cangrelor, may generate $400 million in sales by
2019, said Adnan Butt, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in
San Francisco, said before the results were announced.  Medicines Co. announced it was shelving Cangrelor in 2009
after earlier trials showed the therapy wasn’t more effective
than other drugs. In January, the Parsippany, New Jersey-based
company said it found in follow-up studies the therapy
significantly outperformed Plavix, a blood thinner from  Sanofi (SAN) 
and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , that has lost patent protection
and is now in generic forms.  “The stronger the benefit and the safer the drug works,
the better it will be both for clinical conversion and
regulatory perspective,” Butt said in an interview before the
data were released. “Anything above 20 percent is great.”  Today’s presentation, given at the  American College of
Cardiology  meeting in  San Francisco , detailed the results from
the study announced in January.  The trial of 10,900 patients worldwide looked at the number
of patients who died, had a heart attack, stent thrombosis or
ischemia-driven revascularization 48 hours after receiving one
of the medicines. About 4.7 percent of patients given Cangrelor
had one of these incidences, compared with 5.9 percent of
patients on Plavix. Both groups had similar, low rates of severe
bleeding, an important safety measurement.  Practical Concerns  “These are endpoints we worry about a lot in
interventional cardiology and cardiology in general,” Deepak Bhatt, chief of cardiology at VA Boston Healthcare System and
trial investigator, said in a statement. “This drug has several
advantages, and nothing out there right now has quite the same
biological properties.”  Cangrelor is meant to be used in the hospital by patients
who need urgent heart procedures. The treatment is given
intravenously and acts quicker and dissipates faster than
Plavix, a pill, so it benefits patients needing immediate
surgical procedures, Butt said. These patients probably will
still need to take medicines like Plavix once they leave the
hospital.  “This is not replacing those drugs by any means,” Butt
said. “If something goes wrong, those drugs are problematic in
terms of being able to do surgery on these patients.”  Medicines Co. (MDCO)  has said it plans to file for U.S. Food and
Drug Administration approval in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  