-- Edwards’ Sapien XT Equal to Older Device for Aortic Valve
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-03-10T22:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/edwards-sapien-xt-equal-to-older-device-to-repair-aortic-valve.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ’s Sapien
XT, a slimmer version of its original device used to repair a
calcified aortic valve in the heart, is just as effective and
potentially easier to use, researchers said.  Patients given Sapien XT had a similar risk of death,
stroke, repeat hospital stays and complications as those treated
with the original Sapien. They also had a higher risk of
dangerous leakage around the valve that has been shown to boost
long-term mortality, according to the study presented at  the
American College of Cardiology’s  meeting in  San Francisco .  The findings should support U.S. regulatory clearance of
the next-generation device, said lead researcher  Martin Leon ,
director of the Center for Interventional Vascular Therapy at
New York-Presbyterian Hospital/ Columbia University Medical
Center . Sapien XT is already sold in other parts of the world,
where it competes against Medtronic Inc.’s CoreValve in a market
analysts expect to top $3 billion annually by 2017.  With Sapien XT, “we can treat patients who have smaller
vessels with less injury and less trauma, and the valve
positioning is more precise,” Leon said in a statement. The
data showing that just 3.5 percent of patients getting Sapien XT
died within a month is the best result ever seen in a rigorous
study, he said. “For these inoperable patients, the sickest of
the sick, they’re surprisingly good.”  Seeking Approval  Edwards plans to seek  U.S. Food and Drug Administration 
approval in the second quarter of the Sapien XT for patients who
are too frail to withstand the standard open-heart surgery, the
 Irvine , California-based medical device company said in a
statement. A study including patients who aren’t as high-risk
for complications will be fully enrolled by the middle of 2013.  Medtronic’s U.S. CoreValve study results will be presented
in October.  The study included 284 Sapien XT patients and 276 treated
with Sapien, the original device approved by the FDA in November
2011 for the sickest patients who couldn’t handle surgery and
had no treatment options. After one year, 22.5 percent of Sapien
XT patients had died, compared with 23.7 percent given the older
device. The risk of stroke, a serious concern in the initial
Sapien safety studies, was just under 6 percent in both groups.  Patients treated with Sapien XT did have a higher risk of
developing a leak around the device known as paravalvular
regurgitation, the study found. In patients who got the newer
device, 29 percent had moderate to severe leakage compared with
21 percent in those with the older version. Previous research
has shown that the complication doubles a patient’s risk of
dying and the heightened danger may appear years later.  Medtronic Device  A previous study of CoreValve, from Minneapolis-based
Medtronic, showed much lower risk of the leakage. In that trial,
12 percent of patients had moderate to severe regurgitation at 6
months. Company officials, though, cautioned against reading too
much into the comparison.  “The data is what it is, but making comparisons at this
point is quite difficult,” said Rhonda Robb, general manager of
Medtronic’s catheter-based therapies group.  The leak concern in the Sapien XT trial is real, although
the findings may have been compromised by the fact that the
patients were more likely to get a second device to address the
risk of leakage, Leon said. Even with the newer device, at least
10 percent or 15 percent of patients are likely to develop
leakage, he said.  “I think you may have to wait for another generation of
devices to solve that problem,” Leon said.  New Design  The Sapien XT was entirely re-built, using a different type
of metal and less of it, improving its strength and allowing
doctors to crimp it even smaller before inserting it into the
heart. In all, the newer version is about 40 percent smaller.
The device used to thread it into the artery was also updated
and miniaturized, making it easier to snake into the damaged
aortic valve, the researchers said.  Sapien XT may be particularly beneficial for smaller
patients, said  Timothy Gardner , a heart surgeon and medical
director of the Center for Heart & Vascular Health at the
Christiana Care Health System in Wilmington,  Delaware . The
findings support U.S. approval and doctors will be anxious to
use it, he said in an interview.  “Surgeons and cardiologists who have been using the
original Sapien valve have been challenged by the catheter
size,” Gardner said. “For those who use the device, the
smaller profile and the reduction in vascular complications is a
positive result. The FDA has already approved the technology.
This is a refinement of the basic technology to make it more
generally applicable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  