-- Emirates Investment Bank Sees Asset Surge on Haven
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-03-10T12:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/emirates-investment-bank-sees-asset-surge-on-haven-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of CEO’s name in second paragraph.)  Emirates Investment Bank PJSC, a
Dubai-based private bank, said it’s benefiting from rising
demand for investment advice as the region’s wealthy seek a
haven for their assets in the  United Arab Emirates .  Assets under management have jumped six fold to 2.5 billion
dirhams ($680 million) from 450 million dirhams in 2008 as high
net-worth individuals turn increasingly to local bankers, Chief
Executive Officer Khaled Sifri said in an interview.  “Historically high net worth individuals in our region did
not have anyone locally to provide that kind of service,” Sifri
said in Dubai. “They were obliged to use international banks
because nobody was providing the service locally.”  Private banks are boosting their businesses in  emerging
markets  where economic expansion is increasing prosperity. Asia
has the world’s fastest-growing number of people with more than
$1 million in investable assets, according to a report in 2011
by  Bank of America Corp . and Capgemini, a  management consultant .
The number of high-net-worth individuals in the  Middle East  rose
10 percent to 400,000 in 2010, while their combined wealth
increased 13 percent to $1.7 trillion, according to the report.  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter, is
embarking on about $500 billion in  government spending  and
projects including the world’s tallest tower in Jeddah, while
Qatar is spending $138 billion on infrastructure ahead of the
2022 soccer world cup that it’s hosting.  “The price of oil is clearly very relevant in wealth
creation because it allows the governments of the region to
spend more,” said Sifri. “The government tends to address a
lot of these things by increasing expenditure, by expanding
budgets, that trickles down into the system and there is more
wealth created. ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  