-- England Holds Off Italy to Stay in Six Nations Grand Slam Chase
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-03-11T02:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/england-beats-italy-to-stay-on-course-for-six-nations-grand-slam.html
England  averted a potential upset
against Italy to keep alive its bid for a sweep of its European
rivals in rugby’s Six Nations Championship.  Toby Flood  kicked six penalties in England’s 18-11 win
yesterday at Twickenham Stadium in London. The home team had
opened a 12-point lead early in the second half, then held off a
late Italian rally.  The victory keeps England perfect after four matches,
giving it the chance to complete its first so-called Grand Slam
in a decade when it visits  Wales  on March 16. Second-place
Wales, which has won three games, can guarantee the defense of
its title by winning by at least eight points.  “We’re delighted to get the win and relieved because of
the pressure they put us under in the last 15 minutes,” England
coach  Stuart Lancaster  said in his post-match press conference.
“We didn’t think for one minute it would be easy. But it proved
more difficult than we’d hoped.”  England leads Wales by two points atop the standings
heading into their matchup in Cardiff and has a points-
difference advantage of 14, the first tiebreaker. A loss by
fewer than seven points would still clinch the championship.  Should Wales win by seven points, the title would be
decided on total tries, with the Welsh having scored two tries
more than the English going into the match.  “This week is very much a mental exercise,” England
captain Chris Robshaw told reporters. “We need to make sure
that mentally we have the right game plan and make sure we go
there and do what we’ve got to do.”  Pair of Penalties  Flood kicked a pair of penalties in the opening 16 minutes
for a 6-0 lead.  Italy  got on the scoreboard through Luciano
Orquera’s penalty in the 18th minute before Flood answered 20
minutes later after scrum-half Edoardo Gori was sin-binned.  Flood added penalties with the final kick of the first half
and four minutes after the break to make it 15-3. Italy stormed
back with eight points in a minute to give itself a chance of a
first victory in the 19 meetings between the teams.  Orquera kicked his second penalty and Luke McLean scored
the game’s only try, with Orquera missing the conversion.  Orquera then missed another penalty before Flood kicked his
sixth to increase the lead to 18-11. Italy then controlled most
of the final 10 minutes and Courtney Lawes leapt high to steal
an attacking Italian lineout near his own try line with two
minutes left to secure the win.  “We let the control slip in the second half and Italy
pushed us right to the end,” Lancaster said. “We’ll have to
improve on that performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Twickenham Stadium through the  London  sports desk
at   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 