-- Merck KGaA Boosts Stock With Job Cuts Amid Drug Drought
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-03-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/merck-kgaa-boosts-stock-with-job-cuts-amid-drug-drought.html
The next drug approval for  Merck
KGaA (MRK) ,  Germany ’s second-biggest drugmaker, probably won’t come
until 2016, more than a decade after the blockbuster cancer
treatment Erbitux reached the market.  Since Erbitux won clearance in 2003, the Darmstadt,
Germany-based drugmaker has had several development setbacks,
punctuated by the scrapping of cladribine, an experimental
treatment for multiple sclerosis that had been its most
promising.  “I don’t think we have seen all the failures yet,”  Martin Voegtli , an analyst with Kepler Capital Markets SA in Zurich,
said in an interview. He recommends selling the stock.  Merck hasn’t needed new medicines to return an average of
25 percent a year over the last three years. The company bought
lab equipment and water purification maker Millipore in 2010 and
cut jobs to boost margins. Merck reported earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates, forecast higher profit this year and next,
and raised its savings target on March 7. The stock closed March
8 at the highest level since it started trading in 1995.  The restructuring and the future potential of the company’s
liquid-crystals business, the world’s largest, led Andrew Whitney, a UBS AG analyst in  London , to recommend buying the
shares even though he has “little pipeline contribution” in
his estimates, Andrew Whitney, a UBS AG analyst in London,
recommends buying the shares based on he wrote in a March 4
note.  New Management  Merck has replaced more than a third of the company’s top
executives since Jan. 1, 2011, bringing in  drug development 
experience from  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK)  Merck hired Matthias Zachert as chief
financial officer from  Lanxess AG (LXS) , a German chemical company.
Stefan Oschmann, formerly of Merck & Co., which isn’t related to
Merck KGaA, replaced Elmar Schnee as head of pharmaceuticals.  The company saw the late-stage pipeline products developed
under the former research management  as “high risk” and never
included them in forecasts, Karl-Ludwig Kley, chief executive
officer, told reporters March 7.  “I hope the headlines about problems with Merck’s pipeline
are a thing of the past,” said Kley, who has headed the family-
controlled chemical and pharmaceutical company since 2007.  The company last week said it would end development of
experimental tumor-fighting drug cilengitide after it failed to
help patients with a form of  brain cancer  in a late-stage
clinical trial. In December, Merck said Stimuvax, a therapeutic
cancer vaccine, didn’t help non-small cell  lung cancer  patients
live longer.  Older Products  Sales  of multiple sclerosis treatment Rebif, approved in
2002, and Erbitux have been the main moneymakers for the Merck
Serono drug division, contributing 1.9 billion euros ($2.5
billion) and 887 million euros respectively last year. Rebif,
which is injected, faces increasing competition from newer MS
therapies such as Novartis’s Gilenya pill.  Erbitux has been approved for head and neck cancer and
colorectal cancer. It failed to help patients with stomach
tumors and was rejected for use in lung cancer in  Europe ,
curbing its growth potential.  Atacicept, a drug licensed from ZymoGenetics Inc., is being
tested in a mid-stage trial for lupus and preliminary data is
expected in the first half of the year. Stimuvax is still being
tested in lung cancer in a late-stage trial in a subgroup of
patients who appeared to respond to it. Voegtli hasn’t forecast
sales for either drug because he doesn’t believe they will be
approved, he said.  Weak Pipeline  “Our view on the pipeline has not changed,” Voegtli said.
“It’s very weak.”  Last year the company licensed TH-302, a cancer drug being
tested in late-stage trials for soft tissue carcinoma and
pancreatic cancer. Merck also is testing an MS pill licensed
from  Japan ’s  Ono Pharmaceutical Co. (4528)  called ONO-4641. Those two
therapies and Sym004, a cancer drug Merck licensed from
Symphogen A/S in September for $625 million, were highlighted by
Annalisa Jenkins, the company’s head of global drug development,
for analysts March 7 on a call.  “What they’ve tried to do is in-license products but Phase
III candidates are sparse, so I think Merck Serono will suffer
over the next few years,” Voegtli said, referring to the last
of three phases of drug development.  Sales Forecast  Voegtli forecasts peak annual sales of TH-302 of 260
million euros by 2020 which “won’t be able to offset the sales
declines for Erbitux and Rebif,” he said. The drug will likely
face competition from Celgene Inc.’s Abraxane, he said. He
expects Merck Serono sales to be flat in 2014 and fall 1 percent
in 2015 and 2016 and decrease by 2 percent in 2017.  The company needs “sustainable growth” at the Merck
Serono division,  Michael Leuchten , an analyst with  Barclays
Capital , wrote in a note March 4. Merck shuttered the Geneva
headquarters of the unit, which it bought in 2007.  Kley said previously that the company would consider bolt-
on acquisitions and licensing deals and no large
“transformational” acquisitions or material divestments until
2014. The company plans to invest an almost triple-digit
million-euro amount in biosimilars this year and wants to focus
research on the areas of cancer and immune-related illness.  “We assume every project we add to Phase I and II bears
the real possibility it will get approved,” Kley said March 7.
“Of course we can’t be 100 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  