-- Fukushima Radiation Proves Less Deadly Than Feared
-- B y   R o b e r t   P e t e r   G a l e   a n d   E r i c   L a x
-- 2013-03-10T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/fukushima-radiation-proves-less-deadly-than-feared.html
It is two years since  Japan ’s 9.0-
magnitude earthquake, one so powerful it shifted the position of
the Earth’s figure axis by as much as 6 inches and moved Honshu,
Japan’s main island, 8 feet eastward. The tsunami generated by
the earthquake obliterated towns, drowned almost 20,000 people
and left more than 300,000 homeless. Everyone living within 15
miles of Fukushima was evacuated; many are still in temporary
housing. Some will never be able to return home.  More than 300,000 buildings were destroyed and another
million damaged, including four reactors at the Fukushima
Daiichi nuclear power plant on the northeast coast. The
earthquake caused the immediate shutdown of this and three other
nuclear-power facilities.  Since the earthquake, a powerful movement gained momentum
to halt Japan’s use of nuclear energy, which provided 30 percent
of the country’s electricity. The last of 54 nuclear reactors
was shut down in May 2012. Two facilities were restarted in June
2012; 52 remain shut. Japan has therefore had to increase its
imports of natural gas, low-sulfur crude oil and fuel oil at a
substantial economic and environmental cost. Seventy-five
percent of the country’s electricity now comes from fossil
fuels.  Accustomed to large trade surpluses, Japan, in 2012, had a
record $78 billion trade deficit, thanks to increased energy
imports and a drop in exports as Japanese goods became more
expensive to produce.  Radiation Threat  And what of the lasting threat from radiation? Remarkably,
outside the immediate area of Fukushima, this is hardly a
problem at all. Although the crippled nuclear reactors
themselves still pose a danger, no one, including personnel who
worked in the buildings, died from  radiation exposure . Most
experts agree that future health risks from the released
radiation, notably radioactive iodine-131 and cesiums-134 and -
137, are extremely small and likely to be undetectable.  Even considering the upper boundary of estimated effects,
there is unlikely to be any detectable increase in cancers in
Japan,  Asia  or the world except close to the facility, according
to a World Health Organization  report . There will almost
certainly be no increase in birth defects or genetic
abnormalities from radiation.  Even in the most contaminated areas, any increase in cancer
risk will be small. For example, a male exposed at age 1 has his
lifetime cancer risk increase from 43 percent to 44 percent.
Those exposed at 10 or 20 face even smaller increases in risk --
similar to what comes from having a whole-body computer
tomography scan or living for 12 to 25 years in Denver amid
background radiation in the  Rocky Mountains . (There is no
discernible difference in the cancer rates between people who
live in Denver and those in  Los Angeles  or  New York .)  Rather than stand as a warning of the radiation danger
posed by nuclear power, in other words, Fukushima has become a
reminder that uninformed fears aren’t the same as actual risks.  Why are the anticipated risks from Japan’s nuclear accident
so small? Perhaps the most important reason is that about 80
percent of the radiation released was blown into the ocean.
Radioactive contamination of the sea sounds dreadful, but
because oceans naturally contain large amounts of radioactive
materials, the net increase in oceanic radioactivity is
minuscule.  Another reason the public was protected is that the 200,000
or so people living within 15 miles of Fukushima were rapidly
evacuated. People living in a few hotspot towns slightly farther
away who didn’t leave on their own received the highest civilian
doses.  Iodine Pills  The quarantine of radiation-contaminated foodstuffs also
kept the public safe. Milk containing iodine-131 was responsible
for many cases of thyroid cancer in children after the 1986
Chernobyl nuclear accident in  Ukraine . In Japan, nonradioactive
iodine pills were distributed to the population to block uptake
of radioactive iodine by the thyroid.  In the 26 years since Chernobyl, there have been more than
6,000 cases of thyroid cancers, almost all in children who were
less than 16 years old when they were exposed to iodine-131,
predominately through milk and other contaminated foodstuffs.
Fortunately thyroid cancer in children is rarely fatal; there
have been fewer than 15 deaths. There may also be a slight
increase in leukemia risk among the 600,000 workers involved in
containing the accident.  Even so, there is no convincing evidence, at least as yet,
of an increased cancer risk in the thousands of evacuees from
the town of Pripyat, where the reactor was located, nor among
the 30 million living in contaminated lands. Also, as with
Fukushima, there is no convincing evidence of  birth defects  or
genetic abnormalities. (Gale helped treat the worst cases of
radiation poisoning at Chernobyl and has been involved with the
follow-up in the years since the accident. He has been involved
in Japan since the catastrophe and worked with Japanese
scientists to estimate health risks.)  Radiation spikes detected in the weeks and months following
the Fukushima accident caused concern and sometimes panic. One
day a higher-than-permissible level of iodine-131 (300
becquerels per liter, or less than 0.00008 parts per trillion)
was detected in the drinking water in  Tokyo . People immediately
emptied stores of bottled water. However, the amount of
contamination in Tokyo water was so low, Tokyoites would have
had to drink 6 quarts of it a day for a month to get the same
radiation dose that an airline crew member receives in a year of
flying between Los Angeles and Tokyo.  People naturally worried about eating fish from the ocean
around Fukushima, and stringent mitigation actions were taken.
Bluefin tuna caught off California six months later were found
to have traces of cesium-137 from Fukushima, though less ounce
for ounce than the amount of radioactive potassium-40 found in a
banana.  Food Safety  The important question is, how can we be certain any food
source is safe if higher-than-normal radiation levels are
detected? The best way to answer this is to consider the risk
involved with eating food that may be contaminated. U.S.  food
safety  standards, for example, often restrict the content of
carcinogens, including radiation, to levels that might cause a
1-in-100,000 or 1-in-1,000,000 lifetime risk of cancer. But
consider the average 50-year-old male who has a baseline risk of
43 percent to develop cancer in his lifetime. (In women, it’s 39
percent.) The contaminated food increases that 43 percent
lifetime risk to 43.0000001 percent.  Exposure to radiation isn’t always what it seems. Of
course, people in the path of a radioactive cloud may receive a
dangerous dose of radiation, depending on the concentration of
radionuclides, atmospheric conditions and their location --
indoors or outside -- when the plume passes. Immediate
countermeasures are essential. In Japan, laudably, most people
were sheltered in place and then evacuated in a relatively
controlled manner. Some people received iodine tablets.  An independent commission found considerable confusion
among Japanese government officials, personnel at the nuclear
power facility and executives at Tokyo Electric Power Company in
Tokyo. Furthermore, emergency authorities didn’t share or use
some important data on radioactive contamination, and that
caused some people to be evacuated to zones of higher
radioactive contamination. And some children remained in high-
radiation areas far too long. Nevertheless, official actions
largely protected the public, and most continuing fears of
health risks from radiation have little basis in fact.  Prudence and safety must be paramount in the use of nuclear
energy -- in fact, in the use of any kind of energy. Although
immediate and long-term health risks of nuclear accidents are
often exaggerated, social, psychological and economic
consequences are obviously enormous. We don’t believe that
nuclear energy is always the best choice, but it is important to
carefully weigh the risks and benefits of using nuclear energy
compared with other sources of fuel to generate electricity.  Fossil Fuels  Japan has few domestic energy resources and depends on
imports for about 85 percent of its energy. What price will the
country pay if it abandons nuclear energy and uses only fossil
fuels? Air pollution from coal-fired  power plants  causes about
500 times more deaths per unit of electricity produced than
radiation from nuclear plants does. Electricity produced from
oil isn’t much safer. Even natural gas causes about 60 times
more deaths than nuclear does because of pollution. And consider
that more than 100,000 coal miners died in the U.S. in the past
century and more than 6,000 die every year in  China .  If, in response to Fukushima, Japan switches to more fossil
fuels, the resulting carbon dioxide emissions,  greenhouse gases 
and global warming could affect all of us. Already, because of
the nuclear shutdown since the accident, there is no longer any
chance Japan will meet its commitments in the 2009 Copenhagen
Accord to cut greenhouse-gas emissions from 1990 levels by 25
percent by 2020. The country’s 2012 estimate for greenhouse
gases is about 1.3 billion tons, the most since 2007, making
Japan the fifth top emitter worldwide.  We support stringent safety requirements for operating all
nuclear power facilities, in Japan and everywhere else,
including the Bushehr facility in  Iran . But no energy-producing
operation is foolproof: mines collapse, ships run aground,
terrorists blow up pipelines and nuclear plants have meltdowns
(fortunately rarely). Citizens of Japan are understandably
traumatized by the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. But to make
intelligent decisions about radiation, it’s best to rely on
facts -- and not let emotional or illogical fears get in the
way.  (Robert Peter Gale, a visiting professor of hematology at
 Imperial College London , has for 30 years been involved in the
global medical response to nuclear and radiation accidents. Eric Lax is a writer whose books include “The Mold in Dr. Florey’s
Coat” and “Conversations with  Woody Allen .” They are the authors
of “Radiation: What It Is, What You Need to Know.” The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this article:
Robert Peter Gale at  robertpetergale@alumni.ucla.edu .
Eric Lax at  ericlax@radiationbook.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 