-- Fukushima Toxic Waste Swells as Japan Marks March 11 Disaster
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d
-- 2013-03-10T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/fukushima-toxic-waste-swells-as-japan-marks-march-11-disaster.html
Every morning, 3,000 cleanup
workers at the Fukushima disaster site don hooded hazard suits,
air-filtered face masks and multiple glove layers. Most of the
gear is radioactive waste by day’s end.  Multiply those cast-offs by the 730 days since a tsunami
wrecked the Dai-Ichi nuclear station two years ago and the trash
could fill six Olympic swimming pools. The tens of thousands of
waste bags stored in shielded containers illustrate the dilemma
of dealing with a nuclear accident: Everything that touches it
becomes toxic.  Contaminated clothing represents just a fraction of the
waste facing  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  in a cleanup that may take
four decades. A tour of the plant last week went past rows of
grey and blue tanks holding enough irradiated water to fill 100
Olympic pools on the plateau overlooking Dai-Ichi’s four ruined
reactors. And the water keeps coming.  The utility estimates it may be eight years before
radiation levels fall enough to let workers start the main task
of removing 260 tons of melted nuclear fuel. That process took
more than a decade at the U.S. accident on  Three Mile Island , a
partial meltdown at a single reactor containing about one fifth
the amount of fuel at Fukushima.  “The things they have to do now are measured in years
rather than days and months,”  Gregory Jaczko , the former
chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, said in a
telephone interview. “What they have to do is very, very
challenging. It’s hard to put a grade on how well it’s going
because it’s so unprecedented.”  Some Progress  Still, little more than a year after the plant’s stricken
reactors were brought into a controlled state known as cold
shutdown,  progress  is visible.  A steel structure is being built to hold a crane for
removing Unit 4’s spent fuel and Unit 1 is covered in a vinyl-
coated shroud to help contain its radiation. Workers are
preparing to drive a steel wall into the seabed to prevent water
leaking from the plant into the ocean.  At Unit 4, which avoided a meltdown, steel braces have been
added to reinforce a storage pool that holds 1,533 spent fuel
rods five floors above the ground. By November workers will
start to lift out the assemblies, removing one more source of
risk.  “We have a lot of damaged fuel but we’ll make every effort
to maintain safety while we push on with the decommissioning
process,” site manage Takeshi Takahashi told reporters.  ‘New Nuclear Age’  A poster at Dai-Ichi’s command center reads: “This is not
the end. This is the beginning of a new nuclear age.”  Radiation  danger prevents workers from approaching a tangle
of metal and upturned cars surrounding Unit 3, which was ripped
apart by a hydrogen gas explosion after the tsunami. Remote
controlled cranes are used to pull steel and concrete rubble
from the top of the structure.  Dosimeters register a jump to 1.7 millisieverts during a
bus ride past the rubble, indicating a 60-minute exposure would
equal eight months of natural radiation. It will be years before
even robots can work inside the steel- and concrete-encased core,
according to Arnie Gundersen, chief engineer at Burlington,
Vermont-based energy consultant Fairewinds Associates Inc.  “Unit 3 is in a condition that none of us has ever
imagined,” he said by phone. “The entire structure is
inaccessible to human beings right now.”  Mountain of Waste  While clearing debris helps reduce radiation levels, it’s
also filling the plant with toxic waste for which the utility
has no ultimate disposal plan. More than 73,000 cubic meters of
contaminated concrete, 58,000 cubic meters of irradiated trees
and bushes, and 157,710 gallons of toxic sludge has built up,
according to the utility.  Then there’s the water.  Tanks of it now cover an area equal to 37 football fields
and the utility is clearing forest to make room for more. Some
400 tons of ground water each day seeps into reactor buildings
and is contaminated.  There are 480 cesium-clogged filters, each weighing 15 tons,
already warehoused in what the utility calls temporary storage.  “These filters will have to be stored for 300 years
because cesium has a 30-year half-life and the rule of thumb is
10 half-lives,” Fairewinds’ Gundersen said.  Tokyo Electric  has built a second plant it hopes will be
able to extract the more than 60 radio-nucleotides remaining in
the water after cesium is  removed . Assuming the equipment works
as intended, it will generate yet more contaminated filters.  ‘No Plans’  Still, even in the best case, Tokyo Electric acknowledged
the system won’t be able to strip out tritium, a radioactive
hydrogen isotope. Tritium contamination will make it difficult
to convince local fishing unions to agree to any release into
the ocean as no matter how diluted the actual water molecules
remain radioactive.  Tokyo Electric has “no plans” for what to do with the
water once its filtered, plant manager Takahashi said. It will
probably wind up back in tanks, spokesman Yoshikazu Nagai said,
standing in front of the new treatment facility.  Some 700 vehicles leaving the plant each day are scanned
for radiation. One in ten exceeds safety standards and must be
washed, adding a few more buckets to the deluge of toxic water.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  