-- ICL Gains on New Coalition Bets for Potash Sale: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-03-10T14:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/icl-gains-on-new-coalition-bets-for-potash-sale-tel-aviv-mover.html
Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  advanced the
most in more than a month on bets the composition of the new
government would make a sale of the harvester of minerals from
the Dead Sea to  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  more likely.  Shares of the Israeli company that makes fertilizers and
potash gained 2.3 percent, the most since Jan. 28, before adding
1.1 percent to 48 shekels at the close in Tel Aviv in 64 percent
of the three-month average daily volume. Controlling stakeholder
Israel Corp. advanced 1.4 percent and the benchmark TA-25 index
rose 0.9 percent, the most since Feb. 20.  A major stumbling block to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s forming a ruling coalition was overcome when Yair Lapid, leader of the second-place party Yesh Atid, agreed to
become the next finance minister, according to his parliament
colleague Yael German, who spoke to  Israel ’s Army Radio today.  “Under this coalition the chances that an acquisition by
Potash will be approved are higher,” Gilad Alper, a senior
analyst at Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd. in Ramat
Gan, Israel, said today by phone.  Netanyahu convened the current Cabinet for what he said was
probably its final meeting in  Jerusalem  today, as talks to form
a new ruling coalition advanced to their final stage this week.
Jewish Home leader Naftali Bennett, whose party won 12 seats, is
slated to serve as Minister of Industry, Trade and Labor, daily
Haaretz reported today, citing unidentified party officials.
There has been no official confirmation of the appointments.  The prime minister, whose Likud party emerged from January
elections with the most parliamentary seats, has until March 16
to form a new government.  Potash Corp., the world’s largest fertilizer producer, is
facing opposition from Israeli politicians and labor groups to
its plans to gain control of Tel Aviv-based Israel Chemicals,
the country’s second-largest company by market value. The
Canadian company is awaiting the outcome of talks on the
formation of a coalition government in Israel, Chief Financial
Officer Wayne Brownlee said in a presentation to a conference in
Hollywood,  Florida , last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  