-- Tiger Woods Becomes PGA Tour’s First Two-Time Winner in 2013
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-11T04:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/tiger-woods-wins-wgc-s-cadillac-championship-by-two-strokes.html
Tiger Woods  became the first two-
time winner on the U.S. PGA Tour this season after a putting tip
from title rival  Steve Stricker  helped him win the World Golf
Championships Cadillac Championship.  Woods held at least a share of the lead all four days in
finishing with a four-round total of 19-under-par 269, two shots
better than Stricker at the TPC Blue Monster at Doral in Miami,
 Florida .  Phil Mickelson ,  Graeme McDowell ,  Sergio Garcia  and  Adam Scott  tied for third at 14-under par.  This is the first time Woods has won two PGA Tour events in
a season prior to golf’s  Masters Tournament  since 2008, when he
claimed the last of his 14 major championships at the  U.S. Open .
He’s scheduled to play one more event -- the Arnold Palmer
Invitational on March 21-24 in  Orlando  -- ahead of the Masters.
The first major of the year, the Masters is held April 11-14 at
Augusta National Golf Club in  Georgia .  “That’s how I know I can play,” Woods, 37, said after
shooting a 1-under 71 yesterday. “To be able to bring it out a
couple times so far this year, and then able to close and get
the wins on top of that, that’s nice. Any time I can win prior
to Augusta, it always feels good.”  Woods’s win yesterday was his 17th in a World Golf
Championships event and his first since the 2009 Bridgestone
Invitational. The WGC Cadillac Championship is the fourth
tournament he’s won seven times and pushes his career PGA Tour
win total to 76, six behind  Sam Snead  for the most all-time.  Putting Help  The latest victory came with some aid from the runner-up,
as Stricker helped Woods with his alignment on the putting
greens a day before the tournament began. Woods ended the week
with a career-low 100 putts, improving on his previous best of
101 at the 2009 Arnold Palmer Invitational.  “We tend to help each other out with our putting,” Woods
said. “I know what he looks like when he putts his best and
vice versa. Once he put me in there where I felt comfortable, I
said, ‘Well, this is not too foreign. This is what I was a month
or so ago.’ I started rolling it and it felt really, really
good. I basically carried it through the entire week.”  Woods, the No. 2-ranked player in the Official World Golf
Ranking, has now won five tournaments in his past 19  PGA Tour 
starts. He’s won twice in four starts in the U.S. this year.  “He just seems in a better place mentally,” Stricker said
of Woods. “He seems to be having fun. Seems to have a lot of
confidence in himself and his game.”  Woods opened the tournament with a 6-under 66, making nine
first-round birdies to grab a share of the lead. He followed
with rounds of 65 and 67 to take a four-shot advantage over
McDowell into yesterday’s final round.  27 Birdies  Woods birdied two of his first four holes yesterday and
then added his 27th of the tournament at the 10th hole, one off
his record of 28 birdies at the 2007 Tour Championship and the
2006 Buick Open. He dropped two shots with a pair of bogeys over
the final eight holes, including one on the 18th.  Woods has now won 51 of 55 times in which he’s had at least
a share of the lead entering the final round.  World No. 1 Rory McIlroy, who started with a first-round
73, closed with a 7-under 65 to finish tied for eighth place at
10 under. He was one stroke over par through his first 46 holes
and played the final 26 in 11 under.  Also yesterday,  Scott Brown  recorded his first PGA Tour win
at the Puerto Rico Open. Brown, 29, birdied the final hole to
finish one shot ahead of Jordan Spieth and Fabian Gomez, who
held a one-stroke advantage before bogeying the final hole.  The PGA Tour now moves to Palm Harbor, Florida, for the
$5.5 million Tampa Bay Championship at the Innisbrook Resort’s
Copperhead course from March 14-17. The Arnold Palmer
Invitational will be played the following week at Bay Hill Club
& Lodge, followed by the Shell Houston Open, which is the last
PGA Tour event before the Masters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  