-- Investors Buy Homes as Aussie Rates Make Rentals Pay: Mortgages
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-03-11T06:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/investors-buy-homes-as-aussie-rates-make-rentals-pay-mortgages.html
Investors are about 70 percent of
visitors at broker Andrew Ienna’s open houses in Sydney’s
western suburbs as low borrowing costs lift returns on rentals,
and high prices and down payments scare off first-time buyers.  The value of  home-loan approvals  for investors rose 4
percent in December from a year ago in seasonally adjusted terms,
while mortgages for  owner-occupiers  fell 1.8 percent in the same
period, government data show.  “The gap between rental payments and mortgage payments is
tightening,” Ienna, director of  Laing+Simmons ’s franchise in
Blacktown, some 35 kilometers (22 miles) west of Sydney’s city
center, said in a telephone interview. “First-home buyers
struggle to get a deposit together, so there’s going to be more
of a rental crisis. That’s good for landlords.”  From Sydney’s inner suburbs to the mining towns of  Western
Australia , investors are taking advantage of the  lowest mortgage
costs  since 2009 to profit from a national vacancy rate that has
been below 2 percent for more than three years. The number of
suburbs where it’s cheaper to buy a home on a variable rate
mortgage than to rent rose to 494 in December from 388 two
months earlier, figures from researcher RP Data show.  “It gets most tempting for investors when  mortgage rates 
get below 5 percent,” said  Matthew Hassan , Sydney-based senior
economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “They’re getting close to
that level, and if you couple that with vacancy rates around 2
percent, especially if we get some renewed gains in rents and a
clear stabilization in prices, that’ll encourage more investors
into the market.”  Variable Rates  Australian banks lowered  discounted variable rates  by 105
basis points in the past year to 5.65 percent, the lowest since
November 2009, according to the  Reserve Bank  of Australia. About
85 percent of the mortgages granted in December were variable,
government data show. Three-year  fixed mortgage rates  plunged 85
basis points to an average 5.45 percent in the 12 months ended
Feb. 28, according to RBA figures, the lowest level since the
central bank began collecting data in 1990.  First-time buyers made up 14.9 percent of  borrowers  in
December, the lowest level since 2004, down from 15.8 percent in
November and 21.1 percent a year earlier, the figures show. The
decline followed changes by state governments late last year in
New South Wales, Queensland and  South Australia  replacing grants
aimed at first-home buyers with those targeting only new homes.  ‘Busy Banks’  “I’m seeing quite a bit of activity among investors taking
out loans, and it’s obvious the banks are busy,” said  Craig
Betalli , a property finance consultant based south of Sydney
with LJ Hooker Finance, a unit of real estate broker LJ Hooker
Corp. Renters are “becoming concerned about value as  interest
rates  have fallen.”  In the inner suburbs of  Melbourne , few renters are looking
to purchase as elevated prices freeze out first-time buyers,
according to John Piccolo, chief executive officer of  Woodards
Real Estate , which operates 11 offices within 20 kilometers of
the city center. Melbourne’s home and apartment prices declined
an average 2.9 percent in 2012 and fell 0.4 percent in January,
giving a median price of A$492,500 ($503,975), according to RP
Data.  Most purchasers are investors, drawn by both rising rents
and low vacancies and relatively higher returns compared with
alternative investments including cash and bonds, he said.
Melbourne’s vacancy rate, the highest in Australia at 3 percent
according to SQM Research, is still almost a third of the U.S.
rate of 8.7 percent, based on census bureau figures.  Vacancy Rates  Australia ’s national vacancy rate fell to 1.9 percent as of
Jan. 31 from 2.3 percent in December, figures from SQM Research
show. Excluding Decembers, when vacancies see seasonal spikes,
the rate has remained at or below 2 percent since September 2009.  The increase in investor demand is a change from previous
housing recoveries, which were led by first-home buyers, said
Tim Lawless, residential research director at Brisbane-based RP
Data. While first-time purchasers have stayed on the sidelines
this time as government incentives fade amid historically  high
prices , they’ll return as rents continue to climb, he said.  “The market tends to naturally balance, so as rental costs
get higher, we’ll see renters start looking at purchase
options,” Lawless said in an interview in Sydney. “If we can’t
afford to buy a detached house, let’s buy a unit. If we can’t
afford to buy in the inner ring, let’s try the middle suburbs.”  ‘Waning Control’  A shift is beginning in some parts of the country, with the
rate of rental growth slowing in 2012 compared with the previous
three years, according to SQM Research Pty.  Rents increased 3.2 percent for houses and 2.6 percent for
apartments across Australia’s capital cities in 2012, according
to RP Data.  “Although landlords continue to wield control of the
rental market, this control is waning,” according to SQM.
“This is most likely attributed to the latest recovery in the
housing market, prompting renters to exit the rental market in
favor of purchasing property.”  Home prices  across major cities rose 1.2 percent in January
and 0.3 percent in February, following a 0.4 percent decline in
2012 and a 3.8 percent drop in 2012, according to RP Data.  In Sydney, the average house listed for sale took 50 days
to sell and was discounted by an average 6.6 percent, according
to RP Data figures for the week to March 10. Apartments in the
city took 38 days to sell and at a 4.9 percent discount, the
data showed.  Payments on a 30-year home loan with a 10 percent deposit
and a 5.65 percent variable rate were lower in 494 suburbs out
of a total 5,348 as of Dec. 31 when borrowers paid down both the
principal and interest, according to RP Data. On interest-only
loans, the number rose to 2,436 suburbs, compared with 1,975 in
October, when the rate was 5.9 percent, RP Data said.  Improved Affordability  The report compared monthly mortgage costs and rents, and
didn’t consider acquisition and property maintenance costs.  “With both dwelling values and mortgage interest rates now
lower, the improvements to housing affordability have been
substantial,” RP Data said in the report. “The combination of
lower dwelling values and higher rental rates has pushed rental
yields higher, improving the gross yield for property
investors.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  is aiming to rebalance the two-
speed economy, where mining regions in the north and west thrive
while manufacturers, builders and retailers in the south and
east struggle. The central bank last month reduced its economic
growth and inflation forecasts as investment outside the  mining
industry  remains elusive, the labor market softens and the high
local currency contains prices.  Jobless Rate  In its quarterly statement released Feb. 8, the RBA
predicted “below trend” 2013 growth of about 2.5 percent,
compared with around 2.75 percent forecast in November. Consumer
prices will rise 3 percent in the year to June 2013, compared
with the 3.25 percent increase it had forecast three months
earlier, the central bank said then.  A Feb. 7 report showed the  unemployment rate  held steady at
5.4 percent in January as hiring in resource-rich Queensland
state offset a decline in jobs in the manufacturing hub of
Victoria.  “During periods of higher unemployment or uncertainty,
people get nervous and wait,” said John McGrath, chief
executive officer of Sydney-based McGrath Estate Agents. “But
you have to live somewhere, so you have to rent, so prices have
come back, but rentals have gone up at the same time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  