-- Iran Sanctions to Be Eased If Enrichment Is Limited: ISNA
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2013-03-10T10:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/iran-sanctions-to-be-eased-if-enrichment-is-limited-isna.html
World powers have offered to ease
economic sanctions on  Iran  if it limits the enriched uranium at
its disposal within six months, state-run  Iranian Students News
Agency  reported, citing an unidentified Iranian diplomat.  In a proposal presented at nuclear talks last month,
international negotiators asked Iran to stop producing uranium
enriched to 20 percent if it has enough to fuel the Tehran
research reactor, said the official, who is knowledgeable about
the content of the talks, according to ISNA’s report today.  If Tehran complies with the negotiators’ demands, world
powers initially would lift sanctions on gold, precious metals
and petrochemicals, the diplomat was cited as telling ISNA.
Banking sanctions would be eased later, and bans on repairing
airplanes and supplying spare aircraft parts would be lifted,
the diplomat was cited as saying.  Iran is struggling under international sanctions that have
hurt growth and contributed to an inflation rate nearing 30
percent. World powers imposed the sanctions amid concern that
uranium enriched to 20 percent could be turned into weapons
grade within months.  If the stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium exceeds the
reactor’s needs, Iran would ship the surplus to a third country,
under the  International Atomic Energy Agency ’s supervision, the
diplomat was cited as telling ISNA. The excess material would
stay there for six months while Iran and the agency worked to
reach an agreement, the official said.  Metal Plates  Iran would be able to keep surplus medium-enriched uranium
if it transformed the material into metal plates, the diplomat
was cited as saying. Turning the uranium into metal renders it
more difficult to further enrich into weapons-grade material.  Earlier this month, Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar
Salehi  told Austria’s Wiener Zeitung newspaper that his country
wanted to reduce its stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium.  Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
says its nuclear program is purely civilian and intended for
producing electricity and for medical research. The U.S. and its
allies say  Iran’s nuclear program  may have a military intent.
The Tehran research reactor produces medical isotopes for cancer
treatment and operates using metal plates constructed with 20
percent-enriched uranium.  Iranian officials concluded two days of talks with  China ,
 Germany ,  France ,  Russia , the U.K. and U.S. on Feb. 27. No
diplomatic breakthrough was announced and the details of the
international proposal were not released. The two sides said the
talks were on the right track and agreed to a technical meeting
next week and another round of political talks on April 5-6 in
Almaty,  Kazakhstan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  