-- Iran’s Salehi Says West Shows Good Faith on Nuclear Talks
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-03-10T15:24:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/iran-s-salehi-sees-nuclear-negotiations-with-west-as-improving.html
Prospects for resolving the
conflict over  Iran ’s nuclear program have improved following
signs of “good faith” from Western powers, Iranian Foreign
Minister Ali Akbar Salehi said.  For the first time during any of the international nuclear
talks, “we witnessed signals that the other side is acting in
good faith,” Salehi told a news conference in Tehran today,
referring to discussions last month in Almaty, Kazakhstan. “We
hope they continue to do so.”  The West wants “to deal with Iran; they are not after
confrontation,” Salehi said in comments translated from Farsi
and broadcast by state-run Press TV. Over time, Western nations
have understood that Iran “is not a country that gives in to
their illogical demands,” he said.  Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
says its atomic program is purely civilian and intended for
electricity production and medical research. The U.S. and its
allies say Iran’s nuclear program may have a military intent and
have imposed financial, trade and energy sanctions to try to
force the government in Tehran to curb its activities.  Iranian delegates met with those from  China ,  Germany ,
 France ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. in Kazakhstan Feb. 26 and
27. No diplomatic breakthrough was announced and the details of
an international proposal to Iran weren’t released. The two
sides are scheduled to meet March 18 in Istanbul and on April
5-6 in Almaty.  Easing Sanctions  The state-run  Iranian Students News Agency  today cited an
unidentified Iranian diplomat as saying the world powers have
offered to ease economic sanctions on Iran if it limits the
enriched uranium in its possession within six months.  International negotiators asked Iran to stop producing
uranium enriched to 20 percent if it has enough to fuel a Tehran
research reactor, said the official, who according to ISNA is
knowledgeable about the content of the talks. The reactor
produces medical isotopes for cancer treatment and operates
using metal plates constructed with uranium enriched to a 20
percent concentration.  If Tehran complies with the negotiators’ demands, then
world powers initially would lift sanctions on gold, precious
metals and petrochemicals, the diplomat was cited as telling
ISNA. Banking sanctions would be eased later, and bans on
repairing airplanes and supplying aircraft parts also would be
lifted, the diplomat was cited as saying.  Weapons Concern  Iran is struggling as the sanctions have hurt growth and
contributed to an inflation rate nearing 30 percent. The
sanctions were imposed over concern that uranium enriched to 20
percent could be turned into weapons-grade material within
months.  If the stockpile of 20 percent enriched uranium exceeds the
Tehran reactor’s needs, Iran would ship the surplus to a third
country, under the International Atomic Energy Agency’s
supervision, for six months, the diplomat was cited as telling
ISNA.  Iran would be able to keep surplus medium-enriched uranium
if it transformed the material into metal plates, the diplomat
was cited as saying. Turning the uranium into metal renders it
more difficult to further enrich it into weapons-grade material.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  