-- Israel’s Benchmark TA-25 Gains on Bets Ruling Coalition Near
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-03-10T15:15:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/israel-s-benchmark-ta-25-gains-on-bets-government-coalition-near.html
Israel ’s  TA-25 benchmark index 
rallied to the highest in almost three weeks as concerns over
the composition of the government faded on reports Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was close to forming a coalition.  The  index  gained 0.9% percent to 1,237.28, the highest
level since Feb. 20, at the close in Tel Aviv.  Mellanox
Technologies Ltd. (MLNX)  and  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  led the gains. The
index has rallied 4.4 percent this year compared with a 6.7
percent increase in the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The yield on the
government’s 4.25 percent bonds maturing March 2023 jumped six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, the most since Jan. 29,
to 3.99 percent.  “The market is optimistic following nearly two months of
uncertainty since the elections about what form the government
would take,” Zach Herzog, head of international sales at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone today.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  convened the current
Cabinet for what he said was probably its final meeting in
Jerusalem today, as talks to form a new ruling coalition
advanced to their final stage this week. Netanyahu, whose Likud
party emerged from January elections with the most parliamentary
seats, has until March 16 to form a new government.  A major stumbling block to forming a ruling coalition was
overcome when Yair Lapid, leader of the second-place party Yesh
Atid, agreed to become the next finance minister, according to
his parliament compatriot Yael German, who spoke to Israel’s
Army Radio today. Jewish Home leader Naftali Bennett, whose
party won 12 seats, is slated to serve as Minister of Industry,
Trade and Labor, daily Haaretz reported today, citing
unidentified party officials. There has been no official
confirmation of the appointments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  