-- Japan May Revive Carbon Trading Discussion After Election
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-03-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/japan-may-revive-carbon-trading-discussion-after-election.html
The Japanese government may revive
discussions about a carbon market that would reduce pollution
levels after elections for the Upper House of parliament due in
July, a government adviser said.  Takashi Hongo, a senior fellow at Mitsui Global Strategic
Studies Institute and a delegate for  Japan  at United Nations
climate talks, said ministers are likely to consider building a
market for carbon dioxide emissions credits later this year.  The market would cap emissions from utilities and industry
and allow companies to trade the rights to pollute, mirroring
markets established in  Europe  and  New Zealand . Hongo said that
structure would be more effective in limiting fossil fuels than
a tax, since it would give companies the flexibility on how they
would meet obligations.  “The Japanese government has the option to increase the
tax, but sooner or later the industry will oppose that,” Hongo
said in an interview at his office in Tokyo. “Taxes have some
limitations. Taxes would be recognized as general government
revenue. If the tax went up, it might not be devoted to the
environment. It could go to reduce the deficit.”  In December 2010, Japan took a step back from plans to
start carbon trading in 2013 as the industry opposed emission-
trading rules that would add to costs and reduce competitiveness
against countries such as India and  China  not bound by similar
restrictions.  Economic Stimulation  Hongo, a former official with  Japan Bank for International
Cooperation , said that for now Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
government is focused on stimulating the economy and
consolidating its grip on power.  Abe’s Liberal  Democratic Party  retook power in December
from the Democratic Party of Japan. The LDP has control of the
lower house of the Diet but the party and its junior coalition
partner are 20 seats short of a majority in the 242-seat upper
house. Half the members of the upper house are up for election
in July.  The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry also has put
off until the end of the year putting together its Basic Energy
Plan. Japan’s energy policies will feed into the UN’s annual
round of talks on how to limit global warming, which happen this
year in Warsaw.  Carbon Trading  “Now is not the time to talk about the environment,”
Hongo said. “Now is the time to talk about growth. After the
Upper House election, more initiatives to discuss our long term
energy structure are possible.”  Hongo, who advised on the design of the UN Clean
Development Mechanism, has long been a proponent of carbon
trading and said he sees a “large global market” as an
important tool for limiting emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in  Tokyo  at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  