-- John Byrne, Geico CEO Buffett Cited for ‘Brilliance,’ Dies at 80
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-03-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/john-byrne-geico-ceo-buffett-cited-for-brilliance-dies-at-80.html
John J. Byrne, whose turnaround of
auto insurer Geico Corp. led billionaire  Warren Buffett  to buy
the company and call him “the Babe Ruth of insurance,” has
died. He was 80.  Byrne died on March 7 at his home in Etna,  New Hampshire ,
according to Robert E. Snyder, a family spokesman. The cause was
prostate cancer.  In his  letter  to Berkshire shareholders reviewing 1980,
Buffett credited Byrne’s “managerial brilliance” with
resuscitating Geico after his arrival in 1976.  “There aren’t many Jack Byrnes in the managerial world, or
Geicos in the business world,” Buffett wrote. “What could be
better than buying into a partnership with both of them?”  At the time of the letter, Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  owned about one-third of Geico. Buffett bought the
remaining two-thirds in 1996 for about $2.3 billion and made it
a unit of Berkshire. By then, Byrne had left Geico for  White
Mountains Insurance Group (WTM)  Ltd.  “Jack’s performance in reviving Geico from near-bankruptcy
was truly extraordinary, and his work resulted in enormous gains
for Berkshire,” Buffett wrote in his  letter  summarizing 1985,
noting Byrne’s departure. “We owe him a great deal for that.”  Byrne’s tough-love tenure at Geico entered the annals of
corporate turnarounds.  He arrived in 1976 as president and chairman of Geico -- an
acronym for Government Employees Insurance Co. -- after working
as executive vice president at the Travelers Corp. Geico was
near bankruptcy, having posted a net loss of $126 million in
1975, according to a 1981 article in Forbes magazine.  Cutting Costs  Byrne  closed about 100 offices, cut the workforce to about
4,000 from 7,000, quit the highly regulated auto-insurance
markets of  New Jersey  and  Massachusetts  and raised rates by as
much as 40 percent, Forbes said. He also reached a reinsurance
agreement with competitors, potentially saving the industry, and
sold $75 million in preferred stock to restore the company’s
capital, Forbes said.  By 1980 the company was back to health, with $44 million in
net operating income in the first nine months, Forbes said.  Buffett, who had bought his  first Geico shares  in 1951 as a
business student at  Columbia University  in  New York , was among
the buyers of the preferred stock that was part of Byrne’s
rescue plan.  Buffett, attracted to Geico’s depressed share price, had
arranged to meet Byrne soon after he took over as CEO.  Meeting Buffett  “We talked to maybe 2, 3 a.m.,” Byrne said of the
meeting, held at the home of Washington Post publisher Katharine
Graham, according to  Roger Lowenstein ’s “Buffett: The Making of
an American Capitalist” (1995). “He wanted to know the things
I would do. What did I think of our ability to survive?”  When the business day dawned a few hours later, Buffett
called his broker and bought 500,000 shares of Geico at 2 1/8
and left a standing order for shares in the “multimillions,”
Lowenstein wrote. At the Washington Post board meeting that drew
him to town, Buffett announced, “I’ve just invested in
something that might go under. I could lose the entire
investment next week.”  Instead, Geico’s share price almost quadrupled within six
months, to 8 1/8, and Buffett became the controlling investor
over the next few years, Lowenstein wrote. By 1981, Buffett was
hailing Byrne as the “ Babe Ruth  of insurance,” according to
Forbes.  Father’s Business  Byrne, with advice from Buffett, hired  Louis Simpson  as
Geico’s chief investment officer in 1979. Simpson rose to
president and CEO of Geico’s capital operations from 1993 until
2011 and was once identified by Buffett as a candidate to
succeed him in an emergency to oversee all of Berkshire’s
investments.  John Joseph Byrne was born on July 11, 1932, in Paterson,
New Jersey, to John J. Byrne and Winifred Mohr Byrne. As a
teenager, he worked at his father’s insurance agency in
Wildwood, New Jersey, according to a  death notice  on the website
of Rand-Wilson Funeral Home in Hanover, New Hampshire.  He graduated from  Rutgers University  in New Jersey in 1954
and earned a graduate degree in mathematics from the  University
of Michigan . He began his career as an actuary at Lincoln
National Life Insurance Co.  After Geico, Byrne led the Fireman’s Fund Insurance Co.
until its acquisition in 1991 by Allianz AG Holding of  Germany ,
now  Allianz SE. (ALV)  He retained control of the fund’s holding
company, which he renamed Fund American Enterprises Inc. Today
it is White Mountains Insurance Group.  Byrne served on the Board of Overseers of the  Tuck School 
of Business at  Dartmouth College  in Hanover, which his three
sons -- John, Mark and Patrick -- attended, according to the
death notice.  He served on the board of Internet retailer Overstock.com
Inc., the company his son Patrick led as CEO. The two clashed at
one point over Patrick Byrne’s public campaign against short
selling.  Besides his sons, Byrne’s survivors include his wife,
Dorothy; seven grandchildren; and his brother, James Byrne,
according to the funeral home.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  