-- Kenyatta Victory Seen as Green Light for Kenyan Markets
-- B y   B r y s o n   H u l l
-- 2013-03-11T15:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/kenyatta-victory-seen-as-green-light-for-kenyan-markets.html
The peaceful election of Uhuru Kenyatta as Kenya’s president boosted the shilling, stocks and
bonds as investors shrugged off his impending trial at the
 International Criminal Court  and a legal challenge to his win.  The Nairobi Securities Exchange’s All-Share Index surged
for a ninth day, rising 3.2 percent to the highest level since
June 23, 2009, when Bloomberg began tracking the data. Thirty-
eight of the bourse’s 61 members gained while five fell, and the
top 10 gainers advanced an average of 8.5 percent. The shilling
strengthened 0.9 percent to 85.45 per dollar by 6:45 p.m. in
Nairobi, the capital, its strongest since Nov. 16.  The son of Kenya’s first president, Jomo Kenyatta, took
50.07 percent of ballots cast on March 4, enough to avoid a
runoff, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission
said. Outgoing Prime Minister  Raila Odinga , 68, whose father was
the elder Kenyatta’s vice president, got 43.3 percent and said
he would ask the  Supreme Court  to overturn the result.  “Investors will have been encouraged by the speech
Kenyatta made and the pledge to continue cooperation with the
international community, a pointed reference to the ICC,”  Razia Khan , head of African economic research at Standard Chartered
Plc, said by phone from  London  yesterday. “The overwhelming
factor is that elections went peacefully and even with Raila
contesting the results and expressing his faith in the courts,
that is really the reassurance investors needed.”  Raila Rejects  Odinga’s rejection of results in the last elections in 2007
triggered violence that led to the death of more than 1,100
people and forced another 350,000 to flee their homes. Economic
growth slowed by two thirds to 1.5 percent in 2008 and the
shilling fell 18 percent against the dollar that year.  Kenya, the regional hub for companies including Google
Inc.,  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Visa Inc. (V)  and  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , is
attracting growing interest from foreign investors, who made
half of all stock trades on the Nairobi Securities Exchange last
year, compared with 10 percent five years ago. The shilling has
strengthened 2.6 percent against the dollar since falling to an
intraday low of 88.05 on Feb. 6, its weakest level this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kenya’s economy may expand by as much as 6 percent this
year, from an estimated 5 percent in 2012, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The Nairobi All Share Index gained
in the eight sessions through March 8, bringing its advance this
year to 22 percent and making it sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-
best performer after  Ghana .  Yields Fall  “The only thing that has changed between this week and
last week is that political uncertainty has been sorted out,”
Francis Mwangi, head of research at Nairobi-based Standard
Investment Bank Ltd., said by phone today. “Barring anything
significant happening in the political scene, the outlook
remains positive because companies continue to announce their
earnings.”  Yields on the  15-year benchmark bond  fell one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.36 percent today  “The yields were up before elections due to uncertainty,”
Fred Moturi, a fixed-income trader at Sterling Capital Ltd.,
said by phone from Nairobi. “Calmness is returning and lowering
the  risk premium  though the planned petition on the presidential
election has risk lingering.”  Court Cases  Kenyatta, 51, will become the second sitting president,
after  Sudan ’s Umar al-Bashir, to face trial at the Hague-based
ICC. He and Vice President-Elect  William Ruto  are accused of
organizing and financing militias to carry out murders after
Odinga’s challenge to the 2007 presidential election result
erupted into two months of ethnic and political violence. Both
men say they will fight for their innocence at the court.  The presidential inauguration is scheduled for March 26,
depending on when the seven-judge Supreme Court hears the
petition Odinga said he will file and makes its decision.  Yields may rise when the Treasury makes its domestic-
borrowing requirement known, said Solomon Alubala, head of
trading at  National Bank of Kenya Ltd.   “What people will then be looking at is how much the new
government will be looking for to fund the county governments,”
he said.  Kenya ’s constitution, approved in 2010, set up a system of
government for the nation’s 47 counties as part of a plan to
devolve power. The first officeholders for the counties were
also elected on March 4.  Volatility Chances  The peaceful passage of the polls “doesn’t mean all
uncertainty goes away,” Khan said. Kenyatta’s trial in July is
something investors will have to consider, she said.  “I don’t expect it to be a factor, but there will be a
chance of volatility,” she said.  Kenyatta, a former finance minister and one of Kenya’s
richest men according to Forbes magazine, campaigned on a
promise to boost economic growth to between 7 percent and 10
percent a year by 2015 to help create a million jobs annually.
He plans to ensure a crude oil pipeline is built from
neighboring  South Sudan  to Kenya’s coast, where a refinery will
be built.  He also promised to build a railway from the Mombasa port
to Malaba on the Ugandan border and more than double paved roads
to 24,000 kilometers (14,900 miles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryson Hull in Nairobi at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  