-- Kidnapped Foreign Nationals Killed in Nigeria, Diplomats Say
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-03-10T17:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/kidnapped-foreign-nationals-killed-in-nigeria-diplomats-say.html
A group of foreign nationals
kidnapped by an Islamist group in northern  Nigeria  last month
have been killed, governments in  Italy ,  Greece  and the U.K.
said.  Three Lebanese, including a woman, were seized along with a
Filipino, a Greek, an Italian and a Briton in a Feb. 16 attack
on a residential compound of Setraco Nigeria Ltd., a
construction company, in Bauchi state, according to the Nigerian
authorities. A local security guard was killed in the attack.  Today, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said the
British hostage “is likely to have been killed at the hand of
his captors, along with six other foreign nationals who we
believe were also tragically murdered.” In separate statements,
the Greek and Italian governments said their nationals had been
killed.  The kidnappings were claimed by Jama’atu Ansarul Muslimina
Fi Biladissudan, or “Group of Supporters of Muslims in the Land
of The Blacks,” which said it carried out the Feb. 16 attack in
response to “the transgressions and atrocities done to the
religion of Allah” by European nations in countries such as
Mali and  Afghanistan .  A  statement  claimed to be from the group on the Islamist
Sinam al-Islam website yesterday said the hostages were killed
after British forces deployed planes and soldiers to release
them in a joint military operation with the Nigerian
authorities.  “It’s an atrocious act of terrorism, against which the
Italian government expresses its firmest condemnation, and which
has no explanation, if not that of barbarous and blind
violence,” the Foreign Ministry in  Rome  said in a statement.  Family Informed  Hague said the killings were “an act of cold-blooded
murder, which I condemn in the strongest terms.”  Greece’s foreign ministry said in a statement that
authorities had already informed its victim’s family.  “Nobody has reported to us up till this moment of the
situation of the seven foreigners,” Bauchi state police
commissioner Mohammed Ladan said today by phone.  Nigerian Police spokesman Frank Mba, army spokesman Ibrahim
Attahiru and Defense Ministry spokesman Colonel Mohammed Yerima
didn’t answer two calls each to their mobile phones requesting
comment. Presidential spokesman Reuben Abati’s mobile phone was
switched off when contacted by  Bloomberg News .  The government of  Africa ’s top oil producer has been
battling Boko Haram, another militant Islamist group, which has
carried out gun and bomb attacks in the north and killed
hundreds of people since 2009. Nigeria, Africa’s most populous
country with more than 160 million people, is roughly split
between the largely Muslim north and the predominantly Christian
south.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  