-- North Korea Threatens South’s Defense Minister Nominee
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-03-11T01:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/n-korea-threatens-to-target-south-s-defense-minister-nominee.html
North Korea  threatened to target
the South Korean defense minister nominee after he vowed to
respond to attack by the North by toppling the regime.  A retired general and former deputy commander of the U.S.-
South  Korea  Combined Forces, Kim Byung Kwan will be the “first
target in the great war for national reunification” should he
continue his criticisms, a spokesman for the North Korea-based
Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of Korea said in a
statement carried by the Korean Central News Agency March 9.  Kim said March 8 that South Korea will respond to an
artillery attack from North Korea by toppling the regime, Yonhap
News reported, citing comments he made during his parliamentary
confirmation hearing.  South Korea ’s won fell 0.9% to 1,100.35
against the dollar as of 9:57 a.m. Seoul time, the biggest
intraday decline since January 28.  The threats by North Korea follow the unanimous approval of
tougher sanctions by the  United Nations Security Council  against
the totalitarian state for its nuclear detonation last month.
Tension on the peninsula escalated after North Korea said in the
past week that it will scrap the 1953 armistice that ended the
 Korean War  and cancel a cross-border hot line.  South Korean and U.S. military forces will hold the annual
Key Resolve maneuvers from today until March 21. South Korea
added two groups and three individuals to its North Korea
sanctions list, barring them from financial transactions with
South Korean entities, the  finance ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Armed Forces  North Korea said units of its armed forces rallied in three
provinces March 9, according to a statement carried by KCNA.
Armed forces held rallies in two provinces yesterday, another
KCNA statement said. Regional heads of the Workers’ Party of
Korea said it is the “final conclusion and will” of North
Korea to “settle accounts with the U.S.,” according to the
statement.  The expanded UN measures target “illicit” actions by
North Korean diplomats and bulk transfers of cash. The sanctions
also restrict North Korea’s ability to sell military technology
as a way of raising cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  