-- Netanyahu’s Coalition Takes Shape With Lapid, Bennett Deals
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-03-10T15:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/netanyahu-holds-last-cabinet-meeting-as-coalition-takes-shape.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  convened the current Cabinet for what he called its
final meeting in  Jerusalem  today as talks to form a new ruling
coalition advanced to their final stage.  A major stumbling block to forming a ruling coalition was
overcome when Yair Lapid, leader of the second-biggest party,
Yesh Atid, agreed to become the next finance minister.  “It’s no secret he was interested in the foreign ministry,
I don’t deny that, but he got the  finance ministry ,” Yesh Atid
parliament member Yael German told Army Radio today.
Disagreements over remaining Cabinet posts are expected to be
resolved within the next few days, German said.  Stocks rose on reports of an impending coalition deal.
Netanyahu, whose Likud party emerged from January elections with
the most parliamentary seats, has until March 16 to form a new
government ahead of a scheduled visit by U.S. President  Barack Obama  later this month.  At today’s weekly Cabinet meeting, he suggested coalition
talks had reached gone into a last stretch.  “Apparently, this will be this Cabinet’s last meeting,”
Netanyahu told his government in Jerusalem, according to a text
message from his office. The next government will have to focus
on reducing  Israel ’s cost of living, address the military draft
exemptions for ultra-Orthodox Jews that many in Israel oppose,
and contend with regional security threats, he said.  TA-25 Index  The TA-25 index gained 0.9 percent in  Tel Aviv  trading
today at 4:28 p.m.  “The market is optimistic following nearly two months of
uncertainty since the elections about what form the government
would take,” Zach Herzog, head of international sales at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone today.  Final coalition agreements will probably be reached by
Tuesday, former foreign minister Avigdor Liberman said today.
“It may take one more day after that to formulate all of the
necessary understandings,” Liberman said in comments broadcast
on  Army Radio .  Netanyahu has said he is holding the foreign ministry post
forLiberman, pending the outcome of legal proceedings against
the leader of the Yisrael Beitenu faction. Liberman resigned as
foreign minister in December after being indicted on fraud and
breach of trust charges. He remains in parliament and has been
involved in the coalition talks.  Likud Party  Netanyahu’s Likud party, running jointly in Jan. 22
elections with Yisrael Beitenu, won 31 seats in Israel’s 120-
seat parliament, the Knesset, trailed by Yesh Atid with 19.  The third biggest party in the next government will be the
Jewish Home faction, which won 12 seats. Jewish Home leader
Naftali Bennett is slated to serve as minister of industry,
trade and labor, Haaretz  said  today, citing unidentified party
officials.  Yesh Atid, which campaigned primarily as a champion of
middle-class concerns, favors advancing peace talks with the
Palestinians toward a two-state solution. Jewish Homes opposes
any Palestinian state and supports increasing West Bank
settlements.  Netanyahu has also signed a coalition agreement with the
six-seat Hatenuah faction, whose leader, former foreign minister
 Tzipi Livni , will be appointed justice minister.  Sitting in opposition to the government will be two ultra-
Orthodox parties, Shas and United Torah Judaism, which would not
agree to demands to limit draft exemptions for young men
studying in religious seminaries. It will be the first time in a
decade that the ultra-Orthodox parties are not included in the
coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  