-- To Understand Finance, Embrace Complexity
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-03-10T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/to-understand-finance-embrace-complexity.html
A highly unusual collaboration
between economists and scientists offers an important insight
for those who want to fix the world’s crisis-prone financial
system: There’s no simple way to understand a complex network.  This month’s  issue  of the research journal Nature Physics
features a handful of papers in which physicists, other natural
scientists and leading experts in economics and finance --
including prominent banking regulators and Nobel Prize-winning
economist Joseph Stiglitz -- put their minds together to figure
out finance. What the scientists bring to the table is
experience in studying networks, bewildering tangles of
interlinked and interdependent things such as an ecological food
web or the Internet.  Take a look at any diagram showing the interconnections
among the world’s banks and other financial institutions --
links established through ordinary loans, but far more
extensively through financial derivatives -- and what you see
will be very complex. We barely understand how such complexity
changes the way networks operate. What we do know suggests we
should worry when there’s too much of it.  Fifty years ago, ecologists interested in the stability of
food webs at first mistakenly concluded that more complexity --
more species and a greater density of links among them -- would
tend to make an ecosystem more stable. This turned out to be
wrong. Later work by noted ecologist Robert May demonstrated
that while healthy ecological networks are rich and diverse, too
much complexity tends to make them unstable and prone to
collapse. Loosely speaking, networks with too much complexity
can go wrong in too many ways.  Explosive Complexity  Sound familiar? The complexity of the financial system
exploded over the past few decades, primarily through the
proliferation of derivatives of all kinds. Then the system
itself blew up. What the papers in Nature Physics argue is that
any really deep understanding must focus on the detailed pattern
of links among institutions, or the network “topology.” (Full
disclosure: I write a monthly column for Nature Physics.)  I’ve touched on networks several times in earlier Bloomberg
View columns. It’s worth emphasizing again how the most basic
insights emerging from this new line of work run contrary to
received wisdom from economics. For example, banks that create
and sell derivatives often argue that their proliferation is
beneficial, as it makes markets more “complete,” meaning that it
brings us closer to a world in which essentially any kind of
trade or bet can be undertaken at any time. Standard financial
theory assumes that such completeness is associated with greater
financial stability, as it allows anyone with information to
bring it into the marketplace. How can that be bad?  Well, achieving completeness entails a vast increase in
complexity, with consequences that traditional finance models
fail to capture. These models suppose that the actions of
individuals or firms in the market are too small to affect its
behavior in any serious way, much as we used to think that our
fishing the oceans would have minimal influence on the abundance
of fish. But a  network study  from several years ago demonstrated
that the seemingly tiny influence that trading has on the market
becomes increasingly significant as the number and complexity of
financial instruments increases. The generic result is violent
market fluctuations and instability. Financial institutions
still find ways to profit by creating and selling new
derivatives, even if these deliver no benefits to the market and
actually drive the system toward trouble. (See my  blog  for
further details.)  Hiding Risks  Complexity also helps financial institutions hide the risks
they create. Despite the advertising of the International Swaps
and Derivatives Association and others who create and sell
derivatives, these products are only sometimes used for hedging
and much more frequently for speculation. In the latter case,
they are exceedingly useful in obscuring information that would
be crucial to the proper judgment of values and risks. Consider
the derivatives that helped Italy’s Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA hide hundreds of millions of dollars in losses as it
sought a taxpayer bailout. Anyone making deals with a bank
enmeshed in a largely invisible web of contracts with far-flung
counterparties does so with a very incomplete view of the risks
involved.  The basic complexity of the market allows for the
completion of deals that would never get signed in a world of
full transparency and understanding. Unfortunately, traditional
financial theory -- which assumes that individual actors have
perfect knowledge and make only rational decisions -- ignores
this point, blinding itself to a huge source of systemic risk.  Any science has to begin with basic insights first,
learning which details really matter and which may not. The
network perspective is still some way from making confident
proclamations of recipes for specific regulations on
derivatives, banking transparency and so on. But some of its
insights already eclipse those of traditional financial
economics, and any work on crafting better regulations should
certainly take these insights into account.  I’m a physicist, so it should come as no surprise that I
like this kind of stuff. That said, leading economists are
beginning to pay attention, too. Even more importantly, so are
regulators. Economists are often most concerned with doing work
that supports their existing theories, whereas regulators are
concerned with finding anything that is useful. As an author of
several of the Nature Physics papers told me, their ideas have
already been adopted and put into use by several central bankers
who clearly see this work as valuable.  The ideas aren’t terribly profound: The networks approach
simply acknowledges that the details of how financial systems
are wired up, of who is linked to whom, play a crucial role in
financial stability. The linkages determine how shocks travel
through any market and strongly influence who has access to what
information.  It’s hard to imagine that any system of regulation will be
effective without taking this kind of detailed information into
account. It would be almost miraculous. We should stop hoping
for miracles and undertake the hard work required to really
understand the financial system and to build networks that are
both stable and socially useful.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 