-- Obama Budgets Jokes for Cabinet as Jindal Steals Laughs
-- B y   M a r k   S i l v a
-- 2013-03-11T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/obama-budgets-jokes-for-cabinet-as-jindal-steals-laughs.html
President  Barack Obama , wearing
white tie and tails at Washington’s premiere show of political
satire, made light of budget cuts consuming the capital.  “Because of sequester, they cut my tails,” Obama said at
the head table of the Gridiron Club’s spring dinner March 9,
opening with an allusion to the budget sequestration he has
ordered. “My joke writers have been placed on furlough.”  This didn’t stop the president from making fun of his new
Treasury secretary, Jacob Lew, who replaced Timothy Geithner.  “Jack is so low-key, he makes Tim Geithner look like Tom Cruise,” the president said.  It also didn’t stop him from making fun of Secretary of
State John Kerry, who replaced Hillary Clinton.  “Let’s face it, Hillary is a tough act to follow,” Obama
said, adding of Kerry: “Frankly, though, I think it’s time for
him to stop showing up for work in pant suits.”  And it certainly left no protection for Vice President Joe Biden in Obama’s comedic script for a room full of journalists
and government leaders attending the annual  Washington  ritual.  “His age is an issue,” Obama said of Biden, a potential
candidate for higher office. “I had to take Joe aside and say,
‘Joe, let’s face it, you are way too young to be the Pope.’”  Yet, judging from the laughter in the Renaissance Hotel
ballroom, the night belonged to Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal,
a Republican who was widely ridiculed for a lackluster televised
response to Obama’s first State of the Union address to Congress
and the nation as president in 2009.  Jindal thanked the Gridiron Club for offering him this
opportunity “to try to be funny on purpose.”  Jindal’s Night  “They say this is a place where you can come and tell
jokes about the president, poke fun at yourself, set political
ambition aside and just generally say anything you want,”
Jindal, a supporter of Republican  Mitt Romney ’s 2012 campaign
for president, said in his stand-up routine -- “kind of like
the Romney campaign.”  “Now some people have asked me if I intend to run for
president in 2016,” said Jindal, who went on to name the first
of the presidential nominating contests. “I have no plans to
run. I’ve made that clear over and over again,” he said -- “in
 Iowa , New Hampshire and South Carolina.”  “I mean, come on, what chance does a skinny guy with a
dark complexion and a funny name have?” asked Jindal, who was
born of Indian immigrants and stood two seats from Obama, the
nation’s first African-American president, as he delivered his
monologue.  Republican’s Targets  “The truth is, I am too skinny to run. At least that’s
what my friend, Chris Christie, keeps telling me,” Jindal said
of the heavyset New Jersey governor.  “Speaking of brown, I was hoping to see my good friend,
John Boehner, here tonight,” Jindal said of the U.S. House
speaker from  Ohio . “We actually go to the same tanning salon.”  Jindal paused to take a sip of water, explaining he was
“getting really dry up here” -- with a sight gag making fun of
a pause for water that Republican Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida 
took in this year’s response to the  State of the Union .  Jindal even poked fun at the name of the chairman of the
Republican National Committee, Reince Priebus: “At least I had
the foresight at the age of four to change my name to Bobby.”  Obama, too, had some fun at Rubio’s expense, pausing only
briefly for a water break and announcing; “That, Marco Rubio,
is how you take a sip of water.”  Klobuchar’s Stand  Senator Amy Klobuchar of  Minnesota , delivering the
Democratic Party’s jokes, offered the audience an allusion to
the inaugural ceremony for Obama’s second term in which the
singer Beyonce mouthed the words to the national anthem.  “Did anyone else notice that Bobby Jindal lip-synced his
entire remarks?” Klobuchar asked.  Klobuchar also joked about Obama’s first debate with Romney
during the 2012 campaign, in which polls found viewers crediting
Romney with an advantage over the president.  “I know one thing,” Klobuchar said. “I prepared more for
this speech than the president did for his first debate.”  The Gridiron Club, marking its 128th year, is the oldest
organization of journalists in Washington, with membership by
invitation. The private conclave roasts public officials at an
annual white-tie dinner in Washington, with the songs of its
satirical skits accompanied by the U.S. Marine Band.  Stage Show  The musical show covered a range of political territory
from Boehner -- roasted as “Master of the House” to a number
from “Les Miserables” -- to gun control, with Clarence Page of
the Chicago Tribune singing, to the tune of “My Girl,”
“Nothing you can say can tear me away from my gun.”  The skits lampooned retired Army General David Petraeus,
sidelined as CIA director by an extramarital affair, and the
recently retired Pope Benedict XVI, who had taken to using
Twitter, with a song: “Give me that online religion.”  Every American president since 1885 except Grover Cleveland
has attended Gridiron dinners. This was Obama’s second
appearance since taking office. He also attended in 2011, and
earlier as a senator.  The night featured repeated jokes about journalist Bob Woodward’s telephone and e-mail encounter with an Obama aide who
suggested Woodward would regret what he was reporting about the
president. Woodward, of the  Washington Post (WPO) , was one of the
journalists whose reporting about the Watergate scandal in the
1970s led to the resignation of President Richard Nixon.  “Can anybody tell me when an administration has ever
regretted picking a fight with Bob Woodward?” Obama asked.
“What’s the worst that could happen?”  The first lady wasn’t in attendance at the Gridiron dinner,
though the audience could assume the president was speaking of
her as he delivered one of his lines.  “I’m sure that you’ve noticed that there’s somebody very
special in my life who is missing tonight, somebody who has
always got my back, stands with me no matter what and gives me
hope no matter how dark things seem,” said Obama, proceeding to
name a  New York Times (NYT)  columnist and statistical analyst who
predicted the president’s re-election in November.  “So tonight, I want to publicly thank my rock, my
foundation,” Obama said. “Thank you, Nate Silver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  