-- Panasonic’s First Female Director Says Sweeping Changes Needed
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-03-10T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/panasonic-s-first-female-director-says-sweeping-changes-needed.html
The economist picked by struggling
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  to become its first female director said  Japan ’s
electronics makers need drastic changes to align their business
models with those of companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  Siemens AG. (SIE)   Manufacturers should focus more on growing demand for
innovation in life sciences, agriculture and energy saving,
Hiroko Ota, a professor at the National Graduate Institute for
Policy Studies in Tokyo, said in an interview.  “What people want is a solution rather than an individual
technology,” said Ota, 59, who served as Japan’s minister for
economic and fiscal policy from 2006 to 2008.  “It’s an
opportunity for Japanese manufacturers.”  Panasonic, the maker of Viera TVs and Lumix cameras, last
month nominated Ota as the first female board member in its 95-
year history as President  Kazuhiro Tsuga  prepares to eliminate
business units to focus on those with the highest operating
margins. The Osaka-based company posted a record 772 billion-yen
($8.1 billion) net loss last fiscal year and expects a 765
billion-yen loss in the year ending March 31.  Ota declined to make specific comments on Panasonic’s
performance, saying her appointment as one of 17 directors is
subject to approval at the annual shareholders meeting June 26.  Like peers  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753) , Panasonic has seen
its exports undercut by the strength of the yen in recent years.
The company’s performance has also been dented by intensifying
competition from Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  Seeking Solutions  Panasonic fell 20 percent in Tokyo trading last year. It
has recovered 27 percent this year as the  yen weakens  in
anticipation of greater stimulus under Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s campaign to revive Japanese growth.  Japanese manufacturers could boost earnings by seeking
solutions to consumers’ problems rather than focusing on
technology itself, Ota said. Changes have been slow in Japan
partly due to its rigid labor system, she said.  “We have a system making it hard to transfer corporate
pension funds, while our taxation system is more beneficial to
those who worked at one occupation longer,” Ota said. “These
make it hard for a company to change its talent pool even as
business environments are changing rapidly.”  With more than 308,000 workers, Panasonic is the third-
biggest employer among publicly traded Japanese companies,
trailing  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and Toyota Motor Corp., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sense of Crisis  Japan has continued relying on large manufacturers such as
Panasonic for economic growth, without introducing deregulation
that can promote growth of startup companies, Ota said.  “Whether Panasonic can find new growth areas is also
important for Japan’s economy,” she said.  The yen’s strength in recent years and the growing
competition from companies in other Asian countries have
underlined the importance of speeding up changes, she said.  “Japanese companies do have a pressing sense of crisis,”
Ota said.  Panasonic, which is also Japan’s biggest home-appliance
maker, is cutting the number of executive officers to 21 from 30
as part of Tsuga’s reforms. Measures to overhaul the company’s
unprofitable TV business will be included in its new mid-term
business plan to be disclosed March 28, Panasonic has said.  Panasonic booked  a profit  for the months of October through
December after cutting 13,000 jobs, while Tokyo-based Sony,
Japan’s biggest TV maker, reported an eighth consecutive
quarterly loss.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  