-- PetroChina Looks to Add to $3.7 Billion in Australian Deals
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-03-11T02:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/petrochina-looks-to-add-to-3-7-billion-in-australian-deals.html
PetroChina Co. (857) , the nation’s
biggest oil and gas producer, is looking to make more deals in
Australia, adding to about $3.7 billion in acquisitions as part
of a global drive to feed surging Chinese demand.  “As one of the key markets in our Asia and Pacific
operations, PetroChina is willing to expand our presence in
Australia when a good opportunity arises,”  Mao Zefeng , a
Beijing-based spokesman for the world’s second-biggest energy
company by market value, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg.  PetroChina, planning to invest at least $60 billion this
decade in global oil and natural gas assets, agreed to pay BHP
Billiton Ltd. $1.63 billion in December for a stake in the
proposed Browse liquefied natural gas venture in Western
Australia.  China ’s overseas oil and gas acquisitions reached a
record last year after the government said it would boost
funding for energy investment to secure long-term supply.  “There will be more M&A to come as Chinese companies look
to secure long-term resources positions to meet future LNG
demand,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “China remains confident in further
long-term expansion in Australia.”  PetroChina shares  have dropped 5.2 percent in Hong Kong
trading in the last 12 months, compared with a 9.8 percent gain
in the  Hang Seng Index . PetroChina traded at HK$10.92 at 10:30
a.m. local time.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  is the world’s biggest energy
company by market value.  With seven LNG developments at a cost of $190 billion under
construction, Australia is set to surpass Qatar as the world’s
largest LNG supplier by the end of the decade. Global oil and
gas companies from  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to Statoil ASA are also seeking
to tap Australia’s shale gas resources, ranked as the sixth-
biggest potential reserves in the world.  ‘Long-Term Game’  The publicly traded unit of China National Petroleum Corp.
last month agreed to buy a 20 percent stake in the Poseidon
natural gas discovery off the northwest coast of Australia and a
29 percent interest in the Goldwyer shale project in the onshore
Canning Basin from Houston-based  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   “This is all about a longer-term game,”  Adrian Wood , a
Sydney-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said in a phone
interview. “When we run our numbers, China looks pretty-well
supplied with gas until 2020. It’s the resources that are
important to them, not the production right now.”  Rival Chinese companies also are buying up in Australia.
China Petrochemical Corp., known as Sinopec Group, is a partner
in the LNG development on Queensland’s  Curtis Island  being built
by ConocoPhillips and  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG) , while China National
Offshore Oil Corp. agreed last year to pay $1.93 billion to
increase its stake in BG Group Plc’s LNG project.  Woodside Project  PetroChina last year acquired Melbourne-based  Molopo Energy
Ltd. (MPO) ’s coal-bed methane holdings in Queensland state for A$43.4
million. The Chinese company plans to supply the gas to
Liquefied Natural Gas Ltd.’s proposed Fisherman’s Landing export
venture, the Perth-based company said in August.  The transaction with BHP to buy part of  Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. (WPL) ’s Browse project is expected to be completed in the first-
half of 2013, Melbourne-based BHP said in January.  “We respect what PetroChina can do, and we respect their
investment philosophy in Australia,” Woodside’s Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Coleman  said in a Feb. 21 interview in Sydney.
“Having a player like them gives us a window into one of the
largest growth markets in the world.”  Mozambique Gas  PetroChina and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  jointly acquired
Australia’s Arrow Energy Ltd. in 2010 for about A$3.5 billion.
The companies through the Arrow venture plan a fourth LNG
development on Queensland’s Curtis Island following projects by
BG Group, Santos Ltd. and ConocoPhillips. The PetroChina-and
Shell-owned company also bought Bow Energy Ltd. in 2011.  Shell said last year that it may delay a decision on
whether to go ahead with the Arrow LNG venture until 2014 amid
rising costs in Australia and that it was studying plans to
combine its Arrow gas resources with third parties.  The PetroChina deals in Western Australia show that the
company wants to diversify its interests in the country away
from Queensland, said Anthony Patten, a Perth-based partner and
energy specialist at Allens, the  law firm  that represented Shell
in the Arrow takeover three years ago. Shale in Australia is one
area that may attract Chinese companies, he said.  “They are trying to get a position in all parts of the
sector and they certainly don’t have limitations in terms of
cash,” Patten said in a phone interview.  ‘Cautious’ Stance  While PetroChina is considering further energy investment
in Australia and seeking to gain LNG experience in the country,
the company is taking a “stable and cautious” approach after
gains in the Australian dollar, spokesman Mao said on March 6.  The acquisitions in Australia are part of a global strategy.
CNPC is in talks with Eni SpA for a stake in a gas project in
 Mozambique  valued at as much as $4 billion, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. The deal would rank as the
biggest overseas investment made by CNPC or PetroChina,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PetroChina also has bought stakes in energy assets in
Canada, including a C$1.18 billion ($1.15 billion) purchase of
shale acreage from Encana Corp. in Alberta in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  