-- TPG Said to Pay About $900 Million for Poultry Producer Inghams
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n ,   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-03-10T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/tpg-said-to-pay-about-900-million-for-poultry-producer-inghams.html
Ninety-four years after Walter
Ingham started out with a rooster and six hens, his grandson
agreed to sell  Australia ’s biggest poultry producer to TPG
Capital for about A$880 million ($901 million), according to two
people familiar with the transaction.  Deals in the global food sector this quarter have already
hit their highest level since the first three months of 2007,
fueled by the pending $27.4 billion purchase of HJ Heinz Co. by
a consortium of 3G Capital Inc. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. An index of Australian
poultry prices hit a record high in the December quarter after
broiler meat exports doubled over the past five years.  Bob Ingham, grandson of the founder, is the sole
shareholder of Inghams Enterprises Pty Ltd., which the U.S.
private equity firm will buy for an undisclosed amount, the
Sydney-based company said in a statement March 9. The poultry
business was valued at about A$900 million during the sale,
according to the people who declined to be identified because
the matter was private.  “It is exciting to see the business embarking on its next
stage of growth,” Ingham said in an e-mailed statement. “I am
extremely proud of the business and its achievements to date.”  Loan Commitments  The Ingham family will keep control of its property
portfolio and racing business “which is surplus to the
operations of Inghams Enterprises,” the company said in the
statement closing its eight-month sale process. Cheryl Pettinau,
an external spokeswoman for Inghams at Quay Communications in
Sydney, declined to comment on the valuations of the businesses
or the sale price.  TPG has lined up loan commitments for A$775 million from at
least seven banks to finance the acquisition, according to five
people familiar with the negotiations.  The financing banks are in two separate groups, according
to the people familiar. One includes Westpac Banking Corp.
Macquarie Group Ltd., and Nomura Holdings Inc, the people said.
The second includes Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group, National Australia Bank Ltd., and
HSBC Holdings Plc., they said. A deal meeting was held in
 Melbourne  yesterday to combine the banking groups and agree on a
final set of terms for the financing package, according to the
people.  Group Assets  Started in 1918 when Walter Ingham bought a piece of
bushland in south-western Sydney and a brood of chickens,
Inghams Enterprises had revenue of A$2.2 billion in 2012,
according to the company website. The company employs 8,000
people and has 10 poultry plants, nine processing plants, 11
mills for feed and a pig farm, it says. Group assets are worth
more than A$2 billion, according to a  slide  on the website.  Global  poultry demand  stood at 285 million metric tons in
2011 and will rise 60 percent by 2030, according to Rabobank
International data quoted by the Australian Chicken Meat
Federation, an industry body. A United Nations index of  world
food prices  stood at 210 points in January, up 44 percent in the
last four years and more than double its level a decade ago.  The deal is the largest acquisition of an Australian food
company since July 2010, when Wilmar International Ltd bought
CSR Ltd.’s Sucrogen business for $1.54 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inghams hired  Investec Plc (INVP)  in July to find a buyer after
Ingham decided to sell the business. Last month it asked banks
to submit proposals for a share sale as a possible alternative
to a sale, people familiar with the matter said Feb. 14.  TPG, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , sold its stake in
Australian retailer  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  in a 2009 initial public
offering that raised A$2.1 billion, Australia’s biggest that
year. TPG and  Carlyle Group (CG)  bought Australian hospital operator
Healthscope Ltd. for A$2.7 billion, including debt, in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  