-- Poll Tells Cameron to Fire Osborne as Austerity Targeted
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-03-10T16:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/poll-tells-cameron-to-fire-osborne-as-austerity-targeted.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  was
urged in an opinion poll to sack Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  as voters question austerity measures designed to
tackle the U.K.’s  budget deficit .  A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey published in the Sunday Times newspaper
today showed 27 percent of voters think Foreign Secretary
 William Hague  would make a better chancellor than Osborne. The
poll, which questioned 1,525 adults on March 7-8, also called on
the premier to reduce aid to poor countries as budget cuts bite
at home.  Amid mounting questions about austerity, Osborne is set to
present his budget to Parliament on March 20. Liberal Democrat
Business Secretary Vince Cable and others have called on the
U.K. to look at whether the balance between budget cuts and
growth-stimulating measures is right.  “To be in a position where 10 days before the budget the
whole strategy is now being openly debated in the Cabinet --
you’ve got  Boris Johnson , the Mayor, the  International Monetary
Fund ,  Vince Cable , even Theresa May today casting doubt on the
chancellor’s growth plans for the future, clearly there’s a
problem,” the opposition  Labour Party ’s treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  told  Sky News  today.  Triple Dip  “The markets, like the country, are crying out for a plan
for growth to get the economy moving because they know without
that it can’t work,” Balls said.  Britain’s economy  shrank 0.3 percent  in the final quarter
of 2012, leaving it on the brink of a triple-dip recession.
Labour says the lack of growth is the result of Osborne’s
spending cuts to narrow the budget deficit. Moody’s Investors
Service cut the U.K.’s top credit rating last month, citing the
weak growth outlook and challenges to fiscal consolidation.  A separate survey by polling company Opinium Research LLP
for the Observer newspaper today found 58 percent of voters
believe the U.K.’s austerity program is harming the economy
against 20 percent who think it’s the correct course. Opinium
questioned 1,950 voters March 5-7 and weighted the replies to
represent national opinion.  Cameron and Osborne are closely aligned on economic policy.
The premier gave a speech on March 7 saying there’s “no
alternative” to pursuing austerity measures to cut the U.K.’s
record budget gap. Deputy Prime Minster  Nick Clegg , a Liberal
Democrat, said today that the austerity measures and investment
in growth were pitched at the right level.  ‘Mythical’ Plan  “To be unflinching is not to be unthinking,” Clegg told
his party’s spring rally in Brighton, southern England. “The
idea that the choice is between a cruel and unbending Plan A and
a mythical Plan B is simply not the case.”  “Balancing the books is a judgment, not a science,” Clegg
said. “Our plan has always allowed room for maneuver.”  Yesterday Home Secretary Theresa May appeared to make a
subtle bid for the party leadership if Cameron fails to win a
majority in 2015 elections. She set out an economic plan to a
conference of grassroots Conservative supporters in London and
said the Tories must “govern for the whole country.” She also
appealed to party traditionalists, suggesting the U.K. withdraw
from the European Convention on Human Rights.  Cameron was given qualified support from foreign office
minister, Conservative Sayeeda Warsi. “He is doing a very
difficult job in very difficult circumstances and he commands
the support of large parts of his party,” Warsi told Sky News.  Cameron and Osborne’s economic strategy was attacked by
former Conservative Defense Secretary  Liam Fox , who criticized
“multiple taxation of the same money,” describing it as an
“iniquity that creates the wrong pattern of behavior”.  “We pay tax on our income,” Fox told the Sunday Times
newspaper. “Then if we save we pay tax again. If we invest in
businesses or property and try to move our money, we will be hit
by capital gains tax or stamp duty. Finally, if we have the
audacity to die, we get the indignity of inheritance tax.”  -- Editors: Jeffrey Donovan, Stephen Cunningham  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Brighton at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  