-- Qatar Finds First Natural Gas Deposit in 42 Years, Minister Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-03-10T11:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/qatar-finds-first-natural-gas-deposit-in-42-years-minister-says.html
Qatar, the emirate with the third-
largest global reserves of natural gas, found a deposit with 2.5
trillion cubic feet of the fuel, its first discovery since
uncovering the world’s biggest gas field 42 years ago.  State-run  Qatar Petroleum , Wintershall AG and  Mitsui & Co (8031) 
plan to develop the reservoir in a 544 square-kilometer (338
square-mile) area called  block 4N  off the Persian Gulf state’s
northern coast, the companies said today at a news conference in
the Qatari capital, Doha. Qatar’s North Field, shared with
neighboring Iran, was discovered in 1971 and provides the
emirate with 900 trillion cubic feet in gas reserves.  “We will start production, God willing, in the next few
years” from Block 4N, Mohammed Saleh Al Sada, Qatar’s energy
minister, told reporters. “We have already started planning and
looking at different engineering options.”  The discovery is larger than  Germany ’s total proven gas
reserves, which the BP Statistical Review of World Energy
published in June 2012 lists at 2.2 trillion cubic feet. Russia
holds the biggest gas reserves, followed by  Iran , according to
data compiled by BP Plc.  Qatar produces as much as 77 million tons a year of
liquefied natural gas, making it the world’s biggest exporter of
the fuel chilled for shipment by sea. A government moratorium on
further development of the North Field has prevented Qatar from
increasing LNG exports since it started operating its 14th and
final gas liquefaction plant in 2011.  Wintershall, based in Kassel, Germany, signed a contract
with Qatar to explore block 4N in 2008, according to a statement
distributed today. Mitsui bought a 20 percent stake in the
project two years later.  Other companies exploring for gas in separate blocks off
Qatar include  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Total SA (FP)  and JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony DiPaola at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net  