-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Advanced for a Fourth Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-03-10T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-advanced-for-a-fourth-month.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
rose in February for the fourth consecutive month as an improved
job market and stronger household finances helped consumers
adjust to a higher payroll tax, economists said before a report
this week.  The projected 0.5 percent advance would follow a 0.1
percent gain in January, according to the  median  forecast in a
Bloomberg survey of 67 economists before March 13 figures from
the Commerce Department. Another report this week may show
factory production rebounded.  More jobs and rising wages are shoring up sentiment and
underpinning demand at chains including  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) 
and Gap Inc.’s Old Navy even as a tax increase trimmed paychecks
beginning in January. The threat of across-the-board cuts in
government spending -- known as sequestration -- also failed to
deter households as rising home and  stock prices  boosted wealth.  “Consumers aren’t packing it in, that’s for sure,” said
Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West
Chester, Pennsylvania. “The sequester, at least so far, has had
no discernible impact on confidence.”  Improved demand for motor vehicles probably contributed to
the increase in sales last month. Cars and light trucks moved
off dealer lots at a faster pace in February, pushing the
annualized rate of sales to 15.3 million from 14.4 million a
year ago, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Auto Sales  Deliveries at  Ford (F)  Motor Co. surged 9.3 percent last month
from a year earlier, the best February in six years. At General
Motors Co., sales climbed 7.2 percent, the companies reported
March 1.  Receipts at service stations also may have given sales a
boost as gasoline prices rose. The Commerce Department’s figures
aren’t adjusted for inflation. The price of a gallon of regular
gasoline at the pump  averaged  $3.67 a gallon in February, up
from $3.32 the prior month.  Retail sales excluding auto dealers and gasoline stations
rose 0.2 percent for a second month, according to the survey
median.  Gains in demand weren’t universal. Same-store sales for 20
companies tracked by Retail Metrics Inc. rose 1.9 percent in
February compared with a year ago, less than the 2.5 percent
forecast. Seven of 12 chains reported sales that beat analysts’
estimates, led by apparel stores including  Gap (GPS)  and  Limited
Brands Inc. (LTD)   Employment Gains  Retailers took on almost 24,000 new employees last month,
contributing to a 236,000 increase in payrolls that exceeded the
median forecast of economists surveyed, figures from the Labor
Department showed last week. The unemployment rate unexpectedly
dropped to a four-year low of 7.7 percent.  The surge in hiring defied concern that budget battles in
Washington could hurt the economic expansion.  A fiscal pact passed by Congress on Jan. 1 gave a permanent
tax break to 99 percent of Americans while allowing a payroll
tax used to finance Social Security rise to 6.2 percent from 4.2
percent. A worker earning $50,000 a year is taking home about
$83 less a month because of the higher levy.  Wrangling over the deal forced the Internal Revenue Service
to delay accepting and processing 2012 tax returns, which is
slowing refunds. Through March 6, taxpayers had received $152.2
billion in IRS refunds, compared with $168.2 billion at the same
point last year, according to Treasury Department figures.  ‘Improving Gradually’  “A lot of the retailers tell us February sales were soft
as consumers finally began to pay attention to their paychecks
and delayed tax refunds,” said Jacob Oubina, a senior economist
at RBC Capital Markets LLC in New York. “There was a confluence
of headwinds. We’re improving gradually.”  Some discount and department store retailers including  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WM)  have struggled to boost sales as the tax
increase and delayed tax returns take a toll. Wal-Mart, the
world’s largest retailer, said Feb. 21 that same-store sales in
the first quarter will be little changed because of a slowdown
last month. Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain, said
February sales got off to a slow start.  “Given these new challenges facing an already-sluggish
economy, we have a tempered view of the near-term sales
environment,” Target Chief Executive Officer Gregg Steinhafel
said on a Feb. 27 call with analysts. “While there are some
encouraging signs in the housing markets, volatility and
 consumer confidence , the payroll tax increase and rise in the
price of gas all present incremental headwinds.”  Nonetheless, investors are looking beyond the hurdles as
the economy improves. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Retailing  Index (S15RETL)  has climbed 10.8 percent so far this year,
outstripping the 8.8 percent increase for the broader S&P 500.  Consumer Prices  The cost of living rose in February for the first time in
four months, economists project a March 15 report from the Labor
Department will show. The consumer-price index climbed 0.5
percent last month, reflecting the increase in fuel prices,
after being little changed in January and December and dropping
in November, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Manufacturers have benefited from improved consumer demand
as well as a pickup in exports and business investment.  Industrial production grew 0.4 percent in February after a
0.1 decline the previous month, according to the Bloomberg
survey’s median forecast before Federal Reserve data on March
15.  Other reports this week might show manufacturing in the New
York area expanded in March, and an index of consumer sentiment
probably climbed to a four-month high, according to economists
surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  