-- Rhoen-Klinikum Waits in War Room for Asklepios Cartel Decision
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-03-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/rhoen-klinikum-waits-in-war-room-for-asklepios-cartel-decision.html
The future of  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK) ,
the target of a failed $4 billion bid by Fresenius SE last
year, and the rest of the German private hospital industry may
hinge on choices made this week by antitrust lawyers in Bonn.  Rhoen-Klinikum has readied a “war room” to prepare for a
Federal Cartel Office decision on whether arch-rival Asklepios
Kliniken GmbH can buy more than 10 percent of the German
hospital operator’s shares, effectively barring any alternative
merger partner Rhoen-Klinikum might prefer. A decision is due by
March 15 and may come sooner, according to Bad Neustadt an der
Saale-based Rhoen-Klinikum.  And that’s when negotiations will start. The foiled Fresenius 
bid left Rhoen-Klinikum with suppliers and competitors as major
 stakeholders : Asklepios,  Fresenius, (FRE)  medical-products maker B.
Braun Holding GmbH and the investors in another hospital operator,
Sana Kliniken AG. Any potential partner would face the same hurdle
that blocked Fresenius -- a 90 percent threshold of shareholder
approval for a deal.  “It’s a chess game played among four or five players,”
Chief Financial Officer Jens-Peter Neumann said in a March 7
interview in  London . “Nobody has ever played a chess game like
this.”  Cartel office approval to allow Asklepios to build its
stake might not result in immediate share purchases by the
rival, Neumann said. Overlap in a number of regions between the
two companies’ clinics would probably mean Asklepios be forced
to sell certain assets before it could start buying Rhoen-
Klinikum stock, he said.  Patient Choice  The cartel office said in December it was concerned the
Asklepios plan would endanger competition and patient choice,
especially around the central German city of Goslar.  The companies will be “discussing with a very different
deck of cards” depending on the decision, Neumann said.  The Rhoen-Klinikum strategy game is rooted in the nature of
the business: with fewer individual hospitals ripe for picking
up by private companies, the players began to look for a merger
to continue to grow. Rhoen-Klinikum had been in talks with Sana
in 2011, then turned to Fresenius Chief Executive Officer Ulf Mark Schneider last year, Neumann said.  The idea was to create a network big enough to partner with
a major insurer to offer in-network services to patients on a
model like that of a U.S. health-maintenance organization, the
executive said.  With the backing of Rhoen-Klinikum’s Chairman Eugen Muench,
Fresenius offered 3.1 billion euros ($4 billion) for the company
in April. The deal was dependent upon the Bad Homburg-based
company reaching the 90 percent share threshold. It also would
have cemented Fresenius’s position atop the market, leaving
Asklepios in second place.  Deal Blocked  Defending his market position, Asklepios founder Bernard Broermann swooped in at the last moment to block the deal by
buying a 5 percent stake in Rhoen-Klinikum.  Fresenius considered a second try and decided against it in
September. Blocking, Schneider said at the time, “seems to be
the name of the game.”  Rhoen-Klinikum shares closed down 1.8 percent at 15.88
euros on March 8. Fresenius had offered 22.50 euros a share.                     For the time being, Rhoen-Klinikum is focused on improving
its profitability -- especially at the university clinics of
Giessen and Marburg -- and doesn’t see many acquisitions likely
of individual hospitals this year, Neumann said. The company
doesn’t feel under pressure to complete a merger, he said.  “Whatever comes, we will just have to sit down and talk,”
he said. “There has to be a win-win situation here. Blocking
yourself to glory doesn’t work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  