-- Ryan Says His Budget Would Slow Annual Spending Growth to 3.4%
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-03-11T04:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/ryan-says-his-budget-would-slow-annual-spending-growth-to-3-4-.html
House Budget Committee Chairman
Paul Ryan is planning to unveil a 2014 budget plan this week
that would balance the government’s books in 10 years by
limiting the annual growth of spending to 3.4 percent.  The budget proposal assumes that Congress would repeal
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law set to be implemented
next year, Ryan said yesterday on “Fox News Sunday.” That
assumption depends on the unlikely possibility that the Democrat
in the White House and those who control the Senate agree to
repeal the president’s signature domestic policy achievement.  Ryan, a  Wisconsin  Republican, said his budget would save $5
trillion over 10 years, the same amount his two previous budget
plans had proposed saving by 2040. His party’s vice presidential
nominee in 2012, Ryan said new tax revenue of more than $600
billion that Congress and the president agreed to in January
will help achieve a balanced budget in 10 years.  “Instead of growing spending at 4.9 percent” annually,
“we grow spending 3.4 percent” so “the result is a $5
trillion” cut in the increase of spending over 10 years, he
said.  Ryan said his plan would save $770 billion over 10 years by
taking money designated for expanding Medicaid, to provide more
insurance to low-income people, and give it to states as block
grants to “customize” coverage.  “By repealing Obamacare and Medicaid expansions that have
not yet occurred, we are preventing the explosion of a program
that is already failing,” Ryan said.  Expansion’s Cost  The health-care law would expand Medicaid to cover people
with incomes of as much as 133 percent of poverty. The federal
government would pay the expansion’s entire cost until 2017 and
90 percent after that.  Some states with Republican governors or legislatures have
balked at agreeing to the expansion of the Medicaid program,
which is financed by state and federal funds. Eight Republican
governors seeking re-election next year, including New Jersey’s
Chris Christie and Ohio’s John Kasich, have proposed the
Medicaid expansion in their states.  Still, the House wants to “give the states the tools they
are asking for” to “make these benefits work for their
populations,” Ryan said.  ‘Raid on Medicare’  His proposed budget would end the health-care law’s “raid
on Medicare” and use the money -- $716 billion over 10 years --
to shore up the Medicare trust fund, Ryan said. The program is
projected to be insolvent by 2024.  “Obamacare does damage to Medicare,” he said. “It is
doing damage to the current program for seniors.”  The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said in a 2012
 letter  that Medicare spending would increase by $716 billion by
2022 if Congress repealed the health-care law.  Ryan said his budget, like his plan last year, would
propose giving new Medicare beneficiaries, now younger than age
55, the option of purchasing private insurance with a government
subsidy instead of the traditional Medicare plan.  The budget blueprint Ryan and his panel are set to propose
this week puts him at loggerheads with Obama, with whom he had
lunch March 7, along with Maryland Representative Chris Van Hollen, the top Democrat on the budget committee.  “We come from very different perspectives,” Ryan said.
“We exchanged very frank, candid views, which are very
different.”  Dinner Companions  Obama has reached out to Republicans in an effort to forge
a deal on spending and entitlement overhaul. The president also
dined March 6 with about a dozen Republican senators.  One of the senators at the dinner, Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma ,
said he was optimistic that Obama is “tremendously sincere”
about tackling the long-term spending issues posed by Medicare
and other entitlements.  “I don’t think this is just a
political change in tactic,” the Republican said on NBC’s
“Meet the Press.”  Republican Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin called the
dinner “a first good step” by Obama toward developing a
working relationship with members of the opposite party. “I’ll
certainly give the president the benefit of the doubt,” Johnson
said on ABC’s “This Week.”  Obama, in his radio address over the weekend, blamed
“political gridlock” for the forced spending reductions. The
president has sought higher taxes on the wealthy in return for
cuts to entitlement programs such as Social Security and the
Medicare and Medicaid health insurance programs. Republican
leaders have opposed higher levies and demand spending cuts.  Whether Obama can forge consensus with a Congress that is
operating under split political control depends on “how he
conducts himself in the coming weeks and months,” Ryan said.
“Will he resume the campaign mode, will he resume attacking
Republicans?”  Ryan said that Obama’s depiction of Republican spending
proposals as “draconian cuts” to “impugn people’s motives”
hasn’t helped his relations with Republicans in Congress. “If
that kind of rhetoric resumes, then we will know” that the
outreach “was for show,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  