-- Saudi Arabia Said to Raise February Oil Output From 20-Month Low
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2013-03-10T13:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/saudi-arabia-said-to-raise-february-oil-output-from-20-month-low.html
Saudi Arabia raised crude
production in February to 9.15 million barrels a day, an
increase of 100,000 barrels daily from the previous month, an
official with knowledge of the country’s oil policy said.  The world’s largest crude exporter supplied 9.16 million
barrels a day to the market compared with 9.26 million in
January, the Persian Gulf official said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential. Crude
delivered from storage accounted for the 10,000 barrel-a-day
excess of supply over production in February, the official said.  The monthly gain in output came after Saudi production
declined in January to the lowest level since May 2011, the
official said. Saudi Arabia produced close to 9 million barrels
a day for a third month, helping to keep OPEC’s total output
near the group’s official target of 30 million barrels. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries pumped an average
of 30.7 million barrels a day in February, as rising Libyan
production outpaced the cut by Saudi Arabia, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The 9.15-million level in February is way below our
forecasted average for the year, but we are sure output will
increase in the second quarter as demand picks up,” Fahd al-
Turki, a senior economist at Riyadh-based Jadwa Investment Co.,
said by telephone. “Saudis will increase production for sure,
but it will not be as sharp as last year’s levels.”  Asian Demand  Jadwa forecasts that Saudi production will reach 9.6
million barrels a day this year, down from 9.9 million in 2012,
al-Turki said. Demand in the second quarter will probably rise
from local use and greater consumption in Asia, he said.  Al-Turki said Saudi production cuts in recent months are a
response to slower demand, mainly domestic.  “With the current high oil prices, OPEC countries are
responding to demand more than their response to the group’s
ceiling,” he said. Brent crude futures for April settlement
ended at $110.85 on March 8 on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  National Commercial Bank, Saudi Arabia’s largest lender,
estimated in a March 6 note that the nation’s 2013 crude output
will average 9.5 million barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  