-- Stevens RBA Reappointment May Be Easiest Option in Election Year
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-03-10T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/stevens-rba-reappointment-may-be-easiest-option-in-election-year.html
Reappointing or extending Reserve
Bank of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens ’s term may pose the
easiest political option for the government, which is trailing
in opinion polls six months ahead of the federal election.  Stevens -- whose seven-year term ends on Sept. 17, just
three days after the election -- is a “safe pair of hands” and
early resolution of the issue would prevent it from becoming
politicized, Paul Bloxham, chief Australia economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc and a former Reserve Bank economist, said by phone
yesterday. The 55-year-old Stevens plans to seek a second term,
the Wall Street Journal reported March 8, citing unidentified
people familiar with the situation.  The central bank is seeking to rebalance a two-speed
economy as mining regions thrive off Chinese demand while
manufacturers and retailers struggle under the strength of the
local currency. Since taking the helm in 2006, Stevens has
presided over annual inflation that’s averaged within the RBA’s
target range and unemployment near 5 percent as the world’s
12th-largest economy extended a recession-free era to 21 years.  “When you’re on to a good thing you should stick to it,”
said Stephen Koukoulas, managing director of Canberra-based
Market Economics Pty. and a former adviser to Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard . “I don’t think there’d be anyone who would
seriously say that’s a bad appointment on either side of
politics.”  A  central bank  spokesperson declined to comment on the
succession. Treasurer  Wayne Swan ’s office said by e-mail March 9
that Swan had no comment on the matter. Stevens didn’t respond
to a message sent outside of office hours to his e-mail address
at the bank. Shadow Treasurer  Joe Hockey  was unavailable for
comment, spokesman Tony Ritchie said.  Treasurer’s Call  The government, which has the power to either name Stevens
again or announce a successor in the three months before his
time is up, hasn’t openly endorsed Stevens’s reappointment.  Under the  Reserve Bank  Act, the treasurer names the
governor and his No. 2 for terms of as long as seven years.
Opposition finance spokesman Andrew Robb said in January that
Gillard should hold off on announcing the next head of the
central bank until after the election.  “Resolving the question of the governor’s appointment well
in advance of the election is obviously ideal,” Christopher Joye, an economist and director at funds manager Rismark
International, said by phone. “The transition to a new governor
is always kind of politically sensitive.”  Stevens raised Australia’s interest rates to a then-11 year
high during the 2007 election campaign that brought the current
government to office, prompting an apology by then Prime
Minister  John Howard , who lost the election and his own
parliamentary seat 17 days later.  Tighter Policy  The Reserve Bank ran “tighter monetary policy than many
other central banks,” Howard wrote in his 2010 autobiography
 Lazarus Rising . “Those interest rate adjustments were not
always politically palatable.”  Howard had won the 2004 election with a promise to keep
interest rates at “record lows.” With Gillard’s minority Labor
government trailing the Liberal-National coalition in opinion
polls, rates are now at  3 percent , matching a half-century low,
after 1.75 percentage points of cuts since November 2011.  “There’s still a grudge,” among back-bench politicians
from Howard’s coalition parties, Koukoulas said. “I don’t think
they like him an awful lot.”  Stevens’s predecessor Ian Macfarlane was appointed to a
shortened, three-year second term in 2003 at his own request,
according to the then-Treasurer  Peter Costello . Macfarlane and
Herbert Coombs, who served an 8 1/2-year term as the bank’s
first governor, are the only heads of the central bank to have
served for more than seven years.  Government Support  “One would hope that it doesn’t become politicized,” said
HSBC’s Bloxham. “Resolving it prior to the election would be
the best way to try and achieve that.”  Stevens, whose  total pay  was A$986,778 in the year ended
June 2012, hasn’t said publicly whether he wants to extend his
tenure. Swan said in January that Stevens has the support of the
prime minister and the country, while stopping short of saying
the government will grant him a second term.  “He’s done a superb job,” Swan said in a Jan. 14
interview with Bloomberg Television. “His term’s still got a
little way to run, so I’m not going to speculate about that.”  Stevens and his board left the overnight cash-rate target
unchanged at its meeting this month and said policy is
appropriate. In February, he said he’d need to be confident the
currency is “seriously overvalued” before considering
intervention to weaken it.  Notes Scandal  He was one of six central bankers given a top grade in a
2012 ranking by Global Finance magazine based on their ability
to control inflation, achieve growth goals, maintain a stable
currency and manage  interest rates . It was the fourth straight
year he received an ‘A’ in the evaluation.  Even so, he faced testimony to a parliamentary panel last
year as lawmakers investigate corruption allegations at the
RBA’s note-printing units in the biggest scandal at the central
bank since it gained independence in 1996.  Eight former managers and employees at the central bank’s
Note Printing Australia Ltd. unit and Securency International
Pty face charges in relation to the alleged bribing of officials
in  Malaysia , Indonesia and Vietnam from 1999 to 2004 to win
contracts.  Australia’s central bank doesn’t reveal the board’s vote on
interest-rate decisions and only Stevens and his deputy are
allowed to speak on monetary policy issues, leaving the workings
of the Reserve Bank less transparent than those of its
counterparts in the U.S.,  Japan , and the euro region.  Closed Door  Stevens also doesn’t hold news conferences, unlike his
peers at central banks in those areas and in the U.K.,  South
Korea ,  Mexico ,  Chile ,  Peru ,  Colombia  and  Canada . Under his
tenure, the bank did in December 2007 start releasing minutes of
board meetings and publishing a statement to explain its
decisions after each monthly gathering.  Three of the Reserve Bank’s nine-person interest-rate
setting  board  are women, compared with ratios of four out of 12
voting members on the U.S.  Federal Open Market Committee  and one
out of nine on the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s  Policy Board .  The  Bank of England ’s  Monetary Policy Committee  and the
European Central Bank’s  Governing Council  don’t have any women
on them. Just one member of the Reserve Bank’s eight-person
 senior executive team  is a woman.  Stevens joined the central bank in 1980 and headed several
divisions before becoming an assistant governor in 1996 and
deputy governor in 2001. He gained a bachelors degree with
honors in economics from the  University of Sydney  and a masters
from the  University of Western Ontario  in Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  