-- U.S. Agrees Working Groups With Taiwan As Trade Talks Resume
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-03-10T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/u-s-trade-talks-with-taiwan-resume-after-lifting-of-beef-ban.html
U.S. and  Taiwan  trade officials
will set up working groups on investment and trade barriers as
the two sides resumed talks yesterday following a five-year
suspension resulting from the island’s ban on U.S. beef.  The two sides announced principles for greater cooperation
on information and communication technology services, Deputy U.S.
Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis said after meeting with
Taiwan trade officials in Taipei under the Trade and Investment
Framework Agreement. They included making laws and regulations
more transparent and boosting global digital literacy.  Negotiators also agreed on principles regarding
international investment, which will help build long-term
investment relations, create jobs, and enhance economic growth,
Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic Affairs said in a statement. The
principles will help forge a Taiwan-U.S. investment agreement,
the ministry said.  Trade talks between the U.S. and its 11th-biggest  trade
partner  resumed after Taiwan lifted a ban on the sale and import
of U.S. beef containing lean meat additives last July. Domestic
farmers opposing Taiwan’s plans to ease the curbs dumped cow
manure in front of the legislature last summer.  The U.S. is now also seeking to import its pork. Taiwan’s
economy ministry has said the island’s restrictions against
additive-containing U.S. pork would remain in place. The
European Union,  China  and Taiwan ban domestic use of ractopamine,
an additive used to increase lean meat in animals, according to
Taiwan’s  agriculture council .  Meetings will continue today. Other agenda items for the
two-day talks include  food safety , intellectual property
protection and protection of  trade secrets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  