-- Hungary Amends Constitution as EU Monitors Backsliding
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-03-11T19:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/hungary-to-amend-constitution-as-eu-monitors-backsliding.html
Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s lawmakers backed a constitutional amendment to curtail
judicial authority, setting up a showdown with European Union
nations seeking to sanction members that violate basic values.  The amendment overturns some court decisions and limits
legal interpretation by judges, provisions previously shot down
by the  Constitutional Court . The Budapest-based parliament,
where Orban has a two-thirds majority, passed the changes by 265
votes to 11.  The move comes after the foreign ministers of  Germany ,
 Denmark ,  Finland  and the Netherlands pushed to impose EU funding
cuts on member states that violate the 27-nation bloc’s
democratic values, in a March 6 letter to European Commission
President  Jose Barroso . Barroso told Orban March 8 that parts of
his amendment may breach EU law, the MTI news service said,
citing Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen, a commission spokeswoman.  While some EU states may run afoul of EU rules ranging from
competition to telecommunications, “ Hungary  is different
because its violations are on much more substantive issues that
are about the principles of a constitution-based democracy,”
Fredrik Erixon, head of the European Centre for International
Political Economy in Brussels, said by phone. “That’s what
people in Brussels and the commission are arguing.”  Forint Plunges  Central bank President  Gyorgy Matolcsy , appointed last
week, on March 8 stripped deputies elected by his predecessor of
their strategic responsibilities. The forint has since dropped 1
percent, the most among 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, to 301.85 per euro.  The European Union voiced concern about the impartial
administration of justice in Hungary after the passage of the
amendment.  “These amendments raise concerns with respect to the
principle of the rule of law,” Barroso said in a joint
statement from Brussels with Thorbjoern Jagland, secretary
general of the  Council of Europe .  The statement called on Hungary to work with European
institutions to address concerns regarding “the compatibility
of these amendments with European principles and EU law.”  Vote Boycott  The biggest opposition party, the Socialists, boycotted
today’s parliamentary session in protest at the amendments,
state news agency MTI reported, citing party leader Attila Mesterhazy. Jobbik, the radical nationalist opposition party,
planned to abstain from the ballot, Vice President Zoltan Balczo
said today, according to MTI.  The government’s anti-terror unit closed the square in
front of President Janos Ader’s offices until at least March 16
as a safety measure, MTI reported, citing a statement on the
unit’s website. Protesters had planned to gather today at Ader’s
headquarters to call on him to refuse to sign the amendments
into law, according to MTI.  Orban has asserted his influence over independent
institutions since winning elections in 2010, drawing criticism
from the EU, the U.S. and the  United Nations . His lawmakers
passed a new constitution over opposition protests, ousted the
chief justice of the  Supreme Court  and set up a media regulator
led by ruling-party appointees.  Overruling Court  Today’s amendment includes limiting campaign ads in private
media, restricting the definition of a family to marriage and
allowing the criminalization of homeless people who live on the
streets, all of which the Constitutional Court has vetoed in
past decisions. It would also bar justices from citing rulings
made before the new constitution.  “This gives the impression that the government is willing
to use the two-thirds parliamentary majority to overrule the
Constitutional Court, which might endanger the fundamental
principle of checks and balances in a democracy,” Thorbjoern Jagland, secretary-general of the Council of  Europe , an inter-
governmental organization that promotes democratic values, said
March 6.  The amendment “could threaten the principles of
institutional independence and checks and balances that are the
hallmark of democratic governance,” U.S. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said March 7.  ‘Full Commitment’  Orban pledged “full commitment” to “European norms and
rules” in approving the amendment, according to a March 8
letter to Barroso. Criticism is “fueled by misunderstandings
and inadequate information,” Foreign Minister Janos Martonyi
wrote the same day in a letter to EU counterparts.  The European Commission will assess the legislation after
the vote and weigh its next steps, Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen, a
commission spokeswoman, told a daily press briefing today in
Brussels.  Orban’s letter “contains general reassurances that Hungary
is committed to respecting both EU values and EU law,” she
said. “That’s obviously, as such, very positive. You know there
are very specific concerns.”  Orban, who’s relying on EU funds to help end a recession
before 2014 elections, came into office in 2010 with plans to
widen the  budget deficit . He ended up keeping the shortfall
below 3 percent of output in the last two years and his priority
this year is to exit the EU’s excessive-deficit procedure to
remove the threat of aid cuts.  ‘Targeted Instruments’  Four EU members, including Germany, are urging that
financial penalties are also imposed for breaching basic values,
citing the absence of “sufficiently targeted instruments” to
enforce democratic norms, the foreign ministers said in a letter
to Barroso, a copy of which was obtained by  Bloomberg News .  “Europe is a community of values and it’s as important
that these values are lived within national borders,” German
Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said today in Brussels.  Orban’s consolidation of power has failed to mobilize the
Hungarian public en masse, even as he’s often able to draw
hundreds of thousands to street protests. His Fidesz party has
widened its lead over the opposition, leading the Socialists by
26 percent to 12 percent in a Feb. 15-19   Median poll  that had a
2.5 percentage points margin of error.  “I don’t know why Hungarians are so insensitive to these
changes -- I guess something’s missing from society’s immune
system,” Istvan Toth, 44, said at a March 9 protest. “The
average person probably doesn’t understand how these changes
will impact his everyday life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  