-- Chavez’s Heir Poised to Win April Election in Venezuela
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-03-11T01:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/venezuelans-to-vote-mid-april-to-choose-chavez-s-successor.html
Venezuela  will hold a special
presidential election in mid-April that will pit  Hugo Chavez ’s
handpicked successor against a unified opposition.  The two leading candidates will register tomorrow for the
April 14 vote. Members of the National Election Council decided
on the election date after holding a minute of silence for
Chavez, who died March 5 after a two-year battle with cancer,
council President Tibisay Lucena said in televised remarks
yesterday.  “The republic is going through difficult times,” Lucena
said. “It’s fundamental to recognize the historic relevance of
the path we’re about to go down, and its importance to the
stability and strengthening of our democracy.”  Chavez’s designated heir Nicolas Maduro will run after he
was sworn in March 8 as interim president. The former union
leader and foreign affairs minister spent his first full day in
office yesterday meeting with a Chinese delegation led by Zhang Ping, head of the National Development and Reform Commission.  Chavez’s rivals will rally around a single candidate,
Miranda state Governor Henrique Capriles Radonski, the
opposition alliance, known as the Democratic Unity Table, said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “I am going to fight with you and for all of you,”
Capriles said in a televised press conference this evening.
“Nicolas, I’m not giving you a free path.”  The governor lost by 11 percentage points in the October
2012 election, which was the closest presidential campaign of
Chavez’s 14 years in power.  Poll  Maduro enjoys a 46.4 percent to 34.3 percent advantage over
Capriles, according to a survey taken Jan. 31 to Feb. 20 by
Caracas-based polling company Datanalisis. The poll has a margin
of error of 2.4 percentage points.  The former bus driver has vowed to sustain his mentor
Chavez’s policies of redistributing wealth and increasing the
state’s role in the economy.  South America ’s largest  oil
producer  will continue to use the industry’s profits to feed and
house the poor, Oil Minister  Rafael Ramirez  said on state TV
yesterday.  Capriles this week denounced as “fraud” a Supreme Court
ruling allowing Maduro to serve as caretaker while campaigning
for the presidency, terming that a violation of the
constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  