-- Nazi Past, Jewish Firings Revealed by Vienna Philharmonic
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-03-10T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/vienna-philharmonic-reveals-nazi-past-jewish-firings.html
The Vienna Philharmonic last night
revealed that almost half of its musicians were Nazis in World
War II after it fired Jewish members.  The orchestra published research uncovered by a panel of
historians who mined its archives.  A total of 60 out of 123 orchestra members were members of
the Nazi party in 1942, according to the report, released as
Austria marks the 75th anniversary of the “Anschluss,” the
country’s annexation by  Adolf Hitler ’s  Germany . Only 10 Vienna
Philharmonic players had to leave as a result of their Nazi
affiliations after 1945. Two returned.  The orchestra has kept silent about its past for decades.
Its chairman, Clemens Hellsberg, wrote a 1992 history titled
“Democracy of Kings” which was later criticized for not
chronicling many misdeeds. The report published yesterday,
supported by the orchestra, was the work of a panel led by
Oliver Rathkolb, a history professor at the  University of
Vienna .  All the orchestra’s Jewish musicians were dismissed in
1938. Five died in concentration camps; one died after being
thrown out of his apartment, and another before being deported.
Some Jewish orchestra members managed to escape.  The panel’s research also revealed that Wilhelm Jerger, a
member of the Nazi party and the SS and the executive director
of the orchestra, rescued the Jewish first violinist Josef
Geringer from Dachau concentration camp. Jerger failed to
protect five more orchestra members from deportation.  Nazi Intelligence  Another case analyzed by the historians is the one of
trumpet player Helmut Wobisch, who joined the Nazi party in 1933
and the SS in 1934. During World War II, he produced reports on
people in the music scene for the Nazi intelligence service. He
was fired in 1945, only to return two years later as first
trumpeter, becoming director of the orchestra in 1953.  Wobisch successfully hid his Nazi past during the process
of denazification, “even making use of Jewish musicians such as
the well-known conductor  Leonard Bernstein ,” the report says.
Eyewitnesses reported the conductor once calling Wobusch “my
dearest Nazi.”  It was also Wobisch who gave the philharmonic’s ring of
honor to Baldur Von Schirach, an indicted war criminal, as
recently as 1966 or 1967, Rathkolb found. The orchestra had
awarded the ring to Von Schirach, who was responsible for
deporting Vienna’s Jews, in 1942. It was allegedly taken by a
U.S. soldier three years later.  Unknown Donor  Shortly after his release from prison on war crime charges,
for which he was sentenced during the Nuremberg Trials, Von
Schirach was given a replacement. The identity of the donor was
previously unknown and revealed by a witness named Wilhelm
Bettelheim, who wrote a letter to Rathkolb in January and is
interviewed in a movie about the historian’s work being aired
today by Austrian television channel  ORF .  Philharmonic director Hellsberg was recently criticized by
Harald Walser, a member of the Austrian  Green Party , for
suppressing this part of the orchestra’s history. Dominique
Meyer, the director of Vienna’s State Opera, defended Hellsberg
at the presentation of the findings yesterday.  “He was the first to write about the Nazi past in 1988 and
in his book in 1992. Of course there were unsettling things that
surfaced after that and there probably will be more,” he said.  The orchestra also allowed itself to be used for propaganda
purposes, according to archive material. Pictures show the
Vienna Philharmonic, under Wilhelm Furtwaengler, playing in a
Berlin armaments factory. Two swastika banners hang behind. Much
of the orchestra’s music has also been used in propaganda films
produced in the Nazi era.  Some of the Jewish musicians that were fired in 1938 and
were able to emigrate were invited back after the war, according
to the film, which was shown to journalists yesterday. None of
the musicians returned.  The orchestra published some of the panel’s findings on its
 website  yesterday and said it will add more during the week.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on music,  Richard Vines 
on food,  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 