-- Oil Drops for Second Day as China Industrial Output Slows
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-03-11T11:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/wti-oil-drops-from-one-week-high-as-saudi-arabia-boosts-output.html
Brent crude  fell for a second day
as industrial production slowed in  China , the world’s second-
biggest oil consumer, and  Saudi Arabia  boosted output.  Futures slid as much as 0.9 percent after gaining 0.4
percent last week, snapping three weeks of declines. Saudi
Arabia’s crude production rose in February from a 20-month low,
according to an official with knowledge of the country’s oil
policy. China started the year with the weakest industrial
output since 2009, government data showed March 9. Iran, which
is under Western sanctions because of its nuclear program, said
the prospects for resolving the dispute have improved.  “We have no reason to rally,” amid rising Saudi output
and reduced demand from refiners during seasonal maintenance,
 Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in  London , said
today in an e-mailed response to questions. Brent probably won’t
drop below support at $109 a barrel, he said.  Brent for April settlement on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange declined as much as 95 cents to $109.90 a barrel
and was at $110.15 a barrel as of 11:41 a.m. London time. The
volume of all futures traded today was 34 percent above the 100-
day average for Brent, and 32 percent lower for West Texas
Intermediate. The European benchmark was at a premium of $18.52
to WTI. The gap was at $18.90 on March 8, the narrowest close
since Jan. 31.  WTI for April delivery fell as much as 43 cents to $91.52 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract advanced 39 cents to $91.95 on March 8,
the highest close since Feb. 28. Prices have lost 0.4 percent
this month.  Cushing ‘Deficit’  U.S. crude could be supported in the second and third
quarters by pipeline “de-bottlenecking” in  North America  from
April to June, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The balance at Cushing, Oklahoma, the largest oil storage
hub in the U.S., could “shift into a large deficit” in the
second quarter as refineries end maintenance and new pipeline
capacity from the Permian basin diverts crude to the Gulf Coast,
 Jeffrey Currie , Goldman’s head of commodities research in New
York, said in an e-mailed report today.  Saudi Output  Saudi Arabia raised crude production in February to 9.15
million barrels a day, an increase of 100,000 barrels from the
previous month, the Persian Gulf official said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential. The kingdom
reduced exports to 9.16 million barrels last month from 9.26
million, according to the official.  “The higher Saudi production serves as a cap on oil prices
and could drive down WTI,” said  Gordon Kwan , the head of energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  China’s industrial output expanded 9.9 percent in January
and February, according to the government figures. That’s lower
than a 10.6 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
Retail sales also slowed in the period and new local-currency
loans were down in February, separate data showed.  “Weaker-than-expected Chinese economic data damped
investors sentiment,” Myrto Sokou, an analyst at Sucden
Financial Ltd. in London said in an e-mailed response to
questions. The figures set a “bearish tone” which may depress
Brent to as low as $109.14 a barrel, she said.  Iran saw signals that “the other side is acting in good
faith” in talks about its uranium enrichment program, Foreign
Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said yesterday in Tehran.  The Islamic republic met on Feb. 26 and Feb. 27 in Almaty,
 Kazakhstan , with China, Germany,  France ,  Russia , the U.K. and
the U.S. No deal was announced and the details of a proposal to
Iran weren’t released. The two sides are scheduled to meet March
18 in Istanbul and from April 5 to April 6 in Almaty.  ‘Mood Music’  Iran’s crude output in January was the lowest in three
decades at 2.65 million barrels a day, the  International Energy
Agency  said in its monthly oil market report Feb. 13.  “The mood music coming after the talks is a bit better
than expected,” Robin Mills, the head of consulting at Dubai-
based Manaar Energy Consulting and Project Management, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “That helped to improve
expectations for the next round and that probably helped in
taking some of the edge off of  oil prices .”  Hedge funds  reduced bullish oil bets to a two-month low in
the week ended March 5 as surging U.S. supplies pushed prices
below $90 for the first time this year. Stockpiles have climbed
in eight of the past nine weeks as output from shale formations
sent domestic production to the highest levels since 1992.  Money managers cut net-long positions, or  wagers  on rising
prices, by 4.4 percent to the lowest since Jan. 1, the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s March 8 Commitments of Traders
report showed. It was the third weekly drop, the longest series
of declines since November. Bullish bets have fallen 24 percent
from an 11-month high in mid-February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  