-- Suu Kyi Seeks Closer Army Ties After Re-Election as Party Leader
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   K y a w   T h u
-- 2013-03-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-10/myanmar-s-opposition-party-elects-aung-san-suu-kyi-as-chairwoman.html
Former political prisoner  Aung San Suu Kyi , elected yesterday as chairwoman of Myanmar’s opposition
National League for Democracy, urged her party to forge closer
ties with the military before national elections in 2015.  Suu Kyi, 67, will lead the 15-member central executive
committee, which was formed over the weekend at the party’s
first congress since it was founded in 1988. The democracy
leader spent 15 years under house arrest and rejoined the
political process after holding talks with President Thein Sein
two years ago, following an election that ended five decades of
direct military rule.  “I want the relationship between the people and the
military to be OK,” Suu Kyi said yesterday in a speech in
Yangon. “It was OK in the past. We have to try to make it OK in
the future. The NLD has to try.”  The NLD expects a victory in 2015 elections after winning
43 of 44 seats in by-elections last year, which may give its
lawmakers enough votes to choose the president. Suu Kyi is
seeking support from the military for constitutional changes
that would allow her to become head of state, senior members of
her party said last month. The constitution says the president
can’t have a child who is a citizen of a foreign country. Both
of Suu Kyi’s sons have British citizenship.  The 2008 constitution automatically grants the military a
quarter of the seats in parliament and amendments need more than
75 percent of votes to pass.  Suu Kyi said in January she was “fond” of the military,
which her father General Aung San played a role in founding in
the 1940s when he led troops in a revolt against Japanese
occupiers. He was assassinated in 1947, when Suu Kyi was two
years old.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Singapore at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyaw Thu in Bangkok at 
 kthu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  