-- L.A. Burgers Invade New York as Economy Rebounds: Retail
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-03-21T14:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/l-a-burgers-invade-new-york-as-economy-rebounds-retail.html
Topped with truffle cheese or port-
caramelized onions and not always involving beef, designer
burgers aren’t exactly unheard of in  New York City . That’s not
stopping Los Angeles nightclub owner Sam Nazarian from bringing
his vision of “fine dining fast-food” to the Big Apple.  One of Nazarian’s  Umami Burger  restaurants will open this
year in Manhattan, part of a national expansion of the Los
Angeles chain. The chief executive officer of  SBE Entertainment
Group LLC , who bought a 50 percent stake in Umami in July, said
he plans to reach more than 20 locations by the end of the year,
including in some of the company’s luxury  SLS hotels .  Nazarian’s upscale burger push is the latest example of a
restaurant industry betting that diners are coming back, ready
for new experiences and more willing to open their wallets, as
the economy emerges from its long slumber. Sales at the 500
largest U.S. dining chains advanced 3.4 percent to about $242
billion last year, compared with an increase of 1.8 percent in
2010, Chicago-based researcher  Technomic Inc. (TNOM)  said on March 19.  “Consumer awareness, especially around burgers, is
evolving,” Nazarian said. “These gourmet burger chains hit a
certain psychographic -- somebody who is very quality conscious,
who is willing to explore and get out of their element.”  Though cracking the New York market is never easy,
Americans’ decades-long love affair with burgers makes premium
burgers a good place to be, with 48 percent eating a burger at
least once a week, compared with 38 percent in 2009, according
to Technomic.  ‘Shakeout’ Coming  Still, with everyone from Five Guys Burgers and Fries to
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  hawking a better burger, the upscale-burger
craze risks reaching its limits.  “There’s definitely this whole new niche that’s emerged,”
said Bob Goldin, an executive vice president at Technomic. “In
the next 12 to 24 months, we’re going to start seeing signs of
saturation” among the better burger chains, Goldin said.
“You’re going to see a shakeout.”  Nazarian sees his premium restaurants and burgers as apart
from the pack. Umami serves up hand-chopped ahi tuna with wasabi
flake, and offers wine and martinis in some locations. These are
the latest evolutionary twist on the Southern Californian
burger, in the land where McDonald’s and In-N-Out Burger began.  ‘Bit Snooty’  In Manhattan, Umami will face “really strong competitors”
that charge under $10 for a burger, said Conrad Lyon, a senior
equity analyst in  Los Angeles  for B Riley & Co. There are scores
of them, including  New York Burger Co.  and J.G. Melon.  The mid-range fancy burger, costing about three times as
much as a Big Mac, is big in Los Angeles, the second-largest
U.S. city. Dave Gregg, a cameraman for movies and Web series,
said that’s because “it hits a sweet spot.”  “It’s a little bit snooty,” said Gregg, who lives a few
blocks from an Umami. “But it doesn’t break the bank.”  Umami -- named after the Japanese word for the “pleasant
savory taste” found in foods like mushrooms and truffles -- has
six outlets in and around Los Angeles and one in  San Francisco .
The build-your-own chain  The Counter , which started in Santa
Monica in 2003, has 22 in  California  and franchises in nine
other states and Ireland.  Short Order , which opened in midtown
Los Angeles four months ago, has recorded sales at 125 percent
of expectations, said managing partner Bill Chait.  “There’s no question it’s driven by the economy,” said
Chait, whose partners include chef Nancy Silverton of the  Mozza
Restaurant Group . The 116-seat restaurant, which has a full bar,
sells burgers for $12 and up that are made of ingredients
including seared albacore, grass-fed lamb, range-fed pork,
rapini and melted celery.  “The days of eating $50 steaks are probably over” for
many, Chait said. Consumers are “stepping down,” he said,
“without having to go to a  Burger King (BKC) .”  Premium Growth  Americans’ love for the burger hasn’t waned since the first
McDonald’s fare was served in San Bernardino, east of Los
Angeles, in 1948. Sales at fast-food burger restaurants rose
about 3 percent to $67 billion last year, according to
Technomic. In the so-called better burger segment, including
Five Guys Burgers and Fries, Fuddruckers and Smashburger, sales
increased about 18 percent to almost $2 billion, according to
Technomic, which tracks chains with more than $10 million in
annual revenue.  Umami’s prices start at $10 for the most basic offerings,
including the Hatch Burger, with four types of green chilies.
The most expensive is the Ahi Tuna Burger, at $15.  Founder Adam Fleischman said Umami offers “fine-dining
fast-food,” albeit with valet parking and full bars at some
locations. In  Manhattan , he said, it will succeed by catering to
high expectations of diners with many choices.  ‘Chain Mentality’  Fleischman said he also expects a shakeout. “I think it
will affect the franchise players specifically,” he said.  Interest in fancy burgers has been fueled in part by
cooking shows, such as cable network Bravo’s  “Top Chef,” 
Nazarian said. “The names and descriptions of ingredients in
food are becoming part of our daily vocabulary,” he said.
“This awareness is breaking that chain mentality.”  Back in the 1990s, “you never had a chef with a credible
resume doing anything like the burger,” said Sang Yoon, the
former executive chef at Michael’s who bought a  Santa Monica  pub
called  Father’s Office  in 2000 and made it into one of the
region’s first burger-focused restaurants. He opened a second
store in L.A. in 2008 and said demand has been so strong he’s
considering expanding.  Dry-Aged  Chef  Wolfgang Puck  has been serving a variation of his $23
grilled prime burger with smoked onion marmalade, garlic aioli
and Vermont farmhouse white cheddar at  Spago  in  Beverly Hills 
for at least 10 years, according to the restaurant.  Yoon’s signature creation is a dry-aged beef patty with
caramelized onions, Gruyère and Maytag cheeses, applewood-smoked
bacon and arugula on a soft roll. At $12.50, it’s about $9 more
than the Double Double at In-N-Out, the regional chain with a
cult-like following.  At the Counter, which has a restaurant in Times Square, the
menu offers choices of meat, bun, cheese and sauce, claiming
312,000 possible combinations. The average meal, according to
founder Jeff Weinstein, costs about $14.  “The fact that it’s all freshly made with quality
ingredients has definitely helped drive the demand in this
town,” said Weinstein, who is opening stores in  Saudi Arabia 
and Bahrain. “I see this trend continuing, not just in Los
Angeles, but everywhere.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  