-- New Jersey ‘Round Robin’ Tax Lien Auction Spurs Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-03-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/m-d-sass-participated-in-tax-lien-sale-being-probed-by-u-s-.html
M.D. Sass Investors Services Inc.,
a closely held manager of more than $5 billion, participated in
an auction of  New Jersey  tax liens that has come under the
scrutiny of U.S. antitrust investigators probing rigged sales.  A representative of M.D. Sass, whose tax-lien funds have as
much as $110 million in assets, was among seven bidders vying
for liens in the New Jersey borough of Newfield, according to
records of a March 5, 2007, auction. Three people associated
with the seven bidders pleaded guilty to antitrust charges and
are cooperating with prosecutors. The  Justice Department 
subpoenaed records of the auction on Feb. 15. M.D. Sass hasn’t
been accused of wrongdoing.  The U.S. records request comes amid a widening probe into
rigged liens sales in New Jersey. Since August, five men have
pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges. The guilty pleas were to
an overall conspiracy and not to the particular auction in
Newfield, 35 miles south of Philadelphia.  Units of Royal Bank America, which operates branches in
 Pennsylvania  and New Jersey, co-owned lien-buying firms with one
of the men admitting guilt. The units are subjects of the probe,
regulatory filings show. Royal Bank America is a unit of  Royal
Bancshares of Pennsylvania Inc.   Justice Department prosecutors want “all tax sale bidder
information,” according to a copy of the subpoena disclosed by
Newfield in response to a request under the state’s public
records law. That includes “the name and address of each person
who attended the relevant tax lien sale,” according to the
subpoena.  “M.D. Sass companies have no comment on any activity or
investigation that may be under way at the  Department of
Justice ,”  Mark Rotert , a lawyer for the New York-based firm,
said in an e-mail.  Separately, M.D. Sass was found liable last year in a
 Chicago  trial over civil racketeering claims involving tax
liens.  Committed to Compliance  The firm says on its website that it is “committed” to
complying with antitrust laws.  “This not only means following the written law, but also
conducting all business in conformity with the highest standards
of ethics and morality, and avoiding conduct that might give
even the appearance of wrongdoing,” the firm says. “Because of
the pervasive impact and complexity of the antitrust laws, M.D.
Sass has established a formal antitrust training and compliance
program for its tax liens business.”  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the U.S. investigation. The probe is being
conducted by prosecutors in the antitrust division’s New York
office, according to the subpoena. In addition to the New Jersey
guilty pleas, at least three people have pleaded guilty to
similar charges related to auctions in  Maryland .  Tax Debt Sales  New Jersey municipalities seeking revenue sell about
$100 million a year in local tax debt on commercial and
residential property to investors, said Vincent Belluscio,
executive director of the Tax Collectors and Treasurers
Association of New Jersey.  Firms that buy liens at auctions pay the tax liability in
full and then seek to collect from the property owner. They may
earn as much as 30 percent on their investment, Belluscio said
in a phone interview. In addition to interest of as much as 18
percent on delinquent taxes, the firms may add penalties of as
much as 12 percent, he said.  18 Percent Interest  Bidders on the liens are supposed to compete fairly for the
right to buy them and collect taxes on property. Buyers, who
seek the return of their principal investment and interest,
begin bidding at 18 percent interest and then lower that rate
with each bid.  Each of the 59 liens sold in the Newfield auction went for
18 percent, according to borough records. That suggests the
seven participants didn’t bid against one another, Belluscio
said in a phone interview.  “It makes it a little suspicious,” he said. “It’s very
strange if you have that many lines up for sale, and they’re all
going up for 18 percent.”  M.D. Sass bought four liens, including the two largest.
Other firms purchased as many as 11, according to records.
Daniel Lebar, a lawyer and tax lien investor who bought three,
said participants at the auction chose not to compete because
there were many liens available for the few bidders who showed
up.  “The sense was the list is long, we all know each other,
there is no need to kill each other, so we’ll just bid round-
robin,” Lebar said in a phone interview. “It was really just
spur-of-the-moment,” he said. “There was no conspiracy.”  ‘Bid Round-Robin’  Lebar said lien buyers sometimes followed that practice at
other New Jersey auctions including some in Camden County.
“It’s a niche business,” said Lebar, 55, who followed his
father into the business. “We have camaraderie among each
other. If we get a sense that there’s enough for everybody,
we’ll bid round-robin.”  Harry First, who teaches antitrust law at  New York
University School of Law , said such spur-of-the-moment decisions
may violate antitrust law.  “If you agree beforehand, there’s no requirement how
beforehand it has to be,” First said in a phone interview. “If
people show up and agree to allocate the bids, and there’s no
bidding, they’ve done it.”  The Newfield auction attracted individuals or firms
associated with individuals who pleaded guilty to an antitrust
conspiracy charge in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey. The
three pleading guilty were  Robert Stein , David Farber and
William Collins. Stein’s lawyer, Paul Zoubek, and Farber’s
attorney, Michael Mustokoff, didn’t return calls. Collins’
lawyer, Jack Wenik, declined to comment.  Auction Attendees  Other auction attendees, in addition to Lebar and M.D.
Sass’s agent, were Chun Li, who lives in Wayne, New Jersey, and
a representative of Michael Fabrikant & Associates Inc. of
Freehold, New Jersey, according to records. Li didn’t return
calls seeking comment. Michael Fabrikant has died, Lebar said.
Calls to his firm weren’t returned.  With liens carrying annual  interest rates  of 18 percent,
some homeowners had to pay hundreds or thousands of dollars in
interest to pay off their debt. Among them was Raymond
Contarino, whose $5,224 lien was bought by M.D. Sass. It was the
largest sold at the auction.  A supervisor for a New Jersey landscaper, Contarino, 52,
said his debt began piling up after his parents died and he
withdrew funds from an annuity to pay funeral expenses. He was
able to stave off foreclosure and pay the lien and other debt by
refinancing his mortgage.  ‘That’s Aggravating’  Contarino said in a phone interview that the process was
confusing and that he doesn’t know what it cost to pay off the
lien. He was surprised to hear that he may have paid a higher
interest rate because of the round-robin bidding.  “It’s aggravating as hell,” he said after being told that
prosecutors were scrutinizing the auction. “You’re simply
trying to scrape along. For a big company to put the screws to
you, that’s aggravating.”  The liens are recorded in the name of an entity associated
with M.D. Sass and  U.S. Bank National Association . The  U.S.
Bancorp (USB)  unit acts as custodian of M.D. Sass funds and serves in
a “purely” administrative function of processing payments and
other such roles, said Nicole Garrison-Sprenger, a spokeswoman
for the Minneapolis-based bank.  “We’re not the purchaser. We’re not the owner,” she said,
declining to comment on the U.S. probe.  John Eastlack, a lawyer for Newfield, declined to comment.  Racketeering Trial  M.D. Sass has been buying tax liens since 1993, according
to testimony in October at the unrelated civil racketeering
trial in federal court in Chicago.  The firm has invested hundreds of millions of dollars
buying liens in states including New Jersey, Kentucky and
 Massachusetts , Kirk Allison, a vice president at M.D. Sass
Investors Services, testified at the trial.  Vinaya Jessani, who helped create M.D. Sass’s tax lien
unit, testified that most homeowners repay liens carrying high
interest rates, making the business a safe venture.  “There’s low risk,” he testified, according to a trial
transcript. “A very significant percentage of the tax liens
that we invested in will end up paying back with interest, and
the interest is a pretty good interest rate. So each asset is
likely to make money.”  Jury’s Verdict  A federal court jury found in favor of two lien-buying
firms that claimed that M.D. Sass and other companies secretly
worked together to buy and trade liens, according to court
records. The damages awarded will exceed $10 million, said
Jonathan Quinn, a lawyer at  Reed Smith  who represented the
plaintiffs.  Rotert, the lawyer for M.D. Sass at the trial, said the
firm plans to appeal.  “We believe the verdicts are incorrect as to the facts and
we think certain errors of law took place before and during the
trial,” Rotert said.  The Chicago case is Phoenix Bond & Indemnity Co. v. Bridge,
05-cv-04095, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  