-- Acme Morphs From Down-Home to Upscale With $32 Lobster
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/acme-morphs-from-down-home-to-upscale-with-32-lobster-review.html
We arrived on time for our 10 p.m.
reservation at Acme. We were seated 67 minutes later.  No apologies were made. No complimentary drinks were
offered. The host did insist that we settle our bar tab before
being seated.  Our food began arriving shortly before 11:30, precisely
when I had hoped to be leaving. I should have known better.  An absence of niceties is par for the course at  Manhattan ’s
Cajun-turned-Scandinavian hotspot. Don’t expect the bouncer who
grilled you on the way in to hold the door on your way out.  Acme is the Noho home of chef Mads Refslund, co-founder of
Noma in Copenhagen, which San Pellegrino called the  World’s Best
Restaurant . He favors local, seasonal ingredients, modern,
sometimes avant-garde techniques and unadulterated, earthy
flavors.  This is why porridge is starting to supplant risotto on New
York menus. Pearl barley with clams ($15) is Refslund’s superb
marine version, a suave showcase for tangy clams, sweet scallops
and nutty sunflower seeds.  And if there’s any doubt that vegetables are the new meat,
try black carrots with pine, blood orange and lardo ($12). The
hefty, hearty roots are cooked just past al dente, while the
pork fat plays brilliant, salty second fiddle.  Sherbet Glass  Then you wait 15 minutes for a server to clear your plates.
They’re removed not as a courtesy but because a runner is
standing by with your next course.  Staffers forgot dishes I ordered on two visits. Sadly, Acme
is less an ambassador for  Denmark ’s vibrant food scene as it is
an examplar of how willingly Manhattan diners allow themselves
to be treated like widgets.  When you order a glass of Stephane Coquillette (at $19, a
bargain for this regal first-growth Champagne) it’s served in a
passe coupe. The wide bowl, fine for sherbet, lets the bubbles
dissipate too quickly.  Whites, like the  Weinhof Scheu  Riesling ($12) are properly
chilled. But reds, like the  Ribera del Duero  ($12) might arrive
at sweaty room temperature. And wines by the glass are served in
cheap stems with thick-lips and small bowls.  Bowery Balthazar  All right, so Acme isn’t about personality. It’s about
looks -- simple and sexy, a Great Jones Street version of
Balthazar: dark woods, dim lighting, some cramped seating.
Waiters banged my chair as I sampled a plate of tender salt-
baked beets ($12).  Ravioli ($14) with Brussels sprouts, spinach and brown
butter contained so little filling that the pasta might have
been a study in negative space. Farmer’s eggs ($10), small bits
of cauliflower and foam served in eggshells, contained no
discernible egg or custard.  Refslund occasionally miscalculates his gastronomic
multiplication tables. He’s fine with foam, less skilled with
NaCl. How else explain mealy lobster ($32) infused with so much
sodium as to be nearly inedible? Rib eye ($32) was also a salt
lick, perhaps overcompensating for the lack of any other flavor,
including beef.  Vegan celery root soup with chestnuts and cacao ($10)
tasted liked strained  baby food . Raw bison and sweet shrimp with
white walnuts ($13) was slimy. Undercooked sunchokes (as
appealing as raw potatoes) were advertised as containing black
truffles; what I got was a mouthful of ash from the vegetable’s
violent hay roasting ($12).  Sing Out  So order those lovely carrots or the pearl barley. Save
enough to take with you, if only for the chance to sing, “Won’t
you come home, pearl barley?”  Follow with butter-poached chicken and eggs ($22), served
in a clay pot that imparts a pleasant mustiness. Black bass
($24) was everything it should have been: crispy skin and moist
flesh, complemented by sharp green tomato.  Although it’s well past midnight, we stay for dessert.
Bread porridge mixes the concentrated flavor of rye and the sour
tang of beer. It’s a fine finale. Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30; many under $20.  Sound Level: Loud, 80-85 decibels, but tolerable.  Date Place: Sixty-minute waits are not sexy.  Inside Tip: Great wheatgrass granita dessert.  Special Feature: Stellar mashed potatoes with bacon ($8).  Back on My Own Dime: Not just yet. I’ll get my Nordic-
inspired fare at Isa or  Frej  in Williamsburg.  Acme is at 9 Great Jones St., Noho. Information: +1-212-
203-2121;  http://acmenyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 