-- ADM, Corn Refiners Seek Dismissal From Sugar Producers’ Lawsuit
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-21T16:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/adm-corn-refiners-seek-dismissal-from-sugar-producers-lawsuit.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and four
other corn refiners asked a judge to dismiss them from a lawsuit
by sugar producers over allegedly false advertising that high-
fructose corn syrup is natural.  Lawyers for the corn refiners said at a hearing today
before U.S. District Judge Consuelo B. Marshall in Los Angeles
that the companies can’t be made liable for the statements of a
trade group of which they are members, the Corn Refiners
Association.  A group of sugar growers and refiners last year sued the
corn refiners and their trade association, claiming that an
advertising campaign that promotes high-fructose corn syrup as
“natural” and “nutritionally the same as table sugar” is
false and misleading.  The sugar producers, in an amended complaint filed in
November, said the corn refiners initiated the advertising
campaign in 2008 in response to the “growing vilification” of
high-fructose corn syrup, which is used as a sweetener in soft
drinks and has been linked to an increase in obesity in the
U.S., and a “resulting drop in sales.”  The corn refiners have sought approval from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration to substitute “corn sugar” for “high-
fructose corn syrup” on ingredient labels, according to the
complaint.  The sugar producers say corn sugar is a distinct sweetener
made from corn starch, whereas high-fructose corn syrup is a
man-made substance created by transforming some of the glucose
in corn syrup into fructose that doesn’t naturally occur in the
plant.  The sugar producers, which include  Sugar Land , Texas-based
 Imperial Sugar Co. (IPSU) , seven other companies and two trade groups,
seek triple damages under U.S. antitrust law and a court order
to stop the corn refiners from making the alleged false claims.  Marshall last year dismissed the individual corn refiners
from the case, saying the allegations were legally insufficient
to support a claim against them. She allowed the claim against
the trade association to go forward and gave the sugar producers
the opportunity to restate their claims against the individual
refiners.  Lawyers for the refiners said in their request to throw out
the amended claim that the sugar producers still fail to make
“individual and particular allegations” against the trade
group’s members, and instead “lump all of the companies
together as a single unit.”  The case is Western Sugar v. Archer-Daniels-Midland, 11-
3473, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  ( Los
Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 