-- Madonna Vows to Oppose Gay Law in Putin’s Hometown
-- B y   A n a s t a s i a   U s t i n o v a
-- 2012-03-21T21:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/madonna-vows-to-oppose-gay-law-in-putin-s-hometown.html
Madonna’s first tour in  Russia  drew
the ire of orthodox Christian activists. Now she vows to defy a
new law against promoting homosexuality when she performs in
President-elect Vladimir Putin’s hometown in August.  “I will come to St. Petersburg to speak up for the gay
community and to give strength and inspiration to anyone who is
or feels oppressed,” the pop star said by e-mail late
yesterday. “I’m a freedom fighter.”  The law, signed on March 7 by St. Petersburg Governor
Georgy Poltavchenko, a Putin ally and former KGB officer, bans
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgendered “propaganda” that
could give minors “the false perception that traditional and
nontraditional relationships are socially equal.”  Homosexuality was outlawed in the Soviet era and wasn’t
decriminalized in Russia until 1993. Seventy-six of the 193
members of the  United Nations  deem homosexuality illegal,
according to  Human Rights Watch . At least five countries,
including  Iran , impose the death penalty for consensual same-sex
relations, the New York-based advocacy group says.  Madonna, ranked the 8th highest-earning celebrity in Forbes
magazine’s 2010 list with estimated earnings of $58 million,
plans to return to Russia for the third time with a concert in
Moscow on Aug. 7, followed two days later by  St. Petersburg .
Tickets for both performances range from 1,500 rubles ($51) to
50,000 rubles apiece, according to PMI Corp. and Euro
Entertainment, the organizers of the events.  ‘Ridiculous Atrocity’  “I don’t run away from adversity,” Madonna, who has used
her fame to support gay rights, said in the e-mail. “I will
speak during my show about this ridiculous atrocity.”  Madonna’s first show in Russia six years ago was marred by
protests of Russian Orthodox activists who objected to her
performance of the song “Live to Tell,” which she sang while
wearing a crown of thorns and dangling from a cross.  During the singer’s second visit in 2009 on the Sticky and
Sweet tour, a Communist group urged her to sing a revolutionary
anthem like the Marseillaise as she performed near the Winter
Palace in St. Petersburg, which was stormed by the Bolsheviks in
1917. The palace now houses the Hermitage Museum.  The American pop star’s financial interests in Russia
extend beyond show business. She opened a Hard Candy upscale
fitness center in Moscow last year, a 35,000 square-foot (3,250
square-meter) facility less than 650 yards (600 meters) from the
Kremlin. This was the second Madonna-themed gym in the world,
after Mexico City. She plans to open a third in St. Petersburg,
 Europe ’s fourth-largest city.  ‘Lots of Criticism’  The Russian Orthodox Church, the dominant religious body in
a country of 143 million people, considers homosexuality a sin.
About 69 percent of Russians identify themselves as Orthodox,
according to a poll last August by the Moscow-based Levada
Center.  “There’s lots of criticism from the media community about
this law, but somehow most of the media forget about this
crucial word -- minors,” said Vladimir Vigilyansky, a spokesman
for the Moscow Patriarchate, by phone. “It’s about propaganda
among minors, not about banning homosexuality itself.”  Russia, which is preparing to host the Winter Olympics in
2014 and the soccer  World Cup  in 2018, was chastised for the
legislation by  Canada , which issued a warning to its citizens
who plan to travel to St. Petersburg to avoid “displaying
affection in public, as homosexuals can be targets of
violence.”  The former imperial capital, founded by Peter the Great in
1703, is the country’s top tourist destination and a host city
for the World Cup. About 2.3 million foreigners visited the city
in 2010, the last year for which government data is available.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anastasia Ustinova in в Чикаго at 
 austinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  