-- After Bo Xilai, Which Way Is China’s Red Ferrari Headed?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/after-bo-xilai-which-way-is-china-s-red-ferrari-headed-.html
“Seek truth from facts,” goes an
old Chinese saying favored by  Deng Xiaoping . That injunction
should also apply to the story of Bo Xilai, the recently ousted
party chief of Chongqing whose fall has become something of a
morality tale.  To hear some tea-leaf readers tell it, the high-flying Bo
was the creator of the “Chongqing model,” a program that melded
support for state-owned enterprises and measures to help the
poor with a relentless campaign against crime and corruption and
a rekindling of revolutionary fervor. But his zeal in these
latter two areas made the authorities in Beijing nervous. When
his comeuppance came, it represented a victory for reformist
liberals led by outgoing Premier  Wen Jiabao , proof that even a
“princeling” -- in this case, the son of Bo Yibo, one of Mao Zedong’s revolutionary comrades -- could be brought to heel.  Although no tears should be shed at Bo’s downfall, that
narrative is flawed. First, Bo was more an opportunist than an
ideologue. To the extent there was a “Chongqing model,” it was
largely self-serving: As a big-city mayor and former provincial
governor, Bo knew that higher  gross domestic product  and foreign
direct investment were what won attention and plaudits, and he
did his best to boost both. He favored  state-owned enterprises 
because that’s where the money was.  Fighting crime and corruption -- something that did not
dominate his earlier tenure in crime-ridden Liaoning Province --
were an excuse to confiscate property and resources, and to tar
the reputation of Wang Yang, his rival and predecessor in
Chongqing. His resort to Maoism was particularly cynical: Bo’s
family suffered during the Cultural Revolution, and his son has
spent more time on the swards of Harrow, Oxford and Harvard than
the pig farms of Zhejiang.  Rather than a story about conservatives versus reformers in
which the “good guys” won, the tale of Bo is no different than
that of a smart, flashy and ruthless Chicago ward boss who
stepped on too many toes in his climb to the top. In fact, if
Bo’s police chief had not run to the U.S. consulate last month
seeking asylum and telling tales of Bo’s misdeeds, Bo would
probably still be in his post, angling for a seat on the nine-
member Standing Committee that sets policy for the country.  The real lesson of Bo’s downfall is that the Communist
Party as a whole is losing its ability to stay on top of public
disaffection with widespread corruption and rising inequality.
Bo was able to tap that disaffection to fuel his political
ascent (never mind that his own downfall was reportedly
precipitated by his effort to  quash  an investigation of his own
family). His popularity testifies not only to the level of
public disgust, but also to the possibility of fissures within
the ruling elite over the handling of such challenges.  The best remedy for corruption, of course, is sunlight.
That’s never been one of the Communist Party’s likes, especially
when it comes to corruption and wealth. In fact, a few days
after Bo’s demotion, the authorities  reportedly  censored news of
a grisly crash in Beijing involving a Ferrari, a favored ride of
nouveau riche princelings (including  Bo’s son ). News of Bo’s
removal was heavily controlled on the Internet, and new
regulations have been put into place requiring microbloggers to
register with their real identities. As political rumors
ricocheted around the Internet earlier this week, they helped to
spark the biggest rise in credit default swaps for Chinese bonds
in four months.  Not all of Bo’s initiatives were bad. His effort in
Chongqing to loosen  China ’s infamous residence permit system
helped poor workers move to find better jobs -- an idea whose
broad outlines were endorsed at the National People’s Congress.
We can’t speak so kindly of Bo’s embrace of the gigantic state-
owned enterprises that have sucked up capital and distorted
economic development. Why not get them to channel part of their
outsize profits back to the central government, which would
enable Beijing to move to a  less regressive  tax structure and
create a pot of money -- 2 percent to 3 percent of GDP -- for
use on social programs?  The day before Bo’s defenestration, Wen spoke of the need
for political reform -- as he has in previous years, to little
seeming effect. Look for deeds, not words. Let’s see if Bo faces
charges for his behavior. And let’s see if his predecessor in
Chongqing, Wang Yang, who is credited for his deft handling of
the uprising late last year in the village of Wukan, is elevated
to the Standing Committee this fall. That might actually be a
victory for reformers.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 