-- AIJ Beckoned Japan Pensions With 50-Year-Old Return Targets
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-03-22T09:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/aij-beckoned-japanese-pensions-with-50-year-old-return-targets.html
Atsushi Kanbe, who manages a
Japanese pension fund for wholesalers of products from
vegetables to pottery to household goods, said he turned to  AIJ
Investment Advisors Co.  to help increase gains to pay retirement
benefits.  “Through word of mouth, we heard that fellow pensions had
invested with AIJ that offered high returns,” Kanbe told a
parliamentary committee on March 14. “We wanted to make sure we
never became one of the pensions that needed special government
oversight for being underfunded.”  More than half of Japanese corporate retirement funds give
workers predetermined benefits that don’t change when
investments fall, leaving companies to make up the difference.
Most of these use the same 5.5 percent return target established
about 50 years ago when  Japan  introduced employee pensions to
match returns of the national pension plan, according to
Kazuhiro Sugaya, a senior researcher at the Research Institute
for Policies on Pension & Aging in Tokyo.  Kanbe’s  Pension Fund of Japan Wholesalers Complex  is one of
dozens of small to mid-sized Japanese retirement plans with
limited investment knowledge that may have lost money with AIJ
after struggling for years to close funding gaps created by low
bond yields and two decades of slumping stocks. Tokyo-based AIJ
was suspended for a month on Feb. 24 by Japan’s financial
regulator after it couldn’t account for all of the 185.3 billion
yen ($2.2 billion) it managed for clients as of March 2011.  Pension Legacy  “AIJ’s incident highlights Japan’s pension industry legacy
of trying to meet a return that was set decades ago when the
economy and market were booming,” Sugaya said. “AIJ’s clients
may have been lured to riskier investments to achieve the
returns. In today’s Japanese market, you just can’t find
investments that would yield the 5.5 percent return many need to
meet to keep them alive.”  AIJ’s AIM Millennium fund had annualized returns of more
than 14 percent and returned 241 percent since it started in May
2002, according to an October 2011 newsletter to investors. The
firm hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing. Phone calls to AIJ’s
main office were answered by an automatic recording which didn’t
allow messages to be recorded.  Funding Shortage  More than 440 pension plans out of 595 under Japan’s
employee pension fund system had a combined 1.55 trillion yen
shortfall between assets and liabilities in fiscal 2010,
according to the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, which
oversees the pension industry. That was a 40 percent increase
from the previous year.  Japan has the world’s second-biggest pension market, with
assets of $3.47 trillion, after the U.S., which has $15.27
trillion, according to Towers Watson & Co.’s 2011 Global Pension
Asset Study. Of the Japanese total, about 80 trillion yen is in
corporate pensions, according to data from the health ministry.  The health ministry has set up a panel of industry experts
to review how corporate pensions invest and the practice of
allowing former bureaucrats to oversee their management, known
as “amakudari,” which means “descent from heaven.” The
committee  plans  to come up with a set of new guidelines in June.  Need for Alternatives  “There are expectations that the government will
strengthen oversight on alternative investments as a whole,”
said Yuki Arai, a former lawyer at  Tokyo  Eiwa Law Office, who
now co-heads Book Field Capital Co., a Tokyo-based investment
firm that has its own hedge fund. “But given the low interest
rates condition globally, there is no change in the fact that
pensions do need alternative investments.”  The Government Pension Investment Fund , the nation’s public
pension fund, is the biggest in the world with 108 trillion yen
in assets. The fund, with the majority of investments in
domestic bonds, had a  0.58 percent return  in the three months
ended Dec. 31. It has been selling bonds to cover payments as
the first of Japan’s baby boomers are set to turn 65 in 2012,
becoming eligible for pension.  Japan workers take part in a compulsory national pension
plan, similar to the Social Security in the U.S. The Japanese
system also allows corporations and industry associations to
operate pension funds that supplement the national program.  5.5% Return  Eighty-seven percent of corporate pensions under the
employees’ pension fund system targeted a 5.5 percent annual
return, health ministry data shows, even as  interest rates  have
been stuck close to zero for decades and the benchmark Nikkei
225 Stock Average is about a quarter of its peak in 1989 in the
world’s fastest aging society.  The Pension Fund Association, which manages about 11
trillion yen of retirement assets for company workers, lost 0.52
percent on its investments in fiscal 2010. Its average return
over the past 15 years has been 2.65 percent after it was
allowed to diversify assets in fiscal 1996, according to its
 website .  Twelve of the 84 pensions that invested with AIJ were under
government supervision because they had funding deficits,
according to the health ministry. Of the 582 retirement funds
under the employee pension fund system, 81 were under
supervision as of Dec. 1, according to the ministry.  Hunting for Returns  This is what Kanbe’s fund sought to avoid.  The pension that represents cooperatives of wholesalers of
a wide range of products nationwide first invested 200 million
yen with AIJ in fiscal 2005, and gradually increased its
investments to about 2.7 billion yen, said Kanbe, who was asked
to speak in front of the lower house financial committee to
present the fund’s involvement with the Tokyo-based asset
manager. The pension had 5.6 percent of its assets with AIJ as
of March 2011, according to the health ministry data. Kanbe
declined to comment beyond his testimony during the Diet session.  Kanagawa Prefecture Printing Industry Association, Fukuoka
Prefecture LP Gas and Koshinetstu Printers Association had more
than 30 percent of their assets with AIJ, health ministry data
showed. They pool contributions from workers at different
companies in the same industry or by region.  Kanagawa Prefecture’s printers invested 57 percent of their
assets, or 9.1 billion yen, in AIJ, the most by percentage,
according to the data. Calls to the pension were only answered
by an answering machine that didn’t take any messages.  Profits Versus Common Sense  “In the case of AIJ, underfunded Japanese pension funds
seemed to have placed profits ahead of common sense,” said
Jason Scharfman, managing partner of  Corgentum Consulting LLC  in
 New Jersey , which provides due diligence service to the hedge-
fund industry. “The job of pension fund managers is to exercise
due diligence and protect assets, not simply chase high
returns.”  Pension funds that invested with AIJ have yet to find out
how they are going to resolve their underfunding until they know
exactly where the money actually has gone, said an adviser to a
pension representing commodity industry workers in Tokyo, asking
not to be identified because the investment process is
confidential.  In the wake of the AIJ scandal, talks that taxpayer money
should be used to help cover the underfunding has risen.  Where is Money?  “The potential losses are different for each pension. The
most important thing is how much money will be able to be
collected with the most minimum loss possible because it’s a
fact that 200 billion yen has been invested,” Kiyoshi Murase,
executive managing director of the government-backed Pension
Fund Association, said in the Diet session.  Regulators will revoke AIJ’s license as early as tomorrow,
the Nikkei newspaper reported today, citing unidentified sources.
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission personnel may
raid AIJ’s offices as early as tomorrow as investigators seek
evidence showing the extent of the involvement of brokerage ITM
Securities Co., two government officials with knowledge of the
matter said today.  He added that each pension should be responsible for
covering the losses and underfunding as long as their
investments were not sizeable, while the question of whether
other sources of funds will be needed to save them should be
hashed out by lawmakers in political debate.  Pensions ranked AIJ, which marketed a hedge-fund strategy
that offered steady returns, first in a 2008 survey in an
industry publication owned by Rating & Investment Information
Inc. in Tokyo. The ranking was based on responses from pensions
and not R&I recommendations to investors, said Fujio Nakatsuka,
an R&I spokesman.  Favoritism Rankings  “It is important to make it clear that the rankings are
merely based on favoritism by the pensions, rather than the
actual recommendation of a fund by a rating company,” said
Kazuaki Sakura, the adviser to the retirement fund of  Hitachi
Kokusai Electric Inc. (6756) , a unit of Japan’s second-largest
manufacturer. The retirement fund didn’t invest in AIJ.  Japan used to advise pensions to allocate more than 50
percent of their portfolios to stable assets such as domestic
bonds, less than 30 percent to equities and overseas assets, and
less than 20 percent to real estate in what was known as the
5:3:3:2 rule.  That restriction was abolished in 1997, allowing the funds
to set their own allocation targets. Retirement plans began
investing in alternative assets, including  hedge funds , to
compensate for a lack of returns on traditional assets such as
bonds and equities.  Need for Consultants  Today, the majority of Japanese pensions invest in
alternative assets through major money managers affiliated with
both local and foreign large financial institutions, said
Hidenori Suzuki, the head of the strategic advisory group at
JPMorgan Asset Management (Japan) Ltd. in Tokyo.  Typically, about 70 percent of larger corporate pensions
would use consultants, with expertise in conducting due
diligence and introducing investments, Suzuki said. The number
would drop for smaller pensions, Suzuki said, without providing
a figure.  “Trust banks and major investment companies would be the
major players in introducing alternative assets to pensions,”
Suzuki said. “It seems as though there were pensions that
didn’t use consultants among those that invested with AIJ.”  Proper Gatekeeper  In the wake of AIJ, the government is considering placing
people with experience in financial products with pension plans
after criticism it sent former bureaucrats who may not have had
proper skills to conduct due diligence.  Retirement plans  that
had former bureaucrats overseeing their management totaled 399
out of 614 as of May 2009, health ministry data shows.  A former employee of the Social Insurance Agency
recommended AIJ’s investments to pension clients, setting up his
own consulting firm, according to reports by  Kyodo News , which
didn’t identify the employee.  “Unless you have a proper gatekeeper within the pensions,
it’s only natural that they don’t know what to invest in,
especially when it comes to non-traditional alternatives
investments such as hedge funds,” said Goro Ohwada, president
and chief executive officer of Aino Investment Corp., a Japanese
hedge fund. “Smaller multiemployer pensions don’t have the
capacity or expertise that bigger corporate pensions may have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  