-- Thai Rate-Cut Pause Lifts Currency as Growth Forecast Raised
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-03-21T08:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/thailand-holds-rate-as-asia-weighs-growth-against-inflation-1-.html
Thailand kept its key  interest rate 
unchanged, pausing after two reductions as it raised its
forecast for economic growth this year and predicted inflation
pressure may increase. Stocks and the baht rose.  The Bank of Thailand held its benchmark  one-day bond
repurchase rate  at 3 percent, it said in Bangkok today, a
decision predicted by 19 of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The other two forecast a 0.25 percentage-point cut.  Central banks from  Australia  to  South Korea  refrained from
cutting rates this month as higher energy costs boosted
inflation risks, reducing the scope for monetary stimulus to
counter a Chinese slowdown and  Europe ’s slump. Beyond today’s
decision, pressure for policy easing may persist in  Thailand ,
where  exports  and manufacturing have contracted after the worst
floods in almost 70 years hurt output.  “In their assessment the economy is improving, while
inflation risks are increasing,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo .
“That situation does not allow the BOT to cut rates, and the
next move may be a hike.”  The Thai baht added 0.2 percent to 30.71 per dollar as of
3:47 p.m. in Bangkok. It has gained more than 2 percent this
year. The benchmark SET index erased an earlier decline,
climbing 0.71 percent, taking its gains for the year to more
than 17 percent.  Appropriate Rate  “The current rate at 3 percent is appropriate to support
the economic recovery and make sure inflation will be within our
target,” Bank of Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said today at a briefing. “The central bank is
ready to adjust the rate if necessary.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  this month cautioned policy makers against a false sense
of security, highlighting elevated oil prices, debt levels in
developed nations and the risk of slowing growth in  emerging
markets .  Most Asian central banks have held rates in recent weeks or
indicated they may be ready to halt cutting borrowing costs. The
Philippine central bank may pause after reducing the benchmark
rate at both of its meetings so far this year as elevated oil
prices threaten to spur inflation, Governor Amando Tetangco
signaled this month.  Taiwan may leave the  discount rate  on 10-day loans to banks
at 1.875 percent tomorrow, all 11 economists in a separate
survey said.  The Thai central bank today raised its forecast for
economic growth this year to 5.7 percent from 4.9 percent, and
increased its estimate for average  core inflation  in 2012 to 2.4
percent from 2.2 percent. It raised the headline inflation
forecast to 3.4 percent from 3.2 percent.  Oil, Minimum Wage  Higher  oil prices  and a minimum wage increase may put
pressure on inflation in the second half of the year, Paiboon
said today. Crude oil has gained about 24 percent in the past
six months.  “We will closely monitor the impact of the wage rise
because this is the first time Thailand will have such a big
rise in a short period of time. We may underestimate its
impact,” he said.  The central bank will continue to use its core inflation
target of between 0.5 percent and 3 percent this year and will
review the plan next year to see whether a change to headline
inflation is required, he said.  Thailand’s economy, the biggest in  Southeast Asia  after
 Indonesia , contracted 9 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
the steepest decline since 1998, and expanded 0.1 percent in
2011. Exports shrank 6 percent in January, as factories
struggled to resume production and global demand weakened.  Growth Priority  “Concerns on growth will be the priority over inflation
this year,” Benjarong Suwankiri, an economist at TMB Bank Pcl
in Bangkok, said before the decision. “High prices are not that
worrisome compared to a stagnant economy,” he said, adding that
there is still a chance of a rate-cut later on.  Shipments “should improve” in February, Deputy Commerce
Minister Poom Sarapol said last week. A report this month showed
an improving U.S. labor market and IMF Deputy Managing Director
Zhu Min said this week that  China  is “heading for a soft
landing.”  HSBC Holdings Plc this week raised its forecast for Thai
growth this year to 5.5 percent from 4 percent, citing increased
public spending. Still, higher oil costs and the government’s
 minimum wage  increase may add price pressure, said  Frederic Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist.  “We believe officials will adopt a more hawkish tone and
deliver a rate hike in the fourth quarter,” he said in a
research note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  