-- Mali Military Blocks Presidential Palace After Gunshots
-- B y   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e
-- 2012-03-21T21:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/mali-military-blocks-presidential-palace-after-gunshots-2-.html
Soldiers in  Mali  blocked roads
around the presidential palace in Bamako, the capital, after
shots were heard earlier in the day, according to local media
reports.  Soldiers were stationed in the area around the state-owned
broadcaster, Radio Kledu and  Journal du Mali , a news website,
reported. The gunfire started just before a meeting between
soldiers and Mali’s defense minister about the Tuareg rebellion
that the army is battling in the country’s north, according to
London-based Control Risks.  Both of Office de la Radio-Television Malienne’s radio
stations and its two television channels were not broadcasting
as of 6 p.m. in Bamako. Journal du Mali said its employees had
been evacuated.  “The situation is currently unclear and unfolding
quickly,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said today in  Washington . The U.S. embassy in Bamako “is
monitoring the situation closely and has advised U.S. citizens
in Mali to shelter in place.”  “We understand that today the elected government met with
the military forces to discuss their concerns regarding troop
grievances and the conflict in the north,” she said in an e-
mailed statement. “We believe that grievances should be
addressed through dialogue, not through violence.”  Soldiers who fired shots into the air were demanding better
arms to fight against the Azawad National Liberation Movement,
Control Risks said on its website. The group, known by its
French acronym MNLA, started a campaign for autonomous rule in
Mali’s north with attacks on military camps in January.  The African Union Peace and  Security Council  expressed
“deep concern” about the rebellion, and the said the crisis
poses a threat to peace and stability in West Africa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  