-- Allen Stanford Cites Media ‘Tweets’ as Basis for New Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-21T17:42:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/allen-stanford-asks-u-s-judge-for-new-criminal-trial-1-.html
R. Allen Stanford is entitled to a
new trial because publicity prior to the six-week proceeding and
Twitter posts by reporters in the courtroom likely tainted the
jury, his lawyers told a U.S. judge.  The  Texas  financier, who was accused of leading a $7
billion international investment fraud, was found guilty of 13
criminal counts by a federal court jury in Houston on March 6.
Facing as long as 20 years in prison for each of four  wire fraud 
and five mail fraud charges, Stanford is scheduled to be
sentenced on June 14.  His lawyers, in a 71-page filing with U.S. District Judge
David Hittner, who presided over the case, said the pretrial and
midtrial publicity probably prevented the jury from being
impartial.  “This court failed to sequester the jury and permitted the
news media to occupy the courtroom during trial and permitted
the media to ‘tweet’ throughout the trial,” they said in a
filing late yesterday, referring to Twitter Inc.’s platform for
disseminating 140-character messages via the Internet.  Stanford, 61, led Houston-based  Stanford Financial Group 
and securities firm Stanford Group Co., as well as the Antigua-
based Stanford International Bank Ltd., which issued
certificates of deposit sold by the brokerage.  CD Depositors  At trial, prosecutors argued that Stanford misled investors
about how he and his organization were investing the CD
depositors’ money. Defense lawyers countered that the
organization maintained sufficient assets to honor its
commitments until it was closed after being sued by the
Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2009.  Stanford was indicted in June 2009. The criminal trial
started with jury selection on Jan. 23.  “This court never instructed the jury to stay off Twitter,
despite his knowledge that the media tweets were taking place,”
Stanford’s lawyers argued.  The judge’s failure to restrict reporters or adequately
instruct the jurors to avoid their reports violated Stanford’s
constitutional right to a fair and impartial jury, defense
lawyers Robert Scardino and Ali Fazel said.  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment, citing a gag order by the
judge.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  