-- Amazon Wrings Profit From Fulfillment as Spending Soars: Tech
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/amazon-wrings-profit-from-fulfillment-as-spending-soars-tech.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  executive Tim
Collins shows off shelves of Buzz Lightyear dolls and boxes of
Blow Pops as he describes how the world’s largest online
retailer keeps up with orders.  Carrying handsets that use algorithms to help, employees
must make the most efficient use of space in the 1.2 million-
square-foot warehouse in Phoenix -- down to within a fraction of
an inch.  “Putting a blender and jumper cables together is a pretty
strange feat,” said Collins, head of North American fulfillment
for Amazon. “Our job is to build infrastructure that can handle
pretty much anything.”  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is trying to squeeze
every penny possible from the 17 fulfillment centers he built
for about $4.6 billion last year, part of a spending spree that
sent operating expenses up 44 percent in 2011 and shaved 2.3
percentage points off margins, even as sales rose 41 percent. To
reverse the pinch, Amazon is handling a broader range of
products and offering services to third-party vendors, so that
its giant warehouses themselves will become profit hubs.  “They’re building out fulfillment because they realize
that fast and predictable delivery of product is a huge driver
of their business,”  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC Partners LP
in  New York , said in an interview. “With the revenue growth
rate that they have, it’s not like they’re doing this just
because they want to. They’re trying to catch up to their sales
growth.”  Kiva’s Orange Robots  The investment in fulfillment centers last year -- the
company’s largest operating expense, at 9.5 percent of sales --
brought the total number of warehouses to 69. To help further
automate its order-fulfillment business, Seattle-based Amazon
agreed to buy warehouse-robot maker Kiva Systems Inc. earlier
this week for $775 million, the company’s biggest acquisition
since its purchase of shoe retailer Zappos.com in 2009.  Kiva’s orange robots, which can dart under shelves of
products and move them around, hasten fulfillment and are used
by Quidsi Inc., the company behind Soap.com and Diapers.com that
Amazon acquired for about $545 million last year.  Third parties that use Amazon’s warehouses and shipping
services are helping to drive the company’s expansion. Units
sold by outside retailers increased 65 percent last quarter and
made up 36 percent of unit shipments, compared with 30 percent a
year earlier. The shift helped earnings reach 38 cents a share
in the fourth quarter, topping estimates, even as sales fell
short.  Outside Vendors  That’s because receipts from outside vendors that sell on
its site bring higher margins for Amazon. It logs the
commission, usually about 10 percent, on any item sold by a
third party as 100 percent profit and collects fees if the
partner elects to fulfill through its chain of warehouses,
according to Mercent Corp.  “You’re training the consumer to start and end their
shopping process at Amazon, without necessarily considering
online avenues or offline avenues for purchase,” said Mercent
CEO Eric Best, whose company helps retailers improve online
sales, including those on sites such as Amazon and  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
“Amazon actually controls the experience and can ensure that
consumers are getting consistent, rapid fulfillment. And it’s
zero inventory risk.”  Stowers and Pickers  To get items out the door at Amazon’s Phoenix warehouse,
workers called stowers slot items into shelves divided by
plastic and spaced at a distance that a computer has dubbed the
most cost-effective. Their counterparts, called pickers, do the
opposite in an area just big enough to optimize time spent
reaching between shelves and pivoting to set orders on a
conveyor belt, on their way to be packed and shipped.  Redcats USA , which sells mostly women’s apparel, yielded
more than $10 million in revenue last year from sales through
Amazon, said Yann Tanini, vice president of e-commerce at the
company, owned by PPR Group.  Sellers like Redcats have an incentive to use  Amazon  not
only for access to consumers -- unique visitors to the site
reached 87.9 million in December, Nielsen estimates -- but also
for fulfillment centers where programmers tweak algorithms on
the spot to ensure products get in and out the door in the most
efficient way possible. Redcats saw more than a 500 percent rise
in sales on Amazon in its first year, making it worth the fee it
pays, Tanini said.  Driving Traffic  “To get someone to come to your store, you pay in
advertising, you pay by sending out catalogs,” Tanini said in
an interview. “So you have to compare the commission to what
you’re investing to drive traffic.”  Amazon usually took a 15 percent commission, Tanini said,
implying it would have charged about $1.5 million. While that’s
a small portion of the $48 billion in  revenue  Amazon generated
last year, with more than third of total unit sales coming from
outside vendors like Redcats, sales by third parties are
boosting results, said Mercent’s Best, who used to work in
Amazon’s third-party division.  More retailers have been signing up for Fulfillment by
Amazon, or FBA, where the company stores their products in its
warehouses, ships them and makes those items eligible for Amazon
Prime free two-day shipping, Best said. Third parties pay the
company $1 to pack an item, 37 cents a pound for weight handling
and 45 cents per cubic foot for storage.  Fulfillment Fees  Amazon also offers fulfillment on orders that retailers
don’t sell through its site. In those cases, the company charges
the seller more for order and weight handling and doesn’t log a
cut of the sale as revenue. Third parties have to opt in to  FBA .
Otherwise, they can sell on Amazon.com and fulfill themselves.  To ensure orders aren’t sitting in warehouses so long that
it stops being cost-efficient, Amazon charges more the longer a
product takes up space on its shelves, Best said.  “We’ve tried to set our fees for FBA very in-line with the
true cost drivers of what’s going on,” Tom Taylor, vice
president of FBA, said in an interview. “The Amazon retail
business can be very effective, but it certainly can’t create
the selection at the same pace that 2 million sellers are able
to. Third party is growing much faster than the rest of online
and, in some ways, greater than the average of Amazon itself.”  Shipping Costs Surge  At the same time, third-party sales have contributed to
shipping  expenses , which soared 55 percent to $4 billion,
compared with the $1.6 billion in fees from outside vendors the
company collected last year. That followed a 45 percent rise in
shipping costs for 2010 -- a faster pace than the average
increase of 24 percent annually in the four years prior,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company will need
to find other ways to compensate for the higher spending, said
Jason Helfstein, an analyst at New York-based Oppenheimer & Co.  “You either raise the price for Prime, you get people to
put more items in the cart at once, or you sell more digital
media, which has no shipping costs,” Helfstein said in an
interview. “Those are the three ways you’ll ultimately get
margins to grow materially. We don’t know yet how they’re going
to do that and at what order and at what magnitude.”  So Amazon is wooing sellers, such as Amoretti, an arm of
Noushig Inc. that sells flavored syrups and cocktail mixes,
usually in bulk. The company has signed up for FBA as part of a
plan to reach individual consumers.  “We have a joke -- Amazon gets our products to our
customers faster than I can run out to the warehouse and grab it
myself,” said Paul Barsoumian, customer-service supervisor at
 Amoretti . “It’s a huge number in terms of the savings. If you
say nine different people have to touch an item before it goes
through the door, compared with zero people when we fulfill
through Amazon, it could be a 700 percent, 800 percent decrease
in costs.”  ‘Benefits in Scale’  Amazon’s size -- its  market value  is $87.5 billion -- lets
it negotiate low rates with shipping carriers and pass on
savings to sellers and consumers, Taylor said.  “In the case of transportation, we always have some
benefits in scale,” he said. “The economics allow us therefore
to go back and offer customers two-day shipping.”  Smaller retailers can’t match Amazon’s services, Taylor
said, recalling a conference he attended where one such merchant
was giving advice on how to cut fulfillment costs, telling the
audience to pay attention to details, like shelf size.  “I’m in the audience thinking, well, it’s not only the
size of the racks, it’s also the height of the racks, the type
of equipment that you would get in there and the air pillow
density and the pressure in the air pillow and the distribution
of box size,” he said. “This is all the stuff Amazon loves to
do. At some point, the seller should say, ‘This is the type of
stuff I should outsource to Amazon.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  