-- AMR to Trim Eagle Costs $75 Million With Up to 600 Job Cuts
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-21T21:51:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/amr-to-cut-american-eagle-costs-by-75-million-as-most-jobs-safe.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR) 
said it must cut annual spending by $75 million at regional
carrier American Eagle while paring as many as 600 jobs as the
company restructures in bankruptcy.  About half of the cost reductions will come from lowering
pay and reducing overtime, with the balance achieved through
changing unproductive work rules, scheduling restrictions and
retirement-account contributions, Eagle Chief Executive Officer
Dan Garton said today on a media conference call.  The Eagle plan builds on American’s quest for $1.25 billion
in annual labor-cost reductions and 13,000 job cuts. Changes
being sought in the larger airline’s pilot contract will shape
the amount of flying done by Eagle, which was due to be spun off
before AMR’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.  “It is imperative that Eagle reduce its costs to compete
aggressively against other regional airlines” and have
comparable rates, Garton said. He said  Fort Worth , Texas-based
AMR wants other carriers to bid for flying now done by Eagle.  Most workforce cuts will come via attrition to minimize
furloughs, Garton said. The $75 million in cost savings
represents about 13 percent of Eagle’s labor spending, he said.
Eagle has 13,500 employees and the number of positions
eliminated will be about 500 to 600, said  Bruce Hicks , an AMR
spokesman.  Parking Planes  Eagle also needs to retire older and less-efficient
aircraft and expand the use of larger regional jets to ferry
passengers to and from hub airports, AMR said today in a
regulatory filing, without detailing the fleet changes or giving
specifics on compensation reductions.  Adding regional jets with 70 or more seats at Eagle may be
an opportunity for  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , because the regional unit’s
fleet now consists chiefly of smaller  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  planes,
according to Fadi Chamoun, a BMO Capital Markets analyst in
Toronto. Eagle has 47 Bombardier 70-seaters, the most the
carrier can fly under its current labor contract.  Embraer models with 35 to 50 seats “are uneconomical to
operate at current fuel prices and will likely be retired under
current Chapter 11 restructuring in favor of a move towards
larger RJs,” Chamoun said in a note to clients. He recommends
buying shares of Montreal-based Bombardier.  ‘Devil in Details’  Management at Eagle met first with unions as a group to go
over the broad-cost reduction plan, and planned more sessions
today with individual unions to share additional information.  “The devil is always in the details, and that’s what we
don’t have yet,” said Jim Little, president of the Eagle
chapter of the Transport Workers Union, which represents
mechanics and baggage handlers. “We weren’t alarmed by anything
we heard this morning. We kind of expected some of these things.
Now we’ll see what exactly the specificity is and how deep” the
cuts are.  Proposed contract cuts are “outrageous” and
“overreaching,” the Association for Flight Attendants, which
represents 1,800 Eagle employees, said today in a statement. The
union didn’t share specifics on what Eagle management proposed.  Eagle’s chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association will
analyze the management plan in the coming weeks and then begin
negotiations to reach a deal “that is workable from both sides
of the table,” the union said today in a statement.  Eagle generated $2.5 billion in revenue last year, or about
10 percent of AMR’s total.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at   mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  