-- Tevez Helps Manchester City Close Premier League Gap to United
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-22T00:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/manchester-city-rallies-to-beat-chelsea-2-1-in-premier-league.html
Manchester City  scored two goals in
the last 12 minutes to beat Chelsea 2-1 in English soccer’s
Premier League and cut  Manchester United ’s lead to a point,
while Arsenal climbed above Tottenham into third place.  Substitute  Carlos Tevez , playing his first match for City
since September, set up Samir Nasri for the winning goal in the
85th minute at Etihad Stadium last night. City’s  Sergio Aguero 
had made it 1-1 from the penalty spot in the 78th minute
following Gary Cahill’s opener for Chelsea on the hour.  The comeback extended City’s winning home run to 20
straight Premier League matches stretching back to Feb. 27, 2011,
breaking the record set by crosstown rival United from Oct. 30,
2010, to Oct. 23, 2011. Both Manchester clubs have nine games
left, with City scheduled to host United on April 30.  “It’s a massive result,” City defender  Micah Richards 
told  Sky Sports . “After we went 1-0 down heads could have
dropped, but we kept on going and managed to get three points.
We gave everything and showed good character.”  Arsenal won 1-0 at Everton on  Thomas Vermaelen ’s eighth-
minute goal to move into third place ahead of Spurs, who drew 1-
1 at home with Stoke City.  Queens Park Rangers got three goals in the last 13 minutes
after trailing 2-0 to beat Liverpool. Jamie Mackie scored in
stoppage time to give QPR a 3-2 win that lifted the London club
out of the three-team relegation zone at the bottom of the
standings.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  sent Tevez on six minutes
after Cahill’s deflected shot put Chelsea ahead. The Argentine
striker, who left the team for three months without permission
after a touchline disagreement with Mancini during a Champions
League game, helped spark the turnaround.  Tevez Assist  Aguero tied it from the penalty spot with 12 minutes
remaining after  Michael Essien  handled Pablo Zabaleta’s shot.
Seven minutes later, Tevez’s short pass opened up space for
Nasri, who lofted the ball over Chelsea goalkeeper  Petr Cech .  “I’m happy, because he did well,” Mancini said of Tevez.
“Also he’s not in good form. I don’t think he’s fit 100 percent,
but he knows football.”  Rafael van der Vaart’s stoppage-time header earned the draw
against Stoke to end Tottenham’s run of three straight league
defeats. The result enabled Arsenal to move into third place
with 55 points, one ahead of its north London rival and 14
behind second-place City. On Feb. 1, Tottenham’s advantage over
the Gunners was 12 points.  Arsenal secured its sixth straight league win when
Vermaelen headed in the only goal at Goodison Park last night.
Everton was denied a tying goal when Royston Drenthe’s effort
was wiped out by offside, though television replays suggested
the goal should have stood.  Lead Lost  Liverpool blew a 2-0 lead at QPR after goals by Sebastian
Coates and Dirk Kuyt. Shaun Derry’s 78th-minute header made it
2-1 before former Liverpool striker  Djibril Cisse  also nodded in.
Jose Enrique’s missed clearance allowed substitute striker
Mackie to slide his shot under goalkeeper Pepe Reina to complete
the comeback in three minutes of added time.  The win took Rangers into 17th place with 25 points, two
more than Bolton, which has played one game fewer.  “It’s just the beginning for us,” QPR manager  Mark Hughes 
told his team’s website. “We know there are huge challenges
that lie ahead, but this will give us an incredible lift. We
need to continue with this momentum now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  