-- Hankook Plans to Raise Tire Prices 5% as Rubber Costs Rise
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-03-21T08:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/hankook-tire-plans-to-raise-prices-5-as-rubber-costs-rise.html
Hankook Tire Co. (000240) ,  South Korea ’s
largest producer, plans to raise prices as much as 5 percent
this year to reflect the higher cost of rubber, President Cho Hyun Bum said.  The increase may help the company post better  earnings  than
it had previously expected, Cho, who’s also chief strategy
financial officer at the Seoul-based tiremaker, said in an
interview yesterday.  Hankook, the biggest seller of passenger-vehicle tires in
 China , is joining companies such as  Aeolus Tyre Co. (600469)  in raising
prices after the cost of material climbed 27 percent in 2012.
Profit at the company will probably rise 78 percent to 631.6
billion won ($561 million), according to the average of 26
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “This shows Hankook’s confidence and its pricing power has
risen,” said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst at  KB Investment &
Securities Co. (HISZ)   Hankook rose 4.2 percent, its biggest gain in more than a
month, to close at 43,750 won in Seoul trading today. That
compares with a 0.7 percent decline in the benchmark Kospi stock
index. The tiremaker, whose customers include  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , has fallen 3.3 percent this
year.  Prices Will Fall  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  will increase prices of consumer
tires by as much as 6 percent next month,  Tire Review  reported
on its website.  Passenger tire prices rose an average of 15 percent last
year, according to Modern Tire Dealer, a U.S. trade publication.
Raw material prices climbed 27 percent per tire, the publication
said, citing Saul Ludwig, a managing director at Northcoast
Research Holdings LLC.  Hankook increased tire prices by about 12.5 percent last
year, according to KB Investment’s Shin. While rubber prices
have continued to climb on a seasonal shortage of supply, costs
will eventually fall, he said.  Average prices of so-called natural rubber is expected to
fall to $4 a kilogram this year and 2013, compared with $4.60
last year, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  estimates in
January.  No.1 in China  Separately, Cho said he expects Hankook to keep its lead in
China, which  generated  about 14 percent of the company’s revenue
last year. It currently has two plants in China that produce 30
million units annually between them. More than two-thirds of the
tires produced in China are sold in the local market, said Cho.  Hankook Tire entered the Chinese market in 1996 and built
production facilities in Jiangsu and Jiaxing three years later.  By 2003, Hankook became the country’s largest producer and
has held more than 20 percent of the passenger market since
2010, the company said.  “We expect the company’s growth in China to continue well
above the forecast market average this year,” Cho said, even as
rising competition from other global players pose as a
challenge. “This year, the plan is to maintain our market
share,” he said.  Tire output in China may rise 6 percent this year, matching
the pace of 2011, as domestic demand remains “robust,” Fan Rende, head of the China Rubber Industry Association, said in an
interview in Qingdao on March 20.  BMW Supplier  Hankook Tire has been supplying tires to BMW since July
from a plant in  Hungary . So far, the company supplies tires to
the Mini, and 1 series models. Hankook and BMW have “almost
finalized” terms for a deal to supply tires for the 3 series,
according to Cho, increasing the likelihood of Hankook becoming
the official tire supplier at all platforms in the German
automaker.  “An automaker does not select a tire manufacturer to just
get supply for smaller cars,” Cho said. “ They plan to get
tires across the board, so eventually we expect to become their
official supplier that supplies the whole model class,” he
said.  The goal is to become a key supplier taking up 30 percent
of total supply for one of the top 3 luxury automakers of BMW,
 Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit, namely, Cho said.
After the deal with BMW, other premium brands have shown
interest in Hankook and negotiations are under way with some of
those players, he said, without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  