-- Tanzania Plans State-Run Board to Handle Mining-Permit Requests
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-03-21T10:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tanzania-plans-state-run-board-to-handle-mining-permit-requests.html
Tanzania may “soon” appoint a
state-run board to handle mining permits including a backlog of
applications from companies including  African Eagle Resources
Plc (AFE)  and  Uranium One Inc. (UUU) , said a senior government official.  Tanzanian lawmakers changed the way the mining industry is
managed in 2010 by passing a law that raised the royalty paid on
minerals to 4 percent, from 3 percent, and gave the government
shareholding rights in future projects. Tanzania vies with Mali
to be Africa’s third-largest gold producer, after South Africa
and Ghana. It also has the world’s only known tanzanite deposit
at the foot of  Mount Kilimanjaro , Africa’s tallest peak.  “The Mining Act 2010 requires a mining advisory board to be
established to review mining development agreements and renewal
or issuance of new permits and licenses,” Ally Samaje, acting
minerals commissioner, said by phone yesterday from  Dar es
Salaam , the commercial capital. “The process of constituting
that board is ongoing, and it could be established soon.” He
didn’t specify a timeline.  London-based African Eagle’s projects in Tanzania include a
nickel exploration program at Dutwa, about 100 kilometers (62
miles) east of Mwanza on Lake Victoria. Uranium One, a Toronto-
based explorer, is seeking to develop the Mkuju River site,
located about 470 kilometers southwest of Dar es Salaam.  Apart from a special mining license, Tanzania must also
give environmental clearance for the Mkuju River project
situated in the Selous Game Reserve, which is designated by the
United Nations as World Heritage Site, said Samaje.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 