-- Appalachian Coal Fights for Survival on Shale Boom: Commodities
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-03-21T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/appalachian-coal-fights-for-survival-on-shale-boom-commodities.html
Coal mining in Appalachia has
survived deadly explosions, the Great Depression and the
country’s largest armed insurrection since the Civil War. The
latest threat is booming shale-gas production.  U.S. power utilities are favoring natural gas, which is
trading at its cheapest in a decade as hydraulic fracturing
opens up previously inaccessible reserves. Consumption of coal
to generate electricity will fall 5 percent in 2012 to less than
900 million tons, a 16-year low, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  Mining companies in Appalachia, an area covering 12 eastern
states and home to 85 percent of U.S. coal mines, have cut at
least 21 million tons of production this year, according to
Doyle Trading Consultants in New York. The industry needs to
curtail about another 90 million tons nationwide, with the
“lion’s share” coming from Appalachia, to stem losses,
according to CRT Capital Group LLC.  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) 
and  James River Coal Co. (JRCC) , which mine in the region, have fallen
18 percent and 14 percent respectively this year.  “A lot of the marginal producers in Appalachia that were
able to hang on in 2009 are in a much worse situation today,”
Kuni Chen, an analyst with CRT in  Connecticut , said in an
interview.  Average operating costs now exceed coal prices for the
first time in three years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries. Appalachian coal, the U.S. benchmark
grade, fell 28 percent in the past 12 months. Coal futures
closed 0.4 percent lower at $61.75 a ton on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Rising Costs  So-called mining cash costs in the region climbed 9.2
percent to $60.28 a ton in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  Gas futures in  New York  have tumbled 51 percent in the same
period. Gas inventories were 51 percent above their five-year
average on March 9 as surging production combined with the
warmest winter in 10 years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  For U.S. power utilities, who consumed 90 percent of the
country’s coal  production  in 2010, the prospect of relatively
cheaper gas supplies now and in the foreseeable future has
pushed them to switch some of their generation to gas-burning
plants from units that use coal.  Gas for April delivery rose 1.1 percent to $2.36 per
million British thermal units at 2:30 p.m. in New York. Gas
futures traded at $2.204 per million Btu on March 13, the lowest
intraday price since Feb. 15, 2002. Gas is down 22 percent in
2012, the worst performer on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
Commodity Index.  Commodity Prices  “Power prices are in the tank,” said Gordon Howald, a
utility analyst with Doyle Trading Consultants in New York. “In
this environment, nobody’s building anything but natural gas,”
he said, referring to power-plant construction.  U.S. coal companies have faced slumping commodity prices
before. Coal prices declined in 2009 after the financial crisis
led to a recession. U.S. coal production fell 8.3 percent that
year, according to  data  from the U.S. Department of Energy.  Appalachian output dropped to 270 million tons in 1932 from
a peak before the Great Depression in 1926 of 500 million tons,
according to  data  from the  U.S. Geological Survey . In
 Pennsylvania , home to U.S. Steel and Bethlehem Steel, production
plunged 54 percent in the period, the data show.  Mine Explosions  The region’s coal industry recovered from earlier crises.
In 1921, police and troops helped put down a  revolt  near the
town of Matewan by thousands of West Virginian miners seeking to
unionize, according to the Friends of Blair Mountain, an
activist group seeking to preserve the area.  More recently, safety has become a focus. Coal-mine
 explosions  have killed 59 miners in West Virginia,  Alabama  and
 Kentucky  since 2001, according to data from the  Mine Safety and
Health Administration , part of the U.S. Department of Labor. In
April 2010, 29 miners died in a blast at Upper Big Branch, a
Massey Energy Co. mine in  West Virginia .  Alpha, which completed its $7.1 billion takeover of Massey
in June, in December agreed to pay $209.3 million to end a
criminal investigation and civil proceedings related to the
explosion.  Producers in the region face challenges that didn’t exist
in the last downturn in 2009. Inventories of the fuel held by
domestic customers will soar to a 10-year high at the end of
2012, according to Doyle Trading. Mining companies also can’t
rely on sales to foreign steelmakers to compensate as prices for
those exports have declined.  Export Demand  Metallurgical coal, a premium coal variety used that in the
U.S. is mined almost entirely in Appalachia, is used in steel
blast furnaces. The raw material is typically more profitable
than thermal coal sold to power stations. Steelmakers outside
the U.S., who  purchase  about 72 percent of the country’s output
of metallurgical coal according to the EIA, may buy this year at
a slower rate.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. dropped its estimate for growth in
steel output in  China , the biggest producer of the metal, to 2
percent from 6 percent. Andre Benjamin, a New York-based analyst
at Goldman, said in a March 18 note that prices for U.S.
metallurgical coal may fall to $175 a ton in 2014 after touching
$225 this year.  Environmental Rules  Mark Levin, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,
 Virginia , predicts metallurgical coal exports will fall to 61
million tons in 2012 from a record 69 million tons in 2011.  “It’s simply hard for us to imagine 2012 U.S. met exports
being anywhere close to 2011 levels,” Levin said in a note
yesterday.  Meanwhile, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is
proposing the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule to cap sulfur-
dioxide and nitrogen-dioxide emissions. Coal-fired  power plants 
account for most of those two pollutants, according to the EPA.  “That has really put a chill on utility buying,” Peter Socha, chief executive officer of James River, said at an
industry conference on March 6.  Appalachia will produce 322 million short tons of coal in
2012, a 5 percent decline from last year, according to an
 outlook  published March 6 by the EIA.  James River and other Appalachian coal producers -- Alpha,
 Patriot Coal Corp. (PCX)  and  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI)  -- are the worst-
performing U.S. members of the  Stowe Global Coal Index (COAL)  so far
this year.  Alpha Cuts  Alpha, which gets most of its revenue from Appalachia, said
Feb. 3 it expects to reduce output by about 2.5 million tons a
year of thermal coal and 1.5 million tons of metallurgical coal
because of “adverse” market conditions. Analysts have widened
their projected first-quarter loss for the company by 90 percent
in the past 10 days to 1.9 cents a share, according to  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rick Nida, a spokesman for Alpha, and Janine Orf, a
spokeswoman for Patriot, didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment. Consol will keep monitoring demand and respond
accordingly, Lynn Seay, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  Arch will maintain its timetable for developing its
metallurgical-coal projects including Tygart Valley in northern
Appalachia, Kim Link, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  