-- Apple Antitrust Suit Would Aid Amazon: Scott Turow
-- B y   S c o t t   T u r o w
-- 2012-03-21T23:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/apple-antitrust-suit-would-aid-amazon-book-monopoly.html
Are  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and the big trade
publishers colluding to manipulate the market in electronic
books?  The U.S. Justice Department seems to think so, and is said
to be near filing an antitrust lawsuit. Let’s hope it
doesn’t: Putting an end to the deal Apple and the publishers
have reached on selling e-books would be grim news for authors
and readers alike.  The Justice Department has been investigating whether the
publishers colluded in adopting, for the sale of e-books, the
same “agency model” pioneered by Apple in selling iTunes. Under
that setup, Apple acts as the publishers’ sales agent, taking a
cut (usually 30 percent) and leaving it to publishers to set the
prices of the e-books they publish.  I have no way of knowing whether the publishers colluded.
My friends in publishing insist that price was never part of the
discussions, but the  Justice Department  prosecutors seem to
think they have a compelling case. All I can say as an author --
and as president of the  Authors Guild , the nation’s largest
membership organization of professional book writers -- is that
if the government wants to intervene in the literary
marketplace, I hope it will consider the complex ecology of
bookselling in the U.S.  Because if we reinstate the status quo before Apple’s
agency-model breakthrough, then bookstores and publishers are
going to be the first casualties. Right behind them will be
readers, who will see the diversity of titles and authors
diminish while leading titles get more expensive.  Bookselling Darth Vader  Looming over this whole discussion is, of course,
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , which I consider the Darth Vader of the
literary world. I admire its success in creating a new, wildly
successful business model, but it has a deserved reputation as a
frequently unscrupulous competitor. Last December, for example,
Amazon infuriated retailers for products such as electronics and
DVDs when it encouraged its customers to enter brick-and-mortar
stores to gather pricing info on items that Amazon then promised
to sell them at a discount.  When it comes to books, Amazon has often used its huge
market power to further increase its influence. Some analysts
project that Amazon will own more than half the U.S. book
business across  all formats  by the end of this year. Not only
does Amazon have 75 percent of the market in online sales, but
it is spreading its tentacles to other areas. It now owns
Audible.com, the largest seller of downloadable audio books, and
BookSurge, an on-demand printer of self-published and other
books offered only by publishers as individual copies. Last May,
Amazon announced it was launching Amazon Publishing, headed by
the redoubtable industry veteran Larry Kirshbaum, to compete
hand-to-hand with the publishers.  Competitors fear that Amazon will use its very  deep pockets 
to buy up the most profitable authors, whose success generally
supports trade-book publishers’ other titles. Amazon already
offers Kindle Singles, shorter works by established authors
available solely on Kindle, leading many to suspect that the day
isn’t far off when readers wanting, say, the latest by James Patterson will be able to buy it only from Amazon.  Even without Amazon, trade publishing would be a  troubled
business . The competition from free content on the Internet --
and the growth of video games and cable TV -- has caused a
steady drop in sales since 2001, with reading as a pastime
declining. While there has been some  recovery  since 2008, fueled
by the growth of e-books and young adult titles, publishing
remains an industry dominated by pessimism and uneven revenues.  Bricks, Mortar, Failure  Chief among the reasons is the death spiral of the
traditional brick-and-mortar bookstore. The discounting of
bestsellers by the large chains destroyed the financial
underpinnings of independent stores, and the rise of online
bookselling, led by Amazon, cut the legs off the chains, with
Borders Group Inc. closing all of its doors last year and Barnes
& Noble Inc. struggling to survive.  Amazon initially achieved e-book market dominance by doing
two things: publishing new digital titles at the same time they
were released in print, and selling them at a loss -- at $9.99,
they were often several dollars less than what publishers
charged Amazon, which inhibited bookstores and other online
retailers from selling e-books.  Without real competition, Amazon has historically made
suppliers knuckle under. Last month, it pulled from its site all
e-books offered by the Independent Publishers Group, a
collection of small publishers, because IPG balked at Amazon’s
terms when its contract came up for renewal. In the print-on-
demand market, where Amazon’s platform has become the principal
sales venue, Amazon has demanded that smaller publishers use
BookSurge at higher prices than competitors charge, or else have
their “buy” buttons  disappear  from Amazon.com.  Given all of this, publishers and authors saw a situation
approaching where Amazon was the dominant publisher and seller
of books, increasing profits by offering fewer titles at higher
prices. Enter an unlikely white knight:  Steve Jobs .  The iPad -- unveiled in January 2010, shortly after Barnes
& Noble’s Nook became available -- made Apple’s proven iTunes-
and-apps agency model for digital content relevant to book
sales. Five of the largest publishers jumped on with Apple’s
model, even though those publishers knew they would make less
money on every e-book they sold through Apple than what Amazon
was paying them. (Which shows that the alleged price-fixing
conspiracy is one of the oddest in history, since it was, by the
government’s logic, collusion to lose money.)  Amazon responded with a typical show of power. When John
Sargent, the chief executive officer of Macmillan Publishing,
went to  Seattle  in that month to tell Amazon executives about
his company’s adoption of the agency model, Amazon pulled the
 buy buttons  for every Macmillan title on its site -- not just e-
books -- for a week. Yet now, it seems, the government is taking
Amazon’s side.  Diverse Literary Culture  As someone lucky enough to be a best-selling author, I have
personally profited from many of the tactics I am decrying. The
heavy discounting of best-sellers meant I sold more books and
thus made more money because royalties on physical books are
paid as a percentage of the cover price. Even Amazon’s e-book
pricing practices were better for me than the agency model.  But I am also a reader who believes that our literary
culture and our democracy are at their best with the greatest
diversity of voices. This comes from allowing the largest number
of authors possible to maintain careers as professional writers.  Physical bookstores offer not simply an intoxicating
experience for serious readers. They have an irreplaceable role
in introducing new writers. Market research consistently shows
that readers are far more adventurous in their choice of books
when in a bookstore than when shopping online. In bookstores,
readers are open to trying new genres and new authors: It’s by
far the best way for new works to be discovered.  Publishing shouldn’t have to choose between bricks and
clicks. A robust book marketplace demands both bookstore
showrooms to properly display new titles and online distribution
for the convenience of customers. (Apple thrives on this very
model: a strong retail presence to display its high-touch
products coupled with vigorous online distribution.)  It may seem strange to hear the president of the Authors
Guild expressing sympathy for the plight of American publishers.
We have been at each other’s throats since the guild came into
being a century ago, and we still have serious differences.  But publishers, big and small, have played a vital role in
broadening American literary culture. They add value for authors
with editing and marketing, and most importantly by advancing
the money so that writers can write. If publishing ultimately
goes under, to be replaced by a model in which authors sell
their books directly to the reading public online, it will
become a winner-take-all fiasco in which the best-known authors
make enough to live between books and new authors have a far
harder time breaking in. Not all writers are blessed at self-
promotion; ironically, success in an introvert’s calling would
depend even more on extroverted behavior.  Competition Is Rising  That is why the government’s apparent decision to sue the
publishers and Apple seems so shortsighted. Two years after the
agency model came to book selling, Amazon is losing its
chokehold on the e-book market: Its share has fallen from
perhaps  90 percent  to roughly  60 percent . It has real
competitors in iPad’s bookstore, Barnes & Noble’s Nook, and the
partnership between brick-and-mortar bookstores and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Google Books . Even direct-selling authors have benefited,
as Amazon  doubled  its royalty rates rather than lose titles.  All of this looks like a more robust and competitive
market, as opposed to the world we will be left with if the
Justice Department paves the way for Amazon to return to its
predatory practices.  (Scott Turow, a lawyer and president of the Authors Guild,
is the author, most recently, of the novel “Innocent.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Scott Turow at  Scott@scottturow.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 