-- Arcapita Bankruptcy Was Forced by Hedge Funds, Lawyer Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-21T20:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/arcapita-bankruptcy-was-forced-by-hedge-funds-lawyer-says-1-.html
Arcapita Bank BSC, a manager of
Islamic-compliant investments with $7 billion under management,
was forced into bankruptcy by  hedge funds  that sought to be
repaid in full, a lawyer for Arcapita said.  Restructuring talks on the company’s $1.1 billion loan due
in March “were derailed when several hedge funds who bought
that debt on the secondary market at a discount threatened an
involuntary bankruptcy if they didn’t receive par” on their
investments, attorney Michael Rosenthal told U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Sean Lane in  Manhattan  today. One of the hedge funds is
Euroville Sarl, he said.  The company sought Chapter 11 protection in New York two
days ago to “preclude preemptive action” and preserve its
assets, Rosenthal said.  Euroville, which holds $88.7 million in the company’s debt,
is concerned that some of its assets could be placed out of
creditors’ reach in bankruptcy, its lawyer,  David Friedman , told
Lane today. “We’re afraid that tomorrow the assets will be sent
to places where none of us will be able to repatriate them.”  Unidentified Consultants  Friedman said issues of concern include $96.3 million a
year in payments to unidentified consultants, and the sale of an
asset, Lusail, 14 days prior to its bankruptcy to  Qatar Islamic
bank (QIBK) , which has a relationship with Arcapita.  Arcapita, formerly known as First Islamic Investment Bank,
filed for Chapter 11 March 19 along with five affiliates,
listing assets of $3.06 billion and liabilities of $2.55
billion. Arcapita Investment Holdings Ltd., already in U.S.
bankruptcy, has also filed a bankruptcy in the  Cayman Islands  in
aid of the Chapter 11 proceeding.  The two filings were made to avoid “an involuntary and
value-destructive straight liquidation proceeding in the Cayman
Islands,” Arcapita said in court papers.  The company’s investments, which have included U.S. brand
names such as Caribou Coffee and Church’s Chicken, now include
Irish power utility  Viridian Group Ltd. (VRD) , and U.S.-based Falcon
Gas Storage Co. Other assets include interests in PODS, a
portable moving and storage company founded in  Florida , and
Tensar International Corp., a provider of soil technologies
based in Atlanta, Arcapita said in court papers.  ‘First-Day’ Requests  Lane today granted the company’s “first-day” requests
that will allow it to keep operating in bankruptcy. He approved
its request for a court order specifying that foreign creditors
can’t seize its assets.  He also said the company can jointly administer its units
in bankruptcy, and have extra time to file reports of its
financial information. Arcapita now has until May 3 to file a
full list of assets and debts.  Arcapita can also continue to use its cash management
system. The company said its funds invested in short term
investments will be deposited with JPMorgan Chase in  New York  as
they mature. Over the next four weeks, $100 million is expected
to be deposited, Arcapita said in court papers.  Founded in 1996, the Manama, Bahrain-based company manages
Shari’ah-compliant, or Islamic-compliant, investments and
operates as an investment bank, according to the filing.  ‘Global Recession’  “This global recession has hampered the Arcapita Group’s
ability to obtain liquidity from the  capital markets , and has
also resulted in a reduction in asset values,” lawyers for the
company wrote in its first-day filings.  Arcapita had failed to reach an agreement with creditors on
a $1.1 billion syndicated shari’ah-compliant loan due this
month.  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  had led a coordinating
committee of lenders that sought to negotiate a restructuring, a
person familiar with the plan said Feb. 27.  Central Bank of Bahrain  was listed as the largest creditor,
with a $255.1 million claim tied to a  bank loan .  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
has a $164.7 million claim also related to a loan and  National
Bank of Bahrain  has a $132.3 million claim. Bahrain’s central
bank said it was monitoring the case.  Rosenthal said that after the company sought court
protection, it didn’t have as many first-day requests as might
be expected because the process was so rushed due to the demands
of the hedge funds.  “The last 10 days have been extremely stressful and
frenetic,” Rosenthal said.  The case is Arcapita Bank BSC, 12-11076,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  