-- YPF Soars After Official Denies Takeover Bid: Buenos Aires Mover
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-03-21T22:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/argentina-won-t-nationalize-energy-company-ypf-official-says.html
YPF SA (YPFD) ,  Argentina ’s biggest energy
producer,  soared  after the country’s Cabinet Chief said the
government doesn’t plan to nationalize the company controlled by
 Spain ’s  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)   “The government is not interested in nationalizing or
anything of the kind,” Cabinet Chief Juan Manuel Abal Medina
said in an interview last night with television channel America
24. “YPF is an Argentina company in spite of having Spanish
majority stakeholders. What we want is to see more production,”
he said.  YPF’s American Depositary receipts rose 8.3 percent to
$29.72 at the close in  New York . Repsol  shares  in  Madrid  rose
4.3 percent to 20.10 euros.  Abal Medina told state-run news agency Telam today that no
decision has been made about YPF, which has a market value of
about 59 billion pesos ($13.5 billion). The government’s
comments came before  YPF’s board  met today in  Buenos Aires  to
consider cutting the semi-annual dividend and redirecting cash
toward investment.  Officials in Abal Medina’s press office didn’t respond to
messages left by Bloomberg.  Repsol, Spain’s largest energy company,  owns  a 57.4 percent
stake in YPF. Argentina’s Grupo Petersen, which operates the
unit, owns another 25.5 percent. The government owns 0.2 percent
and holds a so-called golden share, which entitles it to block
certain decisions, such as takeovers.           Under the terms
of the sale through which Petersen bought its stake in 2008 from
Repsol, YPF distributes 90 percent of annual net income in
dividends in semi-annual payments.  Market Reading  The Cabinet Chief’s comments from last night “were read
positively by the markets,” Luis Benguerel, a trader at
Interbrokers, said in a phone interview from Barcelona today.  President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government has
been increasing pressure on YPF after saying a failure to boost
production caused a doubling of fuel imports last year. YPF’s
American Depository Receipts fell 21 percent this year before
today as the standoff worsened.  “When we see that we had to import energy when the country
has reserves, and at the same time this important company sends
profits abroad, it’s logical that we, who are in charge of the
Argentine assets, get concerned,” Abal Medina said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  