-- Hartford Rises as CEO Responds to Paulson’s Breakup Push
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-03-21T20:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/hartford-to-halt-annuity-sales-following-paulson-pressure-1-.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  gained after Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee responded
to billionaire John Paulson’s call for a breakup with plans to
shut or sell parts of the 201-year-old insurer.  Hartford rose 1.4 percent to $22.02 at 4:04 p.m. in New
York and advanced as much as 7.3 percent during the session.
Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name, will
stop selling individual annuities and seek buyers for its
individual life, Woodbury Financial Services and retirement-plan
operations, the company said today in a statement.  Paulson, Hartford’s biggest shareholder, told executives on
a Feb. 8 conference call to “do something drastic” to increase
the stock price, which dropped 39 percent last year. He urged
McGee to split the insurer into property-casualty and life-
insurance companies and suggested winding down the U.S. variable
annuities business.  “While these actions are a bit more than I was expecting,
they are less than  John Paulson  was proposing,” Robert Glasspiegel, an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said
today in a research report. “We expect that the stock will
react favorably initially.” He rates Hartford “neutral.”  “We do not believe the positive actions announced today
address the main problem with The Hartford’s undervaluation,”
Paulson & Co. said in a statement. The announcement should be
“a first step” toward a separation of the businesses, which
would appeal to shareholders who want to invest in the property-
casualty operation and not the life unit, Paulson said. His
hedge fund  owns  about 8.5 percent of Hartford.  Paulson’s Investment  Paulson, who had his worst year on record in 2011 after
making billions of dollars from anticipating the collapse of the
U.S. subprime market, needs Hartford to reach about $24.71 a
share to recoup his investment, filings to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg showed
last month. The highest target price among analysts tracked by
Bloomberg was $30 a share by Alan Devlin of Atlantic Equities
LLP. The lowest was  Jay Gelb  of Barclays Plc at $21.  The announcement concludes a strategic evaluation over the
past several quarters by Hartford’s management and board, the
company said. McGee, who told Paulson on Feb. 9 that the
investor’s breakup plan probably wouldn’t boost shareholder
 value , reiterated that view today and said Hartford had been
considering alternatives since the middle of last year.  “That was a part of our evaluation,” McGee said in an
interview. “I discussed it transparently at our fourth-quarter
earnings call and followed up with another comment, saying that
while we appreciate the potential benefits of a split, we just
didn’t think it made sense for shareholders of the Hartford at
this time.”  S&P Downgrade  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded units in Hartford’s life-
insurance division, citing the subsidiaries’ “stand-alone
credit characteristics.” Debt issued by Hartford Life Inc. was
cut to BBB-, the rating firm’s lowest for investment-grade debt.
Ratings at the insurer’s holding company and property-casualty
units were affirmed, S&P said.  Hartford will stop taking new annuity sales on April 27 and
expects to report an after-tax charge of as much as $20 million
in the second quarter. Proceeds from any transactions may be
used to decrease  debt , reduce risk tied to annuities previously
sold, invest in the business and “potentially take other
capital management actions,” the insurer said.  Hartford may get about $1.5 billion from the sale of the
individual-life, Woodbury and retirement-plans businesses,
according to estimates published today by  Meyer Shields , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. That values the life business
at about $1 billion, with a price-to-earnings ratio of 7,
Shields said.  ‘Significant Proceeds’  The sales “will generate significant proceeds,” Dan Theriault, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC with an
“outperform” rating on Hartford shares, said in an e-mail.
“It is a big strategic step, although it falls short of the
complete spinoff” that Paulson urged, Theriault said.  McGee and Paulson clashed during last month’s conference
call, which was hosted by the insurer to discuss fourth-quarter
earnings with analysts and investors. McGee told Paulson that he
had “an incredible sense of urgency” to make changes that
would boost the stock. Hartford cited its credit ratings and
regulatory approvals as obstacles to breaking up the company.  “We appreciate the positive dialogue and constructive
input we have had with many of our shareholders, including
Paulson & Co.,” McGee said today in a conference call with
analysts. “The plan we outlined this morning is the right path
for The Hartford, and we are focused on its execution.”  Run of Losses  Paulson started buying Hartford shares in the third quarter
of 2009 as investment declines and annuity slumps were pushing
the company to its fifth consecutive  net loss . McGee, a former
Bank of America Corp. executive, was hired to start as CEO the
next quarter. He returned the insurer to profit and issued  stock
and debt  in 2010 to repay a $3.4 billion U.S. bailout that had
been accepted by his predecessor,  Ramani Ayer .  Paulson urged equity analysts to back his plan in a call on
March 9, saying McGee had “no excuse” for waiting.  Paulson’s Advantage Plus Fund lost 51 percent in 2011, and
the firm said in a third-quarter letter that financial services
companies were the “primary drag.” Paulson sold its entire
common-stock stakes in Citigroup Inc. and  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  