-- Asian Currencies Weaken on Concern China’s Growth Is Slowing
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-21T08:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/asian-currencies-weaken-on-concern-china-s-growth-is-slowing.html
South Korea ’s won and India’s rupee
fell among Asian currencies on concern China’s slowing economy
will damp demand for exports from the region.  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao set a 2012 growth target of 7.5
percent this month, compared with a goal of 8 percent over the
last seven years. Steel production is stalling in the world’s
second-largest economy, BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest
mining company, said yesterday. Taiwan’s dollar weakened for a
second day ahead of a monetary-policy review tomorrow.  “Investors seem to be quite concerned about China’s
economic state and that raises concern about the export
outlook,” said Sadaaki Kondou, senior vice-president of the
Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 Tokyo . “The markets are reacting quite sensitively to any
comment or developments on that matter.”  The won slumped 0.4 percent to 1,129.50 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee
dropped 0.3 percent to 50.56, while Indonesia’s rupiah and
Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to 9,185 and NT$29.576,
respectively.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index’s 60-day
historical  volatility  was little changed from yesterday at 3.49
percent, having rebounded from a seven-month low of 3.30 percent
reached last week.  India’s Deficit  The won fell to the lowest level in almost a week as global
stocks retreated. The  MSCI (MXAP)  Asia-Pacific Index of shares dropped
for a second day after the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index snapped a
three-day gain in New York.  “The won’s declines are driven by reports that  China’s
economy  may slow,” said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based currency
dealer at Hana Bank. “Currency drops will be limited though,
making the won move within a range.”  The rupee dropped for a third consecutive day on
speculation a widening  budget deficit  will weigh on the nation’s
credit rating. The currency touched a two-week low as crude  oil
prices  climbed 1 percent to $106.67 per barrel in New York.  The budget deficit will be 5.9 percent of gross domestic
product this fiscal year ending March 31, compared with a
targeted 4.6 percent, the government said March 16. Weak public
finances are hampering  India ’s credit ratings, Moody’s Investors
Service,  Fitch Ratings  and Standard & Poor’s said the same day.  Thailand’s Outlook  “The deficit is more in the open now and rating companies
will be watching how much can India hike fuel prices” to trim
its subsidies, said Ramya Suryanarayanan, an economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “There could be a negative
outlook on the rating and the currency as well.”  The baht rose, erasing earlier losses, as the Bank of
Thailand raised its economic growth forecast for 2012 to 5.7
percent from an earlier prediction of 4.9 percent. The central
bank kept its benchmark interest rate at 3 percent today, as
predicted by 19 of 21 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
other two had forecast a 25-basis point cut. The currency gained
0.1 percent to 30.74 per dollar.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.1 percent to
3.0795 per dollar and the Philippine peso rose 0.1 percent to
43.03.  China ’s yuan was unchanged at 6.3241.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 