-- Treasuries Rise a 2nd Day as Oil Gains, S&P 500 Retreats
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-21T21:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/asian-stocks-drop-led-by-mining-shares-euro-oil-gain.html
Treasury 10-year notes rose for a
second day as investors took advantage of a surge in yields,
while oil jumped above $107 a barrel and U.S. stocks fell. The
dollar strengthened against most major peers.  Ten-year Treasury yields decreased seven basis points to
2.29 percent at 4 p.m. in New York after yesterday falling for
the first time in 10 days, halting the longest increase since
2006. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.2 percent to
1,402.89 after yesterday retreating from the highest level in
almost four years. Spanish bonds slid amid concern the nation
faces an increasing risk of a debt restructuring.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the increase
in oil may slow economic growth, at least in the short term. The
Fed bought $4.03 billion in U.S. debt today as part of its
program to swap $400 billion of shorter-term securities with
longer-term bonds. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report
that global stocks are set to follow a “steady upward
trajectory,” and prospects for equities versus bonds are “as
good as they have been in a generation.”  “Even though the U.S. data is picking up, it’s picking up
from very low levels, and the housing market still has a lot of
problems to deal with, which is why Treasury yields are still at
these low levels,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas Securities Corp., one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “There are still
Fed purchases this week and the sharp sell-off has stopped. And
we are seeing investors start to take advantage of the higher
rates.”  Treasuries, Equities  Ten-year and 30-year Treasury yields decreased for a second
day after reaching the highest levels since October and
September, respectively, on reduced speculation the Fed will
announce another round of bond purchases. Ten-year yields surged
44 basis points in the nine sessions ended March 19. Two-year
Treasury note yields lost three basis points to 0.37 percent
today, while 30-year rates slipped seven points to 3.38 percent.  New York  oil rebounded after falling 2.3 percent yesterday.
The U.S. Energy Department said crude inventories unexpectedly
dropped by 1.16 million barrels last week.  Bernanke and his colleagues on the Federal Open Market
Committee are watching oil and gasoline prices that threaten
U.S. growth and are likely to push up inflation “temporarily,”
according to their statement last week, when they said  interest
rates  are likely to remain near zero through at least late 2014.  Bernanke Speaks  “Higher energy prices would probably slow growth, at least
in the short run,” Bernanke said today in response to questions
from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
Rising fuel prices “create at least short-term inflation
pressures, and moreover, they act as a tax on household
purchasing power and reduce consumption spending, and that also
is a drag on the economy.”  Bernanke also said the Fed has reviewed the credit-default
swaps or contracts that U.S. banks have used to insure against
defaults in  Europe , and that they are “widely dispersed.” The
central bank doesn’t expect a repeat of 2008, when American
International Group Inc., a large counterparty on swaps,
collapsed, Bernanke said.  Among U.S. stocks, energy and financial companies led
losses among  10 groups  in the  S&P 500 .  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the
world’s third-largest oilfield-services provider, tumbled  5.8
percent after saying it expects operating profit before tax for
the first quarter will fall as producers shift drilling from
natural gas to crude. Hewlett-Packard Co., Alcoa Inc. and
Caterpillar Inc. fell at least 1.6 percent to lead losses in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , which slipped 45.57 points to
13,124.62.  ‘Internal Energy’  The S&P 500 has rallied almost 12 percent so far this year,
poised for its best first quarter since 1998. Gains were
triggered by a decline in the  unemployment rate  to a three-year
low, growth in manufacturing and Europe’s efforts to tame its
debt crisis.  The benchmark gauge of American equities closed at the
highest level since May 2008 on March 19, while the S&P SmallCap
600 Index reached a record and the Nasdaq Composite Index
rallied to an 11-year high that day.  “People won’t play real hard at these levels,”  Jeffrey Saut , chief investment strategist at Raymond James & Associates
in  St. Petersburg , Florida, said in a phone interview. His firm
oversees more than $300 billion. “I’m still pretty bullish. I
don’t think you get bearish. Yet the market’s internal energy
seems to be used up after the strong rally.”  Goldman Backs Rally  Goldman Sachs said the rally in stocks is set to continue
for the next few years because any declines in economic growth
are already reflected in share prices.  “Given current valuations, we think it’s time to say a
‘long good-bye’ to bonds, and embrace the ‘long good buy’ for
equities as we expect them to embark on an upward trend over the
next few years,”  Peter Oppenheimer , chief global equity
strategist at Goldman Sachs in  London , wrote in a report today.  The prospects for returns in equities versus bonds “are as
good as they have been in a generation,” he wrote.  A gauge of 11 homebuilders in S&P indexes advanced, halting
a three-day slump. Sales of previously owned U.S. houses held in
February near an almost two-year high, adding to signs the
market that triggered the recession is firming. Purchases
dropped 0.9 percent to a 4.59 million annual rate from a revised
4.63 million pace in January that was faster than previously
estimated and the highest since May 2010, the National
Association of Realtors said. The median price rose over the
past year for the first time since November 2010.  Dollar, European Markets  The dollar strengthened against 11 of 16 major peers,
climbing 0.1 percent to $1.3209 versus the euro.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.1 percent.  Banco
Popolare SC (BP) , Italy’s fifth-biggest bank, gained 3.3 percent
after saying its core Tier 1 ratio, a key measure of financial
health, rose to 7.1 percent.  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  climbed 4.5 percent
as the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket owner reported fourth-
quarter sales growth that beat estimates.  The German 10-year bund rose, driving the yield six basis
points lower to 1.98 percent. Spanish bonds fell, pushing 10-
year yields to the highest level in a month, after Citigroup
Inc. chief economist Willem Buiter said the nation faced an
increasing risk of a debt restructuring.  Ten-year Spanish securities slid for  an eighth day , sending
their yield up 18 basis points to 5.41 percent and widening the
extra yield over similar-maturity German bunds by 24 basis
points to 3.43 percentage points.  ‘Most Worried’  Spain  is at “a greater risk than ever before” of a debt
restructuring, Citigroup’s Buiter said in an interview with  Tom
Keene  and Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio. “Spain is the key
country about which I’m most worried.” The country has “moved
to the wrong side of the spectrum,” he said.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index slipped 0.1 percent,
falling for a fifth straight day. The Hang Seng  China 
Enterprises Index of Chinese shares listed in  Hong Kong  fell 0.9
percent, its sixth straight decline in its longest losing streak
of the year.  The Kospi Index slid 0.7 percent in Seoul, as  Hyundai Steel
Co. (004020)  fell 3.4 percent on concern over falling growth in China.
The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, added 1.7 percent as
overseas funds bought a record amount of local shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  