-- Asmussen Says ECB Must Start to Prepare Exit, Die Zeit Reports
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2012-03-21T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/asmussen-says-ecb-must-start-to-prepare-exit-die-zeit-reports.html
European Central Bank board member
Joerg Asmussen said policy makers must start to plan an exit
from emergency lending measures that have pumped more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system, Die Zeit
newspaper reported, citing an interview.  “The timing of the exit depends on developments in
financial markets,” Asmussen said, according to Die Zeit.
“Clearly it is still too early to begin, but we must start to
carefully prepare the exit.” One shouldn’t assume the ECB will
make any more three-year loans to banks, Asmussen was quoted as
saying.  The debt crisis is not over and it’s unclear whether the
current calm on markets is deceptive, he said. Governments
should use the lull to press ahead with necessary reforms,
Asmussen said.  There are signs the ECB’s loans are starting to gradually
reach the real economy, Asmussen told Die Zeit. While there are
no signs of speculative bubbles on European markets, “real-
estate prices are rising appreciably in some regions of  Germany 
and one must follow that carefully,” he was quoted as saying.  Monetary union can only work with economic and fiscal
union, which involves giving up some sovereignty, Asmussen said.
Asked if that means  Europe  needs to become more German, he said:
“If you consider stable prices, sound fiscal policy and
ecologically sustainable growth to be a German model, then
Europe must become more German.”  At the same time, many other  member states  want to achieve
exactly those things and Germany shouldn’t present itself as a
taskmaster, Asmussen said.  He said he works closely with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and they value each other, Die Zeit reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  