-- Assured Falls Most Since August as Moody’s Mulls Downgrades
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-21T20:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/assured-falls-most-since-august-as-moody-s-mulls-downgrades-1-.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  fell the most
since August after Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it
may cut its insurance units’ financial strength ratings.  Moody’s is reviewing the Aa3 rankings of  Assured Guaranty 
Municipal Corp., Assured Guaranty Corp. and their affiliated
insurance operating companies, the New York-based ratings
company said yesterday in a statement.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered
Assured ratings two steps in November to AA-, a level that’s
equivalent to Moody’s current ratings. The shares  fell  13.4
percent to $16.30, the biggest drop since Aug. 8, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are surprised that Moody’s decided it had enough
information to place Assured Guaranty on review for possible
downgrade” because the company has been working with the
ratings firm and the review process isn’t complete, Chief
Executive Officer Dominic Frederico said in a statement
yesterday. “Moody’s action was unjustified and unwarranted.”  Moody’s cited lower origination volume and reduced demand
for the Hamilton, Bermuda-based bond insurer’s business,
economic stress in the U.S. and  Europe  related to mortgage and
municipal finance and pressure on operating margins with
interest rates at about record lows.  Assured has recorded record operating income since the
second quarter of 2009, the last time Moody’s put the insurer on
review, with return on equity of 14.9 percent in 2010 and 12.1
percent in 2011, Frederico said in the statement. It has insured
more than $58 billion of U.S. municipal bonds since that time
and captured one out of every eight new issues last year, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 