-- Masters of the Universe Start to Challenge Ben Bernanke
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-03-21T23:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/masters-of-the-universe-start-to-challenge-ben-bernanke.html
It started subtly, about a month
ago, in the fed funds futures market, where investors had come
to view Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s word as deed:
first, the August pledge to hold the benchmark rate near zero
until mid-2013; then, on  Jan. 25 , the extension of that target
date to late 2014.  Investors priced fed funds futures contracts accordingly.
At least they did until early February, when traders started to
challenge the Fed’s forecast ever so slightly. (The contracts
are cash-settled against the  effective federal funds rate  for
the particular delivery month.)  The March 2014 contract, for example, peaked at a high of
99.77 on Jan. 30, an implied yield of 0.23 percent, within the
Fed’s current 0 to 0.25 percent target. The yield rose to 0.65
percent earlier this week. Volume and open interest shot up, as
well. Even the late-2013 contracts are starting to suggest zero
isn’t a sustainable equilibrium.  Last week, the unthinkable happened: Long-term notes and
bonds took a shellacking even as the Fed gobbles up the
equivalent of the Treasury’s long-term issuance.  Not content merely to project a path for overnight rates,
the Fed has engaged in several rounds of bond buying since 2009
-- more than $2 trillion of Treasuries and agency mortgage-
backed securities -- to ensure that long rates don’t start
thinking independently. A manipulated market leaves little room
for self-expression, even among those gun-slinging Masters of
the Universe.  All Systems Go  In keeping with its policy of greater openness, Bernanke
has made it clear that additional quantitative easing is on the
table. Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley
expect the Fed to announce another round of QE as soon as the
April 24-25 meeting -- even before the effort to drive down
long-term rates ends in June. (The Fed’s latest attempt to  twist
the yield curve  involves the purchase of $400 billion of longer-
term Treasuries and the sale of an equivalent amount of short-
term securities.)  Listening to Bernanke and the core dovish camp on the
policy committee, it sure sounds as if the onus is on the data
to prevent the Fed from acting.  For a central bank whose main focus is  inflation
expectations  (ours) and credibility (its own), appearing to be
out of touch is not a great credential. No one would argue that
a jobless rate of 8.3 percent represents full employment, one of
the Fed’s two mandates (the other is stable prices). But when
the  Fed says  it expects inflation to run “at or below the rate
that it judges most consistent with its dual mandate,” you have
to wonder what’s in that hookah they pass around the boardroom
table.  Never mind that inflation has been running consistently
above the Fed’s announced goal of 2 percent. Why would the Fed,
with a $2.9 trillion  balance sheet , a near-zero benchmark rate
for the fourth year running, and a recent history of inflating
asset bubbles, be so eager to provide more stimulus when the
economy is clearly improving?  “It’s a simple formula,” says  Vincent Reinhart , the chief
U.S. economist at Morgan Stanley and a former director of
monetary affairs at the U.S. central bank. “The Fed has a dual
mandate. It’s noticeably short on one, and the other is not a
risk. Therefore, it has a responsibility to act.”  I’d add the qualifier “at the moment” to Reinhart’s “not
a risk.” The good news in last week’s consumer price index for
February was a 0.1 percent gain in the core rate, which excludes
food and energy. The year-over-year increase was 2.2 percent,
the first dip in the annual rate of change in 16 months.  The Fed’s inflation forecast seems so out of whack, I
decided to dig into the February CPI. (The Fed prefers the
personal consumption expenditures price index, but the CPI
report offers a more detailed breakdown.)  Plusses and Minuses  I first went to  Table 1  for the unadjusted year-over-year
changes in various categories. Not a lot of minus signs to
report. In fact, outside of  information technology  (computers),
energy services (electricity and natural gas), and fruits and
vegetables, prices are rising on an annual basis.  Perhaps the Fed is worried about near-term disinflation. I
went to  Table 2  for the three- and six-month trends. Same story.
Fruits and veggies, IT and energy services. Throw in a 7.3
percent decline in used-car and truck prices (seasonally
adjusted at an annual rate) and a 0.3 percent dip in apparel,
and that’s it for the negatives.  Of course, the Fed’s Phillips-curve model says inflation
should be falling because of slack in the economy: specifically,
the 12.8 million people who are  unemployed . Given the model’s
track record -- the Fed’s forecast has been consistently wrong
going into the recession and coming out of it -- I wouldn’t put
much faith in a series of equations.  Bernanke seems to have a blind spot when it comes to
inflation, which is at odds with his advocacy of an inflation
target as an academic. Early in his first tour of duty at the
Fed as a governor from 2002 to 2005, Bernanke gave a  speech  on
“Deflation: Making Sure ‘It’ Doesn’t Happen Here.”  Alan
Greenspan  was pulling the strings at the time, but Bernanke was
among those advocating lower rates, which provided the tinder
for the housing bubble.  All this leaves me flummoxed. I’ve been following the Fed
for 25 years, in which time the central bank moved from opacity
to transparency. Yet with all the light shining in, I have never
been more in the dark. Maybe I need a hit on that hookah.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  