-- Austerity or Stimulus? What We Need Is Growth
-- B y   J o h n   H .   C o c h r a n e
-- 2012-03-21T23:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/austerity-or-stimulus-what-we-need-is-growth.html
Austerity isn’t working in  Europe .  Greece  is collapsing, Italy and  Spain ’s output is
declining, and even  Germany  and the U.K. are slowing down. In
addition to their direct economic costs, these “austerity”
measures aren’t even swiftly closing budget gaps. As incomes
decline, tax revenue drops, and it becomes harder to cut
spending. A downward spiral looms.  These events have important lessons for the U.S. Our
government cannot forever borrow and spend 10 percent of gross
domestic product each year, with an impending entitlements
fiasco, to boot. Sooner or later, we will have to fix our
finances, too. Europe’s experience is a warning that austerity -
- a program of sharp budget cuts and (even) higher tax rates,
but largely putting off “structural reforms” for a sunnier day -
- is a dangerous path.  Why is austerity causing such economic difficulty? What
else should we do?  Lack of “stimulus” is the problem, say the Keynesians,
epitomized by the New York Times and its columnist  Paul Krugman ,
who has been crusading on this point. They claim that falling
output in Europe is a direct consequence of declining government
spending. Yes, 50 percent of GDP spent by the government is
simply not enough to keep their economies going. They -- and the
U.S. -- just need to spend more. A lot more.  Germany’s Limits  Where will the money come from? Greece, Spain and Italy
simply cannot borrow any more. So, say the Keynesians, Germany
should pay. But even Germany has limits. The U.S. can still
borrow at remarkably low rates. But remember that Greece was
able to borrow at low rates right up to the moment that it
couldn’t borrow at all. There is nobody to bail out the U.S.
when our time comes. What should we do then?  The traditional Keynesian answer was: Move on to monetary
stimulus. Deliberately inflate and devalue. Break up the euro so
the southern European countries can inflate and devalue even
more.  Lately, Keynesians have been pushing an even more audacious
idea: Deficits pay for themselves. In a  March 17 column , Krugman
wrote: “there’s a plausible case that spending more now actually
improves the long-run fiscal picture.”  U.S.  federal revenue  is less than 20 percent of GDP. For
deficit spending to pay for itself, then, $1 of spending must
create more than $5 of output. Economists have been arguing
about whether this “multiplier” is more or less than one; five
is beyond any reported estimate. Keynesians made fun of “supply
siders” in the 1980s, who made similar claims for tax cuts. At
least those cuts had incentives on their side, which stimulus
doesn’t.  Is there another explanation, and a more plausible way
forward?  The stimulus explanation is curious for what it omits.
Think of Greece.  Is it irrelevant that Greece is 100th on the  World Bank ’s
“ease of doing business” list, behind Yemen; 135th on “starting a
business” and 155th on “protecting investors?” Is it irrelevant
that professions from truck driving to pharmacies are still
rigorously protected, that businesses can’t fire people, that
(according to a Greek colleague) you can’t even get a driver’s
license without paying a bribe? Does it not matter at all that,
as the  International Monetary Fund  delicately put it in its
latest report on Greece, the “structural reform program” aimed
at “deeply ingrained structural rigidities in labor, product,
and service markets” got nowhere?  Greek Taxes  Doesn’t it matter that Greece has a high combination of
individual, corporate, wealth and social taxes? True, Greeks
famously don’t pay taxes, but businesses that must operate
illegally to avoid taxes are much less efficient.  Money is fleeing Greece,  Italy  and Spain. Does talk of
exiting the euro, followed quickly by devaluation, inflation
(the IMF predicts 35 percent in Greece, should it leave) and
capital controls, have nothing to do with lack of investment?  Keynesians urge devaluation to gain competitiveness. Greek
wages have in fact declined about 10 percent to 12 percent,
according to the IMF. Yet investment and production aren’t
turning around. Greek “demand” needn’t matter -- the whole point
of the euro area is that Greece can sell to Germany, so long as
Greece stays in the euro area. But it isn’t happening. Is that a
mystery? Would lower wages compel you to invest money in Greece;
surmount a thicket of regulation; and expose yourself to the
threats of wealth, property and business taxation, currency
expropriation and  capital controls , or even nationalization?  In sum, isn’t it plausible that a good part of Europe’s
austerity doldrums are linked to “supply,” not “demand;”
“microeconomics,” not “macroeconomics;” weeds in the economic
garden, not a want of fertilizer? Isn’t it plausible that
factors beyond simple declines in government spending matter in
a debt crisis?  That insight suggests a different strategy: Let’s call it
“Growth Now.” Forget about “stimulating.” Spend only on what is
really needed. We could easily stop subsidies for agriculture,
electric cars or building roads and bridges to nowhere right
now, without fearing a recession.  Rather than raise taxes further on the “rich,” driving them
underground, abroad, or away from business formation, fix the
 tax code , as every commission has recommended. Lower marginal
rates but eliminate the maze of deductions. In Europe, eliminate
the fears of wealth confiscation, euro breakup and  currency
devaluation  that are driving savings and investment out of the
south. Most of all, remove the profusion of regulation and
(increasingly) direct government management of the economy.  Italy’s Deregulation  Europe is beginning to figure this out. Italy’s prime
minister,  Mario Monti , is addressing his country’s debt crisis
by proposing far-reaching deregulation, now. While his proposals
aren’t complete or close to radical enough, and they are
combined with some unfortunate business-stifling tax increases,
it’s remarkable that anyone in Europe is beginning to talk about
this.  “Structural reform” is vital to restore growth now, not a
vague idea for many years in the future when the stimulus has
worked its magic. It’s also a lot harder politically than the
breezy language suggests. “Reform” isn’t just “policy” handed
down by technocrats like rules on the provenance of prosciutto;
it involves taking away subsidies and interventions that
entrenched interests have grown to love, and have supported
politicians to protect. They will fight it tooth and nail.  That is even more reason to address this now, while there
is a crisis. The will to do so may evaporate if better times
return, and the ability to do so might disappear if the
economies plunge.  (John H. Cochrane, a professor of finance at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business and an adjunct scholar of
the  Cato Institute , is a contributor to  Business Class . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
John H. Cochrane at  john.cochrane@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 