-- Lawson Software Sets Rate on $3.5 Billion of Merger Loans
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-03-21T21:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/lawson-software-sets-rate-on-3-5-billion-of-merger-loans-1-.html
Lawson Software Inc. (LWSN) , a provider of
 business software  being merged with Golden Gate Capital Corp.’s
Infor Global Solutions, set the interest rate it will pay on
$3.5 billion of loans it’s seeking to finance the combination,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  A $3.1 billion six-year term loan B will pay interest at
4.5 percentage points to 4.75 percentage points more than the
London interbank offered rate, said the person, who declined to
be identified because the terms are private. Libor, the rate
banks say they can borrow in dollars from each other, will have
a 1.25 percent minimum.  A $400 million 4.5-year B-1 piece will pay interest at 4
percentage points to 4.25 percentage points more than Libor,
with a 1.25 percent minimum on the benchmark, the person said.  Both portions will be sold at 99 cents on the dollar, the
person said, reducing proceeds for the company and boosting the
yield to investors.  The  term loan  B and B-1 will offer lenders one-year soft-
call protection of 101 cents, meaning the company would have to
pay 1 cent more than face value to refinance the debt during the
first year, the person said.  Bank of America Corp., Credit Suisse Group AG, JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley, Barclays, Deutsche Bank AG, Royal
Bank of Canada and KKR Capital Markets are arranging the
financing, and investors have until March 29 to submit
commitments, according to the person. The deal is expected to
close and fund in early April.  $150 Million Revolver  The Saint Paul, Minnesota-based company is also seeking a
$150 million revolving line of credit maturing in five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  San Francisco-based  Golden Gate  and Infor acquired Lawson
for $1.82 billion in July, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  A spokesman for Golden Gate was not available to comment.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t. A term loan B is
sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, bank loan mutual funds and  hedge funds .  Editors:  John Parry ,  Mitchell Martin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in New York at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  