-- Axa’s French Business to Double Investments in Real-Estate Debt
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-03-21T08:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/axa-s-french-business-to-double-investments-in-real-estate-debt.html
The French unit of  Axa SA (CS) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest insurer, plans to double its investments in real-
estate debt as the region’s banks cut their holdings.  The unit, which accounts for about a quarter of Axa’s life-
and-savings revenue, plans to increase property loans to 2
percent of its 140 billion euros ($185 billion) of assets from 1
percent, Nicolas Moreau, chief executive officer of the
business, said in an interview in Paris.  “The loan market is evolving and insurers talk with banks
to co-originate,” he said. “It could make considerable amounts
that insurers keep on their balance sheet.”  Banks, which dominate Europe’s $1.3 trillion real-estate
lending market, may be pushed by stricter  capital requirements 
to offload more than 200 billion euros of property loans this
decade, according to CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. That comes as
the European Union’s Solvency II rules make real-estate debt
more attractive than buying property for insurers and the
sovereign debt crisis reduces the appetite for  government bonds .  “It’s a groundswell,” said  Pierre Flabbee , a Paris-based
analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who recommends buying Axa
shares. “Insurers are looking for corporate debt investments at
a time when returns on public debt are low, and real-estate debt
can be an opportunity.”  Axa’s real-estate unit last month raised 2 billion euros to
invest in debt in European countries, including  Germany ,  France 
and the U.K. The division will invest “primarily” in senior
debt backed by prime properties, the company said Feb. 27.  Boosting Share  Non-bank lenders increased their share of European
commercial real-estate lending to about 24 percent in 2010 from
13 percent in 1997, London-based property adviser DTZ Holdings
Plc estimates. Prudential Plc’s M&G unit, Cairn Capital Ltd. and
Matrix Property Fund Management Ltd. are also raising debt-
lending funds.  Direct property investments by Axa’s French unit should
remain stable at about 8 percent of its assets, Moreau said.  The French operation will also start offering clients a
life-insurance product with returns linked to real estate at the
end of the first half, Moreau said. It aims to attract 300
million euros to 500 million euros in annual savings, or about 5
percent of the division’s annual inflows, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  