-- Lehman, Taylor Bean, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-21T10:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/taylor-bean-jpmorgan-rbc-apple-morgan-stanley-in-court-news.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
Geithner  agreed to answer questions in writing in Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s lawsuit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
which claims the bank contributed to Lehman’s collapse in 2008.  Geithner’s agreement, noted in a March 16 filing by the
U.S. in federal court in Washington, forestalls a judge’s ruling
on whether he could be compelled to testify in the case. U.S.
District Judge Reggie Walton yesterday accepted the arrangement
and ordered both sides to update him by April 3.  “If the parties should reach an impasse or plaintiff is
otherwise dissatisfied with the written responses, the parties
shall so notify the court,” Assistant U.S. Attorney John
Interrante said in the filing.  Lehman sued Geithner in February, alleging that the
Treasury Department “has for many months delayed and ultimately
refused” to allow testimony by the secretary. His testimony is
key to Lehman’s contention that JPMorgan siphoned off $8.6
billion during the 2008 credit crisis, according to a court
filing in Washington.  Geithner, at the time president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of  New York , discussed the collateral JPMorgan was demanding for
its loans with Richard Fuld and  Jamie Dimon , Lehman’s and
JPMorgan’s chief executive officers, in the week before Lehman’s
bankruptcy, according to the filing. He also met with Dimon and
 Henry Paulson , then Treasury Secretary, to discuss “concerns”
that Dimon was using the crisis to strengthen his bank at
Lehman’s expense, they said.  Paulson, according to the March 16 filing, has also agreed
to answer questions in writing.  Lehman claims in court papers to have interviewed more than
200 witnesses.  JPMorgan, which lent $70 billion to Lehman’s brokerage
around the time of the 2008 bankruptcy, sued Lehman back after
the $8.6 billion suit, alleging Lehman defrauded its lender into
making the loan. JPMorgan has asked a judge to dismiss Lehman’s
suit.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  The testimony case is Official Committee on Unsecured
Creditors of Lehman Brothers Holdings In., 12-00098, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington). The main case
is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v. JPMorgan Chase Bank
NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-Taylor Bean Finance Chief Admits Role in $3 Billion Fraud  Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.’s former finance
chief admitted to helping his boss,  Lee Farkas , commit what
prosecutors say was one of the largest bank frauds in U.S.
history.  Delton de Armas, 41, pleaded guilty March 20 in federal
court in Alexandria, Virginia, to one count of conspiracy to
commit bank and wire fraud and one count of false statements in
a scheme that contributed to the failures of Montgomery,
Alabama-based Colonial Bank and its parent, Colonial BancGroup,
once among the nation’s 25 biggest depository banks.  He faces as many as 10 years in prison when he’s sentenced
by U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema on June 15.  “As CFO, Mr. de Armas could have put a stop to the fraud
the moment he discovered it,” U.S. Attorney Neil MacBride said
in an e-mailed statement. “Instead, the hole in Ocala Funding
grew to $1.5 billion on his watch, and as it grew, so did his
lies to investors and the government.”  From 2005 through August 2009, de Armas helped Farkas and
other conspirators misappropriate more than $1.5 billion from
Ocala Funding LLC, a financing vehicle used and controlled by
 Taylor Bean , according to a statement of facts filed by
prosecutors and signed by de Armas. De Armas issued false
financial reports that masked shortfalls at Ocala Funding in
order to keep auditors at bay and investors on board, the
document states.  “I regret I didn’t speak up more,” de Armas, of
Carrollton, Texas, told Brinkema yesterday after being asked
about his role in covering up Taylor Bean and Ocala Funding’s
financial problems.  Farkas, the ex-chairman of Taylor Bean, is serving a 30-
year sentence after being convicted in April of 14 counts of
conspiracy and bank, wire and securities fraud in what
prosecutors said was a $3 billion scheme involving fake mortgage
assets.  The case is U.S. v. Armas, 12-00096, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Chase Settles AFTRA Pension Suit for $150 Million  JPMorgan Chase & Co. will pay $150 million to settle a
lawsuit claiming losses from the bank’s securities lending
program, according to court papers.  The suit was filed by three union pension funds, which
represented a class of all investors in a group of structured
debt securities. The settlement was announced last month. The
parties disclosed the terms of the agreement in a filing in
Manhattan federal court March 16.  The funds claim they lost money that New York-based
JPMorgan invested for them in medium-term notes issued by Sigma
Finance Corp., a structured investment vehicle that collapsed in
2008.  The union pension funds representing the class are the
AFTRA Retirement Fund, the Imperial County Employees’ Retirement
System and the Investment Committee of the Manhattan and Bronx
Surface Transit Operating System.  The case is Board of Trustees of the AFTRA Retirement Fund
v. JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 09-cv-686, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  States Shielded From Medical-Leave Suits by U.S. High Court  The U.S.  Supreme Court  shielded states from claims that
they illegally denied medical leave to workers, dividing along
ideological lines in a clash about the federal government’s
power over the states.  The justices, voting 5-4, ruled against a Maryland state
court employee who was fired after requesting medical leave. The
majority said states can’t be sued for violating the sick-leave
provisions of the U.S. Family and Medical Leave Act.  The decision marks a shift for the court, giving new life
to a line of rulings that in the 1990s progressively bolstered
states’ immunity from lawsuits and split the nine justices. The
court had stopped moving in that direction in 2003, when it said
state workers could seek damages for violations of other
provisions in the federal family-leave law.  Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Anthony Kennedy,
Antonin Scalia,  Samuel Alito  and Clarence Thomas, all appointed
by Republican presidents, formed the majority. The ruling
prompted Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, appointed by a Democrat,
to take the unusual step of reading a summary of her dissent
from the bench.  The decision affects only public employers and doesn’t
apply to companies.  The case is Coleman v. Court of Appeals of Maryland,
10-1016.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Pacific Capital Bancorp Investor Sues Over $1.5 Billion Bid  Pacific Capital Bancorp (PCBC)  was sued by an investor who
contends directors failed to obtain the best price for the
company in a $1.5 billion buyout offer from  UnionBanCal Corp. (UB)   Pacific Capital’s board had a duty to maximize shareholder
value in the deal, and should have negotiated a higher price
than the agreed-upon $46 a share, Ernesto Rodriguez said in a
complaint filed yesterday in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  Shareholders will receive “grossly inadequate
consideration” in the deal, said Rodriguez, who asks a judge to
grant the case class-action status, on behalf of all outside
shareholders, and to stop the buyout.  UnionBanCal, based in  San Francisco , said in a March 12
statement it would acquire Santa Barbara-based Pacific Capital
to expand in central California.  Debbie Whiteley, a spokeswoman for Pacific Capital, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment about the
lawsuit.  The case is Rodriguez v. Ford and Pacific Capital Bancorp.,
CA7341, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Sun Hung Kai Executive Director Arrested in Bribery Probe  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , Hong Kong’s biggest developer
by market value, said an executive director was arrested by the
city’s anti-corruption body as part of an investigation into
alleged bribery.  Sun Hung Kai has set up a panel of three board members to
handle the investigation into Thomas Chan Kui-Yuen, the
developer said in a statement to the city’s stock exchange March
19. The shares declined to the lowest in a month.  Chan was in charge of land acquisitions by the $38 billion
builder of Hong Kong’s tallest office tower. The company has
been run by co-chairmen Thomas and Raymond Kwok since the ouster
as chairman in 2008 of their brother Walter, who alleged they
opposed his questions over corporate governance matters.  The Independent Commission Against Corruption is
investigating a suspected “offense or offenses” related to the
city’s Prevention of Bribery Act, Sun Hung Kai said in its
statement yesterday without giving further details. ICAC
spokesman Alan Tse declined to comment, as did Sun Hung Kai
spokeswoman’s Margaret Ng.  Chan, an executive director for Sun Hung Kai since 1987, is
responsible for land acquisitions and project planning,
according to the company’s latest annual report. His age is
given as 65 in the report, which was published in October. He
was paid HK$11 million ($1.4 million) in the financial year
ended June 2011, the report said.  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Transocean Holders’ Suits Over Rig Explosion Tossed by Judge  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the oil rig leased to  BP Plc (BP/)  that
exploded and spewed millions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of
Mexico, doesn’t have to face investor claims that the company
failed to disclose repeated safety failures, a judge ruled.  Transocean shareholders can’t make a case that Chief
Executive Officer Steven Newman made “materially false and
misleading statements” about the company’s safety record in
violation of federal securities laws, U.S. District Judge Naomi
Reice Buchwald in New York concluded yesterday.  Some shareholders contend Newman made statements on calls
with analysts in 2009 and 2010 that were designed to mislead
investors about Transocean’s pattern of safety violations and
artificially inflate its share price. The suits also allege the
CEO failed to disclose problems that later were linked to the
fatal explosion on the Deepwater Horizon rig that led to the
largest offshore spill in U.S. history.  “To allow lead plaintiffs’ claims to proceed because
certain undisclosed safety issues may have contributed to the
Deepwater Horizon disaster would be to permit a claim based on
fraud by hindsight,” Buchwald said in her 46-page ruling.  “We are very pleased with the order and the result,” Lou
Colasuonno, a spokesman for Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, said in an e-mailed statement.  Both Transocean and BP were sued by investors as part of a
wave of litigation generated by the April 2010 spill from the
Macondo Well off the coast of Louisiana. Many of the cases have
been consolidated before a judge in Houston.  Yesterday’s ruling covers at least two securities cases
against Transocean that were consolidated before Buchwald in
federal court in New York, according to an October 2010 court
filing.  The securities case is Foley v. Transocean Ltd, 10-cv-5233
(NRB), U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (New
York).  For more, click here.  Banks Suing N.Y. Over MBIA Restructuring Won’t Demand Jury  Banks suing a New York state regulator over the decision to
approve the 2009 restructuring of bond insurer  MBIA Inc.’s (MBI) 
insurance business won’t seek a jury trial in the case,
according to court documents.  MBIA, based in Armonk, New York, was sued by financial
institutions after the 2009 split of its main bond-insurance
unit into two businesses. The banks claim the restructuring was
intended to defraud policyholders and rendered MBIA Insurance
Corp. insolvent. Former state Insurance Superintendent  Eric
Dinallo  was sued separately under a law that allows court review
of administrative decisions.  The banks won’t demand a jury in the case against the
regulator and agreed to have it tried by Justice Barbara R.
Kapnick of state Supreme Court, Robert Giuffra, a lawyer for the
petitioners, said March 19 in a letter to the judge. A trial is
to begin between May 2 and 14, according to Giuffra’s letter.  UBS AG will withdraw from the MBIA litigation, a person
familiar with the matter said March 15. Switzerland’s biggest
lender is one of four remaining banks in the lawsuit that bought
default protection from MBIA against losses on mortgage-linked
debt.  Fourteen other firms dropped out of the suits, including
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Barclays Plc, after settlements that
terminated their hedges with MBIA.  The cases are ABN Amro Bank NV v. Dinallo, 601846-2009, and
ABN Amro Bank NV v. MBIA, 601475-2009, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  Stifel to Pursue Claims Against RBC After Settling With Schools  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) , sued by five Wisconsin school
districts over collateralized debt obligations, said it will pay
them $13 million and plans to join them in pressing claims
against  Royal Bank of Canada .  The payment may convert Stifel from a defendant to a
plaintiff in a lawsuit the districts filed against Toronto-based
RBC in 2008. The St. Louis-based financial services firm cited
“numerous misrepresentations, omissions and conflicts of
interest” contained in CDOs created by the Canadian bank and
sold to trusts set up by the districts for $200 million with
money they raised by issuing asset-backed notes.  “The CDOs were collateral for the notes and those CDOs are
now worthless,” Stifel said yesterday in a statement issued
jointly with the districts.  RBC issued a statement March 19 calling Stifel’s claims
“preposterous.”  “We vehemently deny their allegations,” the bank said.  The original complaint was filed in state court in
Milwaukee by school districts in Kenosha, Waukesha, West
Allis/West Milwaukee, Whitefish Bay and Kimberly. Stifel and the
schools said they need court permission to file their amended
complaint.  “No district, if it had known what we now know about the
product that RBC actually sold us, would have made this
investment,” Kenosha schools Superintendent Michele Hancock
said in the joint statement.  RBC said in its statement that Stifel unilaterally designed
this investment, and had represented to the bank in writing that
the CDOs were suitable for the schools’ objectives.  The case is Kenosha Unified School District v.  Royal Bank
of Canada (RY)  Europe Ltd., 2008-cv-013726, Milwaukee County,
Wisconsin Circuit Court (Milwaukee).  For more, click here.  Apple Fails to Wrest Android Data From Motorola Mobility  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a bid to force  Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. (MMI)  to turn over data about  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s development of the
Android mobile-phone operating system and planned acquisition of
the mobile phone manufacturer.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner, who in June will
preside over back-to-back patent trials pitting Apple against
Motorola, denied the production request in a single-paragraph
order issued March 19.  “The motion is vague and overbroad and Motorola’s
objections are persuasive,” Posner wrote. The mobile phone
maker’s opposition to Apple’s March 16 demand was filed under
seal.  Google last month received U.S. and European Union approval
for its planned $12.5 billion acquisition of Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, which already makes phones
reliant upon the Android system.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, would also
acquire about 17,000 patents. In a regulatory filing March 19,
Motorola said it expected the sale to close in the first half of
this year, while adding that it can provide no assurances the
transaction will be approved by  China .  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, makes the rival
iPhone which runs on the company’s proprietary software.  Motorola Mobility (MMI) , which spun off from Motorola Inc. last
year, has been warring with Apple over patent rights in U.S. and
European courts.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on Posner’s decision. Jennifer Erickson, a Motorola
Mobility spokeswoman, didn’t reply to telephone and e-mail
messages seeking comment.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-08540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Ex-Morgan Stanley Broker Faces Testimony Loss in Ruling’s Appeal  Former Morgan Stanley broker Mark Mensack, ordered by
industry arbitrators to repay $1.2 million in bonus and lawyer’s
fees, may struggle to overturn the ruling after eight hours of
testimony went unrecorded.  Mensack, now a managing director at Piedmont Investment
Advisors, said he is seeking to appeal a decision after it led
to his bankruptcy. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
which organizes arbitration proceedings for brokerages, their
employees and customers, told him that eight of the 18 hours of
testimony from the hearing weren’t recorded due to mechanical or
human error, he said.  The missing testimony may make it more challenging for
Mensack to have the arbitration panel’s decision overturned, a
procedure that is almost always daunting, said Howard Meyers, a
professor at New York Law School. Finra doesn’t have a process
for challenging awards. A court can overturn a ruling if
arbitrators acted corruptly, disregarded the law or had no basis
for an award, according to Finra’s website. Parties have 90 days
after a ruling to file a motion to vacate it.  “Courts actually favor arbitration because it clears up
their dockets, and they are very loathe to look behind an
arbitrator’s reasoning, so there are very limited grounds for
vacating,” said Meyers. “If this individual thought there was
something that was said during arbitration that would be useful
to show some grounds for vacating, he’s got an uphill battle
now.”  Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for Finra, declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Barclays’ Companies Say McKillen Tried to Profit on Hotel Rescue  Patrick McKillen, the developer suing David and Frederick
Barclay, sought a $5 million-pound ($7.9 million) annual fee as
part of a failed bid to use Qatari investors to restructure the
debt of three luxury London hotels, lawyers for the Barclays’
companies said.  McKillen was questioned on the second day of the London
trial about his efforts as the director of Coroin Ltd., the
owner of  Claridge’s , the  Berkeley  and the  Connaught , to find a
solution to its 660-million-pound debt in 2010 and 2011.  The proposed fee for McKillen to stay on if Qatari
investors took a majority stake “was really an inducement to
sell your shares,” said Kenneth Maclean, who represents the
Barclays’ companies. McKillen said the money was for hotel
refurbishment. “This was a budgeted fee for future work,” he
told the court.  Coroin is worth more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion),
according to McKillen, who owns 36 percent of it. The Barclays
bought 800 million euros ($1.06 billion) of its debt last year
from Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency, the so-called
“bad bank” which houses distressed loans resulting from the
country’s property crash.  McKillen says the brothers acted dishonorably in trying to
acquire the hotels and is seeking a court ruling that he has the
right to buy the remaining shares in Coroin. His lawyers argued
the Barclays intend to divide up the company and sell the 200-
year-old Claridge’s and the other hotels.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 