-- Baht Drops on Concern Slowing Chinese Growth Will Hurt Exports
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-03-21T02:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/baht-drops-on-concern-slowing-chinese-growth-will-hurt-exports.html
Thailand ’s baht dropped as concern
 China ’s economic growth is slowing dimmed the Southeast Asian
nation’s export outlook.  Overseas sales , which account for about two-thirds of the
economy, dropped for a fourth month in February, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before
data due this month. BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest
mining company, said yesterday China’s steel production is
slowing. The baht has strengthened 2.5 percent this year as
global funds pumped $2.3 billion into local equities and $10
billion into government  debt , exchange and Thai Bond Market
Association data show.  “Investors seem to be quite concerned about China’s
economic state and that raises concern about the export
outlook,” said Sadaaki Kondou, senior vice president of the
Asian and emerging-markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
 Tokyo . “ Asia  has seen some fund inflows, that puts appreciation
pressure on the currencies. We don’t see a clear one-way
direction at this moment.”  The baht fell 0.1 percent to 30.79 per dollar as of 8:36
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of foreign-exchange swings
used to price options, was little changed at 6.525 percent.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced this month an economic growth
target of 7.5 percent for China in 2012, down from an 8 percent
goal over the past seven years.  Government bonds  were steady before the Bank of Thailand
reviews its benchmark interest rate today. Nineteen of 21
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the rate will be kept
at 3 percent, while two predict a 25-basis point cut.  The yield on the 3.25 percent notes due June 2017 was
little changed at 3.61 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-year onshore interest-rate swaps, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.08 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 