-- Baldness Protein Found in Study That May Lead to Treatments
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-03-21T18:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/baldness-protein-identified-in-study-that-may-lead-to-treatments.html
Male-pattern baldness may be caused
by a protein in the scalp, according to research that raises the
possibility drugs being tested by  Merck & Co. (MRK)  and  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) 
for other uses might prevent hair loss.  Bald spots had an excessive amount of a protein called
prostaglandin D2 or PGD2, according to a study in  Science
Translational Medicine . Merck’s experimental treatment for
facial flushing and Actelion’s allergy compound, both in late-
stage studies, block the protein.  About eight out of 10 white men experience some balding
before the age of 70, according to the researchers.  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s Rogaine and Merck’s Propecia slow the loss, and some
users see minor hair growth. Men may be able to regrow all their
hair if the inhibiting protein is removed, said George Cotsarelis, chairman of dermatology at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Perelman School of Medicine in Philadelphia.  “We really do think if you remove the inhibition, you get
longer hair,” Cotsarelis, a study author, said in a telephone
interview. “We don’t know” if the follicles will return to
their former lengths, he said.  The study was funded by grants from the  National Institutes
of Health , the Pennsylvania Department of Health, and other
medical groups.  Bald Parts  The researchers looked at all the genes in the scalp
samples from five men, comparing the bald parts to the haired
parts. They found higher expressions of the gene that produces
PGD2 in the bald samples, compared to the spots with hair. With
that as a guide, they found in samples of 17 men with hair loss
that PGD2 was three times higher in the bald spots than where
hair was growing. The scientists then used mice to show that
excessive PGD2 decreased follicles.  Previous work  has shown that the  stem cells  that create
hair are still intact in bald men, Cotsarelis said. The
follicles are also there, though they look smaller and produce
thinner, shorter hair. Over time, the hair is so short it no
longer passes the surface of the skin.  “This makes me wonder if this is the pathway,” said
 Paradi Mirmirani , a dermatologist at  Kaiser Permanente  in
Vallejo,  California . She wasn’t involved in the study. “In
terms of therapeutics, it really opens the door to have someone
come in and target these in a very narrow way.”  Final Studies  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , is testing
laropiprant as a flushing inhibitor to be administered with
niacin. Allschwil, Switzerland-based Actelion’s setipiprant is
being studied as a treatment for allergic inflammation of nasal
pathways. Both therapies are in the final phase of testing
generally needed for regulatory approval.  Merck isn’t studying the anti-flushing drug in hair loss,
said Ian McConnell, a Merck spokesman, in a telephone interview.
“We haven’t seen any signals” in patient trials that the
therapy might reduce baldness, he said.  Actelion isn’t testing setipiprant as a baldness treatment,
said Roland Haefeli, a company spokesman.  The role prostaglandins might play in hair growth was
hinted at by  Allergan Inc. (AGN) ’s Latisse, which is an artificial
version of prostaglandin F2-alpha, said Mirmirani. Latisse was
originally developed for glaucoma, and doctors discovered it
made eyelashes grow.  “They could pick out who was on it from the waiting room
because of the super-long eyelashes,” Mirmirani said in a
telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  