-- Basel Group Said to Set June Deadline for Liquidity-Rule Deal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-21T19:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/basel-group-said-to-set-june-deadline-for-liquidity-rule-deal.html
Global  banking  regulators set
themselves a June deadline to reach an agreement on changes to
draft liquidity rules amid concerns that delays may undermine
investor confidence, according to two people familiar with the
discussions.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  discussed the
standard at a meeting in the Swiss city that ended today,
according to the people who couldn’t be identified because the
talks are private.  The aim of the liquid-assets measure is to ensure that
lenders hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day
credit squeeze. The requirement, part of the so-called Basel III
pact designed to prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis,
is scheduled to take effect in 2015.  Banks have argued that the liquidity coverage ratio, or
LCR, may curtail  loans  by forcing them to hoard cash and buy
 government bonds . Bank supervisors say the standard is needed to
prevent a repeat of the collapses of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , which were blamed in part on the lenders
running out of short-term funding. Global regulators said  last
year  that they would amend the rule to address any unintended
consequences.  The Basel group this week considered expanding the range
of assets that lenders could count toward meeting their LCR
requirements, the people said. Regulators were unable to agree
on what changes should be made and requested more information on
the impact of different options.  Stressed Scenario  The group also considered changes to the hypothetical
stressed scenario that lenders must use when calculating if
they will meet the liquidity standard, one of the people said.  Regulators at the Basel meeting also agreed to do further
work on plans to overhaul rules for securities in banks’ trading
books, one of the people said.  The committee has been studying whether to scrap having
different sets of  capital requirements  for assets that banks
keep in their trading books as opposed to those, in their
banking books, that they intend to hold to maturity. The
group was scheduled to present its conclusions by the end of
2011.  The Basel committee brings together banking regulators from
27 nations including the U.K., U.S. and  China  to set prudential
rules for international lenders.  The group  agreed  in 2010 to more than triple the core
capital that financial firms must hold. Last year, it also
targeted 29 lenders including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA
and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  for capital surcharges of as high
as 2.5 percent of their assets, weighted for risk, in a bid to
rein in lenders deemed too big to fail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  