-- Bavarian Nordic May Seek Government Funding for Anthrax Vaccine
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-03-21T16:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/bavarian-nordic-may-seek-government-funding-for-anthrax-vaccine.html
Bavarian Nordic A/S (BAVA) , the Danish
company that’s developing a prostate-cancer treatment, may seek
government funding to help develop its anthrax vaccine, said
Chief Executive Officer Anders Hedegaard.  Bavarian Nordic, based in Kvistgaard, may ask governments,
starting with the U.S., to fund its MVA-BN anthrax vaccine
should pre-clinical data justify further testing, Hedegaard said
in an interview at a conference in  Stockholm  today.  The company is using its MVA-BN technology to combine
vaccines for anthrax and smallpox and offer protection against
two major biological threats. The U.S. National Institutes of
Health funded studies of Bavarian Nordic’s Imvamune smallpox
vaccine, already supplied to the U.S. government, which
stockpiles it for emergency use.  The company is also developing its Prostvac therapeutic
vaccine for prostate cancer and is enrolling patients for a
late-stage clinical trial.  While the company is seeking a partner for Prostvac, there
is “not as much time pressure” after the company raised 650
million kroner ($115 million) last year in a share sale to fund
the trial, Hedegaard said. Still, he remains optimistic about
securing a licensing agreement.  “There’s no doubt there is interest in immunotherapy,”
Hedegaard said.  Sales of U.S. drugmaker  Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) ’s Provenge prostate-
cancer therapy, part of a new class of drugs that trigger the
body’s immune system to attack cancer cells as if they were a
virus, more than tripled in the fourth quarter, the Seattle-
based company said Jan. 5.  “Provenge will pave the way for clinicians who will adopt
immunotherapy,” Hedegaard said.  Prostvac will be available as an “off-the-shelf, ready-to-
use” treatment, offering more convenience for doctors compared
with Provenge, Hedegaard said. The two drugs may also complement
each other, and Prostvac has also been shown to slow disease
progression in combination with hormone therapy in mid-stage
trials, he said.  Editors: Robert Valpuesta, Phil Serafino.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  