-- Benihana Seen Luring Richest Restaurant Deal Since ‘07: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-03-21T02:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/benihana-seen-luring-richest-restaurant-deal-since-07-real-m-a.html
Benihana Inc. (BNHN)  needs to persuade
potential acquirers that revived profits and sales at its
Japanese-themed eateries are enough to justify the most
expensive U.S. restaurant takeover in almost five years.  The Miami-based chain, known for shrimp-flipping chefs who
cook at customers’ tables, said last week it will work with
Jefferies & Co. to explore a possible sale for the second time
in two years. After the stock more than doubled since its
earlier attempt, the company is now trading at about 45 times
earnings, higher than 94 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That would also make Benihana the
industry’s priciest takeover greater than $200 million since
before the last U.S. recession, the data show.  Leveraged buyout firms will still be interested in
Benihana, according to  Greenwood Capital , because the company is
cheaper than 94 percent of its peers relative to the cash it
generates and its operating margins leave room for improvement
under new management. The eatery already returned to  profit  in
fiscal 2011 and will increase net income by more than 50 percent
next year, Roth Capital Partners LLC  estimates , as the  U.S.
economy  extends its recovery from the longest contraction since
the Great Depression.  “The world does look decidedly different and better” than
two years ago,  Michael Holland , chairman and founder of
New York-based Holland & Co., which oversees more than $4
billion, said in a phone interview. “When you have a company
with comparative margins that are some of the lowest in an
industry, there’s always an opportunity for improvement, which
is something that private equity would always be salivating to
try to do.”  ‘Red Flower’  Anntal Silver, a spokeswoman for Benihana, declined to
comment on the company’s strategic alternatives.  Benihana, which means “red flower” in Japanese, got its
start in 1964 when Japanese immigrant Rocky Hiroaki Aoki opened
a four-table restaurant in midtown  Manhattan , according to the
company’s  website . The company, which has since added the RA
Sushi and Haru chains, now owns and operates 96 restaurants in
the U.S., of which 63 are Benihanas. Another 16 Benihanas are
operated as franchises in the U.S.,  Latin America  and the
Caribbean.  The company had two years of  net losses  during the
recession before returning to profitability in its fiscal 2011,
ended last March. Benihana’s  shares , which topped $24 in 2007,
plunged to $1.50 a year later during the depths of the financial
crisis. They closed yesterday at $12.52, giving the company a
market capitalization of about $224 million.  Exploring Alternatives  Last week’s announcement that Benihana will consider
“strategic alternatives” comes less than a year after it
terminated a similar process. The company disclosed in July 2010
it was exploring a potential sale under pressure from investors
who questioned the chain’s strategy. Instead, Benihana’s board
said in May 2011 that it would pursue “long-term
opportunities” and proposed eliminating a dual-class stock
structure and a so-called poison pill designed to prevent
hostile takeovers.  Benihana’s share price has  more than doubled  since it last
tried to sell itself. Valued at 45 times earnings, Benihana
would be the most expensive U.S. restaurant takeover greater
than $200 million since Sun  Capital Partners  Inc.’s buyout of
Friendly Ice Cream Corp. in 2007 at an earnings multiple of 155,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cash Value  For private-equity firms, earnings multiples aren’t as
important as a company’s ability to generate cash consistently,
 Walter Todd , who oversees about $950 million as chief investment
officer at Greenwood Capital in Greenwood,  South Carolina , said
in a telephone interview. As of yesterday’s closing price,
Benihana traded at 7.8 times its cash from operations after
deducting capital expenses, a lower multiple than 94 percent of
U.S. restaurant chains with a market capitalization greater than
$200 million, the data show.  “Private equity really cares more about price to free  cash
flow ,” Todd said. “At the end of the day, it’s maybe not as
expensive for private equity as it would seem because of that
cash flow.”  Leveraged buyout firms may also be attracted by the
opportunity to increase profitability, Holland said. The
company’s  operating margin  of 1.9 percent in the last 12 months
trailed every other similar-sized U.S. restaurant firm except
for Nashville, Tennessee-based  O’Charley’s Inc. (CHUX) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The industry average is 10 percent,
a level Benihana hasn’t reached on an annual basis in more than
a decade.  Sales Momentum  Buyers may also be lured by Benihana’s  comparable-store
sales , or sales at units open more than one year, which rose 7
percent in the period ended Jan. 1 for the eighth straight
quarterly increase. The gauge is considered an indicator of
growth because it includes only older locations.  “With sales momentum remaining quite strong, we also
anticipate that profit margins should benefit,” Anton Brenner,
an analyst at  Newport Beach , California-based Roth Capital
Partners, wrote in a Feb. 8 note.  The buyout of Morton’s Restaurant Group Inc. last month may
have been what prompted Benihana’s management to seek a deal
now, Todd said.  Texas billionaire and restaurateur Tilman J. Fertitta took
the Chicago-based high-end steakhouse chain private for about
$180 million including net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. At $6.90 a share, it was a 30 percent premium to its
average over the 20 days before the deal was announced in
December, the data show.  Morton’s Precedent  “You’ve got the precedence of the Morton’s deal,” Todd
said. “Benihana probably looks at the landscape and sees the
deals that have been done, which maybe prompts them to look at
selling the company.”  Last year, shareholders voted to simplify the company’s
capital structure by reclassifying each share of Class A common
stock into one share of common stock. The proposal to eliminate
the dual-class structure previously failed amid opposition from
the family of founder Aoki, which holds shares through RHA
Testamentary Trust.  The reclassification gives Benihana “flexibility to pursue
strategic opportunities,” CEO Richard Stockinger said in a
statement on Nov. 21.  Still, the Benihana brand may not have the same appeal to
customers as it once had, said Michael Mullaney, who helps
manage $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust in  Boston . The rich
multiple may not be justified as competition intensifies with
the ShopHouse Southeast Asian Kitchen concept from  Denver-based
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  and Scottsdale, Arizona-based P.F.
Chang’s China Bistro Inc., he said.  Restaurant Multiples  Buyers have paid a median of 7.7 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in takeovers of
U.S. restaurants worth at least $200 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Benihana already trades at 8.2 times Ebitda.  The stock also traded yesterday at 0.61 times its trailing
12-month revenue, its highest price-to-sales multiple since
March 2008, the data show.  “If we were an investment banking firm, we would not be
interested in looking at Benihana as far as taking it private,
sprucing it up and selling it again,” Mullaney said in a phone
interview. “It looks like it’s just too tired a concept with
too many competitors right now and they are expensive. It
wouldn’t add up for us.”  Still, marketing and quality-improvement efforts made since
2009, including rolling out a new Benihana menu, are now paying
off with higher sales and improving profit margins. The
company’s operating margin probably increased to 2.8 percent of
sales in the year ending March 31, up from 0.6 percent in fiscal
2011, Brenner wrote in his Feb. 8 note.  “It’s an extraordinary turnaround,” Malcolm Knapp, a New
York-based consultant and founder of Malcolm M. Knapp Inc. who
has monitored the restaurant industry since 1970, said in a
telephone interview. “There is still work to do, but it’s
fundamentally fixed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
 Leslie Patton  in  Chicago  at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 