-- Bernanke Says Europe Must Aid Banks Even as Strains Ease
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-21T16:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/bernanke-says-europe-must-aid-banks-even-as-strains-ease.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress that higher energy prices may weaken the
 U.S. economy  by sapping  consumer spending .  “Higher energy prices would probably slow growth, at least
in the short run,” Bernanke said today in response to questions
from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
Rising fuel prices “create at least short-term inflation
pressures, and moreover, they act as a tax on household
purchasing power and reduce consumption spending, and that also
is a drag on the economy.”  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  are watching oil and gasoline prices that threaten
U.S. growth and are likely to push up inflation “temporarily,”
according to their statement last week, when they said  interest
rates  are likely to remain near zero through at least late 2014.  Crude oil for May delivery climbed $1.36, or 1.3 percent,
to $107.43 a barrel at 11:38 a.m. today on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. The national average price of a gallon of
gasoline rose to $3.86 yesterday from $3.28 on Jan. 1, according
to the American Automobile Association.  Bernanke’s testimony today focused on the European
sovereign-debt crisis, as the Fed chairman told Congress that
Europe must further strengthen its banks and that its financial
and economic situation “remains difficult” even as stresses
have declined.  Troubled Countries  “Full resolution of the crisis will require a further
strengthening of the European banking system,” Bernanke said.
The region’s leaders also must “increase economic growth and
competitiveness and to reduce external imbalances in the
troubled countries,” he said.  Bernanke said reduced stress is a “welcome development”
for the U.S. His comments echoed the FOMC’s statement last week
that “strains in global financial markets have eased, though
they continue to pose significant downside risks to the economic
outlook.”  The Fed isn’t considering buying any of  Europe ’s sovereign
debt because the purpose of the central bank’s authority to
purchase such debt is to maintain foreign-exchange reserves,
Bernanke, 58, said in response to questions.  He also said the Fed has reviewed the credit-default swaps,
or contracts that U.S. banks have used to insure against
defaults in Europe, and that they are “widely dispersed.” The
central bank doesn’t expect a repeat of 2008, when American
International Group Inc., a large counterparty on swaps,
collapsed, Bernanke said.  AIG Example  AIG is “an example of what we don’t see now,” he said.  Recent economic reports have shown strength in the U.S.
economy as the threat from Europe has eased.  Sales of previously owned U.S. houses held in February near
an almost two-year high, a report from National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median price increased
over the past year for the first time since November 2010.  The Commerce Department reported yesterday that builders
broke ground on  698,000 homes  at an annual rate in February,
close to a three-year high. Building permits, a proxy for future
construction, rose to the highest level since October 2008.  U.S. stocks were little changed today as energy shares
slumped after Baker Hughes Inc. said operating profit will drop
and on concern the biggest first-quarter rally since 1998 has
outpaced prospects for economic growth. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  was at 1,405.51 at 12:20 p.m. in New York. The index
has risen 12 percent so far this year.  European markets have stabilized on speculation that
government leaders are containing the region’s debt crisis. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index has rallied 25 percent since Sept. 22,
when it closed at a two-year low. The rate that London-based
banks say they pay for three-month loans in dollars was 0.474
percent yesterday.  Libor (US0003M) , a gauge of banks’ willingness to lend,
is down from a 30-month high of 0.583 on Jan 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  