-- BlackBerry Fund Raises $150 Million to Invest in App Startups
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/blackberry-fund-raises-150-million-to-invest-in-app-startups.html
ATP Capital, manager of the
 BlackBerry Partners Fund , raised $150 million for a new fund to
invest in startups that develop applications for a range of
mobile-phone platforms.  “We have been agnostic from day one,” Co-Managing Partner
Kevin Talbot said yesterday in a phone interview. That means
investing in early-stage businesses based on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS
operating system and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform as well as
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry. “If you look at our
portfolio, you’ll see far more broad horizontal plays. That’s
how you build big companies.”  Venture-capital firms are investing more in software
developers as their apps become increasingly important to
consumers when choosing among mobile phones and tablet
computers. Faster sales growth and a wider variety of apps have
attracted more developers to Apple than other systems.  Eighty-nine percent of developers in a recent survey by
 Appcelerator  and IDC said they were “very interested” in
developing for the iPhone. For Android phones, the figure was 79
percent, while only 16 percent of developers polled were “very
interested” in building apps for the BlackBerry phone.  Talbot said ATP Capital is being rebranded as Relay
Ventures as it begins to manage the second BlackBerry Partners
Fund, whose lead investor is Northleaf Capital Partners. The new
fund also has support from  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) ,  Corus
Entertainment Inc. (CJR/B)  and RIM.  The original BlackBerry Partners Fund began in Toronto with
a $150 million investment in 2008 and then planned a second fund
to invest in startups in  emerging markets  before scaling back to
focus on North America. Talbot has relocated to Menlo Park,
 California , near  San Francisco , to run the new fund with
Managing Partner John Albright.  Slumping BlackBerry Sales  RIM has struggled to attract the same interest from
developers as iOS and Android because of the BlackBerry’s
slumping sales and delays in overhauling its own operating
system. RIM’s share of the global smartphone market slipped to
8.2 percent in the fourth quarter from 14 percent a year
earlier, while Apple’s share rose to 24 percent from 16 percent,
according to IDC.  Appcelerator, which does market research and offers
“cloud” storage for mobile devices, has received funding from
Relay. Talbot stressed that the fund’s focus is on investing in
companies for the long term.  “It’s not about the apps of the moment,” he said. “It’s
about building big businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  