-- JPMorgan Joins BofA in Cutting Senior Mortgage Traders
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-03-21T21:48:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/bofa-s-mcniff-said-to-resign-from-mortgage-trading-unit.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of
America Corp. , the two biggest U.S. banks, are cutting senior
mortgage traders and salesmen amid a decline in the asset-backed
 securities market , people with knowledge of the moves said.  Raphael Gonzalez, JPMorgan’s co-head of trading in subprime
mortgages, and John Angelica, a securitized-products salesman,
resigned from the New York-based bank within the past four weeks
in exchange for severance packages that included all their
deferred stock awards, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. Roy Kim, who traded
adjustable-rate mortgages, left on his own accord with a similar
exit deal, the people said.  JPMorgan and Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , are re-evaluating staffing on mortgage-trading desks
amid pressure to cut expenses and stricter  capital requirements 
tied to the assets. Some employees were offered severance
packages allowing them to keep millions of dollars of deferred
stock that otherwise may have been forfeited, the people said.  “When you start doing something like this, you’re making a
forward statement about the mortgage-backed security market --
they are saying it isn’t going to be as active,” said Brad Hintz, an analyst covering banks at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in  New York . “Firms are right-sizing for the fixed-income
market of the future. We’ll probably be seeing this in a lot of
other Wall Street businesses as the regulations become clear.”  Trading Decline  Trading revenue from securitized products at the 10 biggest
global investment banks dropped to roughly $10 billion last year
from about $17.5 billion in 2010, according to data from
consultant Coalition Ltd.  The three JPMorgan executives left amid involuntary
reductions in the past four weeks in the bank’s securitized-
products division, which trades and sells mortgage bonds,
derivatives and other asset-backed securities, according to two
of the people with knowledge of the matter.  Jennifer Zuccarelli ,
a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said she couldn’t comment on the
departures, as did Gonzalez and Angelica. Contact information
for Kim couldn’t immediately be located.  The bank also dismissed about 5 percent of its equities
traders and salesmen yesterday and cut about 100 employees in
its treasury and securities services unit in January, according
to three people with knowledge of those moves. Andy Taylor, the
bank’s head of commercial mortgage bond trading, was shifted to
run the loan-trading book.  Justin Perras , a company spokesman,
confirmed Taylor’s move.  Bank of America eliminated at least half a dozen mortgage
traders and salesmen this week. That included John McNiff, a
managing director who served as co-head of commercial mortgage
securities trading, said people with knowledge of the moves.  Jackier, Eck  Managing directors Seth Jackier in mortgage sales and John Eck in asset-backed trading also opted to leave Bank of America,
said the people. Michael Case, a director in commercial mortgage
security banking, and salesmen John Livingstone and Michael L.
Miller also departed, one of the people said.  Some Bank of America employees volunteered to resign in
exchange for a so-called garden leave, a period of 90 days in
which they receive full salary and benefits while staying at
home, and severance packages including stock, the people said.  “This isn’t necessarily bad news” for people who are
weighing moves to other firms, said  Jeanne Branthover , managing
director at Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd. in New York.
“Areas like this that didn’t come back as expected are the ones
that companies are now evaluating.”  European Crisis  Banks pulled back from making new loans to package into
bonds last year as  Europe ’s debt crisis roiled credit markets
and sent relative yields soaring. Credit Suisse Group AG is
shutting its unit responsible for making loans, while the
retreat has left other firms short on mortgages to pool for
sale.  Bank of America is also cutting outside the U.S.,
dismissing almost  a dozen workers  at its Canadian capital-
markets business as part of a global staff reduction, one person
said. The move leaves the bank with almost 500 people at offices
in Toronto,  Montreal ,  Vancouver  and Calgary, the person said.  Wall Street firms are firing staff and reducing pay as
 revenue wanes  from trading and underwriting. More cuts are
coming at Bank of America as part of Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan ’s efficiency plan, which may target as much as
$8 billion in total annual savings. Moynihan, 52, already
announced as many as 30,000 job cuts in retail banking and
technology.  Bank of America lost market share last year to rivals
including New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in the trading of
equities, bonds, currencies and commodities, Matthew O’Connor,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a Jan. 19 research note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  