-- Bolton to Play First Match Since Player’s Collapse on Field
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-03-21T15:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/bolton-to-play-first-match-since-player-s-collapse-on-field.html
Bolton Wanderers  will play
Blackburn this weekend in their first match since midfielder
Fabrice Muamba suffered a heart attack in a game last week.  The clubs, both just above the three-team relegation zone
in English soccer’s Premier League, will play at Bolton’s Reebok
Stadium on March 24.  Muamba collapsed shortly before halftime of a F.A. Cup
match at Tottenham a week earlier. The televised game was called
off after medical crews struggled to re-start the English
player’s heart.  “We spoke together with the players as a group this
morning, and I talked to Fabrice’s family last night,” coach
Owen Coyle said today in a statement on Bolton’s website.
“Fabrice’s father Marcel and his fiancée Shauna were keen that
we fulfill our fixtures. Once the players knew this, there was
no doubt in our minds that we would play the matches.”  Blackburn is in 16th place, with 28 points, while Bolton is
17th, one point and one spot above three bottom teams with 22
points each. Bolton has 10 games remaining this season, while
Blackburn has played one additional match.  The F.A. Cup quarterfinal match with Tottenham will be
replayed at March 27 at White Hart Lane,  England ’s Football
Association said on its website.  The 23-year-old Muamba has shown signs of recovery,
recognizing family members and responding to questions at the
 London  Chest Hospital, where he remains in intensive care.  The club and hospital said earlier in the week that
Muamba’s heart was beating without the aid of medicine and he
was also moving his arms and legs.  Induced Coma  The player was put into a medically induced coma after his
March 17th collapse at White Hart Lane in north London. Medical
staff at the stadium treated the player on the pitch with a
defibrillator before he was carried off on a stretcher as both
teams’ fans chanted his name.  It took two hours to get Muamba’s heart working steadily
after his collapse. Players and fans were visibly upset, with
some in tears. Match referee  Howard Webb  took both teams off the
field and moments later called off the game with the score tied
1-1.  The  Daily Mirror  reported on March 19 that Bolton was
considering withdrawing from the F.A. Cup, England’s premier cup
competition. Trotters’ officials were concerned about the
possible psychological impact on Muamba’s teammates, the
newspaper said.  Bolton’s Premier League game at  Aston Villa  scheduled for
last night was postponed.  Muamba, a Democratic Republic of Congo-born former member
of England’s under-21 national team and a one-time Arsenal
midfielder, is in his fourth season with Bolton. He has appeared
in 19 matches this season, scoring once.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  