-- Brazil Real Falls on Dollar Purchase; Rate-Futures Yields Drop
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-21T21:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/brazil-real-falls-on-dollar-purchase-rate-futures-yields-drop.html
Brazil’s real fell as the central
bank’s dollar purchases fueled speculation the government may be
seeking to keep the currency weaker than 1.80 per dollar.  The real dropped 0.2 percent to 1.8180 per  U.S. dollar ,
from 1.8147 yesterday. It has lost 5.5 percent this month, the
worst-performing major currency, as Brazil imposed measures to
reduce its value.  The central bank said it bought dollars in the spot market
yesterday at 1.8210 reais each, part of its effort to keep the
currency from appreciating. The real will end the year at 1.80
per dollar, compared with a 1.75 forecast a week ago, according
to the median estimate of the five most accurate economists in
the central bank’s weekly survey of about 100 analysts released
March 19.  “Yesterday the central bank bought dollars above 1.82,”
Hideaki Iha, a currency trader at Fair Corretora de Cambio e
Valores, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “This is leaving the
market in doubt about the floor for the currency.”  The real earlier fell as much as 0.8 percent after sales of
previously owned U.S. houses unexpectedly fell in February,
showing that the real-estate market in the world’s biggest
economy is taking time to rebound.  Brazilian policy makers increased dollar purchases this
month after the real touched 1.6890 per U.S. dollar on Feb. 29,
the strongest level since Oct. 31. The central bank’s  foreign
reserves  have risen 12.4 percent in the past year to $356
billion.  Brazilian Economic Growth  Latin America ’s largest economy grew 2.7 percent last year,
its second-weakest performance since 2003, while industrial
output dropped the most in three years in January, according to
data published this month by the statistics agency.  Brazil ’s main tool for avoiding an influx of cheap imports
is the administration of its currency rate, Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  said in the Senate testimony March 13.  While Brazil is committed to a floating rate of exchange,
the country isn’t going to play the “idiot’s role” in the face
of other nations devaluing their currencies, he said.  Futures yields fell for a second day amid concern the U.S.
housing market is struggling to recover and as investors
speculated rising  oil prices  may choke off global economic
growth. The yield on the contract due in January fell four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.93 percent.  “The external markets are pushing rates down”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco West LB, said by phone from
Sao Paulo. “There’s concern about the effect of high oil prices
on the global economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  