-- BrightSource Seeking Up to $182.5 Million in Solar-Thermal IPO
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-03-21T22:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/brightsource-seeking-up-to-182-5-million-in-solar-thermal-ipo.html
BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) , the
developer of solar-thermal power plants, is seeking as much as
$182.5 million in an initial public offering.  The company is offering 6.9 million shares at $21 to $23
apiece, according to a regulatory filing today. The stock would
be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol BRSE. The
offering is expected to be priced on April 11, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  BrightSource, based in Oakland,  California , plans to use
proceeds from the IPO to develop additional solar-thermal power
plants, which use mirrors to focus the sun’s energy on boilers
that make steam to drive turbines. The company has 13 contracts
to sell power from projects totaling 2.4 gigawatts of capacity
to electric utilities of  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  and  Edison International (EIX) ,
according to the filing.  BrightSource is vying with other developers including
 Abengoa SA (ABG) , Areva SA,  Acciona SA (ANA) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  to
commercialize its  technology , which uses mirrors arranged around
a central tower. Other solar-thermal developers are using so-
called parabolic trough systems, with curved mirrors that focus
sunlight on an overhead tube that contains a heat transfer fluid
and is routed to steam generators.  The company began building its first power plant in
southern California in 2010, and it’s expected to enter
operation in 2013. The project is backed by a $1.6 billion loan
guarantee from the U.S. Energy Department, as well as equity
investments from Google Inc. and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG)   Alstom’s Role  BrightSource said  Alstom SA (ALO) , an existing investor, and
Caithness Energy LLC’s development unit agreed to purchase $65
million and $10 million worth of the company’s stock,
respectively, in a concurrent private placement.  Alstom, BrightSource’s largest backer currently with a 19.9
percent stake, would own 21.9 percent after the IPO and private
placement. Its other backers include Draper Fisher Jurvetson
with a 5.9 percent stake, VantagePoint Capital Patners with a 24
percent stake, and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  with a 9.4 percent stake.  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , and  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  are leading the proposed offering. The underwriters have an
option to purchase an additional 1.035 million shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  