-- Brooks Said to Be Quizzed on U.K. Defense Official Payment
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-21T18:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/brooks-said-to-be-quizzed-by-police-on-defense-official-payment.html
Rebekah Brooks, the former Chief
Executive Officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. publishing unit, was
questioned by police about payments made to a source at
Britain’s Ministry of Defence, a person familiar with the
investigation said.  London’s Metropolitan Police had questions related to
information turned over by News Corp.’s Management and Standards
Committee, formed to assist police investigations into claims of
phone and computer hacking and bribery by the company’s
reporters, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private.  Brooks, who hasn’t been charged, reported to police today
as a condition of her bail from a previous arrest. She has been
questioned at least twice before, once after she was arrested on
suspicion of phone hacking and again March 13 related to
obstruction of police investigations. The 43-year-old stepped
down from News Corp. last year after the New York-based company
was forced to close the News of the World tabloid after its
reporters were accused of illegally accessing the voice mails of
a murdered teenager for stories.  At least 11 reporters at the company’s Sun tabloid have
been arrested, though also not charged, as part of the same
investigation. The scandal at the News of the World set off
three police probes into hacking and bribery, a Parliamentary
inquisition and a judge-led inquiry into media ethics that may
lead to new rules for the British press.  Corruption Culture  Brooks’s lawyer Stephen Parkinson didn’t immediately return
a call seeking comment.  In February, Met Deputy Assistant Commissioner Sue Akers
testified to the independent press ethics panel that the Sun had
a “culture” of corrupt payments to public officials and said
defense officials and soldiers were paid for stories.  The Met said in a statement that they questioned a 43-year-
old woman as part of a bribery investigation and declined to
comment further.  Police said the woman, who they didn’t identify, was
released on bail after questioning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  