-- Buffett Seizes Lead in Bet on Stocks Beating Hedge Funds
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-03-21T12:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/buffett-seizes-lead-in-bet-on-stocks-beating-hedge-funds.html
Warren Buffett  made a friendly bet
four years ago that funds that invest in hedge funds for their
clients couldn’t beat the stock market over a decade. So far
he’s winning.  The wager that began on Jan. 1, 2008, pits the Omaha,
Nebraska, billionaire against Protégé Partners LLC, a New York
fund of hedge funds co-founded by Ted Seides and Jeffrey Tarrant. Protégé built an index of five funds that invest in
hedge funds to compete against a Vanguard mutual fund that
tracks the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The winner’s charity of
choice gets $1 million when the bet ends on Dec. 31, 2017.  The Vanguard fund’s low-cost Admiral shares returned 2.2
percent, with dividends reinvested, from the start of the bet
through Feb. 29, as stocks rebounded from a 12-year low in March
2009. The  hedge funds  fell about 4.5 percent, based on Protégé’s
index returns for the first three years and results since then
for the Dow Jones Credit Suisse Hedge Fund Index, which has
roughly tracked the group of unidentified funds when adjustments
are made for extra fees.  “Hedge funds of funds have underperformed because of high
fees and mediocre manager selection,” said Brad Alford, head of
Alpha Capital Management LLC in Atlanta, which runs a mutual
fund of funds designed to replicate the performance of hedge
funds with lower fees and the flexibility for clients to pull
money out daily. Since 2009, his  Alpha Defensive Growth (ACDEX)  strategy
has posted an annual average return of 8.2 percent, almost twice
the return of hedge fund of funds.  Neither Buffett nor Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for
Protégé, would comment on the bet’s progress.  Assets Decline  Funds of funds have seen clients flee in the past five
years. Some of the largest U.S. public pension funds, including
those in  Massachusetts ,  South Carolina  and New York, started
investing directly in hedge funds instead of going through an
intermediary in an effort to reduce fees and boost returns.  The amount of money they control has fallen by about one-
fifth to $630 billion as of the end of 2011, compared with a
year-end peak of $780 billion in 2007, according to Hedge Fund
Research. Funds of funds were the industry’s biggest investors
in 2007, holding about 43 percent of assets.  Buffett’s argument, like the large pension funds, is that
funds of hedge funds cost too much, according to a statement he
posted on  longbets.org , a website backed by the nonprofit Long
Now Foundation that fosters “long-term thinking.” In addition
to the 2 percent management fee and 20 percent performance fee
that hedge funds typically charge, the funds of funds add
another layer of fees, on average 1.25 percent of assets and 7.5
percent of any gains, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wheat From Chaff  Protégé said in its statement that because hedge funds can
make bets on rising as well as falling prices of stocks, bonds,
currencies and commodities, they are able to beat the  S&P 500 
even after fees, and that sophisticated investors such as fund-
of-fund managers “with the ability to sort the wheat from the
chaff” will earn returns that amply compensate for the extra
costs.  The returns of Protégé’s index from 2008 through 2010,
reported in Fortune magazine a year ago by long-time Buffett
friend and chronicler Carol Loomis, are similar to those of the
Dow Jones Credit Suisse Hedge Fund Index, after adjusting for
the added fees charged by hedge fund of funds. That index fell
2.5 percent last year, and rose 4 percent in the first two
months of 2012.  Protégé took the lead in the first year of the bet as its
fund of funds index lost 24 percent and Vanguard’s fund declined
by 37 percent. Buffett narrowed the gap in subsequent years. The
S&P fund returned 27 percent in 2009, compared with a gain of 16
percent for the hedge funds, according to Fortune. The stock
fund rose 15 percent in 2010 as the hedge funds advanced 8.5
percent.  Overtaking Hedge Funds  The 81-year-old Buffett, who is chairman of the holding
company  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , ended last year neck and neck
with the Protégé funds as the Vanguard fund climbed by 2.1
percent and the Protégé hedge funds lost an estimated 3.75
percent.  The first two months of this year pushed the Vanguard fund
ahead as stocks returned 9 percent, more than twice the gains of
hedge funds.  Buffett, who told Loomis in 2008 he placed his chances of
winning at 60 percent, had originally suggested a bet against
single-manager hedge funds. Had he found a taker, he would be
trailing by about 6 percentage points based on the Dow Jones
Credit Suisse index.  If Buffett had bet returns of his own holding company
against the performance of hedge funds, he’d be even farther
behind. Berkshire Hathaway shares have slumped almost 17 percent
since the end of 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  