-- Calatrava’s $182 Million Bridge Favors Park Over Freeway
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/calatrava-s-182-million-bridge-favors-park-over-freeway.html
I enjoyed lamb ribs, fireworks and
music by Lyle Lovett as  Dallas  celebrated the opening of the
$182 million Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge by famed engineer and
architect  Santiago Calatrava .  The bridge graces the downtown skyline with a 400-foot-high
hoop from which an elegant cat’s cradle of twisting cables
descends to support the deck as it hops across the Trinity
River.  Zurich-based Calatrava, 60, has built bridges, airports and
train stations that evoke birds in flight and dinosaur
vertebrae. You feel the power of gravity routed through steel
ribs and taut cables.  Beauty used to be thought essential to the design of road
bridges and rail trestles, at least when they are highly visible
in an important part of the city. Think of  San Francisco ’s
Golden Gate Bridge or the Brooklyn Bridge.  Aesthetics went out of style when America’s voracious
appetite for freeway lanes squeezed out every consideration but
raw auto throughput. So the Hill Bridge is a rarity today. Less
brawny than Calatrava’s most spectacular creations, its delicacy
delights as it pops into view all over town.  Calatrava is supposed to design two much larger bridges
that would necklace downtown Dallas skyscrapers with white
towers and cables. How much he can ameliorate these 20-lane
monstrosities -- if at all -- isn’t clear yet.  The six-lane Hill Bridge presides over a $2.2 billion
visionary effort by the  Trinity Trust , a private advocacy group,
to unite the city with its long-neglected river. (The trust
raised money to cover some of the bridge’s extra costs. It is
named for a benefactor.)  Ponds and Lakes  The trust’s plan has begun to turn a sterile, 20-mile-long
landscape of mown grass and power lines in the river flood plain
into a chain of recreational ponds and lakes that open downriver
into a wildlife-rich forest marshland.  It’s akin to the great efforts that shaped the civic
identity of earlier fast-growing cities, like Central Park in
 New York .  I strolled down to the riverfront to have a look at the
bridge. As I ducked under railroad viaducts clanking with slow
freights, I confronted a spaghetti of elevated highways and
ramps that took 10 minutes to traverse. Only homeless men
shuffled amid the shadows and hellish din of screeching truck
brakes.  This wasteland walls off the 1.5-mile western edge of
downtown from the river. Jails and derelict industry punctuate
leftover bits of space. I had to scale a 30-foot levee to reach
the river and bridge.  That’s not the trust’s only uphill battle.  Lack of Knowledge  Calatrava designed only the bridge’s central 1,200-foot
segment. Its costs ballooned because officials didn’t know how
to manage the unusual design and contractors didn’t know how to
build it. Engineers at an Italian contractor had to come in to
bring the segment’s cost down to $73 million from $113 million.  The same lack of knowledge kills bridge designs around
America that could grace skylines and add value. A behemoth
under construction brutalizes the  San Francisco Bay . A proposed
concrete octopus will deface the magnificent Columbia River
between  Portland ,  Oregon , and  Vancouver ,  Washington .  The Hill Bridge could have been so much more than an
ornament on the skyline. One end lands in the neglected La
Bajada neighborhood, and Trinity officials, working with
developers, see the bridge spurring a turnaround.  Epic Traffic Jams  On the other end, though, the road divides into a tangle of
ramps that head in six directions to the intersection of two
freeways. The ramps cost $100 million alone, half of which was
land acquisition. This obsession with moving vehicles has filled
Dallas and  Fort Worth  with a huge freeway landscape and epic
traffic jams.  “I told them they didn’t need all those ramps,” Calatrava
said when I spoke to him in his Park Avenue townhouse office
after I returned to  Manhattan . He said they could instead have
sold the land next to the bridge and earned money on
developments that feature bridge and parkland views.  Cheer on the Trinity Trust, whose vision strategically
integrates infrastructure and environment-enhancing investments
for economic development.  Stop the road builders who hope to cram a new highway into
the river-bottom parkland. It would entomb the park completely
in yet another soon-to-be-clogged roadway and kill investment by
further walling off West Dallas.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 