-- Canada Dollar Gains Momentum Against Aussie: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-21T16:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/canada-dollar-gains-momentum-against-aussie-technical-analysis.html
The Canadian dollar may benefit
from momentum and extend recent gains against the Australian
dollar,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  said, citing technical analysis.  Momentum indicators are generating sell signals for the
Aussie versus the Canadian currency, according to  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in
Toronto. The moving average convergence/divergence for the
currency pair pushed further below the center line, indicating
bearish sentiment may weigh on the Australian currency,
according to a note sent to clients today.  “The signals are for a weaker Aussie and the bears are
still very much in control,” Sutton said in a telephone
interview. “Seeing that the moving average convergence/
divergence line is moving lower, that is indicative that that
the trend is very much intact.”  The Australian dollar depreciated 0.4 against the Canadian
currency to C$1.0355 at 11:43 a.m. in New York, on pace for its
third straight day of losses. The Aussie has weakened 2.6
percent against  Canada ’s currency so far this month.  The moving average convergence/divergenceis a gauge of
momentum that is calculated by subtracting the 26-day
exponential moving average from the 12-day moving average. The
signal line is a nine-day exponential moving average of the
convergence/divergence, and provides buy and sell signals.  ‘Favoring Canada’  Support for the Australian dollar comes in at the March low
of C$1.0337, Sutton said, but a break through that level could
push the Aussie to its December lows of C$1.0260 and potentially
further.  Weakness in the Australian currency is supported by the
global economic picture, Sutton said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s biggest mining company, said yesterday that China’s
steel production is slowing.  China , the world’s biggest energy
consumer and  Australia ’s biggest trade partner, also announced
it would be raising fuel prices for the second time in less than
six months.  “The news for Australia has been negative from BHP’s
comments to concern about China,” she said. “On the flip side,
for Canada, the U.S. economic data has been reasonable. So we
have had a switch from the bullish outlook on Aussie to one that
is favoring Canada.” The U.S. is Canada’s largest trade
partner.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  