-- Canadian Dollar Rises Versus Resource Peers on U.S. Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-21T21:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/canadian-dollar-rises-versus-resource-peers-on-u-s-growth.html
Canada ’s dollar gained against
other commodity-linked currencies on speculation it will benefit
more from improving U.S. economic growth, its biggest trading
partner, and the rising price of crude oil.  The currency fell against the U.S. dollar, which rose
against most of its major counterparts after a report showed
sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly fell in February.
Canada’s dollar rose against its resource peers of  Australia  and
New Zealand as the nation’s  leading indicators  increased for the
eighth straight month.  “Canada has been performing very well against the crosses
recently due to oil,”  John Curran , senior vice president in
Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer, said in a telephone interview. Crosses refer to trades
not involving the  U.S. dollar . “The Canadian dollar is being
used as a proxy for North American growth.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, fell 0.1 percent to 99.22 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0079. It had fallen as much 0.4 percent.  Against the Australian dollar, the loonie was 0.1 percent
higher to C$1.0377, after reaching C$1.0346. It touched the
lowest this year, C$1.0337, last week. It traded at 80.94
Canadian cents against the New Zealand currency, up 0.1 percent.  Government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on five-year debt
down by three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.71
percent, the first decrease in seven days. The price of the 1.5
percent bonds due in March 2017 rose 15 cents to C$99.02.  Bond Auction  Canada sold C$1.4 billion of 30-year bonds, drawing an
average yield 2.793 percent for the 3.5 percent notes and total
bids of C$3.7 billion. The bid-to-cover ratio was 2.65 times,
versus 2.44 times at the previous auction of 30-year bonds, on
Nov. 16, which drew an average yield of 2.76 percent, according
to central bank  data . The average ratio, which measures the
amount bid relative to the amount on offer, was 2.44 times over
the five auctions before today.  The Canadian dollar may benefit from momentum and extend
recent gains against the Australian dollar,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
said, citing technical analysis.  Momentum indicators are generating sell signals for the
Aussie versus the Canadian currency, according to  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in
Toronto. The moving average convergence/divergence for the
currency pair pushed further below the centerline, indicating
bearish sentiment may weigh on the Australian currency.  Bears ‘in Control’  “The signals are for a weaker Aussie and the bears are
still very much in control,” Sutton said in a telephone
interview. “Seeing that the moving average convergence/
divergence line is moving lower, that is indicative that that
the trend is very much intact.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose as much as 1.9 percent to
$107.22 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . U.S. crude inventories shrank 1.4 million
barrels last week, the most in six weeks, according to the
 American Petroleum Institute . Stockpiles were forecast to gain
2.2 million barrels, according to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Oil is Canada’s largest export.  The U.S.-Canada exchange rate “is going to remain a
function of the trend we’ve seen in the price of crude oil,”
 Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd., said by phone from  London . “If that continues to
drift higher, reflecting fears over potential supply disruptions
in Iran, then we could see the U.S. dollar push lower against
the Canadian dollar over the next couple of months.”  Balanced Budget  Brent crude  rallied 11 percent last month, the most in a
year, on concern European Union and U.S. sanctions against
 Iran ’s nuclear program will disrupt oil exports from the  Middle
East . The Persian Gulf nation has threatened to shut the Strait
of Hormuz, a transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil
supplies, in response to an embargo.  Quebec Finance Minister Raymond Bachand says he’ll deliver
what many of his colleagues around the world can only dream of:
a return to balanced budgets without the need for further
austerity.  Canada’s second-most populous province will have a
shortfall of C$1.5 billion ($1.5 billion) in the year that
begins April 1 before returning to balance in the following
year, Bachand said. He cut the deficit projection for the
current fiscal year to C$3.3 billion from the C$3.8 billion gap
forecast a year ago, aided by lower borrowing costs.  Leading Indicators  Canada’s index of leading  economic indicators  gained 0.6
percent in February on increases in stock prices and
manufacturing while  consumer spending  waned,  Statistics Canada 
said today in Ottawa. The result matched the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey with nine responses. The January figure
was revised lower to a 0.4 percent increase from an earlier
estimate of 0.7 percent.  Sales of previously owned U.S. houses unexpectedly fell in
February, showing that the real-estate market is taking time to
strengthen. Purchases dropped 0.9 percent to a 4.59 million
annual rate from a revised 4.63 million pace in January that was
faster than previously estimated and the highest since May 2010,
a report from National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a rise to 4.61 million.  Even with the decline in February, sales during the first
two months of 2012 were the strongest in five years, adding to
builder optimism.  The dollars of Canada and the U.S. have weakened 0.5
percent over the past week, the most after the Aussie’s 1.1
percent decline and the  New Zealand  dollar’s 1 percent loss,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  