-- Cantor 20% Small-Business Tax Cut Won’t Have Industry Limits
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-21T17:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/cantor-20-tax-cut-for-small-business-won-t-have-industry-limits.html
U.S. House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  won’t limit which industries are eligible for a 20
percent tax cut for small businesses that he will propose today.  The bill would cut taxes for companies with fewer than 500
workers and would cap the deduction at 50 percent of wages paid
to employees, Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for Cantor, confirmed.
Removing the limits means that companies that can generate
significant profits from relatively few workers might be
eligible for the tax break.  Cantor, a Virginia Republican, plans to release details of
the bill today. The bill will apply only in 2012, Fallon said.  Cantor said last month that Republican leaders plan to
bring the measure to the House floor before the April 17 tax-
filing deadline.  Cantor and other House Republican leaders proposed a
similar small-business tax deduction in 2009 and 2010. The
measure didn’t advance in the House, controlled at the time by
Democrats.  The earlier proposals wouldn’t have allowed the deduction
for income from banking, insurance, financing or investing. They
also excluded golf courses, massage parlors, gambling
operations, farms, hotels, restaurants, engineering firms,
accounting firms and producers of pornography.  Alternative to Stimulus  The deduction proposal was part of Republicans’ 2009
alternative to the Democrats’ economic stimulus plan, and in
2010 it became part of  House Republicans ’ campaign agenda.  According to 2008 figures from the  U.S. Census Bureau , of
the 5.9 million companies that weren’t sole proprietorships,
18,469, or 0.3 percent, had 500 or more workers. Those larger
companies employed 50.6 percent of the U.S. work force.  Groups that support the legislation include the
International Franchise Association.  Other groups, such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, have
taken a less definitive position.  “The Cantor bill adds to the debate and underscores the
need for comprehensive, fundamental  tax reform ,” said  Blair
Latoff , a chamber spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Cantor is proposing the measure even as House Republicans
pursue an overhaul of the  tax code  that would eliminate many
targeted tax breaks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  