-- Canyoneering Lures Eco-Adventurers to Costa Rica Jungle: Travel
-- B y   P e t e r   J .   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/canyoneering-lures-eco-adventurers-to-costa-rica-jungle-travel.html
So there I was about to go over the
ledge at the top of a 210-foot waterfall in a place called Lost
Canyon near an active volcano, when I began to have doubts about
 Costa Rica’s  hottest new eco-adventure craze.  The guide standing a few feet above urged me to release my
grip on the rope. Within seconds, I had slid to the base of the
waterfall that looked as dangerous as “The Lost World.”  “Canyoneering” is a fancy way of saying we hiked down a
tropical jungle stream, including rappelling about six
waterfalls near the active  Arenal Volcano .  About 100 ziplines through jungle canopies have blossomed
across the country. By contrast, there are only about 10
canyoneering tours available, said Suresh Krishnan, founder of
 Desafio Adventure Company , which offers this thrilling one.  “Canyoneering is up and coming and  Costa Rica  is the ideal
place to do it because of the unique environment and lush,
tropical waterfalls,” says Krishnan, who runs the company with
his wife Christine.  Krishnan, a native of  India  who was raised in southern
 California , is a graduate of the U.S. Army Air Assault School;
he got experience by rappelling from helicopters, including in
neighboring Panama.  Off the Map  He started his company in 1992 at La Fortuna, a sleepy town
near Arenal, and through exploration of local jungles, found
this river’s waterfalls and named it Lost Canyon because it’s
not located on local maps.  What’s impressive is Krishnan’s insistence on safety. In
the early 1990s when the zipline industry in the country began,
there were a few accidents, including some deaths.  I was confident the tour was safe enough to bring my wife
Cynthia, our 16-year-old daughter Nicole and our 13-year-old
nephew Justin Castillo, all of whom now love canyoneering.  The two-hour trip didn’t have tough trails to climb and was
as wet as jumping into a waterfall can be. During my more than
20 years of taking Costa Rican tours like kayaking, ziplines and
all-terrain vehicles, canyoneering was the most fun.  We also spent a week at  Jaco Beach , which is like the
 Jersey Shore  of Costa Rica. The beach isn’t the prettiest in the
country. Try  Santa Teresa  where New England Patriots quarterback
 Tom Brady  and supermodel wife  Gisele Bundchen  hang out.  Jaco is popular among surfers and middle-class Costa Ricans
who can find affordable cabanas here.  A beautiful new pothole-less highway, finally completed
after more than 20 years, connects the capital city of San Jose
to Jaco, reducing the prior three-hour drive to one hour.  Surf and Beer  Jaco has far more high-rise buildings than when I first
visited 24 years ago, though there are still plenty of places to
get away from the crowds.  I enjoyed the beach restaurants, which offer cold Imperial
beers and arroz con pollo after a dip in the warm ocean.  Some travel books disparage Jaco because of prostitution
and illegal drugs, neither of which were overt during our visit.  If you want a prettier and more expensive beach without
surf, an hour’s drive south is  Manuel Antonio National Park ,
which has white sand adjacent to a jungle where monkeys hang out
-- a beautiful site.  For an active night life, a 2 1/2 mile-long beach to walk
on, inexpensive hotels and restaurants, fun waves to surf and
being close to  San Jose , Jaco isn’t bad.  Tips: Costa Rica continues to discriminate against
foreigners by charging them $10 each to enter a national park,
about three times the rate for a Costa Rican.  Rental-car insurance is still a national tourism scandal:
Expedia Inc.’s Carrentals.com booked me a rental for $157 a
week. When I arrived to pick up the Toyota Yaris, Thrifty Car
Rental charged me another $244 in insurance alone for a total of
$401. When I complained to both companies, they defended their
fine print tactics. I don’t recommend either company for Costa
Rica.  Copa Airlines (CPA)  has a 10-hour layover in Panama City,
allowing plenty of time to sightsee the canal and sip mojitos at
the Casa Blanca restaurant in Old  Panama  City, which is a World
Heritage site. It’s well worth a stopover for a day or two.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter J. Brennan, in  Los Angeles , at 
 pbrennan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 