-- Casino Starts Process to Become Sole Controller of Pao de Acucar
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-03-21T23:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/casino-starts-process-to-become-sole-controller-of-pao-de-acucar.html
Casino Guichard-Perrachon (CO) , the
French owner of Franprix and Leader Price stores, took the first
action to become the sole controller of  Cia Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar  by appointing a new chairman
for the Brazilian retailer’s holding company.  The  Saint Etienne , France-based company sent a notice to
Pao de Acucar Chairman Abilio Diniz informing him that Casino
exercise its right to name the chairman of holding company
Wilkes Participacoes SA, according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  “Casino’s decision to exercise this contractual right will
result in Casino becoming GPA’s sole controlling shareholder,”
the company said, referring to Pao de Acucar. “With this step
Casino demonstrates once again its long term commitment to
 Brazil .”  Casino and the Diniz family signed an agreement in 2005 to
share the control of Wilkes, giving the French retailer the
right to appoint its chairman this year. Last year, both parties
became estranged after Diniz tried to merge the Brazilian
retailer with the local unit of Carrefour SA, Casino’s biggest
rival in  France . Casino filed a complaint against its Brazilian
partner and denounced the move as illegal and in violation of
the 2005 shareholders agreement.  After rejecting Diniz’s proposal to merge Pao de Acucar
with Carrefour, Casino increased its stake in the retailer to
more than 40 percent.  Casino’s notice doesn’t alter the fact that its right to
become the sole controller begins on June 22, Diniz said in a
statement distributed by his press office.  Casino said on Feb. 28 it intends to exercise an option in
June to gain full control of Pao de Acucar. The French company
expects that more than 50 percent of revenue this year will come
from “high-growth” countries in  Latin America  and  Asia .  Casino rose 0.1 percent to close at 74.94 euros yesterday
in Paris. The shares have advanced 15 percent this year.  Pao de
Acucar  gained 0.3 percent to 84.28 reais in  Sao Paulo  and have
risen 26 percent in the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloombert.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  