-- Cheney Iraq War Critic Arrest Case Heard by U.S. Supreme Court
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-03-21T18:04:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/cheney-iraq-war-critic-arrest-case-heard-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The  Supreme Court  heard arguments
on whether U.S. Secret Service agents protecting then-Vice
President  Dick Cheney  deserve protection against a lawsuit from
a Colorado man who said they arrested him for criticizing Cheney
about the  Iraq war .  During an hourlong back-and-forth today, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice  Antonin Scalia  suggested that, if law
enforcement officers have probable cause to suspect a crime was
committed, they should be shielded from claims that someone was
detained in retaliation for speech protected by the First
Amendment.  Justices Stephen Breyer and  Sonia Sotomayor  questioned
whether such legal protection should be limited to Secret
Service agents, U.S. marshals or other officers on protective
duty.  The court was hearing an appeal by two Secret Service
agents who were sued after arresting a man who walked up to
Cheney at a shopping mall in Beaver Creek,  Colorado  in 2006. The
man, Steven Howards, criticized the Iraq war and touched the
vice president’s shoulder with his open hand.  A federal appeals court in Denver refused to throw out the
case. In their high court appeal, the agents said they must make
split-second decisions about whether someone presents a threat,
and therefore should be protected from retaliatory arrest suits
if they had valid reasons to suspect a criminal violation.  Free Speech  David Lane, a Denver lawyer for Howards, said the legal
rule suggested by the agents would let officers trample an
individual’s rights. Even a petty violation could be used as an
excuse to arrest someone.  Lane asked during the argument: “Does a litterbug lose
their right” to free speech?  Scalia said that “as long as there is good reason for an
arrest,” a law enforcement officer’s point of view toward
someone’s political statements doesn’t matter.  Breyer said across-the-board immunity against retaliatory
arrest lawsuits involving any law enforcement officer “sounds
very far-reaching,” saying the special nature of a Secret
Service agent’s duty to protect the president may warrant
special consideration.  During the argument, after Lane said the Secret Service has
managed to do its job well without special legal safeguards,
Scalia interjected that the agency has “lost a couple of
presidents.”  The justices will make a decision in the case by June.  The case is Reichle v. Howards, 11-262.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  