-- Chile Peso Fluctuates as Copper’s Gain Blunts U.S. Housing Data
-- B y   J a m e s   A t t w o o d   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 2012-03-21T15:07:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/chilean-peso-rebounds-as-copper-gain-bolsters-trade-prospects.html
Chile ’s peso swung between gains
and losses as higher prices for copper, the country’s main
export, countered concern that the U.S. housing market is
struggling to recover.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 485.30 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:58 a.m. in Santiago after paring earlier gains of as much as
much as 0.2 percent.  Copper, which accounts for more than half of Chile’s
exports, climbed 0.3 percent in  New York  while U.S. stocks
retreated after sales of previously owned U.S. houses
unexpectedly fell 0.9 percent in February. Chile’s benchmark
equity index was little changed.  “The peso is stable in a tight range of 482 to 487,” said
Eugenio Cortes, head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica
Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “It’s moving to the beat of
the real demands of banks and the stock market.”  Chilean interest-rate swaps, which reflect traders’
expectations for future rates, fell for a third day after
surging to seven-month highs on prospects the central bank will
have to raise borrowing costs later this year after January’s
surprise cut to 5 percent.  The one-year swap lost seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 5.23 percent after reaching 5.33 percent on
March 16. The two-year slid six basis points to 5.4 percent.  “Today we see a somewhat better international scenario,”
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters in Santiago today
when asked why estimates had change to rate increases.
“Secondly, there has been an external shock on fuel prices.”  The one-year breakeven inflation rate, a measure of the
average future inflation rate priced into the swaps market,
dropped six basis points to 3.38 percent. Three-month breakeven
tumbled 20 basis points to 3.29 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Attwood in Santiago at 
 Jattwood3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  