-- China Cuts Reserve Ratios for 379 Agribank Branches
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-22T02:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/china-cuts-reserve-ratios-for-379-agbank-branches-to-boost-loans.html
China  boosted rural credit by
cutting reserve ratios for more branches of  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. , the nation’s third-biggest lender by market value.  A total of 379 outlets in Heilongjiang, Henan, Hebei and
Anhui will be covered in a trial that previously applied to 563
branches in eight provinces, the People’s Bank of China said on
its  website  yesterday. Effective March 25, the ratio will fall
by 2 percentage points for 565 branches, a move that the central
bank said will free up 23 billion yuan ($3.6 billion).  The ruling Communist Party has pledged to fine-tune
economic policies as needed as a cooling real-estate market and
faltering export demand limit the nation’s  expansion . Mining
company  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  said March 20 that China’s steel
output growth has flattened, adding to concern that a slowdown
may deepen.  “This is a marginal and targeted easing aiming at
encourage more lending in rural areas and to smaller
businesses,” said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank
of America Corp.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.4 percent as of 10:38
a.m. local time after a preliminary reading for a purchasing
managers’ index pointed to a deeper contraction in
manufacturing this month.  Scale of Change  The reserve-ratio level for the nation’s largest lenders
stands at 20.5 percent after a cut in February.  Yesterday’s move is the central bank “further improving
the use of differentiated reserve ratios,” it said in the
statement. The scale of the change compares with an across-the-
board reserve-ratio cut for all banks of 50 basis points, which
would usually release about 350 billion yuan into the financial
system, according to Lu.  Agricultural Bank, established in 1979 to serve farmers and
less affluent rural areas, had 23,648 outlets nationwide by the
end of the first half of last year.  China’s economy  grew 8.9 percent in the final three months
of 2011 from a year earlier. Agricultural Bank is due to report
fourth quarter profit today, with a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts indicating a 17 percent gain to 28.8 billion yuan.  China’s lenders face the risk of increased bad loans after
boosting credit in a stimulus program that countered the effects
of the global financial crisis.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  