-- China’s Iran Crude Imports Drop 45% in February
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T11:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/china-s-iran-crude-imports-drop-45-in-february.html
China , the  biggest buyer  of Iranian
crude, cut imports by 45 percent in February from a month
earlier as the nations disagreed over payment terms.  Purchases from the Islamic Republic fell to 1.15 million
metric tons, or about 290,000 barrels a day, according to
Bloomberg calculations from data by the Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs today. That’s the lowest level since
May 2010 and compares with an average 557,413 barrels a day last
year. China’s  total net crude imports  rose 7 percent from a
month earlier to a record 5.87 million barrels a day.  Purchases from Iran slid as China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Co., the Asian nation’s biggest oil trader,
delayed signing a 2012 term contract with National Iranian Oil
Co. because of the payment dispute. The issues were largely
resolved late last month, according to three people with
knowledge of the talks.  Iran  is seeking alternative buyers as
the U.S. and European Union impose sanctions on its oil sales in
an attempt to halt its nuclear program.  China’s crude imports from Iran “may rebound in the
following months but are unlikely to reach average levels
purchased last year,” Gong Jinshuang, a Beijing-based senior
engineer at China National Petroleum Corp., said by phone today.
``Chinese refiners need to consider the political risk''
surrounding U.S. sanctions on Iran, he said.  China, which typically buys about a fifth of Iran’s crude
exports, faces U.S. sanctions if it doesn’t curtail imports.
President Barack Obama signed a bill on Dec. 31 that denies
access to the U.S. financial system to any foreign bank that
conducts business with the Central Bank of Iran.  Excluded From Sanctions  The U.S. won’t impose sanctions on  Japan  and 10 European
Union nations that have “significantly” cut back their
purchases of Iranian oil this year, Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  said yesterday. China,  India  and  South Korea  didn’t get
waivers. The EU will ban oil imports from Iran starting July 1.  China opposes trade restrictions against Iran, its third-
biggest crude supplier last year, because sanctions aren’t
“constructive,” Xinhua News Agency reported Jan. 26, citing
the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs . The Persian Gulf nation slid to
become China’s seventh-biggest supplier last month.  Saudi Arabia , China’s biggest source for imported crude,
increased shipments to the country by 14 percent to 5.51 million
tons, or 1.4 million barrels a day. Volumes from  Angola , the
second-biggest, rose 11 percent to 785,000 barrels a day.  China paid an average $112.21 for each barrel of crude it
bought from Iran last month, compared with $110.47 in January
and $107.28 last year, according to Bloomberg calculations from
the customs data.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  