-- China’s Stocks Rise on Support Measure Prospects; Chalco Climbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T09:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/china-stocks-rise-on-pension-buying-capital-easing-speculation.html
China’s stocks  rose for the third
time in four days as speculation the government will introduce
measures to bolster equities overshadowed concern the nation’s
slowing economy will hurt profits.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , whose parent company took
over  rare earth  companies, jumped 10 percent after  China  Central
Television reported the government will increase punishment for
excess rare earth production and encourage the formation of
large producers. China Cosco Holdings Co. gained 2.9 percent
after a measure of shipping rates advanced. PetroChina Co. fell
1.1 percent after Mirae Asset Securities Co. said the oil
producer may post a “disappointing” decline in net income.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 1.36 point, or 0.1
percent, to 2,378.20 at the close. The measure climbed 0.8
percent after the 21st Century Business Herald reported that as
much as 40 percent of Guangdong province’s 100 billion yuan
($15.8 billion) of pension funds may be invested in stocks.  The index later fell as much as 0.7 percent after the
government said the money will “mainly” be invested in bonds.  “The pension fund news is a long-term positive boost for
the market,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities
Co. in  Shanghai . “That means the government has opened the
flood gates for more local pensions to enter the stock market.
There are expectations that more support measures will follow.”  Stocks Volatility  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at
14.9, near a one-week low. About 13.6 billion shares changed
hands in the measure yesterday, or 7.9 percent higher than the
daily average this year. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 0.1 percent to
2,587.79. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 1.1 percent
in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 8.1 percent this year
on expectations the central bank will take measures to boost
economic growth including cuts in lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios. Stocks in the index trade at 9.9 times estimated profit,
compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The index has lost 22 percent over
the past two years.  The National Council for Social Security Fund will manage
Guangdong’s pension funds, the government agency said yesterday.
The national pension fund denied media reports about investing
Guangdong’s pension funds in the stock market, according to a
statement on its website today. It will invest the money
“mainly” in government and corporate bonds and other fixed-
income securities, and deposit the money in banks, according to
the statement.  Rare Earth  “Cyclical stocks, like Chalco, usually react quickly if
the market has increasing capital,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-
based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285
million. “News that the government will regulate rare-earth
mining also fuels speculation such measures will benefit large
producers.”  Chalco surged 10 percent to 7.59 yuan. Parent Aluminum
Corp. of China took over five rare-earth companies in the east
Jiangsu province to boost capacity in June. China will increase
punishment for rare-earth over-production,  China Central
Television  reported yesterday, citing the Ministry of Industry
and  Information Technology .  China Cosco, the world’s largest operator of dry-bulk
ships, gained 2.9 percent to 5.29 yuan. China Shipping
Development Co., a unit of China’s second-biggest sea-cargo
group, rose 1.3 percent to 6.37 yuan.  The Baltic Dry Index, a broader measure of costs to
transport commodities, advanced for a 19th session yesterday,
the longest winning streak since it rose for 23 days in June
2009. It gained 0.6 percent yesterday.  Oil Earnings  PetroChina, the biggest  oil company , dropped 1.1 percent to
10.10 yuan. The company is expected to report a 7 percent
decline in 2011 net profits due to losses from oil refining and
natural gas imports,  Gordon Kwan , Mirae’s head of energy
research in  Hong Kong , said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. (2883) , the drilling unit of the
nation’s largest offshore oil producer, slid 3.2 percent to
17.89 yuan. Net income fell to 4.04 billion yuan last year, the
company said in a statement. This compares with the average of
4.2 billion yuan based on 10 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 1.8 percent in its third
day of declines to $37.27, the lowest level since Jan. 13.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  