-- China Developers Set Up Funds as Cash Is Squeezed Amid Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T08:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/chinese-developers-set-up-funds-as-cash-is-squeezed-amid-curbs.html
Chinese developers are setting up
property funds to diversify their sources of revenue as
government real-estate curbs have led to a cash shortage.  Fosun International Ltd. (656) , a Shanghai-based company with
interests in property, retail, mining and pharmaceuticals, is
raising money for the second phase of a property fund after
getting 3.7 billion yuan ($585 million) for the first, Co-
President Fan Wei said at a conference in Beijing yesterday.
 Sino-Ocean Land Holdings Ltd. (3377) , a state-owned developer, plans to
start a 1 billion yuan fund this year for mergers and
acquisitions, Deputy General Manager Li Zhenyu said in an
interview.  Chinese developers are seeking alternative off-the-balance
sheet businesses as credit drained after the government’s two-
year efforts to curb speculation in the real-estate market,
including higher down payments and mortgage rates, and home
purchase restrictions in 40 cities. Relaxing the curbs could
cause “chaos” in the market, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week.  “Raising money from the private sector opens up options
for developers, but it’s a choice out of no choices,” said
Albert Lau, Shanghai-based  China  head and managing director at
Savills Plc, citing difficulties developers face to get bank
loans and issue bonds. “Funds can join developers as joint
venture partners so that to some extent also resolves the money
problem.”  Chinese developers’ cash ratio dropped to the lowest since
2008 for the third quarter last year, according to data on 139
companies compiled by Bloomberg. The companies face a record
amount of debt from non-bank lenders maturing this year and in
2013, according to China International Capital Corp., the
country’s biggest investment bank.  Diversifying Assets  Fosun rose 0.2 percent to HK$4.77 at the close of trading
in  Hong Kong , while Sino-Ocean dropped 3.1 percent to HK$3.71. A
gauge tracking property shares on the Shanghai Composite Index
added 0.3 percent.  Sino-Ocean Land raised a $200 million fund with New York-
based  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in September and invested in a residential
project in China, according to Li. It plans to invest in more
projects in the coming half year, Li said, without elaborating.  “We are making efforts to diversify our investment, but
our main business is still property development,” Li said in an
interview in Beijing. “We also need to pay attention to our
 cash flow  and resort more to leverage.”  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd., the biggest Chinese
developer listed in Hong Kong, said last month it set up a $500
million property fund with ICBC International Holdings Ltd. and
APG, the Dutch pension asset manager, to invest in new
residential property development in China.  Project Management  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900) , the biggest developer in
eastern Zhejiang province, is working with real estate funds to
invest in its own projects, Xu Feng, executive president of the
developer’s property construction management subsidiary, said in
an interview in Beijing this week without elaborating.  Greentown also is in talks with funds it didn’t identify to
jointly seek investment opportunities, he added.  The company is building homes as a contracted builder for
smaller developers to lower its  capital expenditures , Xu said.
It set up the property construction management subsidiary in
2010 and signed 67 contracts to build 15 million square meters
(161 million square feet) of projects last year, he said. The
projects are expected to achieve sales of 150 billion yuan
within the next three to five years, bringing Greentown more
than 10 billion yuan in revenue.  Chinese real-estate companies are selling the most dollar-
denominated bonds in a year, paying investors more than twice
the average global yield to replenish cash as their sales plunge.  Bond Sales  Agile Property Holdings Ltd. and KWG Property Holding Ltd.
led $2.33 billion of issues since Dec. 31, the most since the
first quarter of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Agile sold five-year notes at 9.9 percent, while KWG Property’s
2017 securities paid 13.5 percent. Real estate companies yield
an average of 3.9 percent globally, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  China’s February home prices posted the worst performance
in a year with almost half of the cities monitored by the
government falling from a year ago.  Developers need to control their balance sheets well as
government curbs continue, and now is the best time to buy land
as competing bids are scarce and many see opportunities in
acquiring projects from  trust companies  that can’t pay back
investors, Fosun’s Fan said.  “Almost everyone wants to set up fund, but it’s very
difficult for Chinese developers to make it big because they are
lacking fund managing experience,” said Savills’s Lau.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Dingmin Zhang in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  