-- China Passes U.S. in Android, Apple Smart-Device Activations
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-21T19:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/china-passes-u-s-in-android-apple-smart-device-activations.html
China , the most-populous country,
passed the U.S. in February in new activations of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
Android smartphones and tablets, according to Flurry Inc., a
maker of software for tracking use of mobile applications.  In the month, 23 percent of activations of mobile devices
based on Apple’s iOS or  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software occurred
in China, compared with 22 percent in the U.S., Flurry said
today in a  report . As recently as January 2011, China accounted
for 8 percent of the world’s activations, while the U.S. led
with 28 percent.  China’s large population and emerging middle class make it
an increasingly important market for makers of hardware and
software. To help widen its beachhead there, Cupertino,
California-based Apple is striking deals with Chinese
companies, such as  China Telecom Corp. (728)   “With China now activating more devices per month than the
U.S., this means that the gap is closing between the two
countries in terms of installed base,” Flurry said in the
report. “Not only is China already the second largest app
economy, but also could eventually overtake the U.S. as the
country with the largest installed base of smart device users.”  Currently, the U.S. has twice as many active smart devices.
This month, China will account for an estimated 24 percent of
device activations, compared with 21 percent for the U.S.,
Flurry said.  Prosperity Grows  Increasing prosperity of Chinese consumers is the main
driver behind growth in smartphones and other devices. China’s
middle class is expanding, and wealthier consumers are buying
everything from smartphones to designer purses. This decade,
China is expected to  overtake   Japan  as the world’s largest
luxury-goods market, according to McKinsey & Co., a consulting
company.  Flurry tracks activations through its analytics software,
which tracks application downloads.  China is already the fastest-growing country in the number
of times its users launch mobile apps -- a metric that helps
predict interest in mobile technology. In the 12 months through
March, such app sessions in China grew 12-fold, Flurry said in
the report.  In that period, sessions more than doubled in the U.S.,
 Peter Farago , vice president of marketing at San Francisco-based
Flurry, said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  