-- China’s Closed-Door Politics Risks Blindsiding Traders After Bo
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T06:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/china-s-closed-door-politics-risks-blindsiding-traders-after-bo.html
China ’s ouster of senior Communist
Party official Bo Xilai last week added a new dimension to an
opaque leadership transition under way in Beijing this year:
news about the succession has become tradable.  Speculation of a coup yesterday spread on the Internet,
helping spark the biggest jump in credit-default swaps for
Chinese  government bonds  in four months. China’s capital was
calm hours after the alleged disruption, with foreign executives
including former U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez
attending  a meeting  in the Zhongnanhai leadership compound.  The lack of a free press and democracy in China, as well as
the absence of a transparent mechanism to pick new leaders in
the second-biggest economy and the world’s biggest online
population, escalate the risk of rumors and their potential
impact.  “Chinese politics are a complete black box,” said Zhang
Ming, a political science professor at Renmin University in
Beijing. “It’s inevitable that this would have global financial
and economic impact, and it’s possible that some investors want
to amplify the issue and make profits. It’s an opportunity.”  The coup rumor was spread in part by the Epoch Times, a New
York newspaper linked with the banned Falun Gong spiritual group.
After publication of the report, the cost of insuring Chinese
government debt using credit-default swaps jumped 10 basis
points to 107, set for the biggest daily gain in basis points
since Nov. 9, according to data provider CMA. Today, contracts
to insure China’s sovereign debt for five years against non-
payment fell 1 basis point to 106 as of 12:11 p.m. in  Hong Kong ,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices.  ‘Be Very Wary’  Qin Gang, head spokesman at China’s Foreign Ministry, said
in a telephone interview last night that he “hadn’t heard
anything about” the Epoch Times report.  “You should be very wary of this newspaper report,” Qin
said.  The removal of Bo, 62, as Communist Party Secretary of
central China’s Chongqing municipality was announced a day after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  told reporters in Beijing that the city’s
leaders had to “seriously reflect” on an incident in which
Bo’s former police chief spent a night last month at the U.S.
consulate in Chengdu, in neighboring Sichuan province.  Wang Lijun’s stay sparked speculation he was seeking asylum
and set off an official probe. The New York Times, citing what
it said was an official Chinese document, reported March 19 that
Wang was removed by Bo as police chief to impede a corruption
investigation involving Bo’s family. The document said Wang had
sought asylum at the consulate because he feared for his safety
after he fled Chongqing.  Weibo Search  News and speculation about Wang and Bo spread across the
country on  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s  Weibo  Twitter-like microblog service.
The company said on Feb. 28 that Weibo had more than 300 million
registered users. Searches today and yesterday for Bo’s name on
Weibo produce a notification saying that “based on relevant
laws, regulations and policies, ‘Bo Xilai’ search results cannot
be displayed.”  “The best way to prevent the severely damaging result of
these sensational rumors is to open mainstream media” and move
to democratization,  Li Cheng , a scholar at the Washington-based
 Brookings Institution  said in an e-mail. “It will be a tough
decision to make from the authorities’ perspective, but sooner
or later China will move in that direction as state-society
relations have profoundly changed.”  Standing Committee  Bo is a member of the Communist Party’s ruling Politburo
and had been mentioned by Brookings’ Li and other analysts as a
top candidate for inclusion in the elite Politburo Standing
Committee, the group, now with nine men, that exercises supreme
power in China.  Membership in the Politburo and its standing committee is
determined by bargaining and consensus at the top levels of the
Communist Party, which holds a congress later this year to pick
the next generation of leaders who may run China for the next
decade.  This year’s congress will mark the first time since the
People’s Republic of China was founded in 1949 that the
leadership succession is not determined by a paramount political
figure such as Chairman  Mao Zedong , according to Ding Xueliang,
a social sciences professor at the  Hong Kong University  of
Science and Technology.  “Investors should expect more rumors to come until the
18th party congress,” Ding said in a phone interview. “Every
group will do their utmost to achieve their goals during the
leadership change.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  