-- Christie Casino Glut Depresses Borgata Bonds: Corporate Finance
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-03-21T18:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/christie-casino-glut-depresses-borgata-bonds-corporate-finance.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
is failing to convince credit investors that  Atlantic City  will
be able to sustain another casino as the bonds of its most
profitable venue lose out on a record rally for gaming debt.  Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa bonds that were issued in May
and traded as high as 105.5 cents on the dollar in July have
since lost 4.5 percent while casino bonds gained an average 4.9
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
$394.4 million of 9.5 percent notes due October 2015 dropped to
94.1 cents on the dollar yesterday to yield 11.6 percent.  The gambling resort, co-owned by  Boyd Gaming Corp. (BYD)  and  MGM
Resorts International (MGM) , is lagging behind peers as Revel
Entertainment Group LLC plans to open the first new casino since
Borgata’s July 2003 opening. The new venue, which had a $261
million tax reimbursement approved as Christie seeks to boost
the economy by reversing four years of declining casino revenue,
will test the seaside town’s capacity to attract a larger pool
of visitors as competition intensifies from neighboring states.  “There’s too much capacity in Atlantic City now,” said
John Kempf, a credit analyst at Royal Bank of Canada in New
York. “Borgata could take a significant hit here.”  Revel, which is built on the north end of Atlantic City’s
beachfront boardwalk, is scheduled to open next month.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  initially invested about $1.2 billion into the project
before writing down 97.7 percent of its value as the casino
industry stagnated. Revel’s construction was suspended in 2009.  ‘Day-Trippers’  Christie said he spoke with Morgan Stanley in January 2011
about reviving the project, saying that Atlantic City’s monopoly
on casino “day-trippers” has eroded with competition from
Delaware,  Pennsylvania  and New York, and that the city needs to
draw more convention business and summer vacationers.  “Revel would play an important role in bringing new life
and activity to that,” Christie said at the time.  The developer said in February 2011 that it raised $1.15
billion to restart construction. A $850 million  term loan 
arranged by JPMorgan Chase & Co. was sold at 98.5 cents on the
dollar, paying an  interest rate  7.5 percentage points more than
the London interbank offered rate, a rate banks say they can
borrow in dollars from each other.  Borgata, issuer of the only casino bonds backed solely by
Atlantic City gambling proceeds, generated $553.9 million of
revenue in the first nine months last year, the most of any
casino in the town, according to  data  submitted to the  New
Jersey  Division of Gaming Enforcement. That’s down 2.8 percent
from $569.6 million in the same period of 2010.  Revenue Declines  Revenue from all casinos in the city, which anchors the
biggest gaming market in the U.S. behind  Las Vegas , fell 8
percent during the same period to $2.58 billion, the data show.
Gaming revenue from the Las Vegas strip climbed 5.1 percent in
all of 2011 to $6.01 billion, according to data from the city’s
convention and visitors authority.  “In Atlantic City, overall the gaming revenues are sliding
and they’ve been sliding for a long period of time,” said Keith Foley, an analyst at Moody’s Investors Service in  New York .
“When Borgata opened, it benefited Borgata and that’s it.”  Revel is opening at a time when Atlantic City is losing
ground in its own backyard as nearby  Connecticut  allowed
American Indian-run resorts and as Pennsylvania, New York,
Delaware,  Maryland  and  West Virginia  permitted and expanded
casinos.  New ‘Trumps Old’  Pennsylvania’s gaming venues reported gross gambling
revenue of $245.8 million in November, for the first time
surpassing Atlantic City’s $245.1 million, state figures show.  “New always trumps old and sometimes the new brings in new
customers, but that whole mid-Atlantic area has been pretty well
picked over the last couple of years,” Chris Snow, an analyst
at New York research firm CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “You have Pennsylvania casinos, New York has those
two properties around  New York City  and Maryland and  Delaware 
have sort of filled in.”  At the same time, New Jersey’s tourism industry overall
rebounded in 2011, with tourist spending increasing 7 percent to
$38 billion from the year earlier, according to the most recent
figures released March 15 by the New Jersey Conference on
Tourism. It reached an all-time high of $39.5 billion in 2007.  Another luxury resort will prompt existing casinos to
invest more to improve their offerings, Christie told reporters
today in Lebanon, New Jersey. He envisions Atlantic City as a
hub of summertime conventions and counts on using the mix of
legal gambling and the Atlantic Ocean across the boardwalk from
casinos as a lure.  “We have to expand on what traditionally has been Atlantic
City’s mission,” he said.  Bonds Fall  Borgata, which has 2,769 rooms with an average daily rate
of $134, has an occupancy of 86 percent, according to a Boyd
Gaming  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
on March 7. It employed 6,196 people as of Dec. 31 and has
$831.7 million of debt.  Both Revel and Borgata “are competing for the same high-
end customer,” said Michael Paladino, an analyst at  Fitch
Ratings  in New York.  Borgata’s $393.5 million of 9.875 percent bonds due in
August 2018 have declined 2 cents this month to 93 cents on the
dollar as of 1:59 p.m. today in New York, according to Trace,
the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The average price of casino debt rose 0.2
cent during the period to 99.45 cents on the dollar, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. high-yield gaming index.  Borgata has been preparing for a more competitive landscape
by remodeling hotel rooms and “shoring up” marketing,  Keith Smith , chief executive officer of Boyd Gaming said in a Feb. 21
conference call with analysts and investors.  ‘Room for Them’  “Borgata’s high-quality amenities will continue to be key
drivers of success for our business,” Smith said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “If others go in the same direction, we
believe there is room for them in the market.”  While MGM Resorts owns a 50 percent interest in Borgata, it
needs to sell its stake by next March as a result of a New
Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement investigation, according
to a Feb. 29 company filing. If it fails to do so, a trustee
will sell the property within the following 12 months.  The Las Vegas-based casino operator is currently in
discussions with potential buyers for the Borgata investment,
which it values at about $250 million, the filing said.  While there is always some overlap between customers in any
market, Revel will be looking for “a slightly different
customer” than Borgata, one “that can stay for several
nights,” said Joseph Jaffoni, a spokesman for the company.  “It’s a different kind of property than anything else
that’s there right now,” he said. The venue is “not solely
thought of as a place to go and wager.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  