-- Clinton Opposes Any Afghan Peace That Shortchanges Women
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/clinton-opposes-any-afghan-peace-that-shortchanges-women.html
Any peace deal in Afghanistan that
excludes women or tries to roll back their rights is doomed
to fail, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said.  Speaking at an event yesterday in  Washington  marking the
10th anniversary of the U.S.-Afghan Women’s Council, Clinton
pledged the U.S. will defend the advances Afghan women have made
since the fall of the Taliban. Any peace deal that may emerge
from exploratory talks with insurgents must abide by the Afghan
constitution, which enshrines rights for women, she said.  “We will not waver on this point,” Clinton assured guests
at the event, including Afghan officials and U.S. business
leaders who have supported programs for Afghan women. A peace
agreement “excluding more than half the population is no peace
at all. It’s a figment that will not last,” she said to
applause.  The Obama administration is seeking negotiations between
the Afghan government and the Taliban to help bring an end to a
military conflict that began in October 2001. Exploratory talks
have gone slowly, stymied most recently by disagreements over a
potential U.S. transfer of Taliban detainees from the military
prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Clinton met yesterday with visiting Afghan Foreign Minister
Zalmai Rassoul, whose government has insisted on the same “red
lines” for reconciliation talks with the Taliban as the Obama
administration: insurgents must renounce violence, cut ties with
al-Qaeda and abide by the Afghan constitution.  Still, Afghan women activists and some in the U.S.
government have expressed concern that the Afghan government, in
its desire to take insurgents off the battlefield and end the
war, might bend to Taliban demands to curtail women’s advances.
Under the Taliban in the 1990s, Afghan women were largely
prevented from attending school, holding jobs, participating in
government or leaving home without male escorts.  Women’s Worries  “Many are worried that in whatever future negotiations
that might occur, women -- their rights, their roles, their
concerns -- will be sacrificed and the old days will return,”
Clinton said.  “The United States cannot and will not let that happen,”
she said. “Let there be no doubt that even as the U.S. role in
 Afghanistan  changes during the next few years of transition,”
with the drawdown of U.S. combat troops, “it’s absolutely
critical we protect” women’s gains and expand on them, said
Clinton, a longtime advocate of  women’s rights . “We will
continue to stand with and work closely with Afghan women.”  Clinton cited a list of achievements for women since the
fall of the Taliban, from most basic health and social
indicators to accomplishments in politics and industry.  Female Education  The average  life expectancy  for Afghan women in 2001 was
44; now it is 62, Clinton said. Back then, girls were prohibited
from attending government schools; now, almost 3 million do,
representing a third of primary and secondary school students,
she said. She said 100,000 have graduated from high school, and
15,000 enrolled in universities in the last decade.  Rassoul cited the advances of women in government. There
were no female politicians under the Taliban; now they make up
about 28 percent of parliament and serve on provincial councils
nationwide. One in four government workers are women, as were 40
percent of the voters in the last election, Rassoul said. On the
Afghan High Peace Council, nine of the 70 members are women,
according to the peace council.  Vartan Gregorian, president of the Carnegie Corporation of
 New York , joined Clinton at the State Department to praise those
advances and announced the foundation was pledging $1 million in
grants for higher education for women at Afghan universities.  Business Opportunities  Former First Lady  Laura Bush , who was instrumental in
establishing the U.S-Afghan Women’s Council a decade ago,
highlighted the accomplishments of women in commerce. Under the
Taliban, women were barred from owning or operating businesses.
Today, she said, there are hundreds of women-owned businesses,
from artisan workshops to financial services and engineering
firms. A third of the workforce is made up of women, Bush said.  Melanne Verveer, ambassador-at-large for global women’s
issues, said yesterday that several companies have invested in
training and education for Afghan women, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , automaker  Daimler AG (DAI)  and Kate Spade New York, a
designer fashion company.  “There are still problems” including violence against
women, Verveer said in an interview. “The biggest fear today is
will there be rollback and will they have a seat at the table”
for peace talks, she said. She praised the Afghan government for
pledging not to allow that to happen.  “This isn’t a favor to women,” she said. “If women are
silenced, that potential for peace will be stymied.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  