-- Commerzbank Said to Agree With EU to Reduce Balance Sheet
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-03-21T17:38:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/commerzbank-said-to-agree-with-eu-to-reduce-balance-sheet.html
Commerzbank AG (CBK)  has agreed with the
European Commission on the terms of its rescue by Germany and an
announcement may be made as early as next week, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Germany’s second-largest lender would cut its balance sheet
to 600 billion euros ($792 billion) by the end of 2014 and hold
off on making acquisitions for two years, according to the
preliminary agreement, said the person, who declined to be
identified as details of the deal aren’t public. Commerzbank
won’t have to sell its Eurohypo unit to gain approval for the
bailout as originally planned, according to the person.  Commerzbank cut its total assets to 662 billion euros at
the end of last year from 1.05 trillion euros at the end of
2008, according to a presentation the company published on its
website last month.  Commerzbank agreed in 2009 to sell the public-finance and
commercial-property lender as a condition for EU approval of its
rescue by  Germany  following the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The company has said a sale of Eurohypo would be
difficult because of concerns over the division’s ability to
fund itself.  A Commerzbank spokesman declined to comment. A press
officer for the commission declined to comment beyond remarks
made by European Union Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
in an interview with  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  today.  “The last hurdles have been taken,” he was cited as
saying in the interview, which was published in German. “They
were related to Eurohypo, for which we have modified the
requirements. I hope that all agreed details will soon lead to a
formal decision.”  Handelsblatt reported terms of the approval earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  