-- Continental AG Says Forecast Won’t Change as China Slows
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-03-21T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/continental-ceo-says-won-t-change-outlook-on-china-comments-2-.html
Continental AG (CON) ,  Europe ’s second-
largest tiremaker, said it has factored slowing Chinese growth
in auto sales into earnings projections and won’t be revising
the outlook in the wake of comments from an official yesterday.  Hanover, Germany-based Continental assumes expansion in the
China market of about 5 percent, Chief Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said in an interview ahead of a press briefing in
Hamburg. The stock fell 4.6 percent yesterday, mirroring
declines across the industry.  Gu Xianghua, deputy secretary general of the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers, said yesterday that
2012 sales will probably miss an 8 percent growth forecast
because of the “difficult” economic backdrop, and that total
vehicle deliveries may fail to increase by even 5 percent.  “It’s ridiculous,” Degenhart said. “Nothing will change,
nothing. We told the press three weeks ago, we are calculating
with a growth in  China  of 5 percent. Nothing has happened. So we
will not change our outlook.”  Continental  rose  as much as 1.71 euros, or 2.5 percent, to
70.23 euros today and was up 2.2 percent as of 9:53 a.m. in
Frankfurt.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  was up 1.8 percent,
 Daimler AG (DAI)  gained 1.9 percent and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , which owns
Audi, was 0.5 percent higher. They posted steep drops yesterday.  Model Discounts  BMW,  Daimler (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and VW’s Audi are offering
discounts of 20 percent or more off the sticker price of their
top-end models in the world’s largest auto market, according to
cheshi.com, which tracks prices at more than 3,000 Chinese
dealerships. China is VW’s biggest market, while it’s the third-
largest for both BMW and Mercedes.  Less than 5 percent growth would result in China’s auto
market expanding at a slower pace than the estimated increases
in the U.S.,  Japan  and  India .  Pessimism is mounting over sales in the world’s largest
auto market after Premier Wen Jiabao this month forecast gross
domestic product may expand 7.5 percent, the lowest target since
2004, and fuel prices were increased for the second time in less
than six weeks today.  “Even if the Chinese economy only grows 7 percent, then the
car market has to grow by at least 5 percent,” Degenhart told
journalists later in Hamburg, adding that the Asian car market
as a whole will grow about 5 percent this year, offsetting
declines anticipated in Europe and  North America . “We know how
the Chinese try to compensate with support measures if things
look like they’re entering dangerous territory.”  Alliance Opportunities  Continental (CON)  said March 1 that revenue would increase by
more than 5 percent this year, exceeding 32 billion euros,
having earlier predicted gains of 7 to 8 percent. It cited a
contraction in the European car market for the reduction.  The pending alliance between  General Motors Co. (GM)  and PSA
Peugeot Citroen may create opportunities for Continental,
Degenhart told the journalists.  While a modular system of the sort GM and Peugeot may
implement creates challenges for parts suppliers, only Robert
Bosch GmbH,  Denso Corp. (6902)  and Continental are able globally to
provide all the necessary components, Degenhart said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  