-- Copper Premiums Rise on Drained, Lopsided Stocks, Aurubis Says
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-03-21T15:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/copper-premiums-rise-on-drained-lopsided-stocks-aurubis-says.html
Reduced copper inventories among
consumers and lopsided global stockpiles lie behind higher
European premiums for the metal, according to  Aurubis AG. (NDA)   Premiums paid in Rotterdam for immediate-delivery copper on
the London Metal Exchange are between $90 and $100 a metric ton,
compared with $60 a ton in December, Chief Executive Officer
Peter Willbrandt said in an interview. Lower consumer stockpiles
mean every new order is further straining supplies, he said.  “It’s not really a pickup in the economy causing the rise
in premiums,” Willbrandt said yesterday by phone from Hamburg,
where Aurubis is based. “The supply pipeline here in Europe is
really empty. Any delay to shipments into Europe further
tightens the market.”  LME copper  inventories  have dropped 30 percent this year to
the lowest level since July 2009, while those tracked by the
Shanghai exchange are the highest since at least 2003, according
to figures from the bourses. U.S. warehouses hold 78 percent of
LME stocks, compared with 14 percent in  Europe  and about 8
percent in  Asia .  “What we’re seeing at the moment is a little bit
atypical,” the CEO said. “The stocks are unequally distributed
around the world.”  Copper stocks in China, which accounts for about 40 percent
of global demand, may come to 700,000 to 750,000 tons including
those in bonded warehouses, according to Willbrandt. Some copper
cathodes, or finished plates, may be shipped to China from
Europe, he said. Bonded warehouses’ holdings are undisclosed.  Shipments to China  “A lot of the volume produced around the world has gone to
China during the last couple of months and weeks,” Willbrandt
said. Imports of refined copper into the country rose 12 percent
in February from the prior month, customs figures showed today.  China ’s government this month cut its target for annual
economic growth to 7.5 percent from 8 percent. That cast doubt
on the outlook for demand in the biggest global consumer of the
metal, used in wiring, pipes and roofing.  “Copper demand in China is much higher than two to three
years ago, so 7.5 percent growth in the economy means that in
absolute figures, we will still have strong growth in copper
demand this year,” Willbrandt said. Usage in the country will
climb 6 percent to 7 percent in 2012, Aurubis says.  While customers remain cautious, orders from carmakers in
Europe are “at a high level” and demand for specialty wire
used under water is improving, according to the CEO. Italian
demand for wire rod has strengthened, he said.  Biggest Recycler  Aurubis produced more refined copper in 2011 than any
company in the world except Codelco, the state-owned Chilean
copper miner, figures compiled by researcher CRU show. The
German company is the largest global recycler of the metal,
according to its website.  Production of cathodes at Aurubis was 1.15 million tons in
2011 and should be at “the same level” this year, Willbrandt
said. He joined the company in 1988 and succeeded  Bernd Drouven 
as CEO at the start of this year.  Copper for three-month delivery, up 11 percent on the LME
this year, was unchanged at $8,430 a ton by 3:09 p.m. local
time. Aurubis shares slid 0.6 percent to 40.33 euros in
Frankfurt trading, reducing the company’s market value to 1.81
billion euros ($2.4 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  