-- Crude Declines on Stockpile Release Speculation, China
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-03-22T12:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/crude-oil-declines-from-highest-close-in-two-days-in-new-york.html
Oil fell in  New York  for the second
time in three days after  France  said industrialized nations are
considering a release from strategic stockpiles and a report
showed Chinese manufacturing may contract.  Futures dropped as much as 1.5 percent after French
Industry Minister Eric Besson said the country is “studying
with its partners all possible options,” including the supply
of oil from emergency reserves. Manufacturing in  China , the
world’s second-largest oil consumer, may decline for a fifth
month in March, according to a report today from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics.  “There is no motivation for buying,” said Gerrit Zambo, a
trader at Bayerische Landesbank in Munich. “People are becoming
a bit cautious because it is more or less clear that Iran
doesn’t want to get into war with anyone, and talk of releasing
strategic stocks is bearish.”  Crude for May delivery slid as much as $1.60 to $105.67 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $106.01 at 12:37 p.m. London time. The
contract gained $1.20 yesterday to $107.27, the highest close
since March 19. Prices are 7.3 percent higher this year.  Brent oil for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange declined as much as $1.22, or 1 percent,
to $122.98 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a
 premium  of $17.65 to New York futures. The difference was $16.93
at yesterday’s close, the smallest in three weeks.  The preliminary index of Chinese manufacturing slid to 48.1
for March, the lowest level since November, and compares with a
final 49.6 in February, according to HSBC and Markit Economics.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Strategic Reserves  President  Barack Obama  discussed releasing emergency oil
supplies with U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  on March 14. The
leaders reached no agreement, according to Cameron and  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary. The International
Energy Agency coordinated the sale of 60 million barrels of
crude and refined products in July and August after Libya’s
output was disrupted by an uprising against former leader
Muammar Qaddafi.  Higher energy prices may weaken the  U.S. economy  by sapping
 consumer spending , Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told
Congress yesterday in response to questions from the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest crude exporter, can
increase production by as much as 25 percent immediately if
needed, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said March 20. The kingdom has
the capacity to produce 12.5 million barrels a day and will pump
about 9.9 million barrels a day this month and in April,
according to al-Naimi.  ‘Evenly Matched’  “All the powers that be now are trying to get  oil prices 
down,”  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s Bulletin,
a commodity markets newsletter in Sydney, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “The bulls and the bears are quite evenly
matched because when it gets low we see  Iran  coming up, when it
gets high, we see the Fed, the U.K. and Saudi Arabia coming out
saying they can placate any concerns.”  Oil in New York has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band on the daily chart, around $105.49 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Buy orders tend
to be clustered near chart-support levels. Futures yesterday
traded within the previous day’s range, creating an “inside
day” candlestick that signals investors are unsure of the
direction for short-term prices.  Crude stockpiles in the U.S., the largest oil user, fell by
 1.2 million barrels  in the week ended March 16, according to an
Energy Department report yesterday. That is less than the median
2.2 million drop forecast by analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Gasoline inventories declined 1.2 million barrels last week
to 226.9 million, according to the report. A  measure of demand 
for the motor fuel slid for the third week in four. Distillate
supplies, a category that includes heating oil and diesel,
increased 1.76 million barrels, the report showed. That’s the
biggest gain in 10 weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  