-- Danish FSA Tells Bank Boards to Wise Up as 50% Fall Short
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-03-21T07:06:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/danish-fsa-tells-bank-boards-to-wise-up-as-50-fall-short.html
Denmark ’s financial regulator is
telling supervisory boards overseeing the country’s biggest
banks to improve their level of expertise to avoid falling foul
of regulatory standards.  Half of Denmark’s 20 biggest banks don’t have a board
member with bank industry management experience, Financial
Supervisory Authority Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said.
That means they’re not fulfilling basic regulatory requirements
designed to ensure banks are properly run, he said.  “We’re raising the bar,” Noedgaard said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Roughly half of them are not compliant as
we speak so they will need somehow to change their boards.”  About 12 Danish banks have failed since 2008 as lenders
including Roskilde Bank A/S and Amagerbanken A/S were wiped out
after the country’s housing bubble burst a year earlier. The
turmoil has prompted the government to push through five bank
rescue packages in the past four years as policy makers struggle
to put an end to the crisis. As those measures falter, the FSA
is clamping down on lenders with stricter impairment rules,
stealth audits and tougher demands on governance.  “Our ambition is that we would see a lift in the overall
competency or, alternatively, we create an incentive for the
smaller banks to stay simple,” Noedgaard said. “If they do
that, that’s fine by us.”  Too Much Leeway  Banks collapsed partly because boards gave managers too
much leeway and failed to check their decisions, the FSA  said 
yesterday. Boards let managers pursue businesses in which the
banks had no experience and, in some cases, allowed management
to skirt their oversight entirely, according to the regulator.  Noedgaard didn’t identify specific banks.  Demands on individual board members and on boards as a
whole already exist in law. The FSA last year told boards to do
annual evaluations to ensure they meet regulatory standards.  Now, the agency is making its demands more specific. It
wants larger banks to have at least one board member with
management experience from a financial company. The more complex
a bank is, the “more demanding” the agency will be with regard
to board members’ skills, Noedgaard said.  The FSA said yesterday boards must submit their evaluations
for review by October. If banks are found to be in breach, the
FSA can demand the resignation of board members. Smaller banks
may abandon businesses in which they have no board expertise.  The tougher governance demands are part of an increased
focus on oversight of Denmark’s banks and stretches to the
insurance and pension industries. The financial sector faces a
May 1 deadline to respond.  The industry is already fighting the regulator’s crackdown
on how and when banks write off losses. Those rules will inflate
losses and lead banks to retrench to protect capital buffers,
Poul Kjaer, head of regulation at the Danish Bankers
Association, said in an interview this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  