-- Debelle Says Bank Funding Costs Rising Relative to RBA Cash Rate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-21T22:10:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/debelle-says-bank-funding-costs-rising-relative-to-rba-cash-rate.html
Australian banks’ funding costs
have increased relative to the cash rate in the past year as
competition for deposits intensified and wholesale funding costs
rose, Reserve Bank Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle  said.  “Competitive pressures in the deposit market and risk
premia for the banking sector globally have risen substantially.
These have had a material impact on the cost to banks of funding
their lending books,” Debelle said in prepared remarks for a
forum in Sydney today. “The Reserve Bank board takes these
developments into account in its setting of the cash rate.”  RBA officials are insisting that monetary policy tools
remain potent even after  Australia ’s four largest lenders
boosted  mortgage rates  independent of the central bank in
February. The banks cited higher funding costs that are
narrowing their  margins . Policy makers have left the overnight
 cash rate target  unchanged at 4.25 percent for the past two
months as concerns about  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis eased.  “The cash rate set by the Reserve Bank board is the short-
term interest rate benchmark that anchors the broader interest
rate structure for the domestic financial system,” Debelle, who
oversees financial markets, said in the text.  Cost Increases  In a bulletin released March 15, the RBA said that, based
on current trends, wholesale funding costs are likely to rise by
as much as 10 basis points relative to the overnight cash rate
target by the end of this year. Last month,  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia ,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
and  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  boosted interest
on variable-rate home loans by an average of about 10 basis
points.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  condemned the banks’ actions, urging
customers to shop around for better rates.  The RBA lowered its key rate by a quarter percentage point
on Nov. 1 and Dec. 6. House prices slumped by a record last year
and unemployment rose in February to 5.2 percent.  “Since the middle of 2011, however, there has been a
further increase in banks’ funding costs relative to the cash
rate of the order of 20-25 basis points,” Debelle said today.  Currency Gains  The local currency has risen about 3.5 percent in the past
year and reached a six-month high of $1.0845 after the RBA
unexpectedly kept rates unchanged at its Feb. 7 meeting.  The  European Central Bank  is flooding its financial system
with cheap money in a bid to avert a credit crunch after the
market for unsecured bank debt seized up last year and funding
from U.S. money markets disappeared.  Since the global financial crisis of 2008-2009, Australian
consumers have become more cautious with their investments, a
trend that strengthened as Europe’s fiscal problems deepened.  “Households have significantly increased their term
deposits placed directly with banks, instead of investing in
other financial assets,” Debelle said. “There has also been a
rise in deposits placed via superannuation and managed funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  