-- Default Swaps Benchmark in U.S. Falls After Housing Data
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-21T22:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/default-swaps-benchmark-in-u-s-falls-after-housing-data.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk fell after a report showed the nation’s home sales
held at about a two-year high.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index Series
18, a new version of the credit-default swaps benchmark that
began trading yesterday, fell 1.3 basis points to 86.8 basis
points as of 4:36 p.m. in  New York , according to broker Phoenix
Partners Group. Earlier, the index reached 85.5, approaching the
more than one-year low of 84.7 basis points that Series 17 of
the index reached on March 19, data from Markit Group Ltd. show.  Sales of previously owned  homes  slipped in February to a
4.59 million annual rate, compared with a revised 4.63 million
pace in January that was the highest since May 2010, according
to a report from the National Association of Realtors.  “While the print today could be viewed as modestly
disappointing, it should have very limited impact upon the
investment-grade  bond market ,”  Joel Levington , managing
director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc. in New York, said by e-mail. “Sentiment is geared towards
a slow trajectory of improvement. So remaining near two-year
highs isn’t overly negative.”  New versions of Markit Group Ltd.’s index, which banks,
 hedge funds  and other investors use to hedge against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness, are created every six months.
Companies are replaced if they no longer have appropriate credit
grades, aren’t among the most actively traded borrowers or fail
to meet other criteria. Series 17 traded 5.8 basis points
tighter than the new index, Phoenix data show.  Swaps on Insurers  Credit-default swaps on Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. fell by the most in a day since Nov. 30. The 201-year-old
insurer said it will stop selling individual annuities and seek
buyers for its individual life, Woodbury Financial Services and
retirement-plan operations.  The cost to protect debt tied to Hartford Financial from
default for five years slid to the lowest level since August.
Credit-default swaps on the company’s debt declined 31.1 basis
points to 188.1, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Contracts tied to MetLife Inc. decreased 16.4 basis points
to 193.5, and contracts on Prudential Financial Inc. fell 9.7
basis points to 145, the data show.  Credit-default swaps, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt, typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates.  Contracts tied to American Express Co. also declined,
easing 7.4 basis points to 72.2, as the biggest credit-card
issuer by customer spending sold $1.5 billion of five-year notes
for general corporate purposes. Swaps on Capital One Financial
Corp. decreased 6.2 basis points to 109.2 as the fifth-biggest
U.S. credit-card lender sold $1.25 billion of three-year notes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  