-- Defendant Should Get Adequate Plea Lawyer Says High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/defendants-entitled-to-adequate-lawyer-on-plea-court-says-1-.html
A divided U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled
for the first time that criminal defendants have a
constitutional right to a competent lawyer when they are offered
a chance to plead guilty to get a reduced sentence.  The 5-4 ruling, which split the court along ideological
lines yesterday, may have a sweeping impact on the criminal
justice system, where 97 percent of federal convictions and 94
percent of those in state court are the result of guilty pleas.  “The right to adequate assistance of counsel cannot be
defined or enforced without taking account of the central role
plea bargaining plays in securing convictions and determining
sentences,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote for the court. He was
joined in the majority by the court’s four Democratic
appointees, siding with two defendants who said they received
bad legal advice.  Justice  Antonin Scalia  took the unusual step of describing
his dissenting opinions from the bench for emphasis. He said the
majority “opens a whole new field of constitutionalized
criminal procedure: the field of plea-bargaining law.”  The ruling will probably mean “much greater judicial
supervision” of the plea process, said  Daniel Meron , a
Washington lawyer at Latham & Watkins LLP who filed a brief
backing the defendants on behalf of New York University School
of Law’s Center on the Administration of Criminal Law.  Judicial Involvement  “I think what you’re going to see is an increasing number
of states requiring judges to ensure at the front end that plea
offers are conveyed in open court to the defendant and that the
defendant understands” the offer, Meron said. He said the
upshot may be greater uniformity.  The justices sided with two men who say they received
inadequate legal advice. One, Galin E. Frye of  Missouri , said
his lawyer never told him of a plea offer that included a
sentence of 90 days or less for driving with a revoked license
after three previous offenses. He went to trial and was
sentenced to three years in prison.  The second man, Anthony Cooper, was accused of shooting a
woman in  Michigan  in her buttock, hip and abdomen and turned
down a plea offer that might have meant a maximum sentence of
seven years and one month. Cooper says his lawyer convinced him
he couldn’t be convicted of assault with intent to murder
because the victim was shot below the waist. He was convicted
and sentenced to a maximum of 20 years in prison.  Floodgates Opening?  The court sent both cases back to the lower-court level to
determine what impact the ruling will have on the sentences.  Kennedy rejected contentions that the ruling will “open
the floodgates” to challenges to convictions.  “Courts have recognized claims of this sort for over 30
years,” he said, referring to allegations of ineffective
assistance of counsel. “And yet there is no indication that the
system is overwhelmed by these types of suits or that defendants
are receiving windfalls.”  Scalia said the rulings “almost seem designed to sow
confusion” and leave a slew of unanswered questions. “The
court leaves all this to be worked out in further litigation,
which you can be sure there will be plenty of,” he said.  The cases are Lafler v. Cooper, 10-209, and Missouri v.
Frye, 10-444.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 