-- Exiting PBOC Adviser Urges More Power for Central Bank: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T08:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/departing-pboc-adviser-xia-bin-urges-more-central-bank-autonomy.html
Xia Bin, a departing adviser to
 China ’s central bank, urged more autonomy for the monetary
authority as the country prepares to free up interest rates and
increase the yuan’s role as an international currency.  The People’s Bank of China “should be given more power in
the areas of some short-term and specific monetary policy
adjustment and operations,” Xia, 60, said in an interview in
Hong Kong yesterday, a week after his two-year term ended. There
is “large room for improvement in how decisions are made,” he
told Bloomberg Television.  The state researcher joins organizations including the
World Bank and economists at Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG who
have urged China to increase central bank independence and
transparency. While U.S. and European counterparts operate
separately from other parts of the government, major moves in
China such as interest-rate adjustments are decided by the State
Council, or Cabinet.  A World Bank report last month said that “further moves to
improve the independence of the central bank and to increase the
transparency of monetary policy decision making would be
essential to support greater international acceptance” of the
yuan as a  reserve currency . China also plans to give markets a
bigger role in setting interest rates.  Asian stocks fell today after mining company  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  said yesterday that China’s steel output growth has
flattened, adding to concerns about a slowdown in the nation.
The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.7 percent as of 5:05 p.m. in
 Tokyo .  Thailand, Malaysia  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Thailand ’s central bank kept interest
rates on hold today. Central bankers in Asia are balancing the
inflation risks posed by rising oil costs against the threats to
growth from any deeper slowdown in the Chinese economy or
worsening of the European sovereign-debt crisis.  In  Japan , the cabinet office will today release a monthly
assessment of the world’s third-biggest economy. The annual
report of  Malaysia ’s central bank will give forecasts for the
nation’s economic growth and inflation this year. Malaysian
consumer prices rose 2.4 percent in February from a year earlier,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey ahead of
data due today.  In  Europe , the U.K. budget will be presented to Parliament
and Bank of England minutes will be released, while in the U.S.
data may show existing home sales in February were the highest
in almost two years.  No ‘Hard Landing’  China won’t see a steep slowdown in its economy in part
because many local governments are still targeting annual growth
above 10 percent, compared with a national goal of 7. 5 percent,
Xia said in yesterday’s interview at a Credit Suisse Group AG
investment conference. “Judging from the nationwide
circumstances, I think a hard landing is impossible,” he said.  Xia’s organization, the State Council’s Development
Research Center, was co-author of the  World Bank  report, which
recommended changes to how China manages its economy. In 2010,
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development said
the central bank could be given “operational independence,”
with the State Council setting strategic objectives while
leaving implementation to the PBOC.  Such arrangements would let the People’s Bank of China
“react promptly and decisively to changing economic
circumstances without being swayed by political concerns” and
also help give it the credibility needed to influence inflation
expectations, the OECD said.  Easing Forecast  Economists including Zhang Zhiwei of Nomura Holdings Inc.
forecast China will ease monetary policy to shore up  growth 
after exports and domestic demand slowed in the first two months
of the year. A cut in required reserves for banks would be the
third reduction since November, while China hasn’t lowered
 interest rates  since 2008.  The State Council should listen to opinions from more
people, including those from financial markets, when making
major monetary-policy decisions, Xia said. The expansion of the
policy committee two years ago to include three non-official
members, up from one, shows decision-makers want the views of
private academics, he said.  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based economist at UBS, who
previously worked at the  International Monetary Fund , said in a
2010 interview that the State Council should boost the central
bank’s independence and the monetary authority should
communicate better with the public about how it uses different
policy tools.  Decisions by Consensus  China’s monetary policy is “consensus-based” and reflects
input from state-owned enterprises, local governments and stock
market participants in addition to the central bank,  Ma Jun ,
Deutsche Bank’s chief Greater China economist, said in 2011 in
 Hong Kong . Ma said in a 2010 commentary in the China Daily
newspaper that the nation should give its central bank greater
independence in drafting monetary policy.  The State Council said last week that academics Qian Yingyi,
Chen Yulu and Song Guoqing replaced Xia and two other advisers,
who completed two-year terms.  China’s leaders may allow the central bank to make more
decisions on its own yet are unlikely to grant full independence
for the “foreseeable future,”  Zhao Qingming , an analyst at
China Construction Bank and former PBOC researcher, said in a
2010 interview.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net ;
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Li in Hong Kong at 
 sli31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  