-- Diamond Said Seeking Small Investment From Private Equity
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-03-21T22:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/diamond-said-to-seek-minority-investment-from-private-equity-1-.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMDN) , the snack-maker
that today announced an agreement to keep open its  credit line ,
also is looking to sell a minority stake to  private-equity 
investors, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The stake sale is one option Diamond is considering to
raise capital and improve its balance sheet, said the person,
who declined to be identified because the matter is private. San
Francisco-based Diamond also is weighing whether to take on more
debt or refinance existing obligations, another person said.  The producer of Diamond walnuts and Kettle Chips is looking
to rebuild its balance sheet after saying last month that the
company reported certain costs in the wrong quarters and that it
would need to restate earnings. The snackmaker replaced Chief
Executive Officer Michael Mendes and its chief financial officer
and now is trying to repair the business.  Diamond approached buyout firms including  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG
Capital about becoming a minority shareholder, the Wall Street
Journal reported earlier today.  Separately, Diamond said today in a filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that it reached an
agreement with lenders to keep its credit line open until June
18 in exchange for paying higher  interest rates .  The company will be charged 75 basis points more on its
credit line, pay a one-time fee of 25 basis points and suspend
dividend payments to stockholders. A basis point is one-
hundredth of a percentage point.  Agreeing to accept the new terms on its credit line kept
creditors from declaring all balances due and payable
immediately, Diamond said in the filing.  Diamond fell 0.7 percent to $25.45 at 6:31 p.m. in  New
York . The  shares  had fallen 22 percent this year before today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  