-- Discover Profit Beats Estimates as Card Spending Climbs
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/discover-profit-beats-estimates-as-card-spending-climbs.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the
top performer for the past year in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index, said fiscal first-quarter profit rose 36
percent to a record as consumers spent more on credit cards.  Net income for the three months ended Feb. 29 increased to
$631 million, or $1.18 a share, from $465 million, or 84 cents,
a year earlier, the Riverwoods, Illinois-based firm said
yesterday in a statement. That beat the average  estimate  of 94
cents by 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Results included a
$226 million reserve release.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Nelms boosted
the quarterly  dividend  67 percent in December to 10 cents a
share and bought back stock as the  U.S. economy  continued to
mend. The lender acquired a portfolio of private  student loans 
from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in September and announced a $2 billion
share-buyback plan last week after the  Federal Reserve  announced
the results of bank stress tests.  “Consumers are continuing to gradually grow their
spending,” Nelms, 51, said in a telephone interview. “They’ve
finished a lot of the deleveraging that they’re going to do on
credit cards and auto loans.”  Discover fell 22 cents to $31.64 in New York trading. The
shares have climbed 40 percent in the past year, the most of 81
companies in the S&P financials index.  The lender was one of 30 firms subjected to the central
bank’s stress tests to demonstrate whether the industry can
withstand another severe economic shock. The Fed didn’t object
to Discover’s plan to repurchase stock, the company said.  Revenue Increase  Revenue net of interest expense rose 6 percent to $1.84
billion as purchases made with Discover cards increased 7
percent, the lender said. Net interest income climbed 11 percent
to $1.29 billion, and credit-card loans rose 3.6 percent to
$45.9 billion. Net interest margin, the difference between what
the firm pays for deposits and what it charges for loans,
narrowed to 9.03 percent in the first quarter from 9.22 percent
a year earlier, according to the statement.  Credit-card write-offs fell to 3.07 percent in the first
quarter from 5.96 percent a year earlier, according to the
statement. Loans at least 30 days overdue, a signal of future
write-offs, fell to 2.22 percent from 3.59 percent. Provisions
for future loan losses fell 64 percent to $152 million.  ‘Good Stuff’  Delinquencies probably will improve in coming months,
“which would mean charge-off rates would probably improve
thereafter,” said  Sanjay Sakhrani , an analyst at KBW Inc., who
rates Discover outperform, meaning he expects the stock to
return at least 15 percent over 12 months. “The question is,
‘How much of that good stuff is factored into the stock?’”  Total other expenses increased 14 percent to $677 million,
according to a company  financial supplement . The integration of
the student loans business acquired from New York-based
Citigroup, new business initiatives and reserves for litigation
and regulatory matters drove expenses higher, Chief Financial
Officer R. Mark Graf said in a conference call after the results
were announced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  