-- Discovery’s Oprah Network to Lose $143 Million, SNL Kagan Says
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/discovery-s-oprah-network-to-lose-143-million-snl-kagan-says.html
Oprah Winfrey Network, the cable-
television venture between  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  and the
talk-show host, may lose $142.9 million in 2012 as it struggles
to gain viewers, according to researcher SNL Kagan.  The startup network probably lost $107 million on a cash-
flow basis in 2011, Derek Baine of SNL Kagan said in a  report 
yesterday. Discovery reported a $35 million loss on equity
investments last year, reflecting its OWN stake and other
holdings, SNL Kagan said.  The forecast highlights the risks associated with a new
cable network. OWN, which canceled Rosie O’Donnell’s show, cut
30 jobs this week and brought in Discovery’s Neal Kirsch as
chief financial and operating officer. Through year-end,  Silver
Spring , Maryland-based Discovery had provided $312 million
investment to the channel, according to a Feb. 17  filing .  “There may be a significant write-down at OWN in the first
quarter from both programming costs for shows that are not
working, as well as severance costs for those being laid off,”
SNL Kagan said.  Discovery challenged the findings.  “The report is riddled with inaccuracies and bad
information,” David Leavy, a spokesman, said in a statement.
“The venture is on more solid ground with more business
momentum than ever before. We remain confident in the future of
OWN, and the long-term value we are building.”  Results have been below expectations, Discovery said in the
annual 10-K filing, and the company is monitoring the
performance in case it needs to write down the investment.  Ratings for the network have been “minuscule,” SNL Kagan
said. OWN may not obtain expected carriage rates when
discussions with cable systems resume at the end of this year,
the author wrote.  Discovery gained 1.9 percent to $48.33 yesterday in  New
York . The Class A shares have advanced 18 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  