-- Dollar Gains as Economic Pace Concern Boosts Safe-Asset D
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-21T21:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/dollar-gains-as-stocks-drop-amid-increased-safe-asset-dem.html
The dollar rose against most of its
major counterparts as concern grew that risk-asset gains have
outpaced prospects for economic growth, boosting appetite for
the perceived safety of the greenback.  The 17-nation euro reached the highest level in almost two
weeks against the dollar earlier after  Greece  won parliamentary
approval for a bailout and as Germany and  Portugal  sold bonds at
auctions. The yen weakened against most of its major peers as
concern increased the Bank of  Japan  will boost stimulus.  “We’re seeing a bit of a corrective strength in the
dollar,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  New York . “The equity markets are slightly
lower and you’re seeing some of the foreign currencies move
down. It does reflect a bit of caution.”  The dollar rose 0.1 percent to $1.3216 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York. The euro reached $1.3285 earlier, the highest level
since March 8. The dollar fell 0.4 percent to 83.41 yen.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of equities fell as much as 0.6
percent before trading down 0.1 percent.  While the dollar rose amid falling stock prices today, the
 negative relationship  between the two assets, intact since
October 2008, has broken down during the past two months. The
60-day percent-change correlation rose to minus 43 percent last
week from as low as minus 85 percent in December. A reading of
minus 100 percent means that the two assets always move in the
opposite direction.  Less Correlation  “That particular relationship hasn’t been quite as
reliable as it’s been in the past,” Bennenbroek said.  Traders are snapping up options on Japan’s currency amid an
11 percent slide over the past six months and a Bloomberg model
of option prices signals yen options volatility spreads at the
most extreme levels.  The Bloomberg model that analyzes the gap between implied
volatility of two different currency pairs signals that the
three-month pound-yen versus euro-yen volatility spread is the
most expensive of 21 pairs tracked. Traders use implied
volatility to gauge expectations for currency swings and in
setting prices on options, or contracts that give the right to
buy or sell a security within a predetermined time period.  Implied volatility on three-month pound-yen options, at
10.87 percent, is 1.17 percentage points below that on euro-yen
options. Pound-yen volatility was 3.54 percentage points below
euro-yen volatility in November, after averaging 1.12 percentage
points below since the end June 2010.  Pound Down  The pound fluctuated against the dollar as Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  cut the U.K.’s top 50 percent
income-tax rate and slapped a levy on purchases of the most
expensive houses in a budget that maintained his drive to
eliminate most of the deficit by 2017.  Minutes of the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee’s March 7-8 meeting showed that the policy makers Adam Posen and  David Miles  wanted to increase the target for bond
purchases by 25 billion pounds ($40 billion) to 350 billion
pounds. The seven remaining members voted to keep the current
325 billion-pound target.  “The market is concerned that the BOE was forced to debate
quantitative easing even more than they have before and that’s
going to be a bit dilutive to the pound,” said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency trader GFT
Forex in New York.  Sterling advanced 0.1 percent 83.26 pence per euro. It rose
0.1 percent versus the greenback at $1.5873.  Yen Chart  The yen fell 3.5 percent in the past month against the
currencies of its nine developed-nation counterparts, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar rose 0.7
percent and euro added 0.4 percent.  Merk Investments LLC’s  Hard Currency Fund (MERKX)  sold its
remaining holdings of yen and bought euros today on concern the
setting of an inflation goal by the Bank of Japan will lead to a
loosening of monetary policy.  “Now as they have this inflation target, the tide is
shifting as they’re printing more money and getting in to the
inflationary mode,”  Axel Merk , founder and president of the
Palo Alto, California-based mutual fund, said in a Bloomberg
Radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt.  The $564.1 million fund had allocated 4.2 percent of its
holdings to yen and 9.7 percent to the 17-nation European
currency as of February.  Japan Policy  Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
established an inflation target of 1 percent on Feb. 14,
replacing earlier wording that the central bank had an
“understanding” of where consumer prices should go. It also
said it would add 10 trillion yen ($119 billion) yen of stimulus
to the economy.  The euro was supported after Greece’s Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won approval for a 130-billion-euro ($172 billion) aid
package. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today
that “Greece is making progress toward sustainability.”  “Whether they get there or not is going depend hugely on
whether they can sustain political support,” Geithner told the
House Financial Services Committee in  Washington . He added that
 Europe  has the means to solve its debt crisis on its own.  Germany  sold 5 billion euros of notes due in March 2014 at
an auction today. Investors bid for 1.8 times the amount
allotted, the same as the previous sale. The nation also sold 2
billion euros of inflation-linked bonds.  Portugal sold 1.61 billion euros of one-year bills at an
average yield of 3.65 percent, down from 4.94 percent at the
previous auction on Feb. 15. Investors bid for 2.5 times the
amount allotted, versus a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.02 times last
month. The nation also sold 382 million euros of 119-day debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  