-- Douglas Delisting Not Excluded, May Suspend Dividend
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-03-21T11:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/douglas-delisting-not-excluded-may-suspend-dividend-correct-.html
(Corrects percentage sales increase in last paragraph.)  Douglas Holding AG (DOU) ,  Europe ’s
largest retailer of makeup and perfume, said it won’t exclude
delisting the stock because the shares are “undervalued.”  “A potential delisting -- if it was to happen -- would be
the result of a long development,” Chief Executive Officer
Henning Kreke said today at the company’s annual general meeting
in Essen, Germany. Kreke said he can’t evaluate how long the
process would take.  The company may suspend its  dividend  “once” in 2012 as it
restructures the Thalia bookstore unit, Kreke said. Analysts
were expecting a cut to 80 cents from 1.10 euros ($1.46),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Douglas shares have surged 31 percent this year amid
speculation that the retailer may be a takeover target. Kreke
said in January that the company was talking to several parties
about a “substantial participation” and potentially a
voluntary takeover. The retailer lowered its outlook in January
as online competition hit sales at Thalia.  The shares fell 0.8 percent to 36.34 euros as of 11:53 a.m.
in  Frankfurt .  Financial investors may have asked Douglas to sell the book
division before they invest in the company, the  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  said on Feb. 16, without citing anyone.  Thalia Sale  Douglas said a study on Thalia presented to the supervisory
board showed restructuring the unit would require reducing
space, including through branch closings. The retailer said
“positive earnings before taxes” could be reached in a few
years through a “successful restructuring.” Kreke added that
it will be a long and “rocky” process.  Thalia’s co-owner Juergen Koennecke will sell its 25
percent stake in Thalia to the Kreke family, the company said
today.  Dr. Oetker Group (DOU) , a German foodmaker, is Douglas’s biggest
shareholder with a 25.8 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Kreke family owns 12.7 percent, while
Erwin Mueller, owner of the drugstore chain of the same name,
has a 10.8 percent stake in the company, the data show.  Mueller acquired options to acquire an additional 15
percent stake, Douglas said in February. Kreke said today he
doesn’t know of a reason for the acquisition. Mueller declined
to comment.  Douglas said five-month sales rose 1.3 percent to 1.7
billion euros. Revenue in  Germany  climbed 3.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Dusseldorf via 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  