-- DuPont Says Solar Panels to Cost Less Than TVs
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-03-21T20:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/dupont-says-solar-drop-will-make-panels-cheaper-than-tvs.html
(Corrects title in second paragraph.)  Solar panel prices, which have
fallen 80 percent in the past three years, can fall further
because the technology is simpler than many consumer electronics
that are being made cheaper now, a  DuPont & Co. (DD)  executive said.  “Right now it would be cheaper to put 40-inch TVs on your
roof than solar panels, which are much less complicated,” said
Conrad Burke, general manager of the Wilmington, Delaware-based
chemical company’s DuPont Innovalight unit, which makes a
product that gets more power from panels.  The comments highlight the potential for solar panel costs
to decline far enough that power from cells rivals that
generated by fossil fuels. Burke said DuPont, whose materials
are in 70 percent of the world’s installed panels, aims to hit
$2 billion in solar sales by 2014 after $1.4 billion last year.  Solar panel makers led by Suntech Power Holdings Co. in
 China  and  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  in the U.S. have suffered slimming
margins as increased competition drives down the price of cells.  TVs are cheaper because there are about five major
manufacturers mass producing them, and solar may be similar in
the future, Burke said. The pattern mimics the  aluminum  and
mobile phone industries, which consolidated once technology
enabled low-cost production.  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  Chief Executive Officer Shawn Qu said
yesterday he expects that there will be only also only four to
five major solar manufacturers by 2015.  Solar energy currently only generates 0.2 percent of the
world’s electricity even though installations are growing by a
third each year and the cost of its power is reaching parity
with retail prices in Australia and  Brazil , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  