-- Tim Tebow Stands to Win Big as Jets’ Endorser in New York
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-22T22:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tebow-stands-to-win-big-as-jets-endorser-in-no-1-media-market.html
Tim Tebow ’s move to the No. 1 U.S.
media market stands to add millions to his endorsement portfolio
as local companies seek an attachment to a wholesome athlete
with a devoted following.  Tebow, who was traded to the  New York Jets  from Denver
after the Broncos signed free-agent quarterback and four-time
Most Valuable Player Peyton Manning, became a national icon last
season after he took over as the starter, won six straight games
and led the Broncos to the playoffs.  “It’s going to be exciting to be in the New York market,
going to be fun because people are so passionate, they care so
much and they’re behind you so much,” Tebow said on a
conference call with reporters last night. “I’m looking forward
to how crazy the market is in  New York .”  The 24-year-old quarterback’s success became one of the
dominant storylines this past season in the  National Football
League , including how he mixed fame with his Christian faith.  Tebow’s skyrocketing popularity, or “Tebowmania,” was
similar to what has occurred in New York this season with Knicks
point guard Jeremy Lin, a Harvard University-educated, undrafted
player who has been inundated with endorsement offers since
taking over as a starter last month. Lin is also a devout
Christian who publicly acknowledges his faith.  “There are incredible, enormous opportunities for Tebow,”
said  Steve Mills , a former president of  Madison Square Garden (MSG) ,
which operates the Knicks and hockey’s Rangers. “There are so
many similarities the way people react to him and the way they
react to Jeremy Lin.”  Local Sponsorships  Tebow has endorsements with  Nike Inc. (NKE) , Jockey International
Inc. and  FRS Co. (FRS) , which sells energy products, including
beverages and powdered drink mixes.  “Playing for the Jets and being immersed in the largest
media market is going to amp up the media coverage,” said Fred Harman, managing partner at  Palo Alto , California-based  Oak
Investment Partners , which bought a 50 percent stake in FRS six
years ago. “It’s hard to imagine there’s room for more
coverage.”  The biggest additions to Tebow’s portfolio, Mills said,
will come from speaking engagements and local sponsorships,
which in New York are akin to national deals for athletes in
other cities from a compensation standpoint.  Bob Dorfman, executive creative director at San Francisco-
based Baker Street Advertising, said in a telephone interview
that he sees Tebow earning up to $2 million in affiliations with
a local car company and financial institution.  “The big question is: How much is he going to play?”
Dorfman said. “That may affect what sort of serious
endorsements he gets.”  Sanchez as Starter  The addition of Tebow sets up a possible quarterback
controversy in New York, where the Jets are led by  Mark Sanchez ,
who signed a five-year, $58 million contract extension this
month with more than $20 million guaranteed in the first two
years, according to the  New York Post (NWSA) , which cited a person it
didn’t identify.  Sanchez led the Jets to the American Football Conference
title game his first two seasons. The Jets slumped last year,
finishing 8-8 and missing the playoffs. The end of the season
was marred by locker-room controversy, including verbal
altercations between Sanchez and receiver  Santonio Holmes .  Jets General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said on a conference
call last night that he doesn’t envisage the addition of Tebow
causing any problems with Sanchez.  “Mark Sanchez is, has been and will be our starting
quarterback; we’re adding Tim to be our backup,” Tannenbaum
said. “They’re both very clear on what their roles will be.”  Quarterback Dynamic  Former coach  Brian Billick , who led the  Baltimore Ravens  to
a Super Bowl title and is now an analyst with Fox, said there
will be an interesting dynamic between Sanchez and Tebow, whose
presence won’t go ignored by the fans or tabloid newspapers if
the incumbent struggles early in the season.  “It’d be one thing if Tim Tebow is sitting behind  Peyton Manning ,” Billick said. “You’re talking about New York. I
can’t imagine the fans will let Tim Tebow fade into a backup
role.”  Tebow is a winner of the Heisman Trophy, the annual award
given to college football’s top player. His throwing mechanics
and inaccuracy have prompted some former players such as ESPN
analyst Merril Hoge to question whether he could become an elite
quarterback.  Super Bowl Odds  The Jets had 25-1 odds to win the Super Bowl before the
Tebow trade and the same 25-1 odds after, according to Las Vegas
Sports Consultants, which helps casinos set their betting lines.
The Broncos, who were 60-1 to win the Super Bowl less than a
month ago, are 10-1 today at the Las Vegas Hotel & Casino’s
sports book after signing Manning.  “It’s a story because he has a huge fan following, but I
don’t see how he makes the Jets a better football team,” Andrew
Patterson of Las Vegas Sports Consultants said in a telephone
interview.  While Tebow brings an enthusiastic fan base, his addition
won’t add much to the team’s bottom line because the Jets don’t
have many available tickets and sponsorships for next season are
already sold, said  David Carter , executive director of the
Sports Business Institute at the  University of Southern
California ’s Marshall School of Business. As for merchandise
sales, including jerseys, revenue is shared equally among the
league’s 32 teams.  Tebow does bring sizzle to the Jets, whose co-tenants at
MetLife Stadium, the Giants, won the  Super Bowl  this past season.  Mills, the former MSG president, sees Tebow signing
endorsement contracts even if he isn’t the starter.  “He’s a guy who is big enough, and has enough legs that
there are probably going to be a lot of opportunities here in
New York,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  