-- Tech Mahindra Values Satyam at $1.8 Billion in Purchase
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-03-21T13:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tech-mahindra-to-purchase-rest-of-satyam-for-1-8-billion.html
India ’s  Tech Mahindra Ltd. (TECHM)  will buy
 Satyam Computer Services Ltd. (SCS)  in a stock deal that values the
target at $1.8 billion to form the country’s fifth-largest
software services company.  Tech Mahindra , which already owns 43 percent of Satyam,
will swap two of its shares for every 17 held by the company’s
other shareholders, according to a statement today. That values
Satyam at 76.3 rupees a share, or 89.9 billion rupees ($1.8
billion), at yesterday’s closing price of 74.15 rupees,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Today’s agreement ends a three-year process that began with
the government firing Satyam’s board after its founder chairman
revealed a 100 billion-rupee accounting fraud. The acquisition
will more than double Tech Mahindra’s revenue and reduce its
dependence on London-based  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  by giving it access to
new clients in industries such as financial services and retail.  “Tech Mahindra’s biggest issue is that their biggest
client is  British Telecom ,” said Ajay Parmar, co-head of
 investment banking  at Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd. in
Mumbai. “If you have more dependence on one client, and that
guy backs out, your business collapses. This deal decreases
their risk by giving them access to new verticals.”  Biggest Client  BT Group currently contributes 35 percent of Tech
Mahindra’s revenue, Chief Financial Officer Sonjoy Anand said at
a press conference today. That will fall to about 19 percent in
the combined entity, he said.  Tech Mahindra, based in the western Indian city of Pune,
maintains computer systems and writes software programs for BT
Group, the U.K.’s largest Internet service provider. BT Group
will own a 13 percent stake in Tech Mahindra after the merger
with Satyam is complete, from 23 percent at present.  BT Group sold 5.5 percent of Tech Mahindra in December
2010, and said at the time that it will consider further stake
sales.  Satyam gained 4.7 percent to 77.65 rupees at close in
Mumbai, the biggest increase since Jan. 27. Tech Mahindra added
5.6 percent to 685.10 rupees, the highest level since Sept. 8.  “This will bring us into the category of the big boys,”
Vineet Nayyar, vice chairman of Tech Mahindra, said at a
briefing in Mumbai today.  Fifth Largest  India’s $88 billion outsourcing and software services
industry is led by  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , which had
revenue of 373 billion rupees last financial year. Tech
Mahindra-Satyam will have sales of $2.3 billion (121.6 billion
rupees), according to the statement. That ranks it fifth in
terms of sales behind  HCL Technologies Ltd. (HCLT)  among Indian code
writers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mahindra Group, Tech Mahindra’s largest shareholder and
owner of India’s biggest maker of utility vehicles, will hold a
26.3 percent stake in the merged company, Tech Mahindra said in
the statement. The merged entity will hold 10.4 percent stake in
itself as treasury stock.  Satyam, based in Hyderabad, reported sales of  51.5 billion 
rupees in the year ended March 31, compared with Tech Mahindra’s
51.4 billion rupees of revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The combined company will have 18 billion rupees of
cash, some of which it will use for acquisitions, Tech
Mahindra’s Anand said.  Accounting Fraud  Tech Mahindra bought a 34 percent stake in Satyam in an
April 2009 auction after former Chairman  Ramalinga Raju  revealed
the accounting fraud and resigned.  The scandal led to an exodus of customers at Satyam, whose
shares have fallen 57 percent since Jan. 1, 2009, six days
before Raju said he falsified accounts.  Raju was charged with faking invoices, inflating the
company’s tax liability and understating debt. India’s top court
granted Raju bail in November 2011.  Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG LLP were the independent valuers
for the deal, according to the statement. JP Morgan Chase & Co
and Morgan Stanley issued fairness opinions on the swap ratio,
while Enam Securities Pvt. and Barclays Plc acted as advisers to
Tech Mahindra.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  