-- Egypt May Keep Interest Rates Unchanged as It Seeks IMF Loans
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-03-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/egypt-may-keep-interest-rates-unchanged-as-it-seeks-imf-loans.html
Egypt’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged as it seeks
International Monetary Fund loans to help the economy.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Farouk El- Okdah, will keep the overnight deposit rate at 9.25 percent when
it meets today, according to all six economists  surveyed  by
Bloomberg News. The bank usually meets at 3 p.m. and announces
the decision two hours later.  The bank raised the rate by a percentage point in November,
citing inflationary pressures, though some economists said it
was intended to prevent a run on the Egyptian pound. The
country’s foreign currency reserves have plunged more than half
since the uprising against  Hosni Mubarak  last year, and the
economy is struggling to recover from a drop in investment and
tourism.  “We don’t think that a rate hike is likely this month,”
said Said Hirsh, an economist at  Capital Economics  in  London ,
citing declining industrial output and  core inflation  below 10
percent. November’s increase “did nothing to slow the rate of
capital outflows,” he said.  Foreign-currency  reserves  fell to $15.7 billion in
February, covering about three months of imports. The inflation
rate in urban parts of Egypt, the gauge that the central bank
monitors, rose to 9.2 percent in February from 8.6 percent,
while core inflation accelerated to 7.3 percent.  IMF ‘First Step’  The economy posted its slowest growth for at least a decade
last fiscal year. It expanded 0.4 percent in the quarter through
December and 0.2 percent the previous one. Tourist arrivals fell
33 percent last year.  The government this week started a new round of talks with
a mission from the IMF after requesting a $3.2 billion loan. The
political turmoil and cuts in  Egypt ’s credit rating have kept
the country out of international credit markets and left the
government reliant on local banks to fund a widening budget gap.  Yields on one-year treasury bills are stuck near record
highs after rising more than 5 percentage points since the
January 2011 uprising, to a record 15.98 percent last month.  The central bank cut the required reserve ratio on local-
currency deposits by two percentage points to 12 percent this
week, to help free up funds for banks and cut borrowing costs.  Getting the IMF loan “would only be a first step, but it
would be a very important one to restore international
confidence, particularly if it’s coupled with a weakening of the
currency,” said  Simon Williams , chief economist for the  Middle
East  and North Africa at HSBC Holdings Plc in Dubai.  The fund says loans to Egypt should be tied to an economic
plan that has broad political support. The Muslim Brotherhood’s
Freedom and Justice Party, which makes up the largest bloc in
parliament, has said the government’s proposals are too vague,
raising speculation that domestic opposition may complicate or
prolong the talks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  