-- Eisman Said to Start With $22.9 Million From Friends, Family
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-03-21T18:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/eisman-said-to-start-with-22-9-million-from-friends-family.html
Steve Eisman, who rose to fame
betting against subprime mortgages at FrontPoint Partners LLC
before leaving last year, raised $22.9 million for his new hedge
fund, which started trading March 1.  Eisman, who managed more than $1 billion at FrontPoint in
2010, gathered the money for Emrys Onshore Fund from friends and
family, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the information is private.
The firm plans to continue fundraising with institutional
investors, the person said.  “I’ve seen a lot of great managers with very long track
records launching with friends and family small dollar
amounts,” said Jay Rogers, president of  Irvine , California-
based Alpha Strategies Investment Consulting Inc., which advises
family offices and hedge funds looking to raise money. “You
have got to get that track record going. From his history of
shorting subprime, people want to see that he’s not a one-trick
pony and that he can do it again.”  Eisman, 49, gained prominence after being profiled by
 Michael Lewis  in his book “The Big Short: Inside the Doomsday
Machine” (W.W. Norton & Co., 2010). He left Greenwich,
Connecticut-based FrontPoint Partners LLC last year amid
investor withdrawals following allegations that Joseph F.
“Chip” Skowron, a co-manager of the firm’s health-care
portfolio, traded on insider information.  Skowron’s Case  Skowron pleaded guilty to conspiring to commit  securities
fraud  and was sentenced in November to five years in prison. A
U.S. District judge yesterday ordered Skowron to pay $10.2
million to Morgan Stanley, which acquired FrontPoint in 2006.
The amount consists of $3.8 million in legal fees the bank spent
on Skowron’s case and 20 percent of the salary he was paid from
2007 to 2010.  Eisman’s new firm, Emrys Partners LP, based in New York,
employs a long-short strategy investing in stocks and bonds
across industries.  The fundraising was disclosed in a March 19 regulatory
filing, signed by Mark Weiner, the firm’s chief operating
officer and chief financial officer.  Carolyn Sargent , a
spokeswoman for the firm, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  