-- Telefonica Brasil in Talks to Sell Network Space to Virgin
-- B y   T a i s   F u o c o   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-03-21T00:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/telefonica-brasil-in-talks-to-sell-network-space-to-virgin-1-.html
Telefonica Brasil SA (VIV)  is in talks to
sell network capacity to Virgin Mobile as it seeks to tap
Brazil’s wireless reseller market, which it forecasts will grow
to 30 million subscribers in five years.  Virgin Mobile, a unit of U.K. billionaire Richard Branson’s
 Virgin Group Ltd. (1044Q) , is one of 30 companies in negotiations with
Telefonica Brasil, said Victor Czarnobay Jr., Telefonica’s
wholesale director, in an interview from Sao Paulo yesterday.  Telefonica Brasil, a division of  Spain ’s largest telephone
company, wants its network to be the host for more than 50
percent of subscribers to wireless resellers, Czarnobay said.
Resellers, or mobile virtual network operators, buy capacity
from wireless carriers and resell it to subscribers.  Retailers, financial firms and consumer product makers are
among companies seeking to buy space from Telefonica Brasil in
order to provide a mobile-phone carrier service, Czarnobay said.  “There are companies that already operate as MVNOs in
other countries and, at the other extreme, domestic companies
with strong brands that want to expand their lines of
business,” Czarnobay said.  The Sao Paulo-based company expects  Brazil  to have 20
million to 30 million MVNO subscribers within five years, or
about 8 percent to 10 percent of the total market, he said.  Virtual Carriers  Virgin Mobile, which announced last year it would enter
Latin America, has already agreed to use  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
networks in Chile and Colombia, and plans to move into Brazil,
Argentina,  Mexico  and Peru.  The rules for the creation of MVNOs in Brazil were approved
by Anatel, the nation’s phone regulator, in November 2010. So
far the agency has approved three virtual carrier licenses, for
insurer  Porto Seguro SA (PSSA3) ’s Porto Seguro Telecomunicacoes SA unit,
Datora Telecomunicacoes Ltda. and Sisteer do Brasil
Telecomunicacoes Ltda. None has started operating.  A request for an MVNO license by Tribe Mobile, which is
working with Virgin Mobile on its  Latin America  operations, is
under review, according to Anatel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taís Fuoco in Sao Paulo at 
 tfuoco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  