-- Melvyn Kaufman, Builder of ‘Vital’ Manhattan Towers, Dies at 87
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-03-21T17:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/melvyn-kaufman-builder-of-vital-manhattan-towers-dies-at-87.html
Melvyn Kaufman, who helped shape
 New York City ’s skyline and invigorated its public spaces as a
leader of his family’s real estate company, has died. He was 87.  He died at his home in Mamaroneck, New York, on March 18,
said his wife, Elizabeth Atwood.  With his younger brother, Robert, Kaufman ran the  William
Kaufman Organization , founded in 1924 by their father. The two
brothers, after serving in the military in World War II, turned
the company’s focus from housing and industrial complexes to
office buildings, according to the company’s website.  The ground-floor public areas of office towers struck
Kaufman and his brother as overlooked, under-designed spaces --
“dull, stultifying and downright inhuman” rather than “vital,
stimulating and human” for tenants and visitors, Kaufman told
the  New York  Times in 1980.  So the developers, in conjunction with architectural firm
Emery Roth & Sons, designed office buildings that became known
for their public spaces.  Outside 777 Third Avenue is an oversized  red swing  in the
shape of a piano lid. Nearby, a blank wall facing 767 Third
Avenue became a giant vertical  chessboard , with moving pieces.  “Privately Owned Public Space,” a 2000 book, cited two
other Kaufman buildings that provide “public spaces
recognizable for their whimsical artwork and voluntarily
furnished functional amenities.” They are 77 Water Street, with
an aquatic-themed arcade, and 200 Water Street, with an
oversized digital clock “that takes time to understand.”  On the roof of 26-story 77 Water Street rests a replica of
a World War I British biplane fighter.  ‘Must Adjust’  “He was always such a creative genius,” Atwood said today
in an interview. She said he absorbed ideas and styles as they
traveled the globe. “Here was a man who just loved to explore,
loved to see how the world worked, all over the world,” Atwood
said.  She shared five pages of essays and thoughts that Kaufman
had written about his craft. Among them: “Architecture fails
when it asks the client to adjust. It is the architect who must
adjust.” Also: “No man has ever asked an architect to build
him an ugly building. What happened?”  Melvyn Kaufman was born on Aug. 3, 1924, in the Bronx, one
of three sons of William and Esther Kaufman. His first exposure
to construction and architecture came from working as a day
laborer for his father.  He attended  New York University  and  Long Island University .
His studies were interrupted by his service as a U.S.
infantryman in  Europe  in World War II. After the war he went to
work for his father rather than completing college.  Lucky Number  The family business consisted, as it does today, of the
William Kaufman Organization and Sage Realty Corp., a unit
founded in 1938 as its property-management division.  The family built its first Manhattan towers, at 711 Third
Avenue and 405 Park Avenue, in the early 1950s, according to a
death notice in the New York Times. Other Kaufman buildings
include 437 Madison Avenue, 747 Third Avenue, 127 John Street
and 17 State Street. (Atwood said Esther Kaufman urged her
husband and sons to include a 7, which she considered lucky, in
their building addresses when possible.)  Kaufman was a guest professor at the  Cooper Union  for the
Advancement of Science and Art and at the Pratt Institute School
of Architecture, both in New York. His older brother, Bennett,
died in 1980. His younger brother is among his survivors.  With his first wife, Claire, who died in 1987, Kaufman had
three children, Jerian Franco, Kim Kaufman and Karin Kaufman,
according to the death notice. He married Atwood, a member of
the board of trustees of the Central Park Conservancy, in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  