-- Emirates Says ‘Whole Load of Airlines’ Will Fail in Fuel Squeeze
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-03-21T22:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/emirates-says-whole-load-of-airlines-will-fail-in-fuel-squeeze.html
Emirates, the biggest airline by
international traffic, said more carriers will go bust this year
as fuel costs and sluggish economies undermine profitability.  “We can reel off a whole load of airlines that are
teetering on the brink or are really gone,”  Tim Clark , the
Dubai-based carrier’s president, said in an interview. “Roll
this forward to Christmas, another eight or nine months, and
we’re going to see this industry in serious trouble.”  Airline profits will plunge 62 percent in 2012 to $3
billion, equal to a 0.5 percent margin on sales, as oil prices
rise, the  International Air Transport Association  said this
week. Emirates’s fuel bill accounts for 45 percent of costs and
may jump by an “incredibly challenging” $1.7 billion in the
year ending March 31, according to Clark, who says he’s sticking
with a no-hedging strategy rather than risking a losing bet.  “You think you’re going to win, but in the long term you
always lose,” Clark said yesterday at the Gulf carrier’s head
office near Dubai International Airport. “When we enter into
derivatives, betting whatever it may be with counterparties who
actually control the price of fuel in the first place, you have
to ask yourself, ‘Is that smart?’”  AMR Corp. (AMR1) ’s  American Airlines  is restructuring after filing
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and  India ’s  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) 
may lose its license as it struggles with cash shortages and
losses. That’s after Barcelona-based Spanair SA collapsed Jan.
27, followed that week by Hungarian national carrier  Malev Zrt. (MALEV)   Bailouts, Bankruptcy  Clark said some private airlines will need to be bailed out
by governments in the countries where they’re based, though that
will raise aid issues with the European Union and other parties.  In the U.S., more filings for Chapter 11 protection are
likely, while smaller carriers operating in the Indian Ocean
region and in Africa face “difficulties,” the executive said.  “This is what the fuel prices are doing,” he said. “It’s
about time somebody sitting there, controlling the fuel prices,
began to look a little bit more seriously at the devastation
it’s causing, not only to airlines but to the global economy.”  The industry couldn’t survive a further 10 or 15 percent
increase in fuel prices, especially with the European Union’s
carbon emissions trading system about to add to costs, he said.  At Emirates the fuel bill, while not over budget, has
“zapped the bottom line,” and that will be evident in annual
results scheduled to be published next month, Clark said.  A380 ‘Mess’  Earnings at Emirates are also being hurt by the continued
grounding of Airbus SAS A380 superjumbos, of which it’s the No.
1 operator, after the discovery of wing cracks. Six of the jets,
which generate $50,000 an hour 15 hours a day, are out of action
for repairs, idling 830 cabin crew and 160 pilots, and the
carrier is having to compensate people set on an A380 trip.  “That’s had a poleaxing affect in the last nearly three
months,” Clark said, estimating the revenue loss so far at $90
million. “Those airplanes are always full, they’re always
popular. We’ve had multiple cancellations. We’ve had people
telling us ‘Well you sold me the A380’, so we had to throw in
5,000 or 10,000 miles or give money back. It’s a mess.”  Emirates operates 21 A380s, with 69 more on order as it
seeks to establish Dubai as a global hub in competition with Abu
Dhabi-based Etihad Airways, Qatar Airways Ltd. and European
carriers including  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  and British Airways.  The company is due to get five more A380s by September, and
Clark said he’ll meet Airbus next week to determine whether that
could change and what the solution to the wing cracks will be.  U.K. Addition  Clark said Emirates passed on an opportunity to invest in
 Air Berlin Plc (AB1) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest discount carrier, which
sold stock to Etihad. “We decided it wasn’t for us,” he said.  Though Qatar Air is also buying 35 percent of cargo
specialist Cargolux Airlines International SA, the CEO said he’s
not interested in purchases in Europe or elsewhere, having ended
a decade-long management accord with SriLankan Airlines in 2008
after the Asian country’s government sought more control.  “We have enough to do without getting involved in the
running of other businesses, even though they are related,” he
said. “We had our fair share of that in  Sri Lanka  for 10
years.”  As part of a strategy of tapping demand in secondary cities
such as Dusseldorf and Hamburg in  Germany , Emirates will select
a new French destination from Lyon, Nice, Marseille and
Toulouse, operating five to seven flights a week, Clark said.  In the U.K., where Emirates serves  London Heathrow ,
Birmingham, Manchester, Newcastle upon Tyne and Glasgow, there’s
the possibility of it adding a further destination which “could
be north of the border or further west,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  