-- Tenet Healthcare Suit Over Community Health Buyout Dismissed
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-03-21T20:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tenet-healthcare-suit-over-community-health-buyout-dismissed-3-.html
A federal judge dismissed  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC) ’s lawsuit against  Community Health  Systems Inc.
seeking to recover costs incurred rebuffing a takeover bid.  U.S. District Judge Barbara M.G. Lynn in  Dallas  ruled today
that Congress didn’t intend for target companies to recover
damages such as those Tenet sought. The case was dismissed with
prejudice, meaning Tenet can’t refile.  Community Health, the second-largest U.S. hospital company,
dropped its $7.3 billion bid in May after the board of Dallas-
based Tenet rejected the all-cash takeover offer as “grossly
inadequate.” A month earlier, Tenet sued Community Health,
accusing it of defrauding Medicare, the federal health insurance
program. Community Health called the suit “baseless.”  Tenet later modified its lawsuit to seek damages for
unspecified but “significant” costs it said it incurred in
analyzing  Community Health (CYH) ’s offer. Tenet argued that Community
Health gave it cause to hire consultants and begin an
investigation because Community Health made misleading
statements about “synergies” that a combination would produce.  “We’re disappointed in the ruling, but it’s important to
remember it wasn’t a ruling on the substance of our claims
against Community Health,” Rob Walters, a lawyer for Tenet,
said. “It was a ruling on the technical issue of whether Tenet
could have standing to recover the costs it incurred.”  Lawyers for Franklin, Tennessee-based Community Health
argued that there was no legal basis for Tenet to recover costs
and damages. They said that companies in takeover battles pay
their own expenses.  “Today’s ruling brings a conclusion to Tenet’s unfounded
lawsuit and we are pleased to put it behind us,” Community
Health Chief Executive Officer Wayne Smith said in a statement.  The case is Tenet Healthcare Corp. v. Community Health
Systems Inc., 3:11-00732, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  