-- EPA Enforcement Tool Blunted by High Court in Wetlands Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-21T18:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/epa-enforcement-power-cut-by-u-s-high-court-in-wetlands-case.html
The U.S. Supreme Court blunted a
commonly used Environmental Protection Agency enforcement tool,
siding with landowners and companies that said the federal
agency was abusing its power.  The justices today unanimously ruled in favor of an  Idaho 
couple blocked by the EPA from building a home on land the
agency says is restricted wetlands. The justices said the couple
can go directly to court to challenge an EPA order requiring
them to restore property they had begun preparing for
construction.  The decision weakens the force of so-called administrative
compliance orders that the EPA issues on  average  1,500 times a
year to businesses and individuals. The orders demand an end to
alleged violations, applying fines that pressure owners to
settle. The government said those orders couldn’t be appealed to
a court.  “Until now, the government had free rein to push the
limits of its authority under the Clean Water Act because the
public had no check on its authority,” Deidre Duncan, a lawyer
at Hunton & Williams LLP in Washington who filed an outside
brief in the case for the  American Petroleum Institute , said in
an interview. “That has changed with this decision.”  GE Backing  General Electric Co. (GE)  supported the Idaho couple, as did
groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. GE last year
unsuccessfully sought Supreme Court review of a similar
provision in the federal Superfund law, an environmental program
to clean up abandoned hazardous-waste sites.  In its ruling today the court ducked a broader question
about whether all of EPA’s administrative actions are subject to
court review under a constitutional argument, according to
Amanda Leiter, a law professor at American University in
Washington.  The ruling will have its primary impact on disputes over
the Clean Water Act, the federal law that regulates the release
of pollutants into U.S. waters.  “There is no reason to think that the  Clean Water Act  was
uniquely designed to enable the strong-arming of regulated
parties into ‘voluntary compliance’ without the opportunity for
judicial review,” Justice  Antonin Scalia  wrote for the court.  Idaho Lake  The fight involves a 0.63-acre property near Priest Lake in
northern Idaho. In 2007, Chantell and Michael Sackett had begun
preparing the land to build a three-bedroom house when EPA
officials ordered the work to halt. The agency said that the
property was a wetland and the Sacketts couldn’t build without
obtaining a permit under the Clean Water Act.  The EPA then ordered the Sacketts to remove piles of fill
material and replant vegetation they had cleared. The order
threatened the couple with fines of as much as $32,500 a day.  Today’s ruling doesn’t necessarily mean that the Sacketts
can build their house. The decision requires the couple to
convince a lower-court judge that the EPA lacked a “substantial
basis” to designate their land as a restricted wetland.  The Sacketts in their case said they have a constitutional
right to seek judicial review of the administrative order right
away. A federal appeals court said the couple had to wait until
regulators went to court to enforce the order before they could
contest it.  ‘Regulation By Sledgehammer’  “That’s regulation by sledgehammer,” Sheldon Gilbert, an
attorney at the National Chamber Litigation Center, said in an
interview. “No matter how confident that party was of their
case” they couldn’t let fines get run up into the millions of
dollars while waiting for EPA to go to court, he said.  In a concurring opinion, Justice  Samuel Alito  said the
government’s position would have “put the property rights of
ordinary Americans entirely at the mercy” of EPA employees.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration and the EPA argued
that the couple has ample avenues short of going to court for
contesting the order without risking fines. Among other options,
the Sacketts could have applied for a permit, the government
said.  In 2010, the EPA issued more than 1,300 compliance orders,
and now will have to deliberate more carefully before going that
route in the future -- and be ready to go to court when they do,
said Adam Kushner, an attorney at Hogan Lovells in Washington
and former director of the EPA’s office of civil enforcement.  “The agency is capable of adjusting,” he said in an
interview. “But there are practical resource issues here.”  The case is Sackett v. EPA, 10-1062.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  