-- Eurex to Offer French Government Bond Futures Trading Next Month
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-03-21T17:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/eurex-to-offer-french-government-bond-futures-trading-next-month.html
Eurex,  Europe ’s largest derivatives
exchange, will offer futures trading based on long-term French
bonds, allowing customers to hedge positions in government debt.  The derivatives contracts will start trading on April 16,
according to an e-mailed statement from Frankfurt-based  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1) , which owns Eurex. The so-called Euro OAT future will
join Eurex’s benchmark contracts based on German and Italian
 government securities .  “With the introduction of this new contract we are
responding to the great interest shown among market participants
in more customized hedging solutions,” Mehtap Dinc, head of
product development at Eurex, said in the statement. Dealers
including Barclays Plc and Morgan Stanley showed interest in
making markets, Eurex said, meaning they would provide bids and
offers for trading the product.  The new contracts are structured similarly to bund futures,
Eurex said. They may be settled using bonds due in 8 1/2 years
to 10 1/2 years with a maximum maturity of 17 years when they
were sold, according to the statement. The notional coupon will
be 6 percent and the contract value 100,000 euros ($132,060).  The minimum price movement will be 0.01 percent, similar to
the so-called tick sizes of bund futures and Italian bond
futures, the exchange said. Trading hours will run from 8 a.m.
to 7 p.m. Frankfurt time.  The exchange is offering new products even as  Deutsche
Boerse  sued to contest the European Union’s rejection of its
takeover of  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , a move aimed at settling the issue of
how regulators define the size of the region’s derivatives
market. Authorities blocked the takeover on grounds that it
would create a “near monopoly,” uniting Eurex and NYSE’s
Liffe, the region’s second-largest derivatives market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  