-- European Body to Close Loophole That Hurts Premier League Teams
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-21T17:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/european-body-to-close-loophole-that-hurts-premier-league-teams.html
European clubs that sell stakes in
players’ transfer value to outside investors may not be able to
count that revenue when trying to pass new financial control
tests set by soccer’s regional governing body.  UEFA  is considering restricting the funds from clubs’
official filings after complaints from the English Premier
League, which said its teams are at a disadvantage because they
can’t sell players to so-called third-party owners, Andrea
Traverso, the ruling body’s head of club licensing, said in an
interview today in Istanbul.  “We are investigating this idea to neutralize the effect
of third-party ownership,” Traverso said, ahead of his
organization’s annual congress tomorrow.  The top three clubs in Portugal -- Benfica, Porto and
Sporting -- raise millions of dollars by selling part of the
rights to future transfer fees and the practice is spreading to
Spain and  Turkey  as teams are refused credit by banks. Benfica,
the biggest and most successful club in  Portugal , got 44 million
euros ($58 million) from the rights of 24 players sold since
2009 to a fund managed by  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BESNN) , according to
club filings.  Traverso said an UEFA committee will make a decision on how
third-party ownership should be treated in its financial fair
play accounting following a meeting next month at its Nyon,
Switzerland headquarters. He said under the current plan, clubs
that sell players who are shared with outside investors can only
book the income once the player is sold.  Punishment  UEFA is pushing for teams to break even and will allow
owners to cover a maximum loss of 45 million euros for the 2013-
14 and 2014-15 seasons together before eventually lowering the
figure down. Clubs risk sanctions including transfer embargoes,
reduction in squad places and even a ban from the elite
 Champions League  if they don’t comply as the governing body
tries to introduce fiscal discipline into a sport where the top
665 clubs had an accumulated loss of 1.6 billion euros in 2010.  The Premier League outlawed third party ownership in 2007
after West Ham breached its rules by signing  Carlos Tevez  and
 Javier Mascherano  on loan when they were part-owned by other
companies.  The practice threatens the integrity of competitions,
reduces the flow of transfer income into the sport and has the
potential to exert external influence on player transfer
decisions, league spokesman Nick Noble said. FIFA, soccer’s
ruling body, allows third party ownership as long as investors
have no say over when players can be bought or sold.  Concerns  “We are encouraged that UEFA shares our concerns in this
area and is considering the possibility of outlawing the
practice for clubs competing in its competitions,” Noble said
in an e-mailed statement.  Earlier today the European Union said it backed UEFA’s
financial control measures, with vice president of the European
Commission and competition commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  saying
he fully supported the aims which are “ essential for clubs to
have a solid financial foundation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Istanbul via  London  at  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  