-- Europe Revival Seen in Most Bond Sales Since ’10: Credit Markets
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-21T16:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/europe-revival-seen-in-most-bond-sales-since-10-credit-markets.html
Europe’s comeback from the brink is
extending to the region’s corporate debt market, where borrowers
are selling bonds at the fastest pace in two years.  Fiat SpA (F) , Italy’s biggest manufacturer, Daimler AG and
Electricite de France SA led 6.6 billion euros ($8.7 billion) of
offerings in the busiest day of issuance since Jan. 12, 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Daimler in Stuttgart,
 Germany  raised 750 million euros after boosting the sale from
500 million euros, while  EDF (EDF)  in Paris sold 1.6 billion euros of
bonds and Fiat issued its first benchmark deal since July.  The  European Central Bank ’s injection of cash into banks
through loans and  Greece ’s debt restructuring is raising
optimism that the region’s sovereign crisis will be contained.
The cost to borrow for European non-financial companies has
fallen at a faster rate this year than for issuers in the U.S.,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “While  Europe  still faces many obvious challenges, there
has been a combined regulatory and political response to euro-
area problems,” Edward Marrinan, macro credit strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
in a telephone interview. “The follow-on risk appetite has been
reflected in robust new issuance.”  Relative Returns  Bonds issued by the region’s non-financial borrowers are
headed for their best quarter since 2009, returning 3.33 percent
since the end of December, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index. Similar securities in the U.S. have gained
0.19 percent, a separate index shows.  The extra yield investors demand to buy euro-region company
debt instead of German  government securities  narrowed 61 basis
points since December to 140, or 1.4 percentage points. Spreads
in the U.S. have dropped by 45 to 160.  The flood of issuance continued today with BAA Funding
Ltd., owner of  London ’s Heathrow airport,  Neste Oil Oyj (NES1V)  and RCI
Banque SA, Renault SA’s financing unit, in the market with bond
sales.  “What we’re seeing right now is a continuation of that
positivity after the Greek deal,” said Juan Esteban Valencia, a
credit strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “Spreads
are tightening and yields are very low so it’s making it very
attractive for issuers to come to the market.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, American Express Co. plans to
sell $1.5 billion of five-year notes, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction. The notes may yield 130 basis
points more than Treasuries of similar maturity, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Noble Group  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , Asia’s biggest listed commodities trader
by sales, will delay marketing a $1.5 billion loan in general
syndication, according to three people familiar with the matter.  The company had planned to start marketing the loan in
general syndication today however some lenders approached to be
arrangers or senior banks requested more time to prepare, the
people said, asking not to be identified because the details are
private. The original deadline for potential arrangers to
respond to terms sent by Noble was last week. Some banks
requested extensions in order to process internal credit
approvals, the people said.  “There is no delay in our timetable,” Jeanny Kim, Noble’s
Hong Kong-based director of capital markets, said in an e-mail
today. A public announcement will be made in due course, she
said.  Bonds of Morgan Stanley are the most actively traded U.S.
corporate securities by dealers today, with 221 trades of $1
million or more as of 12:20 p.m. in  New York , according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  ECB President Mario Draghi gave banks more than 1 trillion
euros ($1.31 trillion) of three-year loans in December and
February through its Long-Term Refinancing Operation bolstering
the financial system.  Greek Contracts  At the same time, an auction to settle outstanding credit-
default swaps tied to Greece debt this week ended more than two
years of speculation over whether the derivatives are reliable
for insuring sovereign debt after European policy makers sought
to prevent payouts on concern they’d worsen the region’s crisis.  “Europe has put in place a multi-pronged effort to buy
time and address the core issue of sovereign indebtedness and
embedded losses in bank balance sheets,” said Marrinan at Royal
Bank of Scotland.  Fiat sold 850 million euros of five-year securities that
were priced to yield 7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Fiat last sold benchmark-sized securities in euros in July, when
it raised 1.5 billion euros from a sale that included notes due
2014 currently yielding 5.4 percent and bonds maturing in 2018
that yield 7.4 percent. A benchmark deal in euros is typically
at least 500 million euros.  Daimler, EDF  “It’s a marginal spread over the last issue,” Fiat Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told reporters today in
Bruges,  Belgium . The order book for the bonds was “quite
strong,” he said.  Fiat is rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service, two levels
below investment grade, and BB by  Standard & Poor’s , which said
last month it may lower the rating on the Turin-based company
one more level by May.  Banca IMI SpA,  Barclays Capital , Credit Agricole CIB,
Commerzbank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Natixis and UniCredit
SpA managed the latest sale for Fiat.  Daimler (DAI) ’s 750 million euros of 2.625 percent seven-year
bonds were priced to yield 65 basis points more than swaps, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The maker of Mercedes Benz cars is
rated A3 by Moody’s and A- by S&P.  Anglo American  EDF’s sale included 1 billion euros of 4.125 percent 15-
year notes that were priced to yield 145 basis points more than
the swap rate, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The utility also
sold 500 million pounds ($793 million) of 5.5 percent 25-year
bonds that will yield 210 basis points more than U.K. government
debt. EDF is rated Aa3 by Moody’s and A+ by S&P. Carole Trivi, a
company spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Other issuers yesterday included  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the
London-based miner, construction group  Vinci SA (DG)  in Rueil-
Malmaison, France and U.K. utility Anglian Water Group Ltd.
money managers,” he said.  “Given the extended freeze in European credit issuance,
it’s not surprising to see a host of names bursting through the
doors, for fear that those doors might close up once again,”
Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Philadelphia-based
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, wrote in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  