-- Most European Stocks Fall on U.S. Data; Adidas Declines
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-21T17:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/european-uu-s-stock-index-futures-gain-asia-falls.html
Most  European (SXXP)  stocks declined as a
report showed sales of previously owned U.S. houses unexpectedly
fell in the world’s biggest economy.  Adidas AG (ADS)  slid 2.3 percent after Morgan Stanley cut its
recommendation on the stock.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , the biggest Swedish
telephone company, dropped the most since August 2011 after the
Finnish government sold shares.  Banco Popolare SC (BP) ,  Italy ’s
fifth-biggest bank, gained after reporting earnings and a better
than expected outlook for its capital position.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 0.1 percent to 268.67
at the close in London. The gauge still has gained 9.9 percent
this year as the  European (SXXP)  Central Bank disbursed 1 trillion
euros ($1.3 trillion) to the region’s lenders and U.S. economic
data surpassed estimates. The volume of shares changing hands on
the Euro Stoxx 50 Index today was 5.7 percent more than the
average over the past 30 days, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It’s possible we were a bit too optimistic,” said Benoit de Broissia, an analyst at KBL Richelieu Gestion in Paris, which
oversees about $3.4 billion. “There are still a number of
headwinds. We can’t say that residential real estate is a motor
of growth for the  U.S. economy  at this point.”  National benchmark indexes fell in 14 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose less than 0.1
percent.  France ’s CAC 40 lost 0.1 percent while  Germany ’s DAX
gained 0.2 percent.  U.S. Housing  Sales of previously owned U.S. houses unexpectedly fell in
February, showing that the real-estate market is taking time to
stabilize.  Purchases dropped 0.9 percent to a 4.59 million annual rate
from a revised 4.63 million pace in January that was faster than
previously estimated, a report from National Association of
Realtors showed today in  Washington . The median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a rise to 4.61 million.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today in a
testimony to U.S. lawmakers that  Europe  must further strengthen
its banks and that its financial and economic situation
“remains difficult” even as stresses have lessened.  “Full resolution of the crisis will require a further
strengthening of the European banking system,” Bernanke said in
testimony to the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform. The region’s leaders also must “increase economic
growth and competitiveness and to reduce external imbalances in
the troubled countries,” he said.  U.K. Budget  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the
government’s budget shortfall will be 7.6 percent of gross
domestic product next year.  “Borrowing this year is set to come in at 126 billion
pounds, 1 billion pounds lower than I forecast in the autumn,”
Osborne said to lawmakers in Parliament in  London  today as he
presented his annual budget.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said stocks will probably begin a
“steady upward trajectory” over the next few years as any
declines in economic growth are already reflected in share
prices.  “Given current valuations, we think it’s time to say a
‘long good-bye’ to bonds, and embrace the ‘long good buy’ for
equities as we expect them to embark on an upward trend over the
next few years,”  Peter Oppenheimer , chief global equity
strategist at Goldman Sachs in London, wrote in a report today.  Adidas Drops  Adidas, the second-largest sporting-goods maker, fell 2.3
percent to 57.64 euros. Morgan Stanley cut the shares to
 underweight  from equal weight, meaning investors should hold a
smaller proportion than represented in the benchmarks. Morgan
Stanley cited risks in the second half as initiatives to fuel
growth will likely mute mid-term margin expansion.  TeliaSonera fell 3.7 percent to 45.70 kronor, the biggest
drop since Aug. 18, after the Finnish government sold 2.1
percent of the shares for 451 million euros, and 600 million
euros of bonds to fund investments in the  mining industry .  Banco Popolare gained 3.3 percent to 1.65 euros. The bank,
which needs to fill a capital shortfall of 2.7 billion euros,
according to the European Banking Authority, said it can meet
the target without capital market transactions.  It reported a fourth-quarter net loss of 2.58 billion euros
after a 2.83 billion-euro writedown of goodwill related to its
merger with Banca Popolare Italiana in 2007. Excluding the
writedown, profit was 250 million euros, compared with the 175
million-euro average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Sainsbury Gains  Sainsbury climbed 4.5 percent to 319.3 pence. The
supermarket owner reported fourth-quarter sales growth that beat
estimates as the Taste the Difference food range helped the
retailer close the gap on market leader Tesco Plc.  Revenue at stores open at least a year rose 2.6 percent in
the 10 weeks ended March 17, the London-based company said
today. The growth, reported on a basis which includes value-
added tax and excludes gasoline, outpaced the 2.2 percent median
estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) , France’s biggest computer-services company,
increased 3.1 percent to 34.11 euros. Oracle Corp.’s “solid
overall” results and upbeat comments are a “slight positive”
for  Cap Gemini , according to Bank of America Corp.  Ziggo Debut  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , the Dutch cable company owned by Warburg Pincus
LLC and Cinven Ltd., soared 15 percent to 21.25 euros on its
first day of trading. The company raised about 804 million euros
selling shares at the top end of its forecast in the biggest
initial public offering in Europe so far this year.  Rieter Holding AG (RIEN)  sank 11 percent to 165 Swiss francs. The
company said its earnings before interest and tax advanced to
112.6 million francs ($124 million) in 2011 from 75.7 million
francs a year earlier, missing analyst forecasts for 123.6
million francs.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, retreated 3 percent
to 30.22 euros. HSBC cut its recommendation on the shares to
“underweight.”  Game Group Plc (GMG)  asked for a share suspension as the board
said it is “unable to assess” the company’s financial position
and finds no equity value left in the company. The stock added
0.4 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  