-- Europe Seeks Power to Ban Non-EU Firms From Procurement Accords
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-21T12:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/europe-seeks-power-to-ban-non-eu-firms-from-procurement-accords.html
Nations may face bans on their
companies winning public procurement contracts in  Europe  under
plans published today by the region’s trade and market chiefs.  The powers, part of proposals to boost the European Union’s
arsenal against trade discrimination, could be used if other
countries don’t grant equivalent  market access  to EU-based
businesses, the European Commission said.  “The EU should no longer be naive and should aim for
fairness and reciprocity in world trade,” Internal Market
Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said today in an e-mailed statement.  The announcement of the measures comes as the 27-nation EU
and the U.S. lean harder to  China  to overhaul its trade policies
on concerns the Asian country manipulates its currency and uses
discounts, preferential loans and tax incentives that give its
exporters an unfair advantage.  President  Barack Obama  signed an executive order in
February creating a panel to probe unfair trade practices by
nations including China, while the EU joined the U.S. and  Japan 
this month in challenging Chinese curbs on rare-earth minerals
at the  World Trade Organization .  The U.S.-China trade deficit widened to $295 billion last
year and the imbalance is a main source of friction between the
two countries. The EU’s 2011 trade gap with China narrowed to
155.9 billion euros ($207 billion) from 169.3 billion in 2010.  China is one of several countries that have introduced
protectionist measures for procurement contracts, the Brussels-
based commission said. Others include the U.S., Brazil, Turkey
and Russia.  Commission Powers  Under today’s proposals, the commission would be able to
ban non-EU companies from winning procurement contracts in the
bloc if they are based in countries that repeatedly discriminate
against European firms. The draft law would also clarify what
access foreign companies get to EU public procurement markets
through free-trade agreements and other accords.  National governments and European Parliament lawmakers must
approve the proposals before they can come into effect.  Public procurement contracts in the EU represent 19 percent
of the region’s gross domestic product, according to commission
figures. The annual value of such tenders advertised across the
EU is about 420 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  