-- Hewlett-Packard Merges PC, Print Units Under Bradley’s Lead
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-21T23:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/hewlett-packard-combines-pc-print-units-in-group-led-by-bradley.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  will combine
its personal-computer unit and printer division into a group led
by  Todd Bradley , who ran the PC business, to help cut expenses
amid declining sales and profit.  The  Palo Alto , California-based company plans to start
selling PCs and tablet computers by the holiday season that have
“companion printers,” designed to offer consumers and
businesses price advantages and new features, Chief Executive
Officer  Meg Whitman  said in an interview today.  The move will provide unspecified cost savings and simplify
the company’s strategy, branding, supply chain and customer
support worldwide, Hewlett-Packard said in a statement. Whitman,
who took over in September, has committed to increasing
investment in research and development and decided against a
proposal to spin off the $39.6 billion personal systems group,
known as PSG, in a turnaround effort.  “The shift here makes sense, in terms of reducing silos
and slow growth to declining businesses,”  Shannon Cross , an
analyst at Cross Research in Livingston,  New Jersey , said in an
interview. She has a hold rating on the stock. “This is not a
fast-growth area anymore.”  ‘Financial Challenges’  Speaking at the company’s annual shareholder meeting later
in the day, Whitman said Hewlett-Packard has “real financial
challenges.” The company is reducing the number of products it
sells and trying to get more revenue out of each salesperson,
she said. Another challenge: Commercial printing isn’t growing
fast enough to offset slow sales in the inkjet division, Whitman
said.  The shift to cloud computing, which lets customers get
their software and computing power over the Internet, is
redistributing industry profits, she said.  “Established profit pools are in play,” Whitman said.
“We’re going to have to be there quickly.”  Shareholders elected the board’s 11 directors and ratified
Hewlett-Packard’s compensation plan. Investors voted against a
company-opposed initiative that would have given them more input
on exit packages for executives.  By reuniting the PC and printing divisions, Hewlett-Packard
is undoing a change made by former CEO  Mark Hurd . He broke up
the units in 2005, during his first year running the company.  Getting Things Done  “We’re going to develop printers, PCs and tablets that
work together seamlessly,” Whitman said in the interview. “The
intent behind all of these changes is to make it easier for our
customers to buy from us, easier to sell, and easier for people
to get things done inside HP. There’s real opportunity to
increase revenue and do it in a cost-effective way.” She
declined to specify the cost savings that will result from
combining the groups.  Bradley joined in 2005 and vaulted the company past  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  as the world’s  largest PC  maker. Vyomesh Joshi, the
printing division’s executive vice president, is retiring after
a 31-year career at Hewlett-Packard.  The company will also combine global account sales with its
enterprise group under  Dave Donatelli . Marty Homlish will lead
marketing for all business units.  Hewlett-Packard shares fell 2.2 percent to $23.46 at the
close in New York. The stock has  declined  8.9 percent this year,
while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has risen 12 percent.  The shares fell in part today because investors and
analysts wanted to hear more details about the restructuring,
Cross said. “It’s still very much a work in progress.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  