-- Ex-FrontPoint Manager Must Pay Morgan Stanley $10.2 Milli
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-03-21T16:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/ex-frontpoint-manager-must-pay-morgan-stanley-10-2-million-1-.html
An ex-FrontPoint Partners LLC fund
manager, Joseph F. “Chip” Skowron, who began serving a five-
year sentence for  insider trading  in January, must pay  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  $10.2 million, a judge ruled.  The amount consists of $3.8 million in legal fees the bank
spent on Skowron’s case and an internal investigation, plus
20 percent of his salary from 2007 to 2010, or $6.4 million,
U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  ruled yesterday.  Morgan Stanley  acquired  FrontPoint in 2006 and spun off the
unit last year.  Cote denied the New York-based bank’s request for repayment
of the $33 million it paid to settle claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The amount represents the
disgorgement of the losses the FrontPoint unit avoided as a
result of Skowron’s insider trading, Cote said in the ruling.  “There is no question that the losses avoided by
FrontPoint represent ill-gotten gains which it is not entitled
by law to retain,” Cote said. Reimbursing Morgan Stanley would
undermine the deterrent value of the remedial action, Cote said.  Skowron, who began serving his  prison  sentence in January
at the Federal Correctional Institution Schuylkill in
 Pennsylvania , argued that Morgan Stanley shouldn’t collect any
funds under the Mandatory Victims Restitution Act.  Skowron, who has a medical degree from Yale School of
Medicine, pleaded guilty to getting illegal tips from a former
adviser for  Human Genome Sciences Inc. (HGSI)  that trials of the
company’s hepatitis C drug were being halted.  FrontPoint sold its stock before the announcement was made
public, avoiding $30 million in losses, the government said.  Stock Sale  Morgan Stanley argued it was a victim of Skowron’s crimes
and entitled to $8.02 million it paid him from 2007 to 2010.  Cote said the bank was entitled to recover some of the
money paid to Skowron. “Morgan Stanley is a victim because it
was directly and proximately harmed by Skowron’s scheme in a
variety of ways,” the judge said.  Morgan Stanley is pleased with Cote’s decision and plans to
seek the $33 million from Skowron in a separate civil action,
Matt Burkhard, a spokesman for the bank, said today in a phone
interview.  Skowron agreed to forfeit $5 million to the U.S. in the
criminal case, Cote said in November. She made a legal finding
yesterday that Skowron’s personal net worth is $22.2 million.  Skowron Reaction  “While we are reviewing the court’s decision, and
considering our options, Dr. Skowron has made it clear he will
accept all responsibility for his actions under the law,” his
attorney, Josh Epstein, said in an e-mailed statement.  “However, we do not believe that Morgan Stanley is even
entitled to the amount of restitution it has secured with this
decision. We can assure you that Morgan Stanley’s attempt to
claw back $33 million in ill-gotten gains, as Judge Cote herself
referred to those monies in rejecting Morgan Stanley’s claim, is
meritless. It is startling that Morgan Stanley would ignore the
court’s clear decision to make a grab for money to which it has
no legal right.”  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in  New York , who is
presiding over the separate SEC suit against Skowron, on Nov. 16
ordered Skowron to pay a $38.2 million final judgment in the
case, which includes disgorgement, interest and civil penalties.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Skowron, 1:11-cr-00699, and
the SEC case is SEC v. Benhamou, 10-cv-8266, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  