-- Ex-Lehman Director in Plea Talks on Drug Forgery Charge
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-05-22T16:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/ex-lehman-director-jack-pleads-not-guilty-to-forgery-charge-1-.html
Former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
Managing Director Bradley H. Jack is in talks with  Connecticut 
prosecutors that include a possible plea bargain to a drug-
prescription forgery charge, his lawyer said.  Jack, 53, who pleaded not guilty March 21 and is free on
bail, appeared before Norwalk Superior Court Judge Maureen
Dennis, who set a pretrial hearing for June 19. Defense attorney
Robert Golger said today he has been in “discussions” with
prosecutors and confirmed the talks included the possibility of
a plea bargain, which he said was “routine.” Golger said he
has received “no specific offer” from the Connecticut State’s
Attorney’s Office, adding “we are at an impasse.”  Jack was arrested and charged in March with second-degree
forgery for a November incident in which he allegedly altered
the date on a prescription for Vyvanse, used to treat attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder, at a CVS Caremark Corp. pharmacy
in his home town of Westport.  The state prosecutors’ office declined to comment. Jack was
arrested last June in a separate incident after allegedly trying
to pass forged prescriptions for Ritalin and the painkiller
Oxycontin, according to police in Fairfield, Connecticut. He had
received treatment for cancer, used a valid prescription in the
past and had no prior criminal record, Golger said last year.  Joined Lehman  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
 investment banking  from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with  Joseph Gregory . In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment-banking relationships. Jack decided
to retire to pursue work in the nonprofit sector and spend time
with his family, Richard Fuld, the bank’s chief executive at the
time, said in June 2005. The company went bankrupt in 2008.  Following his June arrest, Jack was allowed to enter a so-
called accelerated rehabilitation, or AR, a program available to
people charged with less-serious crimes that might result in
prison time. At an August hearing, Superior Court Judge Earl B. Richards III in Bridgeport said if Jack avoided arrest for a
year, the prosecution would be suspended.  In that case, he was charged with second-degree forgery and
attempting to obtain a controlled substance through forgery or
alteration of a prescription or a written order. Forgery, the
more serious count, is punishable by as long as five years in
prison and a $5,000 fine.  Altered Prescription  In the latest prosecution, Jack admitted to police that he
altered the prescription, according to the arrest affidavit. He
told police his psychiatrist is blind and his assistant, who
fills out the prescriptions, put the wrong effective date on the
Vyvanse prescription. In October, the doctor switched Jack from
Ritalin to 50-milligram pills of Vyvanse.  Golger said last month of the instant case that “it’s his
own prescription and it was for the proper dosage. There’s
clearly no intent to defraud.”  The case is Connecticut v. Jack,  S20N-CR12-0131552-S ,
Connecticut Superior Court (Norwalk). The earlier case is
Connecticut v. Jack,  F02B-CR11-0258280-S , Connecticut Superior
Court (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John Dillon  in Connecticut Superior Court
in Norwalk, Connecticut at  j.dillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 