-- Ex-Lehman Director to Appear in Court on Second Forgery Charge
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-03-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/ex-lehman-director-to-appear-in-court-on-second-forgery-charge.html
Former  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  managing director Bradley H. Jack, arrested twice for drug-
prescription forgery, is set to appear in  Connecticut  state
court on the latest charge.  Jack, 53, is scheduled to appear today in Norwalk Superior
Court. He turned himself in and was charged March 9 with second-
degree forgery for a November incident in which he is accused of
faking the date on a prescription for Vyvanse, which is used to
treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, at the
CVS Caremark Corp. pharmacy in Westport.  In August, Jack was allowed to enter so-called accelerated
rehabilitation, or AR, a program available to people charged
with less-serious crimes that might result in prison time. The
second arrest hurts his chance to avoid prosecution on the
first. At the August hearing, Superior Court Judge Earl B.
Richards III in Bridgeport, said if he avoided arrest for a
year, the prosecution would be suspended.  “He would be found to be in noncompliance with AR and that
case would be brought forward on the docket and at that point
his participation would be terminated and he would face both
charges at the same time,” Max Simmons, a criminal-defense and
civil-rights lawyer in  New Haven , said in an interview. “That’s
pretty commonly how it’s handled.”  Valid Prescription  Jack, of Westport, was arrested in June after he allegedly
tried to pass forged prescriptions for 12 pills of the
painkiller Oxycontin and nine of Ritalin, a drug used to treat
attention deficit disorder, according to Fairfield police. Jack
had received treatment for cancer, had had a valid prescription
in the past and had no prior criminal record, his attorney,
Robert G. Golger, said in court in August.  Golger declined to comment on the new case.  In the latest incident, Jack admitted to police he altered
the prescription, according to the arrest affidavit. He told
police his psychiatrist is blind and his assistant, who fills
out the prescriptions, put the wrong effective date on the
Vyvanse prescription. In October, the doctor switched Jack from
Ritalin to 50-milligram pills of Vyvanse.  The CVS store called the police because the date on the
prescription appeared to have been changed from Nov. 19 to Nov.
14, according to the arrest affidavit. The pharmacy, which had a
warning for Jack from his previous arrest, checked with the
doctor, who said the prescription wasn’t to be filled before
Nov. 19. The police said the original prescription clearly had
that date on it. The doctor said he was careful with Jack’s
prescriptions, including counting out the exact days prior to
writing a new one.  Made Mistake  Jack told police he had left the country and the different
time zone had caused him to make mistakes in taking the drug,
leaving him with a four-pill deficit. He thought that from a
conversation he had with the doctor on Nov. 15 they had agreed
the new prescription would be refilled earlier than the 30-day
cycle, he said. He believed it should have been for Nov. 15, he
said, though the alteration was to Nov. 14.  Jack said he didn’t believe his doctor “would
intentionally discontinue a patient’s medication for four days
if it is medically ill-advised to do so,” according to the
arrest affidavit.  There’s “nothing to indicate through our investigation
that the doctor’s vision was affected,” said Captain Sam
Arciola of the Westport Police Department. It didn’t matter
because “there’s a probable cause to believe that Mr. Jack had
altered the prescription,” which violates the law, he said.  Nonprofit Work  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
 investment banking  from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with  Joseph Gregory . In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment-banking relationships.  He decided to retire from Lehman to pursue work in the
nonprofit sector and spend time with his family, Richard Fuld,
the bank’s chief executive officer at the time, said in June
2005. The company went bankrupt in September 2008.  Jack’s 20-acre (8-hectare), waterfront compound in
Fairfield, Connecticut, was slated to be sold at a municipal
auction because he had failed to pay property taxes owed since
July, according to town tax collector Stanley Gorzelany. Jack
owed $271,923, which was paid on March 16, Gorzelany said. It
was the town’s biggest overdue tax bill on a residence, he said.  Tennis Court  Jack’s $35 million property, which includes five buildings,
a pool and a tennis court, is the most expensive in Fairfield,
according to the tax collector’s office, which places its  market
value  at $34.6 million as of October 2010. His total annual tax
bill is $543,847.48.  He bought the estate in 2001 for $24.45 million, according
to the Fairfield Assessor’s office.  Jack and his ex-wife, Karin, jointly owned the property and
agreed to continue to do so after their 2008 divorce, according
to Connecticut state court records.  In Jack’s earlier arrest, he was charged with second-degree
forgery and attempting to obtain a controlled substance through
forgery or alteration of a prescription or a written order.
Forgery, the more serious count, is punishable by as long as
five years in prison and a $5,000 fine.  The case is Connecticut v. Jack,  S20N-CR12-0131552-S ,
Connecticut Superior Court (Norwalk). The earlier case is
Connecticut v. Jack,  F02B-CR11-0258280-S , Connecticut Superior
Court (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 John Dillon  at Connecticut Superior Court
in Westport at   jdillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 