-- Ex-NASA Scientist Nozette Gets 13-Year Term in Spying Case
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-21T20:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/ex-nasa-scientist-gets-13-year-sentence-for-attempted-spying-1-.html
A former National Aeronautics and
Space Administration scientist was sentenced to 13 years in
prison for attempted spying after admitting he tried to pass
classified data on U.S. satellites to  Israel .  Stewart David Nozette, 54, was sentenced today in
Washington to the term agreed to by prosecutors and defense
lawyers in September when Nozette pleaded guilty to attempted
espionage. He was also sentenced for an earlier guilty plea in a
false-claims and tax-evasion case. U.S. District Judge Paul Friedman ordered Nozette to pay about $218,000 in restitution.  “I accept full responsibility for this error,” the former
government physicist told Friedman.  Nozette, of  Chevy Chase ,  Maryland , was arrested in October
2009 in a sting operation by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
in which one of its agents posed as an Israeli security officer.  Nozette held security clearances as high as “top secret”
and had access to information about national defense, according
to court papers filed in the case.  He worked at the Energy Department’s Lawrence  Livermore
National Laboratory  in  California  and did research at the U.S.
Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, the  Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency  in Arlington,  Virginia , and the  NASA 
Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland.  The U.S. hasn’t alleged that Israel or anyone acting on its
behalf committed a crime.  Fraud Case  The undercover operation sprang from an earlier case
against Nozette, in which the government accused him of
defrauding federal agencies through a nonprofit organization.
Nozette admitted he submitted more than $265,000 in false claims
to the government and evaded more than $200,000 in taxes.  The nonprofit probe led investigators to suspect that he
misused classified information. During a search of Nozette’s
home, investigators found classified documents and an e-mail in
which he threatened to take a classified program he was working
on to another country.  From 1989 through 2006, Nozette had access to confidential
documents related to national defense, prosecutors said.  In September 2009, he was contacted by the agent posing as
an Israeli intelligence officer. Nozette described his security
clearance and agreed to provide classified data for money and a
passport to a country without extradition to the U.S.  Nozette took $10,000 left at drop-off sites and gave the
agent top-secret information on satellites, early warning
systems, defense systems and strategies for dealing with a
large-scale attack, according to prosecutors.  ‘Greed Exceeded Loyalty’  “Stewart Nozette’s greed exceeded his loyalty to this
country,” U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen said in a statement.  Prosecutors today played a video recording on which Nozette
boasted to the undercover agent about technical data he kept on
disks in a safe deposit box. He said the information cost the
U.S. $200 million.  “I’d charge you, at most, 1 percent,” of that, Nozette
said.  “Four minutes is all it takes to show that he agreed to be
a traitor against the  United States , with a smile on his face
and with unbridled enthusiasm,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Anthony Asuncion told the judge.  The defense accused the government of preying on a
vulnerable person who was in the midst of losing his career due
to the fraud allegations and who had contemplated suicide. If
there were concerns about Nozette’s possessing classified data,
the government should have contacted his lawyers, one said.  “It wasn’t necessary,” attorney Robert Tucker told
Friedman. “They destroyed this man when they didn’t have to.”  The case is U.S. v. Nozette, 09-cr-00276, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington 
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  