-- Mexico City Buildings Pass Shake Test After 1985 Quake Lessons
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-03-21T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/mexico-city-buildings-pass-shake-test-after-1985-quake-lessons.html
 A 7.4-magnitude earthquake  near 
 Acapulco  yesterday rattled the resort town and caused buildings
to sway in Mexico City even as officials cited improved
preparedness for preventing deaths and widespread damage after a
devastating 1985 temblor.  “Buildings and skyscrapers are much more resistant than
they were in 1985,” Mexico City Mayor Marcelo Ebrard told
reporters yesterday. “All of the construction standards have
been changed.”  Power was knocked out and windows shattered in several of
the capital’s neighborhoods. A section of a pedestrian bridge
collapsed on a minibus, injuring one person, and a traffic
overpass will have to be demolished after it began to crack,
Ebrard said. Even so, there were no reports of any major damage
nor were there any fatalities, President Felipe Calderon said
yesterday.  In 1985, an 8.1-magnitude quake  flattened  hundreds of
buildings in the capital, leaving more than 9,000 people dead.
The quake injured thousands more and left hundreds of  Mexico 
City families homeless.  The epicenter of yesterday’s  earthquake  was 200 miles
southeast of the capital, according to the  U.S. Geological
Survey . In the southern state of Oaxaca, five people were
injured, two of them seriously, and 68 homes were damaged near
the Oaxaca coast, state Governor Gabino Cue said on his Twitter
account yesterday.  Guerrero Damage  Some houses collapsed and around 500 were damaged along the
Pacific Ocean coastline in the neighboring state of Guerrero,
state Governor Angel Aguirre said in an interview broadcast on
Milenio TV. No damage was reported in the resort city of
Acapulco, he added.  The quake was originally estimated by the U.S. Geological
Survey to have a 7.9 magnitude and to likely cause economic
losses between $10 million and $100 million. A 5.1-magnitude
aftershock was felt 30 minutes after the original temblor and
several tremors followed.  “I thought the building was going to collapse,” said
Asael Torres, an accounts executive at Grupo Financiero Banorte
SAB, who fled down the stairwell from the 11th floor of his
Mexico City office. “Shards of concrete were falling off the
stairs.”  The peso briefly extended declines, then recovered, after
the quake struck. The currency yesterday closed little changed
at 12.6502 per  U.S. dollar  from 12.6553 on March 19.  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company, had
no reports of damage and spokeswoman Fatima Campos said its
Salina Cruz refinery, the country’s biggest, is operating
normally.  Grupo Mexico SAB (GMEXICOB) , the world’s fifth-largest copper
producer, said the temblor hasn’t affected its mines.  U.S. President’s Daughter  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s oldest daughter, Malia, is
safe and was never in danger during the long quake, said
Kristina Schake, a spokeswoman for First Lady  Michelle Obama .
Malia, 13, is on vacation with a school group in Oaxaca.  The international airport, subway and water systems were
all functioning normally in Mexico City, Ebrard said.  A seismic alarm went off right before the quake hit the
capital, an alert that the government plans to expand to reach
cellular phones, Blackberrys and Ipads, Ebrard said.  Magnified Effect  Mexico City’s location on an ancient lakebed may have
magnified the quake’s vibration, though the epicenter’s distance
from the capital and improvements in building techniques since
the 1985 tragedy should limit damage, said John Bellini, a
geophysicist at the USGS.  “The lakebed kind of acts like a bowl, a Jell-O so to
speak,” Bellini said in a phone interview from Golden,
 Colorado . “Historically very large earthquakes in the coastal
areas have caused damage in Mexico City but we’re not seeing
that with this one.”  The quake was the biggest since a 7.6-magnitude temblor
struck offshore of Colima state in 2003 and caused 29 deaths,
according to USGS data.  Yesterday’s temblor was felt in five states, as well as
neighboring  Guatemala . Authorities as far south as  Chile  were on
the lookout for a possible tsunami.  The lack of damage in Mexico City should not make people
“over-confident,” said Raul Izquierdo, president of the
Mexican Society of Structural Engineering.  The quake’s distance from the capital and its passage
through mountainous regions weakened its impact, while
supervision of new construction standards remains lax, he said.  The earthquake “should serve as a warning,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net 
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  