-- Text of U.K. Chancellor George Osborne’s Budget Speech
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 4 2 1 3 6 7 ]   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h   [ ]
-- 2012-03-21T13:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/text-of-u-k-chancellor-george-osborne-s-budget-speech-1-.html
Following is the full text of the
U.K. Chancellor  George Osborne ’s budget speech to Parliament in
London today.  Mr Deputy Speaker, this Budget rewards work.  Britain is going to earn its way in the world.
There is no other road to recovery.
This Budget supports working families and helps those looking
for work.
It unashamedly backs business.
And it is on the side of aspiration: those who want to do better
for themselves and for their families.
This Budget reaffirms our unwavering commitment to deal with
Britain’s record debts.
But because we’ve already taken difficult decisions, this can
also be a reforming Budget that seeks to repair the disastrous
model of economic growth that created those debts.  A model that saw manufacturing almost halve as a share of our
national economy, while the national debt doubled.
Mr Deputy Speaker, this is how Britain will earn its way in the
world: with far reaching  tax reform .
With a simpler tax system, where ordinary taxpayers understand
what they are being asked to pay.
With a tax system that is more competitive for business than any
other major economy in the world.
A tax system where millions of the lowest paid are lifted out of
tax altogether, while the tax revenues we get from the
wealthiest increase.
But reforming tax is only part of the story.
We will earn our way in the world by saying to all businesses -
large and small: We will provide you with the modern
infrastructure; new growth-friendly planning rules and
employment laws; the kinds of schools and universities and
colleges our future workforce needs.  And in return, you, British businesses, have the self-confidence
to: invest, expand, hire, innovate and be the best.
We earn our way in the world if we stop being afraid to identify
Britain’s strengths and reinforce them, backing industries, like
aerospace, energy and pharmaceuticals, creative media and
science.
A deliberate strategy to create a more balanced national
economy, where financial services are strong, but they are not
the only string to our bow.  Mr Deputy Speaker,
Stability comes first.
And the Report from the Office for Budget Responsibility reminds
us today of the risks to stability.  Despite the welcome action by the  European Central Bank , the
impact of the sovereign debt crisis on the European economy has
been significant.
Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium and others are now in recession
- and  Germany ’s economy shrank in the last quarter.
In today’s Report, the OBR are sharply revising down their
forecast for euro area growth this year by 0.8% to - 0.3%.
Their forecast for world economic growth is also revised down
over the next two years - by 0.2% and 0.3% respectively.
Of course, Britain is not immune from these developments in our
largest export markets.
And the OBR say today that “the situation in the euro area
remains a major risk to our forecast”.  Another risk they identify is a “further spike in  oil prices ”,
and there is no doubt that the high oil price - driven both by
real demand and the Iranian situation - is of great concern
across the world.
It means that the OBR’s overall assessment of the outlook and
risks for the British economy is “broadly unchanged” since last
November’s report.
Despite these headwinds, there are, however, some more positive
signs.
The OBR expect the British economy “to avoid a technical
recession with positive growth in the first quarter” of this
year.
They say that the British economy has “carried a little more
momentum into the new year than previously anticipated”.
Indeed, the  Office for Budget Responsibility  is slightly
revising up in their growth forecast for the UK this year to
0.8%.
They then forecast 2% next year; 2.7% in 2014; And 3% in both
2015 and 2016.
The OBR’s forecast unemployment rate is the same as it was last
autumn.
They expect it to peak this year at 8.7 per cent before falling
each year to 6.3 per cent by the end of the forecast period.  But they have revised down their estimate of the claimant count,
which they now expect to be around 100,000 lower in each of the
next four years than they previously forecast - peaking at 1.67
million this year rather than the 1.8 million they forecast in
November.
And they forecast one million more jobs in the economy over five
years.  Inflation is expected to fall throughout the period, from 2.8%
this year to 1.9% next year, and then 2% by the end of the
forecast period.
I am today writing to the Governor of the Bank of  England  to
reaffirm the CPI inflation target of 2%.
The Government’s credible and responsible fiscal policy allows
the independent central bank to pursue an activist monetary
policy consistent with targeting low inflation.
I confirm that the Asset Purchase Facility will remain in place
for the coming year.  FISCAL FORECASTS
So employment is growing, inflation is coming down.
And so too is the deficit.
When this Government came to office, the  budget deficit  stood at
over 11%.
The state was borrowing one in four of every single pound it
spent.
Today, I can report that the deficit is falling and is forecast
to reach 7.6% next year.
The share of national income taken by the state will have fallen
from almost 48% when we took office to 43% next year.
We must stick to the course.
So there will be no deficit funded giveaways today.
But because we’ve taken difficult decisions, nor do we need to
tighten further.
Over the five year period, this is a fiscally neutral Budget.
This is achieved through a modest reduction in both taxation and
spending.
So, Mr Deputy Speaker, let me turn to those fiscal forecasts.
The whole House will be pleased to know that these have improved
a little from the forecasts I presented in November.
Borrowing this year is set to come in at £126 billion, £1
billion lower than I forecast in the autumn.
And over £30 billion a year lower than its peak the year before
we came to office.
Borrowing will then fall to £120 billion next year, if you
exclude the transfer of Royal Mail pension assets.
It will then fall to £98 billion in 2013-14;
Then £75 billion;
Then £52 billion;
Reaching £21 billion by 2016-17.
So in total, borrowing is £11 billion less than I last forecast
in the Autumn.
This will be used to pay down debt.
In my first Budget, I set the Government the fiscal mandate of
achieving a cyclically-adjusted current balance by the end of
the five year horizon.
The OBR confirm today that we are on course to achieve that
mandate, and have eliminated the structural current deficit by
2016-17.
They also confirm that we are also on course to reach our target
for debt to be falling as a percentage of national income by the
end of the Parliament in 2015-16.
Public Sector Net Debt is now set to peak at 76.3% in 2014-15,
almost 2% lower than previously forecast - before falling the
following year.  SPENDING
A balanced structural current budget and falling debt: our
deficit reduction plan is on course.
Mr Deputy Speaker, we will not waiver from it.
To do so would risk a sudden loss of confidence and a sharp rise
in  interest rates  - and we will not risk that.
Instead we reinforce today our commitment to fiscal
responsibility, not just this year - but in the years ahead.
The transfer of the £28 billion of assets from the Royal Mail
pension fund to the Exchequer will free it from its crippling
pension debts, ensure the pensions of hard-working staff are
paid and help to bring in new private sector investment.
Some would have been tempted to spend the windfall.
I do not propose to spend it.
Instead, I have used it to pay off debt.
We will also maintain our control on welfare spending.
The passing of the Welfare Reform Act two weeks ago was an
historic moment.
I pay tribute to my RHF the Work and Pensions Secretary and to
all my coalition colleagues for supporting him against
determined opposition from those who defend unlimited welfare.
But even with the Act, the welfare budget is set to rise to
consume one third of all public spending.
If nothing is done to curb welfare bills further, then the full
weight of the spending restraint will fall on departmental
budgets.
The next Spending Review will have to confront this.  So I am today publishing analysis that shows that if in the next
Spending Review we maintain the same rate of reductions in
departmental spending as we have done in this review, we would
need to make savings in welfare of £10 billion by 2016.
We will also address the rising costs of an ageing population,
and the burden this places on future generations.
We will be publishing a White Paper on social care.
I’ve also said that we would consider proposals to manage future
increases in the state pension age, beyond the increases already
announced.
I can confirm today that there will be an automatic review of
the state pension age to ensure it keeps pace with increases in
longevity.
Details of how this will operate will be published alongside the
OBR’s long term fiscal sustainability report this summer.
One area where future  government spending  is expected to be
lower than planned is Afghanistan.  We were reminded again yesterday of the sacrifice so many of our
servicemen and women have made.
As the Prime Minister made clear with the US President last
week, UK forces will cease combat operation by the end of 2014.
As a consequence, I can tell the House that the cost of
operations - which are funded by the Government’s Special
Reserve and entirely separate from the defence budget - are
expected to be a total of £2.4 billion lower than planned over
the remainder of the Parliament.
Let me be clear today, the full cost of operations will continue
to be met from the Reserve - and our brave armed forces will get
the equipment they need to complete the job.
But I can ensure that some of the benefit of the lower cost is
felt by those who fight so hard and give so much for our
nation’s security.
We will fund an extra £100 million of improvements in the
accommodation of our armed forces and their families.  I will also double the families welfare grant which is used to
provide additional support to the families left behind when
people deploy.
We’ve already doubled the operational allowance.
Today, I am doubling the rate of Council Tax Relief.
The thousands serving our country in operations overseas will
receive 100% Relief on an average Council Tax bill.  LOW INTEREST RATES/GILTS
Mr Deputy Speaker, our commitment to reduce the deficit is
keeping interest rates low.
In this Budget, we take measures to ensure that the benefits of
those low market interest rates are felt across our economy.
They are certainly benefitting the taxpayer.
Thanks to the reduction in the deficit, and our low interest
rates, this Government is saving a total of £36 billion in debt
interest payments compared to its predecessor.
This year is the 400th anniversary of the creation of the
 Treasury Board  and the modern Treasury.
There have been times the Treasury has been borrowing money more
cheaply than at any previous time in that 400 year history.
Few countries in  Europe  could say that.
This reflects the confidence investors have in Britain’s ability
to pay its way.
I now want to test whether we can we can extend these benefits
further into the future and diversify our portfolio.
At present, the longest gilt we currently offer to the market is
50 years.
The Debt Management Office will consult on the case for issuing
gilts with maturities longer than 50 years, and the case for a
“perpetual” gilt with no fixed redemption date - something
Britain last felt able to issue six decades ago.
We are also taking the opportunity to rebuild Britain’s
reserves, which had fallen to historically low levels.
I can confirm our gold holdings have risen in value to £11
billion.
This does not include the 400 or so tonnes of gold sold a decade
ago for £2 billion, and which would now be worth six times that
at over £13 billion pounds.
Working families are already being helped by historic low
mortgage rates.
The New Buy Scheme that we introduced last week uses the
Government’s balance sheet to help those who cannot afford the
larger deposits that some mortgage companies are now demanding.
It comes alongside a new, reinvigorated Right to Buy.
And to ensure that there are new homes to buy, we are today
expanding the Get Britain Building Fund that provides upfront
finance to construction firms.  CREDIT EASING
We are also passing on our low interest rates to small
businesses, through the National Loan Guarantee Scheme.
This started operation yesterday.
Barclays, Lloyds, the RBS, Santander and the new business bank
Aldermore are all involved.
£20 billion of guarantees in total will be available.  In the Autumn Statement I also allocated £1 billion to invest in
funds that lend directly to the mid-cap businesses that are the
backbone of our economy.
This is an alternative source of finance to the banks.
The response has exceeded our expectations.
 24 funds have submitted proposals.
I am today short-listing seven of them.
And such has been the quality of the bids, I have also decided
to increase the size of the Finance Partnership by 20% and I am
also expanding the Enterprise Finance Guarantee.  GROWTH
Stability. Credibility. The low interest rates they bring.
And passing on those low rates to families and businesses.
These are necessary for growth.
But alone they are not sufficient.
We as a nation have to make a choice.
This country became seduced by large deficits and the illusion
of cheap finance.
Do we watch as the Brazils and the Chinas, and the Indias of
this world power ahead of us in the global economy; or do we
have the national resolve to say: “No, we won’t be left behind.
We want to be out in front”.
That is this Government’s resolve.
Under this Government, Britain has moved into the top ten of the
most competitive places in the world to do business.
But we have to do more.
Here’s how.  EXPORTS AND INVESTMENT
First, exports.
Over the last decade, our share of world exports shrank as
Germany’s grew.
We sold more to Ireland than to Brazil, Russia,  India  and  China 
- put together.
That was the road to Britain’s economic irrelevance.
We want to double our nation’s exports to one trillion pounds
this decade.
So we’re expanding UK Export Finance and setting out new plans
to help smaller firms in new markets.
Exports abroad must be accompanied by investment at home.
Britain has a reputation as a remarkably open and welcoming
place for investment.
We must never allow protectionist rhetoric to creep into our
political system.  Instead, we’re actively seeking investment from overseas pension
and sovereign wealth funds - and working to develop  London  as a
new offshore market for the Chinese currency.
We also want investment from British pension funds in British
infrastructure - and we’re now working with a dozen of the
largest pension schemes specifically on that.
We’re the first British government to set out in a National
Infrastructure Plan the projects we are going to prioritise in
the coming decade.
The roads, railways, clean energy and water, and broadband
networks we need are all identified.
I also believe this country must confront the lack of airport
capacity in the South East of England - we cannot cut ourselves
off from the fastest growing cities in the world.
The Transport Secretary will set out Government thinking later
this summer.
We want to look at the opportunities for increasing the role of
private investment in the road network, learning lessons from
the water industry.  I confirm today that Network Rail will extend the Northern Hub,
adding to the electrification of the transpennine rail route, by
upgrading the Hope Valley line between Manchester and Sheffield
- and improving the Manchester to Preston and Blackpool, and
Manchester to Bradford lines.
For years, transport investment in the north of England was
neglected.  Not under this Coalition Government.
We are working with our great cities to devolve decision making
powers  - and we are striking a ground-breaking deal with
Manchester to support £1.2 billion in growth-enhancing
infrastructure.
We will support £150 million of Tax Increment Financing to help
local authorities promote development.
And we will provide an extra £270m to the Growing Places fund.
In all this we are working with local areas to support their
ideas for growing the private sector in parts of the country
where the state has taken a larger and larger share of the
economy.
The Mayor of London is also a very effective champion for the
city he runs so well.
We will work with him on plans this summer to go on investing in
London transport, lengthening commuter trains, extending the
Underground and exploring new river crossings in east London.  So from the allocation made to the Mayor through the Growing
Places Fund he will be creating a new £70 million development
fund to attract new business and new jobs.
And the Mayor has persuaded me of the opportunities the new
Royal Docks Enterprise Zone offers our largest city if we offer
enhanced capital allowances there - so we will.
24 Enterprise Zones are now going ahead, across England.
Chinese investment pouring into the zone in Liverpool.
The Marches Zone in the West Midlands is already expanding.
I want other parts of the United Kingdom to benefit from these
policies.  The Chief Secretary can confirm today that we will offer
enhanced capital allowances for businesses starting up in the
new Scottish enterprise areas in Dundee, Irvine and Nigg and
there will be a new Welsh Enterprise Zone in Deeside, while we
look forward to the first Enterprise Zone in Northern Ireland.  ENERGY
I also want to see investment in our world-leading energy
sector, including renewables.
We’ve launched the Green Investment Bank; open for business next
month.
We’ve introduced a Carbon Price Floor into our tax system to
encourage investment and set the rate today.
Combined Heat and Power plants will not be liable to carbon
price support rates on fuels used for heat.  Renewable energy will play a crucial part in Britain’s energy
mix - but I will always be alert to the costs we are asking
families and businesses to bear.
Environmentally sustainable has to be fiscally sustainable too.  The Carbon Reduction Commitment was established by the previous
Government.
It is cumbersome, bureaucratic and imposes unnecessary cost on
business.
So we will seek major savings in the administrative cost of the
Commitment for business.
If those cannot be found, I will bring forward proposals this
autumn to replace the revenues with an alternative environmental
tax.
Gas is cheap, has much less carbon than coal and will be the
largest single source of our electricity in the coming years.
And so my RHF the Energy Secretary will set out our new gas
generation strategy in the autumn to secure investment.
I also want to that ensure we extract the greatest possible
amount of oil and gas from our reserves in the North Sea.
We are today introducing a major package of tax changes to
achieve this.
We will end the uncertainty over decommissioning tax relief that
has hung over the industry for years by entering into a
contractual approach.
We are also introducing new allowances including a £3 billion
new field allowance for large and deep fields to open up West of
Shetland, the last area of the basin left to be developed.
A huge boost for investment in the North Sea.  AEROSPACE/SCIENCE/CREATIVE HUB
We shouldn’t be shy about identifying our successful industries
and reinforcing them.
Around one fifth of the world’s top 100 medicines originate from
UK research.
So we’re backing our life sciences sector through creating the
Francis Crick Institute at St Pancras and cutting taxes on
patents to make this one of the most attractive places in the
world to invent new medicines.
We’ve protected the science budget.
Now we’re committing £100m of support, alongside the private
sector, for investment in major new university research
facilities.
And with the world’s second largest aerospace industry, we will
also establish a UK centre for aerodynamics, to open next year
that will encourage innovation in aircraft design and
commercialise new ideas.
Today we also set Britain this industrial ambition.
That we turn Britain into Europe’s technology centre.
We will start with digital content.
The film tax credit, protected in our spending review, helped
generate over £1 billion of film production investment in the UK
last year alone.  Today I am announcing our intention to introduce similar schemes
for the video games, animation and high-end TV production
industries.
Not only will this help stop premium British TV programmes like
Birdsong being made abroad, it will also attract top
international investors like Disney and HBO to make more of
their premium shows in the UK.
It will support our brilliant video games and animation
industries too.
Because, Mr Deputy Speaker, it is the determined policy of this
Government to keep Wallace and Gromit exactly where they are.
To be Europe’s technology centre we also need the best
technology infrastructure.
Two years ago Britain had some of the slowest broadband speeds
in Europe; today our plans will deliver some of the fastest -
with 90 per cent of the population having access to superfast
broadband, and improved mobile phone coverage for rural areas
and along key roads across the UK.  But we should not be complacent by saying it is enough to be the
best in Europe when countries like Korea and Singapore do even
better.
So today we’re funding ultra fast broadband and wifi in ten of
the UK’s largest cities.
Belfast, Birmingham, Bradford, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh,
Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle and London.
My HF for Brighton Kempton asked me to help small cities too -
no doubt with his own city in mind.
I agree. £50m will be available for smaller cities too.  The fastest digital speeds in the world available in our cities,
with the most connected countryside in Europe - and the most
creative digital content anywhere.
That’s what a modern industrial policy looks like.
And the Business Secretary and I have asked Michael Heseltine to
review by the Autumn how Government spending departments and
other public bodies can work better with the private sector on
economic development.
From Liverpool to Canary Wharf, Michael knows how it’s done.  BEST PLACE TO START BUSINESS
Of course, those projects succeeded because they were not killed
off by the planning system.
You can’t earn your future if you can’t get planning permission.
Global businesses have diverted specific investments that would
have created hundreds of jobs in some of the most deprived
communities in Britain to countries like Germany and the
Netherlands, because they couldn’t get planning permission here.
That is unacceptable.
Next week my RHFs the Communities Secretary and the Planning
Minister will publish the results of our overhaul of planning
regulation.
We’re replacing 1000 pages of guidance with just 50 pages.
We’re introducing a presumption in favour of sustainable
development;
While protecting our most precious environments.
The new policy comes into effect when the National Planning
Policy Framework is published next Tuesday.
This is the biggest reduction in business red tape ever
undertaken.
As a country, we also want to make the most of the Olympic and
Paralympics Games.
Some of the biggest events will be on a Sunday.
When millions of visitors come to Britain to see them, we don’t
want to hang up a ‘Closed for Business’ sign.
So we will introduce legislation limited to relaxing the Sunday
trading laws for eight Sundays only, starting on July 22nd.  EDUCATION/FLEXIBLE WORKFORCE
Mr Deputy Speaker, earning our way in the world means giving
young people the skills to compete.
In time, my RHF the Education Secretary’s school reforms will do
more to improve the long term economic performance of our
economy than any Budget measure ever will.
But we’ve got to help the young adults who’ve already been let
down by the school system.
We’re offering a record number of apprenticeships and our Youth
Contract comes into force next month.
I can tell the House, we are also exploring the idea of
enterprise loans.
Young people get a loan to go to university or college.
We now want to help them get a loan to start their own business.
We’re also looking to see whether we can make public sector pay
more responsive to local pay rates.
It is something the last Government introduced into the Court
Service.
London weighting already exists across the public sector.
Indeed, the Opposition have proposed the interesting idea of
regional benefit rates.
So we should see what we can do to make our public services more
responsive, and help our private sector to grow and create jobs
in all parts of the country.
We’ve asked the independent Pay Review bodies to look at the
issue.
Today, we publish the evidence that the Treasury are submitting
to them.
And some departments will have the option of moving to more
local pay for those civil servants whose pay freezes end this
year.  TAX REFORM
Mr Deputy Speaker,
New infrastructure and investment.
Ambitious reforms on planning, education and welfare to help
businesses to create jobs.
These will all help Britain earn its way in the world.
But we also need a tax system that supports work.
Two hundred years ago, Adam Smith set out the four principles of
good taxation - and they remain good principles today.
Taxes should be simple, predictable, support work, and they
should be fair.
The rich should pay the most, and the poor least.
The tax system this Government inherited from its predecessor
had drifted far from these principles.
We have already addressed some of the problems.
We’ve established an Office of Tax Simplification to drive out
complexity.
Companies are now moving to Britain, not away.
We’ve stopped the jobs tax.
We’ve taken one million low paid people out of tax altogether.
We now need further reform.
We need to give Britain a modern tax system fit for the modern
world.  TAX TRANSPARENCY
The first goal is a far simpler tax system, which businesses can
easily navigate and where ordinary taxpayers understand what
they are being asked to pay.
So we will radically change the administration of tax for our
smallest firms.
Last year, I asked the Office of Tax Simplification for
recommendations.
They have proposed that we tax small firms on the basis of the
cash that passes through their businesses, rather than asking
them to spend a huge amount of time doing calculations designed
for big business.
I agree.
So we will consult on this new cash basis for calculating tax
for firms with a turnover of up to £77,000 - double what the
Office proposed.
This will make filling in tax returns dramatically simpler for
up to 3 million firms.
We are also pressing forward with our ambition to integrate the
operation of income tax and national insurance I announced at
last year’s Budget - so we don’t ask businesses to run two
different payroll tax administrations.
A detailed consultation on how we do this is being published
next month.
We will also address some of the loopholes and anomalies in our
VAT system.
For example, at present, soft drinks and sports drinks are
charged VAT; sports nutrition drinks are not.
Hot takeaway food on high streets has been charged VAT for more
than twenty years; but some new hot takeaway products in
supermarkets are not.
And some companies are using the VAT rules that exempt the
rental of land to avoid tax that their competitors are paying.  We’re publishing our plans today to remove loopholes and
anomalies, but we keep the broad exemptions on food, children’s
clothes, printed books and newspapers.
We should also simplify the age related allowances - which the
Office of Tax Simplification have recently highlighted as a
particularly complicated feature of the tax system.
The NAO points out that many pensioners don’t understand them.
These allowances require around 150,000 pensioners to fill in
self-assessment forms, and as we have real increases in the
personal allowances, their value is already being eroded away.
So over time we will simplify the tax system for pensioners by
doing away with the complexity of the additional age-related
allowances for anyone reaching the age of 65 on or after 6th
April 2013 and I will freeze the cash value of the allowance for
existing pensioners until it aligns with the personal allowance.
This will protect the existing level of allowance pensioners
have, while introducing a single personal allowance for all.
It is a major simplification.
It saves money.
And no pensioner will lose in cash terms.
Under this Government, pensioners next month will receive the
largest ever cash increase in the Basic State Pension of £5.30 a
week.  Now, we want to simplify the Basic State Pension and its
interaction with the second state pension.
I pay tribute to the work my HF Pensions Minister has done on
this.
Such is the complexity of this means tested system, only someone
like our Pensions Minister can work out exactly what someone’s
entitled to - and what they need to save.  So I can confirm that we will introduce a new single tier
pension for future pensioners, set above the means test.
This is currently estimated at around £140.
It will be based on contributions.
And it will cost no more than the current system in any year.
We will bring forward further details later this spring.
A single, generous, basic state pension for those who have
worked and saved hard all their lives.
And a further major simplification of our tax and benefit
system.  Mr Deputy Speaker, in the information age people should know
what taxes they’re paying and what their money is being spent on
My HF the Member for Ipswich recently proposed to this House
that we send to taxpayers an annual statement showing them just
that.
I think this is an excellent idea - and I intend to put it into
practice.
HMRC contacts roughly half of taxpayers each year.
From 2014, these 20 million taxpayers will at the same time
receive a new Personal Tax Statement.
This will tell people how much income tax and national insurance
they have paid; their average tax rates; and how this
contributes to public spending.
In other words - how much, proportionately, of their tax bill
goes to fund the healthcare, education, or welfare; and how much
is spent on servicing interest payments on the national debt.
People will know what they are paying - and what they are paying
it for.
A tax system that is simple and transparent: that is our first
goal.  BUSINESS TAX
Our second goal is a tax system that is more competitive for
business than any other major economy in the world.
Our predecessors wanted to increase taxes on small business.
Instead we’ve cut the tax rate on small companies to 20%.
Our predecessors wanted to increase national insurance on jobs.
We have cut it.
Our new Controlled Foreign Company rules will be legislated for
in the coming Finance Bill and will stop global firms leaving
Britain as they were, and encourage them to start coming here.
This Government also supports research and development here in
Britain instead of abroad.
We’ve already increased the generosity of the R&D tax credit for
smaller firms.
I confirm that from next year we will also introduce an “Above
the Line” R&D tax credit that business organisations like the
EEF, IOD and CBI have campaigned hard for.  And we will help new start up businesses recruit and retain
talent - by more than doubling the Enterprise Management
Incentive Scheme grant limit to £250,000 and easing the rules so
that academics in our universities can turn great ideas into
great companies.
The Treasury will review for this autumn what more we can do to
encourage employee ownership.
All of these tax reductions will help win business for Britain.
But the headline rate of  corporation tax  remains the most
visible sign of how competitive our country is.
We’ve already cut the rate from 28% to 26%.
This April it is due to fall again to 25%.
I can announce today a further cut of one percent - to be
implemented right away.
From next month, Britain will have a corporation tax rate of
just 24%.
And we will continue with the two further cuts planned next year
and the year after.
So that by 2014, Britain will have a 22% rate of corporation
tax.
The biggest sustained reduction in business tax rates for a
generation.  A headline rate that is not just lower than our competitors, but
dramatically lower.
18% lower than the US.
16% lower than  Japan .
12% below France and 8% below Germany.
An advertisement for investment and jobs in Britain.
And a rate that puts our country within sight of a 20% rate of
business tax that would align basic rate income tax, the small
companies rate and the corporation tax rate.
I am also increasing the rate of the bank levy to 0.105 per cent
from next January, so that the additional corporation tax cuts
do not benefit the banks; and so our levy will raise the £2.5
billion a year that we said it would.  DUTIES
This Mr Deputy Speaker brings me to the main duties.
Let me start with alcohol duty.
The Government will shortly be publishing its Alcohol Strategy
to address the growing problem of alcohol abuse, and the many
billions of pounds it costs our NHS and criminal justice system.
But today I have no further changes to make to the duty rates
set out by my predecessor.  Turning to tobacco duty.
Smoking remains the biggest cause of preventable illness and
premature death in the UK.
There is clear evidence that increasing the cost of tobacco
encourages smokers to quit and discourages young people from
taking it up.
So duty on all tobacco products will rise by 5 percent above
inflation.
That’s 37 pence on a packet of cigarettes.
This will take effect at 6pm tonight.  One area where I am today making substantial changes is gambling
duties.
The VAT treatment of gaming machines is being repeatedly
challenged by operators in the courts.
So I will introduce a new Machine Games Duty - with a standard
rate of 20% and a lower rate for low stakes and prize machines
of 5% of net takings.
The current duty regime for remote gambling introduced by the
last Government was levied on a ‘place of supply’ basis.
This allowed overseas operators to largely avoid it - and much
of the industry has, as result, moved offshore.
90% of online gambling consumed by our citizens is now supplied
from outside the UK.
And the remaining UK operations are under pressure to leave.
This is clearly not fair - and not a sensible way to support
jobs in Britain.
So we intend to introduce a tax regime based on the place of
consumption: where the customer is based, not the company.
And from this April we will also introduce double taxation
relief for remote gambling.
These changes will create a more level playing field, and
protect jobs here.  I turn now to fuel and vehicle excise duties.
High oil prices have put real pressure on household budgets and
on businesses.
That is why we took action in last year’s Budget to cut fuel
duty so it is 6p lower than our predecessors planned.  We have also scrapped the last Government’s fuel duty escalator
of annual above inflation rises, regardless of the oil price -
and are today confirming the fair fuel stabiliser.  Above inflation rises will only return if the oil price falls
below £45 on a sustained basis - currently equivalent to around
$75 dollars.
These measures mean that this Government has eased the burden on
motorists by £4.5 billion at a time when money is very short.
I do not propose to make any further changes to the fuel duty
plans already set out.
I am increasing Vehicle Excise Duty by inflation only.
To encourage fuel efficient fleets, we will extend the 100 per
cent first year capital allowance for low emission business
cars, reduce the CO2 threshold for the main capital allowance
rates; and increase the percentage list price of company cars
subject to tax.
I can also announce that I am again freezing VED for road
hauliers.  PERSONAL TAX/ TAX AVOIDANCE 
Mr Deputy Speaker,
I now turn to personal and property taxation.
My goal is a tax system where the lowest paid are lifted out of
tax altogether, while the tax revenues we get from the richest
increases.
Most wealthy people pay their taxes - and without them we could
not begin to afford the public services on which the country
depends.
But under the last Government, it was the boast of some high
earners that, with the help of their accountants, they were
paying less in tax than their cleaners.
I regard  tax evasion  and - indeed - aggressive tax avoidance -
as morally repugnant.
We’ve increased both the resources and the number of staff
working on evasion and avoidance at HMRC.
Taken together, the anti-avoidance measures in this year’s
Finance Bill will increase tax revenue over the next five years
by around £1 billion - and protect a further £10 billion that
could have been lost.
This week, we have signed a further agreement with the Swiss to
stop UK residents from evading tax.
We’ve done all these things - but today we do even more.
On coming to office, I asked Graham Aaronson QC to establish
whether a General Anti-Avoidance Rule could work in the UK tax
system.
He recommended that such a rule would improve our ability to
tackle tax avoidance without damaging the competitiveness of the
UK as a place to do business.
We agree.
So we will introduce one.
We will consult on the details of the new Rule and legislate for
it in next year’s Finance Bill.  A major source of abuse - and one that rouses the anger of many
of our citizens - is the way some people avoid the stamp duty
that the rest of the population pays, including by using
companies to buy expensive residential property.
I have given plenty of public warnings that this abuse should
stop.
Now I’m taking action.
I am increasing the Stamp Duty Land Tax charge applied to
residential properties over £2 million bought into a corporate
envelope.
The charge will be 15%.
And it will take effect today.
We will also consult on the introduction of a large annual
charge on those £2 million residential properties which are
already contained in corporate envelopes.
And to ensure that wealthy non-residents are also caught by
these changes, we will be introducing capital gains tax on
residential property held in overseas envelopes.  We are also announcing legislation today to close down the sub-
sales relief rules as a route of avoidance.
Let me make this absolutely clear to people.
If you buy a property in Britain that is used for residential
purposes, then we will expect stamp duty to be paid. That is the
clear intention of Parliament.
I will not hesitate to move swiftly, without notice and
retrospectively if inappropriate ways around these new rules are
found.
People have been warned.  Mr Deputy Speaker, it is fair when money is tight, and so many
families could do with help, that those buying the most
expensive homes contribute more.
From midnight tonight, we will introduce a new Stamp Duty Land
Tax rate of 7 per cent on properties worth more than £2 million.
I also intend to deal with the unlimited use of income tax
reliefs.
Let’s be clear - most rich people pay a lot of tax.
It is also right that we have tax reliefs that promote
investment, support charitable giving and reflect genuine
business losses.
But it can’t be right that some people make unlimited use of
these reliefs year after year.
Everyone in this country and particularly those with the highest
incomes should contribute a fair share to the Exchequer.
Some reliefs - like the Enterprise Investment Scheme and
pension’s relief are already capped - and I don’t intend to make
any significant changes to pensions relief in this Budget.  But to make sure that those on the highest income contribute a
fair share I am introducing a new cap on those reliefs that are
currently uncapped.
From next year anyone seeking to claim more than £50,000 of
these reliefs in any one year will have a cap set at 25 per cent
of their income.
We’ve capped benefits.
Now it’s right to cap tax reliefs too.  Mr Deputy Speaker, that brings me to rates of income tax and the
additional rate of 50 pence.
This tax rate is the highest in the G20.
It is higher not just than the tax rate of America but also of
major European countries like France,  Italy , and Germany.
It is widely acknowledged by business organisations and
international observers as harming the British economy.
Like the previous Chancellor who introduced it, I’ve always said
it was temporary.
But I also said three years ago that I would not be prepared to
reduce it while we were asking the whole public sector to accept
a pay freeze.
I will stick to those pledges.  A 50p tax rate, with all the damage it does to Britain’s
competitiveness, can only be justified if it raises significant
sums of money.
In last year’s Budget I asked HM Revenue and Customs to look at
the evidence, and especially to look at the self-assessment tax
receipts that have come in since this January.
I am publishing their report today.
And what it reveals is that the 50p tax rate has caused massive
distortions.
HMRC find that an astonishing £16 billion of income was
deliberately shifted into the previous tax year - at a cost to
the taxpayer of £1 billion, something that the previous
Government’s figures made no allowance for.
Self assessment receipts this year are below forecast by some
£3.6 billion, while other tax receipts have held up.
The increase from 40p to 50p raised just a third of the £3
billion we were told it would raise.
Of course, the previous Government initially proposed a rate of
45p and then increased that to 50p.
Let me tell the House what HMRC say about the difference between
50p and 45p.
Their figures tell the story.
The direct cost is only £100 million a year.
Indeed HMRC calculate the loss of other tax revenues may even
cancel that out.
In other words, it raises at most a fraction of what we were
told - and may raise nothing at all.  So from April next year, the top rate of tax will be 45p.
No Chancellor can justify a tax rate that damages our economy
and raises next to nothing.
It is as simple as that.
And thanks to the other new taxes on the rich I’ve announced
today, we’ll be getting five times more money each and every
year from the wealthiest in our society.
So the richest pay more.
The economy benefits.
Britain is competitive again.  Now the Shadow Chancellor has said that the HMRC report is not
enough and that the Office for Budget Responsibility should pass
judgement.
They have.
Because these days the direct costing the Treasury applies to
every Budget measure is independently assessed and certified by
the OBR.
And unlike the previous government they also assess the cash
flow consequences of forestalling.
When it comes to the £100m direct permanent costs of this
measure, the OBR say “we believe that this is a reasonable and
central estimate.”
And they also assess as reasonable the estimate that the new
taxes I’ve introduced on the rich today directly raise five
times that amount.
That is half a billion pounds we can now use to help people on
lower and middle incomes keep more of their earnings.  CHILD BENEFIT
Mr Deputy Speaker, in the Spending Review, we took the difficult
decision to remove child benefit from families with a higher
rate taxpayer.
I said then that I simply could not justify asking those earning
£15,000 or £30,000 to go on paying Child Benefit to those
earning £80,000 or £100,000.
And I stand by that principle.  All sections of society must make a contribution to dealing with
the deficit - without this measure we wouldn’t get the job done.
But I said I wanted to do this in a way that is fair and that
does not involve setting up some new means tested tax credit
system for millions of families.  And I said I would set out exactly how this measure would be
implemented in this Budget.
We want to avoid a cliff-edge that means people lose all their
Child Benefit when they earn just a pound more.
So I can today confirm that instead of withdrawing child benefit
all at once when people earn more than the higher rate threshold
- the benefit will only be withdrawn when someone in the
household has an income of more than £50,000.
And the withdrawal will be gradual, 1% of child benefit for
every extra £100 earned over £50,000 so there is no cliff-edge,
and only those with an income of more than £60,000 lose all
their child benefit.
This means an extra 750,000 families will keep some or all of
their child benefit.
90% of all families will remain eligible for child benefit.
We can afford to implement the child benefit policy in this way
because instead of extending the full benefit of this Budget’s
increase in the personal allowance to all higher rate taxpayers
as we did last year - we will pass on a quarter of the benefit
to higher rate taxpayers, and spend the rest on helping families
with children towards the bottom of the higher rate band.  PERSONAL ALLOWANCE
Mr Deputy Speaker, that brings me on to the personal allowance -
and central goal of this Budget: which is to support working
families.
This Coalition Government believes that the best way to support
working people on the lowest incomes is to take them out of tax
altogether.
And the best way of getting money directly into pockets of
working families on middle incomes is to increase the amount of
their earnings they can keep before they pay tax.
That is why this Government has set itself the goal of raising
the personal tax free allowance to £10,000 - and we’ve promised
real increases every year to reach that.
In my last two Budgets, we have made great strides forward.
Last year, the personal allowance rose by £1,000.
In two weeks time, it will go up by another £630 to £8,105.
Together, these increases have taken over a million low income
people out of tax.  And today, I want to go much further and much faster.
I am announcing the largest ever increase in the personal
allowance - the amount people can earn tax free.
From next April that amount will increase by £1,100.
Every working person on low or middle incomes will benefit.
People will be able to earn up to £9205 before they have to pay
any tax.  Millions of working people will be £220 better off every year.
That’s £170 better off after inflation.
Because higher rate earners will also benefit, 24 million people
earning less than £100,000 a year will gain from this measure.
We are in touching distance of the goal of £10,000 personal
allowance that we all share.
And I can tell the country that as a result of our Budgets,
people working full time on the minimum wage, will have seen
their income tax bill cut in half.
And this coalition Government will have taken 2 million people
on the lowest incomes out of tax altogether.  Mr Deputy Speaker, in the middle of this Parliament, in
difficult economic times, this coalition Government has not
settled for a “do nothing” Budget.
We have not ducked the difficult choices - we’ve taken them head
on.
A competitive top rate of tax.
More revenues from those best able to pay.
Fewer reliefs.
A tax cut for working people.
Support for families.
Low income earners taken out of tax altogether.
Alongside it, one of the lowest rates of business tax in the
world.
A simpler tax code.
And a country where its citizens know the tax they are paying -
and what they are paying it for.
We have achieved all this - and kept to our deficit plan.
Let us be resolved.
No people will strive as the British will strive.
No country will adapt as the British will adapt.  No country will value those who work as we will value them.
Together, the British people will share in the effort and share
the rewards.
This country borrowed its way into trouble.
Now we’re going to earn our way out.
I commend this Budget to the House.
 