-- Exxon Says ‘Significant Progress’ Made to End Alaska Gas Dispute
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-03-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/exxon-says-signficant-progress-made-on-alaska-gas-dispute.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. has made
“significant progress” toward resolving an  Alaska  natural-gas
dispute, and more work remains to reach a settlement, David Eglinton, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Exxon,  BP Plc (BP/)  and other oil companies are embroiled in a
six-year-old lawsuit over their leases to the Point Thomson oil
and gas field on Alaska’s North Slope, estimated to hold 300
million barrels of oil and 8 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.  The state revoked the leases, which date back to 1965, in
2006 for failure to submit an acceptable development plan. The
companies sued and won a court ruling last year reversing that
decision.  Alaska Governor Sean Parnell said March 20 that the parties
had been meeting over the last three months and the companies
had been given a deadline of the end of this month.  “The state is cautiously optimistic that the Point Thomson
dispute will be resolved by the governor’s deadline,” Elizabeth
Bluemink, a spokeswoman for the Alaska Department of Natural
Resources, said in a phone interview.  She declined to comment about what would be included in the
settlement. Parnell said earlier this month that his goal was
“production out of Point Thomson.” The  oil companies ,
primarily Exxon, have invested more than $1 billion in the field
over the last three years, he said.  Alaska Supreme Court  The state appealed the lower-court ruling to the Alaska
Supreme Court, which held a hearing on the case Feb. 8 and
hasn’t yet issued a ruling.  Dawn Patience, a BP spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
yesterday that company teams “are actively working to resolve”
the Point Thomson issue.  “We’re still in a joint discussion phase regarding an
effort that would evaluate a North Slope liquefied natural  gas
pipeline ,” Natalie Lowman, a  ConocoPhillips (COP)  spokeswoman, said
in an phone interview.  As for the possible LNG project, Lowman said: “We’ve
focused on evaluating the economic viability of an LNG project
from the North Slope to south-central Alaska.” The evaluation
includes considering a possible LNG facility that would liquefy
gas for potential exports, she said.  The lower-court case is  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  v. State of
Alaska, 3AN-06-13751, Alaska Superior Court, Anchorage. The
appeal is State of Alaska v. Exxonmobil, S-13730, Alaska Supreme
Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Charles Siler at 
 csiler@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  