-- Fake Virus Extortion Ordeal Had Millionaire Fearing for Life
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-03-21T20:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/fake-virus-extortion-ordeal-had-millionaire-fearing-for-her-life.html
Multimillionaire philanthropist
Anne Bass, ex-wife of Texas oil tycoon  Sid Bass , said she was
sure she was going to die the night her estate was invaded by
armed, masked men who injected her with what they called a
“deadly virus” and demanded $8.5 million for the antidote.  The three men who broke into the 14-room home in South
Kent, Connecticut, on April 15, 2007, blindfolded Bass,
promising to save her once the money came through, U.S.
prosecutors told jurors in federal court in New Haven. The plot
collapsed when the assailants learned the ransom wasn’t readily
available.  The “virus” turned out to be an athlete’s foot treatment
and the “antidote” the assailants provided before they fled
was a sleeping aid, according to testimony in the trial of
Bass’s former butler, who is accused of taking part in the
scheme.  Bass, 70, who the FBI said has a net worth of “well over
$100 million,” testified yesterday that the men stormed into
her house in “what seemed like a military formation,” making
“war cries and terrifying sounds” before seizing her and
boyfriend  Julian Lethbridge , an artist.  “I thought that they were going to blow the house up,”
said Bass, whose foundation has donated to the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art, the Joyce Theater Foundation and the Brooklyn
Academy of Music, according to tax  records .  Accordion Case  An accordion case that washed up in New York and a Cadillac
that may have belonged to the founder of an energy-drink company
helped link the incident to Emanuel Nicolescu, 31, a Romanian-
born U.S. citizen living in  New York City  who had worked for two
months as Bass’s $70,000-a-year butler, according to an FBI
affidavit in the case.  Nicolescu is charged with interfering with commerce by
extortion, conspiracy and possession of a stolen vehicle. He has
pleaded not guilty, according to court records. If convicted, he
faces as long as 50 years in prison.  Lawyers made their closing arguments before U.S. District
Judge Mark R. Kravitz today. The jury is scheduled to begin
deliberating tomorrow.  Bruce Koffsky, a lawyer for Nicolescu, declined to comment
on the case.  Another suspect, Michael N. Kennedy -- also known as
Nicolae Helerea -- is in  Romania , prosecutors said. A third man,
Stefan Barabas, was named as an unindicted co-conspirator.
Police and airline officials testified yesterday that he left
for Bucharest on Sept. 28, 2010, after he was subpoenaed to
testify before a grand jury investigating the case.  Rock Cobble Farm  Bass’s 11,200-square-foot home stands on land appraised at
$3.7 million in 2008, according to the Town of Kent Assessor’s
Office. Her Rock Cobble  Farm  is listed as the owner of 26
properties in Kent, some of which were bought for more than $2
million, according to the assessor.  Bass testified that the night of the attack, the intruders
bound her and Lethbridge with plastic restraints known as zip
ties. She said yesterday that one of the men “theatrically”
donned latex gloves and administered what Bass said was a
painful injection.  “You have just been injected with a virus which will be
fatal within 24 hours,” she said he told her. “We want $8.5
million. If you don’t produce it, you will die.”  They said they had an antidote, she testified.  “I was terrified,” she said.  “I said, ‘Where do you think I’m going to get $8.5
million?’ He said, ‘That’s your problem,’” Bass testified.  ‘Chocolate?’  Bass said she didn’t keep $8.5 million at the residence and
said she would have to contact associates out of state to get
it, according to an affidavit by an agent of the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation . She testified yesterday that she said she kept
some cash, jewelry and chocolate in her safe.  “Basically, they said, ‘Chocolate?’” she recalled.  Bass said the men threatened to kidnap her 3-year-old
grandson, whom she was caring for and who was asleep in the
house and ill with strep throat. Bass said she warned the
intruders that her household staff would become suspicious when
they arrived in the morning.  After about five hours, the men “appeared to become
concerned with various factors” including the presence of the
grandchild, the health of their captives and the inability of
the Bass and Lethbridge to get the money immediately, according
to the FBI affidavit.  Before they left in her  Jeep Grand Cherokee , the men gave
Bass and Lethbridge a drink, she said. They told her it was the
“antidote,” according to the FBI affidavit.  Check Grandson  Bass, worried that she would go into allergic shock, said
she asked for her epinephrine injector. She said one of the
intruders placed her on her bed and gave it to her, saying “We
don’t want to lose you.”  “Shortly after that, everybody left and I fell asleep,”
she testified. She said she awoke the next morning, still bound
by the zip ties. She said that she freed herself and Lethbridge,
whom she asked to check on her grandson.  Investigators said the syringe the intruders used contained
an antifungal used to treat ringworm and athlete’s foot, not a
deadly virus. Diphenhydramine, the active ingredient in
Sleepinal, an insomnia treatment, was found in the blood of Bass
and Lethbridge.  Calls, Texts  Nicolescu, a resident of the Queens section of  New York ,
was Bass’s butler and was in charge of her household staff from
March to May of 2006, according to the affidavit. He and Kennedy
contacted each other repeatedly the night of the invasion
through mobile-phone calls and text messages, according to the
affidavit.  An accordion case washed ashore in Broad Channel, Queens,
five days later, according to the FBI affidavit. It contained a
stun gun, an air gun, a knife, syringes, a latex glove,
Sleepinal and a laminated card with Bass’s address. Kennedy’s
father told investigators that both he and his son play the
accordion.  The Jeep was found abandoned in the parking lot of a Home
Depot Inc. home-improvement store in  New Rochelle , New York.
Security-camera footage, blurred by distance and rain, showed a
light-colored Cadillac Escalade pulling up next to the Jeep
early on April 16, 2007.  Escalade  The day of the invasion, Nicolescu was working as a driver
for J. Darius Bikoff, the founder of the company that makes
Glaceau Vitaminwater. He sold the company, Energy Brands Inc.,
to Coca-Cola Co. in 2007 for $4.1 billion. Bikoff’s wife, Jill,
testified that she owned a light-colored Escalade and that her
drivers “took them home.”  Paul Kuhn, general manager of Rock Cobble Farm, testified
that he fired Nicolescu for using a Jeep without permission. He
said the vehicle was “totaled” in a crash while Nicolescu had
it. Kuhn said he had previously warned Nicolescu against using
the Jeep for personal reasons.  “I was told by Ms. Bass to terminate him” on May 8, 2006,
Kuhn recalled. Kuhn testified that he didn’t see Nicolescu on
the property after he was fired and the Jeep was replaced.  Eric Carita, a DNA expert for the  Connecticut  Department of
 Emergency Services  and Public Protection, testified that DNA
samples from the stolen Jeep were a partial match to Nicolescu.
The defendant “cannot be eliminated as a contributor,” Carita
said. He said the DNA sample on the steering wheel matched one
in 990,000 Caucasians.  Prosecutors introduced evidence from the EZ-Pass automated
highway toll-payment system showing that the Bikoff Escalade
made trips in and out of Queens early on April 16.  Nicolescu’s mother, Donia, who brought her son to the U.S.
in 1993, has been following the trial in the courtroom.  “He’s innocent,” she said in an interview. “He couldn’t
do such a thing. I don’t see why this is happening.” Her son
hasn’t testified.  She said he’s “not capable” of violence “but his friends
-- I don’t know about them.”  The case is U.S. v. Nicolescu, 11-cr-00024, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut ( New Haven ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Dillon  at federal court in New Haven, Connecticut, at
   jdillon@snet.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  