-- Finance Council Should Speed Up Speculation Curbs, Chilton Says
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-21T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/finance-council-should-speed-up-speculation-curbs-chilton-says.html
A council of U.S. financial
regulators should speed up Dodd-Frank Act rules needed to limit
speculation on oil, natural gas and other commodities,  Bart Chilton , a member of the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
said.  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission , delayed in
adopting regulations stemming from the 2010 financial-regulation
overhaul, should consider asking the  Financial Stability
Oversight Council  to complete the regulation defining which
derivatives are swaps, Chilton said in a speech prepared for his
appearance today before the Exchequer Club of Washington. The
speculation limits rely on the definition.  “I realize this is a highly unusual and perhaps incendiary
move, but we have a responsibility to act here, and it’s high
time we do so to protect markets and consumers,” said Chilton,
a Democrat who supports the speculation limits. “Perhaps given
the importance of position limits and the purported hang-up,
it’s time to pass the ball to FSOC.”  The council includes 10 voting members, including the heads
of the  Federal Reserve  and  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp .
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  is chairman of the
council.  U.S. senators introduced legislation today aimed at getting
the CFTC to limit speculation they said has led to rising
gasoline prices. Senators Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent,
and Ben Cardin, a Maryland Democrat, said their legislation
would give the agency 14 days to implement rules to halt
“excessive” oil-futures speculation.  “Oil prices are negatively impacting our entire economy,”
Sanders said at a Washington news conference today. “Excessive
speculation on the oil futures market is driving oil prices
up.’”  13,000 Comments  The speculation limits are among the most controversial
requirements in Dodd-Frank and spurred more than 13,000 comments
to the CFTC from supporters such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents such as  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s Barclays Capital. CFTC
commissioners voted 3-2 at an Oct. 18 meeting to approve the
final regulation, with Jill E. Sommers and Scott O’Malia, both
Republicans, voting in opposition.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association  filed
a lawsuit in December challenging the rule. The associations’
members include  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  The groups argue that the CFTC never studied
whether the regulation was “necessary and appropriate” or
quantified the costs tied to implementing the rule. A judgment
is pending.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  