-- Fish, Forests Must Be Part of Global Accounting, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-21T14:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/fish-forests-must-be-part-of-global-accounting-lawmakers-say.html
Governments should account for
resources from fish and forests to water and swamps alongside
measurements of gross domestic product to curtail the erosion of
natural resources, the Globe alliance of lawmakers said.  Legislators from around the world should hold governments
to account for commitments they make in June in Rio de Janeiro
at the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on  Sustainable
Development , U.K. and Brazilian members of Globe said yesterday
in a panel discussion in  London ’s Parliament.  “We must make sure that when governments promise to do
things, they actually carry out those promises,” said John Gummer, a member of the U.K. upper chamber and president of
Globe. “We need a new structure which will enable us to ensure
that natural capital becomes part of the accounting system, part
of the measurement system of every nation on Earth.”  Twenty years after the first Rio conference, known as the
Earth Summit, there’s a “very grim story” to tell about the
global environment, with 80 percent of fish stocks exhausted or
on the brink of exhaustion, an area of primary forest the size
of  Germany  lost since 2000, and 110 countries facing water
shortages, said Zac Goldsmith, a U.K. lawmaker and member of
Parliament’s Environmental Audit Committee.  “All the main indicators are pointing in the wrong
direction,” Goldsmith said. “It doesn’t matter which part of
the story we’re looking at.”  June Conference  The Rio conference runs from June 20 to June 22. Globe,
which brings together lawmakers from more than 50 countries,
will hold a separate meeting in the Brazilian city from June 15
to 17 at which it intends to agree on a protocol to set up a
mechanism that scrutinizes progress toward commitments made at
the Earth Summit in 1992, at Rio+20, and within the UN
conventions on biodiversity,  climate change  and desertification.  “Around the world instruments of scrutiny and control have
proved inefficient to halt the destruction of natural
resources,” Brazilian Senator  Rodrigo Rollemberg  said. “We
must recognize the importance of national parliaments in putting
pressure on governments. We want to create a permanent process
that engages the parliaments of the world.”  British lawmaker Barry Gardiner, a former minister and
special envoy on climate change for the opposition  Labour Party 
leader  Ed Miliband , said he had experience in government of
using “natural capital accounting” when he persuaded the
Treasury to fork out 6 million pounds ($9.5 million) to
investigate bee diseases. Gardiner cited a study that showed the
loss of pollinators had depleted agricultural production,
reducing revenues to the government by 200 million pounds.  “It’s absolutely essential that governments begin the
process of understanding that unless you value natural capital,
you’re getting your sums wrong,” said Gardiner.  Hurricane Katrina  Gummer, also known as Lord Deben, said  Hurricane Katrina 
was an example of where natural capital hadn’t been taken into
account, leading to billions of dollars in costs after the
straightening of the river channel of the lower  Mississippi  and
the removal of swamp land deprived  New Orleans  of some of its
natural flood defenses.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said last week that greenhouse gas output will rise 50 percent,
annual deaths from particulate air pollution may double to 3.6
million people and 2.3 billion more people will live in water-
stressed areas in 2050 under the current growth trajectory. In a
report prepared as an input to Rio+20, OECD Secretary-General
Angel Gurria predicted “colossal” costs of inaction.  Globe said it plans to convene a meeting of its members
every two years in  Rio de Janeiro  in order to monitor progress
by governments around the world in protecting the environment,
and to share experiences of different nations in passing
environmental legislation.  “It’s important that this is done every two years and not
every 20,” Brazilian Senator  Serys Marly Slhessarenko  said.
“We can’t afford to sit down in 20 years time and realize that
we haven’t achieved what we said we’re going to do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 