-- Flughafen Wien Cuts Dividend in Half as Costs Hurt Profit
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-21T16:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/flughafen-wien-cuts-dividend-in-half-as-costs-hurt-profit.html
Flughafen Wien AG (FLU) , the operator of
Vienna airport, proposed cutting its dividend in half to 1 euro
a share, a sharper reduction than analysts expected, after
profit plunged 58 percent last year because of writedowns.  Net income dropped to 31.6 million euros ($41.9 million)
from 75.7 million euros a year earlier, the Schwechat, Austria-
based operator said in a statement today. The dividend was only
expected to be cut to 1.30 euros from 2 euros, according to
 Bloomberg research and analysis .  “Measures implemented to reduce costs and improve
productivity are taking effect,” Chief Financial Officer
Guenther Ofner said in the statement. Further cost cuts are
needed to keep debt in check while continuing investments at the
airport serving the Austrian capital, he said.  Flughafen, controlled by the city of Vienna and the
province of Lower Austria, revamped management after delays and
cost overruns at the new Skylink terminal at Vienna airport
caused losses. The airport, whose most important customer is
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s Austrian Airlines, is also under
pressure to reduce fees for carriers.  The earnings drop in 2011 was mainly the result of charges
booked in the third quarter on Skylink and on the company’s
Slovak airport, the company said. Skylink, which was planned to
open in 2006 and cost 210 million euros, is now scheduled to
start operations June 5, and will have cost “less than” 770
million euros, Flughafen said.  2012 Forecast  Net income this year will probably rise to more than 50
million euros, Flughafen Wien said. That compares with the
average of 45.7 million euros from eight analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. The company plans to keep debt at less
than 800 million euros, or four times annual earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization, it said.  Flughafen Wien  rose  0.2 percent to 27.25 euros at the 5:30
p.m. close of trading in Vienna. That pared the stock’s decline
this year to 6.8 percent, valuing the company at 572 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  