-- Blasts Heard as Police Try to Flush Out Toulouse Suspect
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-03-22T09:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/french-police-surround-house-of-suspect-in-toulouse-shootings.html
A siege by French police at an
apartment complex to flush out a man suspected of killing seven
people, including three children and a teacher at a Jewish
school, entered a second day with little sign he’s still alive.  “He said he wanted to die with his weapons in his hand,’
Interior Minister Claude Gueant said in an  interview  on RTL
radio today. “Despite redoubled efforts all night long to re-
establish contact with him by voice and radio, there’s been no
contact, no signs from him. We hope that he’s still alive.”  Gunshots and blasts with orange flares, which began around
midnight, echoed across the Toulouse neighborhood as special
forces tried to get the 23-year-old Frenchman of Algerian
descent to give himself up. Firefighters with stretchers were
seen entering the building at about 10:50 a.m., BFM TV reported.  The man, Mohammed Merah, has admitted to the school
killings and the slayings of three soldiers. Police said he
claimed to have ties to al-Qaeda and said he spent time on the
Afghanistan-Pakistan border.  The police zeroed in on Merah two days after the shootings
at the school that also left a 17-year-old student seriously
wounded, in the worst attack on a Jewish target in France since
1982. In separate incidents in Toulouse and nearby Montauban the
week before the school killings, Merah allegedly shot and killed
three paratroopers of Arab origin, while a fourth paratrooper
remains in critical condition.  The investigators’ ability to track down the suspect has
burnished President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s role as a leader in a
national emergency and may bolster him just a month before the
first round of the presidential election. A poll today showed
Sarkozy pulling ahead of Socialist Francois Hollande in the
first round in the second survey this month to give him a lead.  ‘National Unity’  “Sarkozy is in command; he has to manage an open crisis,”
Jerome Sainte-Marie, head of Paris-based CSA’s public-opinion
unit, said in an interview. “In this role, he is the most
credible. He can show authority.”  The election campaign, which had halted during the national
mourning, resumed today. The first round of voting will be held
on April 22, with the two winners of that vote squaring off in a
second round on May 6.  Sarkozy, who was at the funeral yesterday of the three
paratroopers killed in shootings in Toulouse and Montauban, in
southwestern France, said the “killer hasn’t been able to crack
our national unity.”  The crimes the suspect has admitted to would make him the
first homegrown terrorist to commit violent acts on French soil.  Merah, born Oct. 10, 1988, in Toulouse to Algerian parents,
is one of five children, including three boys. He spent his
youth in and out of the legal system before adopting radical
Islam and heading to  Afghanistan , prosecutors said.  ‘Palestinian Children’  When police spoke with the suspect yesterday, “he didn’t
have any specific demands,” Gueant said yesterday. “He just
talked about his jihadist, mujahedeen convictions, his al-Qaeda
ties. He said the attack on the Jewish school was to avenge
attacks on Palestinian children.”  Merah had planned to kill again, with the goal of targeting
a soldier yesterday and two police officers later on, Francois
Molins, the Paris state prosecutor overseeing the case, said at
a press conference yesterday.  “He made a spontaneous declaration saying he belongs to al-
Qaeda and was trained in the Waziristan war zone,” Molins said.
“He expressed no regrets, except to say he regretted not having
killed more people. He boasted about having brought  France  to
her knees.”  Merah was sentenced 15 times as a minor for petty crimes,
including theft, Molins said. The psychological profile by the
police concluded he was “violent as a minor.”  ‘Fed Up’  Merah was jobless after having worked for an auto-repair
shop, Gueant said.  Shots were exchanged yesterday morning between Merah and
the police at the residential complex, which sits in Toulouse’s
Cote Pavee neighborhood. Police asked Merah’s mother to
negotiate with him. She declined, saying she “has little
influence over him,” said Gueant, who was at the site.  Merah’s mother, brother and brother’s girlfriend were taken
into custody, Molins said.  The suspect’s neighbors in the apartment complex, who were
evacuated during the raid, said they were “fed up.”  “We want to go home,” said Farida Boumama, 48, local
goverment worker. “We’ve not been given any information so
we’re just watching TV like everyone else.”  About the suspect, she said, “I’d seen him in the building
but never really noticed much about him. He kept to himself.”  Acted Alone  Although surveillance videos showed a sole gunman in each
of the attacks, “we need to figure out if he was acting alone
or with a small group or as part of a bigger movement,” Gueant
said yesterday. That will help authorities decide whether to
lift a “scarlet” terror alert, the country’s highest, in
Toulouse or to extend it to other parts of the country, he said.  Merah maintains he acted alone, Molins said.  The same gun was used in all the shootings, with the
helmeted killer arriving and taking off on a scooter after each
soldier attack. That narrowed down investigator’s search, French
Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said yesterday on RTL radio.  French investigators were able to identify the suspect by
following up on an e-mail communication he had with the first
soldier who was killed, on March 11 in Toulouse, Longuet said.  The man had answered the soldier’s classified ad on “Au
Bon Coin” to sell a scooter. It was by matching the address
with information about jihadists that investigators “closed
in,” he said.  Massive Manhunt  The investigation had focused on soldiers to see if there
was a “settling of scores,” he said. Investigators pored over
the files of 20,000 soldiers with that in mind, he said.  The manhunt was “the biggest police operation in France in
many years,” according to Olivier Candille, a Toulouse-based
member of the Alliance police union.  The police went through “seven million telephone data
points, 700 Internet addresses, collected 350 pieces of evidence
and conducted 200 interviews,” Molins said. They went through
576 Internet connections before finding a thread that eventually
led to Merah.  About 200 investigators and 2,000 police officers were
deployed to secure Toulouse, France’s fourth-largest city, with
about 450,000 inhabitants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  