-- GE’s New U.S. Jobs Seen in Political Light on Immelt Role
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-03-21T20:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/ge-s-new-u-s-jobs-seen-in-political-light-on-immelt-obama-role.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  says he’s returning
refrigerator-production work to the U.S. from  Mexico  to boost
profitability in appliances. Investors say a bigger reason may
be his leadership of President Barack Obama’s jobs panel.  Immelt was in Louisville, Kentucky, yesterday to say that
he’s bringing back 600 jobs under an $800 million investment in
its manufacturing complex there. Welcomed by local officials,
the new positions add to GE’s existing Louisville workforce of
about 4,000.  Investors, who expressed ambivalence, said the shift will
mean relatively little to GE’s strategy or financial outlook.
The Home & Business Solutions division that includes  appliance
manufacturing  makes up only 5.7 percent of GE’s $147.3 billion
of revenue and 2.1 percent of its $14.2 billion of profit.  “I don’t view it as anything more than helping out the
cause,” said  Peter Klein , a senior  money manager  at Fifth Third
Asset Management in  Cleveland , which oversees $14.6 billion in
investments including GE stock. “It’s good for the headlines.
It’s not going to affect anything.”  GE dismisses claims of any political overtones. The job
shift makes sense because U.S. workers can produce higher-
quality products for less, according to the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company.  “The only way this works is if we make more money,”
Charlene Begley, CEO of the Home & Business Solutions unit, said
in an interview on the floor of the retooled factory after the
new refrigerators were unveiled yesterday. “The economics were
better for the shareholder bringing it back.”  Advertising Campaign  The appliance unit plans to spend $65 million on a
nationwide advertising campaign this year to help promote the
Louisville-made refrigerator, compared with $10 million spent on
ads in 2011, Michelle May, a GE spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  GE was unchanged at $20.07 at the market close in New York.
The  shares have gained  12 percent this year, compared with 11.6
percent for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 .  More than 10,000 people applied for the Louisville jobs,
which pay $13.03 an hour under a union accord to cut new
employees’ wages. That compares with $22 an hour for those hired
before 2005.  Along with water heaters that began production last month,
the refrigerators are GE’s first new product lines in Louisville
in more than 50 years. Both are designed to meet demand for
energy-efficient appliances, with the water heaters using less
than half the energy consumed by traditional models.  1,200 Workers Gather  “Our dedication to making great products has to be matched
by our dedication to investing in facilities like this one,”
Immelt, 56, told an audience that included  Kentucky  Governor
Steve Beshear and 1,200 GE workers.  “These products we design, we have to make in GE factories
and we have to have the men and women in this room dedicated to
quality, productivity, craftsmanship and pride that has to go
into each of these products,” Immelt said.  Immelt, a Republican, was named to lead the jobs panel for
the Democratic Obama in January 2011, about 1 1/2 years after GE
said it would add water-heater jobs in Louisville. The White
House tie had “nothing to do” with the idea of putting more
appliance work in the U.S., Begley said.  Sale Speculation  Most of the division’s growth potential lies within the
U.S., GE said, and the company plans to add 1,300 U.S. jobs in
that business through 2014. GE wants to boost industrial revenue
from so-called growth markets outside the U.S. to 50 percent
within 10 years, from 37 percent now. Appliances went
unmentioned during a March 7 meeting with investors in  Rio de
Janeiro  focused on  emerging markets .  That’s helping to rekindle speculation that the unit, which
also makes light bulbs and microwaves, may be sold after  China ’s
 Haier Group Corp. (HRGCZ)  studied a bid in 2008.  “It doesn’t fit in at all,” said  Nick Heymann , a William
Blair & Co. analyst in New York. “Immelt is on the jobs council
and taking advantage of incentives they’re offering him to
rehire and train these guys, creating all these jobs making
things they used to source from abroad. This is just not where
the focus is.”  GE’s worldwide workforce rose 4.9 percent in 2011 to about
301,000 people at year’s end, the first annual increase since
2007, according to a Feb. 24 filing. The U.S. payroll climbed
about 10,000 to 131,000. State and local governments put up $17
million in subsidies to help GE revamp the refrigerator and hot-
water heater facilities.  Job Losses  “There’s some enthusiasm about this here,” said Paul
Coomes, an economist at the University of Louisville College of
Business. “We’ve had a recession with no job growth for many
years, and when there’s job growth, it does generate some
excitement.”  Only 11 states and the  District of Columbia  had
 unemployment rates  higher than Kentucky’s 8.8 percent in
January, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  The decline in GE’s Louisville payroll from a peak of about
22,000 in the 1970s mirrors the slide in  manufacturing
employment  across the U.S., which fell to 11.9 million in
February from a 20-year peak of  17.6 million  in March 1998,
according to BLS data.  The criticism that GE and Immelt have drawn is undeserved,
especially in a place where they’re bringing back jobs, and
reflects an increasingly contentious political climate,
Louisville Mayor Greg Fischer said.  “It’s a reflection of the cynicism in our country right
now,” Fischer said. “People should pull back and realize this
is a good thing for our country and celebrate it instead of
raising these questions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  