-- Gensler Wants 50 Percent More CFTC Money for Dodd-Frank Work
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-21T21:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/gensler-wants-50-percent-more-cftc-money-for-dodd-frank-work.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, regulator of the $708 trillion global swaps market,
needs a 50 percent budget increase to $308 million to meet its
duties under the Dodd-Frank Act, said CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler .  “The CFTC is requesting significantly more resources to
oversee a much expanded field of play,” Gensler said at a
Senate appropriations subcommittee hearing today. “We’re being
asked to oversee the swaps markets, which is eight times the
size of the  futures markets . And we need more referees to
protect the players.”  Gensler, who wants to spend about a third of the requested
budget -- $96.2 million -- on technology, said budget
constraints have meant his agency has been able to meet only 57
percent of its performance targets, examining fewer derivatives
clearing organizations than planned and creating a backlog of
contract reviews.  President  Barack Obama  sought a 50 percent increase from
the CFTC’s current $205 million to fund its 2013 fiscal year
budget -- the same amount he failed to get for the agency the
year before. The commission’s budget has been the focus of a
debate between Democrats seeking resources to complete Dodd-
Frank Act rules and Republicans trying to reduce the agency’s
spending as part of a broader effort to rein in deficits.  MF Global Response  The CFTC is also considering changes to rules governing the
futures industry after last year’s collapse of  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MF)  The CFTC, Securities and Exchange Commission and
 Justice Department  are investigating the collapse of the New
York-based brokerage and the estimated $1.6-billion shortfall in
customer funds.  One regulatory change under discussion at the CFTC is
insulating futures’ customers collateral during a default in the
same way that the CFTC has mandated for the swaps market. The
agency hasn’t decided to make the change and doesn’t plan on
doing so before November, Gensler said.  “For capacity reasons, it will wait,” Gensler said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  