-- Gilt Sales to Drop 6% as U.K. Avoids Recession, Transfers Assets
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-03-21T15:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/gilt-sales-to-climb-next-year-as-osborne-fiscal-targets-at-risk.html
U.K. gilt sales will drop more than
6 percent in the next fiscal year as Britain avoids a recession
and the transfer of pension-fund assets cuts borrowing needs.  Britain will issue 167.7 billion pounds ($221.7 billion) of
gilts in the fiscal year starting next month, the London-based
Debt Management Office said today. The sale plans were released
after Chancellor of Exchequer  George Osborne ’s budget report to
Parliament. That compares with 178.9 billion pounds planned for
the current fiscal year and an estimate of 180 billion pounds in
Bloomberg survey of primary dealers that trade directly with the
debt agency.  The government’s borrowing needs were reduced partly by the
transfer of about 11 billion pounds of gilts from the Royal Mail
Pension Plan into public ownership, and also by sales of 13.6
billion pounds more debt than needed this year, according to the
Debt Management Office.  “The government is going to sell fewer gilts than earlier
thought in the fiscal year 2012-2013 of because one-off factors
such as the Royal Mail transfer and overfunding,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, a senior European economist at Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London . “The U.K. will perhaps avoid
recession and that’s good news, but it doesn’t mean it is out of
the woods yet.”  Economic Expansion  Forecasts from the nonpartisan  Office for Budget
Responsibility  show the economy expanding 0.8 percent this year,
up from a November estimate of 0.7 percent, Osborne told
Parliament in London today. Gross domestic product shrank 0.2
percent in the last three months of 2011.  The 10-year gilt yield fell four basis points to 2.38
percent at 3:20 p.m. London time.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is seeking to
retain the U.K.’s AAA credit rating by erasing the bulk of the
deficit by 2017 and taking measures to support growth that don’t
require additional borrowing. The budget shortfall almost
doubled last month, data released today showed.  The planned issuance for the next fiscal year exceeds the
average 102 billion pounds annually over the past 10 years. The
amount will cover repayments of bonds maturing in the next
fiscal year, which the Debt Management Office estimates at 52.9
billion pounds. Gilt issuance reached a record 227.6 billion
pounds in the year ended in March 2010.  Gilts have lagged behind  U.S. Treasuries , German bonds and
Japanese debt this year, losing 3.1 percent, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. U.K. bonds returned 17 percent
last year, the best of 26 EFFAS sovereign-debt indexes, as
investors sought a refuge from the euro-region’s debt crisis.  Fitch Ratings  said March 14 that there’s a “slightly
greater” than 50 percent chance that Britain’s AAA rating will
be reduced within two years, citing the pace of economic
recovery, debt levels and threats from  Europe ’s debt crisis,
which it said leaves the country limited room to deal with
shocks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  