-- Glaxo Joins J&J in $200 Million Fund With Index Ventures
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-03-21T11:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/glaxo-joins-j-j-in-200-million-fund-with-index-ventures.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  are forming a $200 million fund with Index Ventures to
invest in early-stage biotechnology companies, a move that may
entice venture capitalists back to the industry.  Glaxo and  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J will each put
in $50 million, while Index Ventures will contribute $100
million and make investment decisions, the two drugmakers and
the  venture-capital  firm said today. Moncef Slaoui, head of
research and development at London-based Glaxo, and Paul Stoffels, J&J’s chairman of pharmaceuticals, will sit on the
fund’s advisory board.  Early-stage companies have been struggling for financing as
venture-capital firms turn instead to more mature businesses or
less risky industries. The new fund will stick to Index
Ventures’ strategy of investing in early-stage, single-asset
companies in  Europe , the U.S. and  Israel , a model the firm said
has generated typical venture-capital returns in half the time.  “By investing in this fund, they are really super-powering
or turbo-charging the asset-centric investment model,” said
Francesco De Rubertis, the Index Ventures partner who is leading
the fund, in an interview in  London . “They are validating it as
a potential new model for early-stage R&D funding.”  Greater Insight  Large drugmakers need greater insight into what cutting-
edge research is going on, since only about 0.01 percent of
science is happening inside their labs, Slaoui and Stoffels
said.  “We need to strategically identify the other great ideas
that exist anywhere,” Slaoui said in an interview today before
discussing the fund at the  Bio-Europe Spring  conference in
Amsterdam. “Index is pretty smart because they’re accessing
30,000 scientists’ worth of due diligence and insight and
judgment in terms of how they would see the ideas” by putting
executives from two large drugmakers on the advisory board.  More cooperation is needed among companies and scientists
to make research more efficient and avoid repeating mistakes
that others have made, Stoffels said.  “We have a lot of failures and successes in the past,”
Stoffels said. “We can give some advice on where to invest and
where not, if we have failed already.”  ‘Shots on Goal’  To get financing under the asset-centric model, a biotech
company must agree to focus on one molecule, and add to its
executive team one of more than a dozen entrepreneurs affiliated
with Index Ventures. If at some point that entrepreneur deems
the project isn’t worth pursuing, development ends and the
executive moves on to another  Index-funded company .  “You get multiple shots on goal, but one at a time,” De
Rubertis said. “This really focuses the decision making on
single drugs. This has turned out over the last five years to
really improve the profitability, the productivity of the R&D
efforts.”  Following the asset-centric model has cut in half the time
it takes to reach a return on investment, De Rubertis said.
“The returns we have seen are top-tier venture returns,” he
said. He declined to be more specific.  “The fact that J&J and GSK have endorsed this shows it’s
working,” De Rubertis said. “If the asset-centric model keeps
on working as well as it is, more VCs will follow it, as it
delivers better and faster returns.”  Closer to Market  The approach is “a dream scenario” for scientists who
want money to bring their inventions closer to market, without
having the project get lost inside a large organization, De
Rubertis said.  “We are giving you cash, and an Index drug developer who
is going to live with you in the company until death or
fireworks,” he said. “If the plug is pulled, the founder still
gets the molecule, the company, and at least it got financed
that much.”  Initial venture-capital investment in biotechnology
startups declined in the U.S. last year, according to a January
report by the  National Venture Capital Association  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC. A survey by the association released
in October found that almost 40 percent of 150 firms have
decreased their investment in life sciences in the past three
years, and the same proportion expect to reduce spending over
the next three years.  “Biotech has a very difficult time,” Stoffels said.
“It’s very highly needed for the benefit of health care in the
future, that capital flows into the biotech environment.
Otherwise the innovation will dry up and that will be a problem
for pharma.”  IPO Market  Some drugmakers, including Glaxo and J&J, have started
their own venture-capital arms. Corporate venture capital, where
a financial return is the main goal, “is one approach” to
stimulating innovation, Slaoui said. The fund announced today
won’t change anything in their corporate venture arms, Slaoui
and Stoffels said.  The market for initial public offerings, another way for
companies to get funding, has also been sluggish. There were 29
biotechnology IPOs worldwide last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, down from 36 five years ago.  Partly as a result, biotechs are becoming more reliant on
licensing deals or acquisitions by larger drugmakers to access
capital, Stoffels and Slaoui said. That’s not always the best
avenue for either the drugmaker or the biotech, they said.  “The tagline if I’m an entrepreneurial scientist is:
here’s an opportunity for me to access capital and the huge
knowhow of two large pharmas without having the kiss of death,”
Slaoui said. “If you’re a startup idea, you don’t want to
partner with large pharma on day one.”  ‘Big Powers’  Should Glaxo or J&J want to license the rights to a
compound that the fund backs, they will have to bid as any other
drugmaker would, De Rubertis said.  In addition to De Rubertis, Slaoui and Stoffels, William
Hait of J&J and Paul Peter Tak of Glaxo will also sit on the
scientific advisory board of the fund, dubbed Index Life VI.
Other Index partners on the board are  Kevin Johnson , Michele
Ollier, Roman Fleck and Remy Luthringer.  “This is the first time there is delegation of big powers
to a venture-capital firm,” De Rubertis said. “They’ve poured
the fuel into the car, but Index is driving. They of course are
passengers in the car and can make comments. But in the end,
Index is really the decision-maker.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  