-- Glencore Finds Viterra After BHP Billiton Miss: Corporate Canada
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2012-03-21T20:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/glencore-finds-viterra-after-bhp-billiton-miss-corporate-canada.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  has
learned from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s experiences in handling
takeovers in Canada.  Glencore, the largest publicly traded commodity supplier,
will probably win Canadian approval for its C$6.1 billion ($6.2
billion) agreement to buy  Viterra Inc. (VT)  because it brought in
partners including Calgary-based  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  to avoid a repeat
of BHP’s failed bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  The Glencore deal was done amid concerns that Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper ’s governing Conservatives are wary about
foreign ownership of Canadian resource companies. The government
rejected a $40 billion hostile bid for Potash Corp. in 2010,
saying the proposal for the world’s largest potash miner didn’t
provide a “net benefit” for Canada.  Glencore was “thinking that maybe the governments might
step in,” Sadiq Adatia, Chief Investment Officer of Sun Life
Global Investments in Toronto, which manages about C$9 billion
in assets including Viterra shares, said yesterday in an
interview. “Adding a little bit of Agrium in there helps out
definitely, from that angle.”  Under the  Investment Canada Act , the federal government
reviews foreign acquisitions of companies with assets valued at
more than C$330 million. The C$16.25-a-share offer announced by
Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore will also require approval from
 Canada ’s competition bureau, which said yesterday it would be
reviewing the proposed transaction.  ‘Net Benefit’  “If this transaction is subject to review, the test is
that it must be of net benefit to Canada,” Agriculture Minister
Gerry Ritz said in a statement provided by his office.  Viterra rose 0.1 percent to close at C$15.92 in Toronto.
 The shares  fell 5.5 percent in the 12 months through March 8,
the day before the company said it had received expressions of
interest.  Viterra, Canada’s largest grain handler, grew out of the
Saskatchewan Wheat Pool and other decades-old grower
cooperatives in Alberta and Manitoba. In its announcement,
Glencore said the company will use Viterra’s head office in
Regina as a “platform” for its North American agricultural
operations and a potential expansion into the U.S.  Glencore also pledged to make additional investments in
Canada and continue with Viterra’s charitable commitments and
funding for local institutions.  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall, who led opposition to
Melbourne-based BHP’s bid for Potash Corp., said that while the
Glencore transaction seems to address competition concerns, his
government will assess whether the company plans to maintain a
“significant” presence in the province.  ‘Future Intent’  “A lot of this is based of course on the future intent of
this company in the province and exactly what kind of base they
want to establish here,” Wall told reporters in Regina
yesterday.  Wall said last week Viterra didn’t fit his definition of a
“strategic resource” in the same way Potash did. Unlike
Viterra, Potash is a dominant player in its industry and holds
most of its assets in Saskatchewan.  Bill Johnson , a spokesman for Potash Corp., didn’t respond
to phone messages and an e-mail seeking comment yesterday. Fiona Martin, a Melbourne-based spokeswoman for BHP, declined to
comment on the company’s failed 2010 bid for Potash Corp.  As part of its deal, Agrium, the largest U.S. agricultural
retailer, will acquire about 90 percent of Viterra’s Canadian
retail facilities, it said yesterday in a separate statement. It
also will buy Viterra’s 34 percent stake in a nitrogen-
fertilizer plant in Alberta.  Richardson Transactions  Glencore also agreed to sell assets to Richardson
International Ltd., a unit of Winnipeg-based James Richardson &
Sons Ltd. The second-largest grain handler in Canada will buy 23
percent of Viterra’s Canadian grain-handling assets as well as
other operations in  North America . Richardson said it and
Glencore-owned Viterra will become “similarly sized” grain-
handling companies.  “Anytime a large international player comes in and takes a
Canadian bellwether, there is going to be noise, but from a
regulatory standpoint this deal has a very good chance of
succeeding,” said Steven P. Hansen, a Vancouver-based analyst
for Raymond James Ltd. who rates Viterra shares “market
perform.” “The deal has been crafted in a very strategic
manner, one that appears very intelligent, really looking to
appease the broader concerns that have come up in the past.”  ‘Opportunities’  Glencore’s decision to involve Agrium and Richardson in the
transaction, and to use Regina as regional headquarters for the
business, largely mitigates the risk of a blocked transaction,
Kenneth Zaslow, a New York-based analyst at BMO Capital Markets,
said in a report yesterday.  “This transaction creates value and opportunities for
employees, our communities, farmers and customers,” Viterra
Chief Executive Officer Mayo Schmidt said in the statement.  Glencore said it didn’t expect any hurdles with the
federal-government review process or the competition bureau.  “We will obviously take the process very seriously, we
will be very diligent,” Chris Mahoney, Glencore’s director of
agricultural products, said yesterday on a conference call.
“But we do not expect any problems.”  While Harper has reassured potential investors that Canada
remains open to foreign takeovers, saying his rejection of the
Potash bid stemmed from unique circumstances, many have become
more careful, said Finn Poschmann of the C.D. Howe Institute, a
Toronto-based think tank.  ‘Subjective and Unpredictable’  Canada’s system for weighing takeovers is “highly
subjective and unpredictable,” the C.D. Howe Institute said in
a study released in December. The rules may have contributed to
the decline in Canada’s share of global foreign-direct
investment, it said.  Foreign investors “have become more cautious and more
cognizant of the need to play a politically nuanced front
game,” Poschmann said in a telephone interview yesterday. They
“spend more time than historically to ensure that government
stakeholders will be placated and to do so in advance so that
the deal has a better chance of approval.”  In a Sept. 21 interview, Harper said that Canada will
“proceed with caution” as it considers allowing more foreign
takeovers, wanting to ensure they don’t lead to a loss of head
office jobs or declining industry leadership, especially as the
country competes with jurisdictions that aren’t competing on a
“free market” basis.  Wheat Board  The federal government passed a law last year that will end
the Canadian Wheat Board’s monopoly and give farmers in western
Canada the choice to sell wheat and barley to other buyers as of
Aug. 1. Farmers have been required by law to sell the grains to
the Wheat Board under a system the government created to
stabilize prices.  In voting to end the system, Harper argued that an open
market will encourage investment and innovation.  Some farmers worry about their profitability as the CWB’s
monopoly ends and Glencore enters the market.  “What really troubles me is the concentration of power,”
said Ed Sagan, a grower and regional coordinator in Saskatchewan
for the National Farmers Union, which opposes ending the CWB’s
monopoly. The “wheat board was making us money. The big
corporations are going to make money for themselves.”  Concentration of the agri-products retail assets rather
than the grain-handling infrastructure is the concern, said
Kevin Bender, a farmer in Bentley,  Alberta  and president of the
Western Canadian Wheat Growers Association, which supports the
end of the CWB monopoly.  Competition Questions  “Viterra provided the competition for Agrium,” Bender
said. “With them taking over in a lot of areas, there won’t be
a competitor.”  Agrium declined to comment on whether any of its purchase
will raise competition barriers.  “In our opinion, retail is a highly competitive market,”
Richard Downey, an Agrium spokesman, said by phone. “It’s
really still dominated by independents and co-ops.”  Chris Damas, a Barrie, Ontario-based analyst with BCMI
Research, said the government will agree to the Glencore deal
precisely because it has been promoting competition in the
farming sector.  “Because they let the CWB go by the wayside, they are
going to have to approve this deal,” Damas said in a telephone
interview. “If they really believe they are pro-competition,
pro-globalization, they are going to have to approve this
deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  