-- Global Accounting Firms Oppose U.S. Term Limits for Auditors
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-03-21T19:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/global-accounting-firms-oppose-u-s-term-limits-for-auditors.html
Senior executives of Ernst & Young
LLP, KPMG LLP and other large accounting firms said regulators
should back away from a proposal that public companies be
required to rotate their auditors.  The  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board , the
nonprofit that regulates auditors of U.S.-listed companies, is
weighing mandatory  term limits  to combat auditor bias toward
longtime clients. Chief executives and other leading officials
at the so-called Big Four firms criticized the rotation proposal
today at a meeting in  Washington , arguing it would hurt the
quality of audits.  “It is not a necessary or constructive means to promote
auditor skepticism, and we are aware of no evidence suggesting
that it will improve audit quality,” said Stephen R. Howe,
managing partner of Ernst & Young in the U.S., in remarks
submitted to the board. Howe, who pointed out most of the 630
comment letters to the PCAOB were against rotation, said the
change would cause higher costs and disruptions.  Auditor rotation is one of several ideas under debate at
the PCAOB -- a watchdog overseen by the Securities and Exchange
Commission after being established by the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  in
the wake of the collapse of  Enron Corp. (ENRNQ)   PCAOB Chairman James R. Doty has repeatedly pointed to the
dangers of auditing firms getting too comfortable with clients
they’ve retained for decades.  “Well-intentioned auditors, as with other people,
sometimes fail to recognize and guard against their own
unconscious biases,” Doty said.  Divided Loyalties  “It’s obvious that we’re all aware of lapses in auditor
performance,” said  Paul Volcker , former chairman of the  Federal
Reserve , who said PCAOB inspections are finding “indications of
divided loyalties and inattention” at the firms. “Regular
audits should not become a sort of long-term annuity for the
accounting firm.”  The accounting firms -- including Deloitte LLP,  KPMG  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP -- contend the rotation proposal is
burdensome and unnecessary.  “There is no evidence that among the root causes of the
financial crisis was a failure of the accounting profession to
audit adequately,” said Robert Moritz, chairman and senior
partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers, in written remarks. “There
has been no support for the proposition that mandatory firm
rotation is the right way to improve audit independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 