-- Goldman Sachs Trader Raj Sethi Said to Quit, May Join Hedge Fund
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-03-21T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/goldman-sachs-trader-raj-sethi-said-to-quit-may-join-hedge-fund.html
Raj Sethi, a managing director in
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s commodity-derivatives trading group,
quit after 14 years and may join a hedge fund, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Sethi, 35, who once ran the bank’s U.S. power-trading
business, left earlier this week, said the person who asked not
to be identified because the information is private. Ben Jacobs,
a vice president in the commodities group, also quit last week,
the person said.  Sethi and Jacobs, who traded the firm’s money as part of
their jobs, add to the exodus of proprietary traders who have
left New York-based Goldman Sachs and other firms because of new
U.S. regulations. The Volcker rule, named for former Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , seeks to reduce the chance that
banks will make risky investments with their own capital and put
depositors’ money at risk.  Michael Duvally, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the departures.  Goldman Sachs started shuttering its proprietary-trading
desk in 2010, prompting Pierre-Henri Flamand and Morgan Sze, who
had run the global principal strategies group, to start their
own hedge funds in  London  and  Hong Kong .  Macro Fund  In the U.S., Bennett Grau and Mark Mallon are teaming up
with former colleague Marc Mezvinsky to start a global macro
hedge fund this year, a person with knowledge of their plans
said last year.  Sethi joined Goldman Sachs in 1998 in  New York  and later
moved to Singapore and London, where he traded oil and other
commodities. He returned to New York in 2006 and most recently
traded commodities with a macro focus. Macro is a strategy that
seeks to profit from broad economic trends by trading everything
from currencies to bonds.  Taimur Hassan, who was responsible for Goldman Sachs’s oil
trading across  Europe , the  Middle East  and Asia, quit in
December to start his own hedge fund, Financial News reported
last month, citing company filings and sources familiar with the
matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  