-- Gold May Gain as a Weaker Dollar Spurs Investment Demand
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-03-21T18:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/gold-may-gain-as-a-weaker-dollar-spurs-investment-demand.html
Gold rose on speculation that
demand will increase when jewelry shops end a five-day shutdown
tomorrow in  India , the world’s largest buyer, and as Federal
Reserve Chairman said higher  oil prices  may stoke inflation.  Jewelers are protesting tax increases the government
announced last week that may raise retail-gold prices by 6.3
percent. There may be pent-up demand from the closures,  Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG in  London , wrote today in a report.
Rising fuel prices “create at least short-term inflation
pressures,” Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said today
during congressional testimony.  “We will see a rise in demand in the short term because of
India coming back to the market,”  Frank McGhee , the head dealer
at Integrated Brokerage Services LLC in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “Bernanke’s statements were gold
friendly.”  Gold futures for April delivery rose 0.2 percent to settle
at $1,650.30 an ounce at 1:37 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . The
metal, which reached an eight-week low of $1,634.70 on March 14,
has rallied 5.3 percent this year.  Retail-gasoline prices have jumped 18 percent this year to
a 10-month high of $3.864 a gallon yesterday, AAA data show.
Higher fuel costs “act as a tax on household purchasing power
and reduce consumption spending, and that also is a drag on the
economy, the Fed chief said in answer to questions from the
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.  European Debt  In his prepared testimony focused on the European
sovereign-debt crisis, Bernanke told Congress that Europe must
further strengthen its banks and that its financial and economic
situation ‘‘remains difficult,’’ even as stresses have declined.  ‘‘This may result in additional forms of European
quantitative easing, and that is supportive of gold,’’ Phil Streible, a senior commodity broker at R.J. O’Brien & Associates
in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Silver futures for May delivery gained 1.2 percent to
$32.227 an ounce on the Comex. Prices are up 15 percent this
year.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium and platinum
retreated for the second straight day. Palladium futures for
June delivery slid 1.2 percent to $688.65 an ounce. Platinum
futures for April delivery declined 0.8 percent to $1,640.40 an
ounce. The metal, up 17 percent this year, is still the best
performer among the precious metals in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  