-- Google Complaint Said to Be Reviewed by EU as Soon as Next Week
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-21T16:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/google-complaint-said-to-be-reviewed-by-eu-as-soon-as-next-week.html
The European Union’s antitrust
chief will review a draft complaint against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  as soon
as next week, according to two people familiar with the
situation.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition commissioner, will
make a decision on whether to proceed with a case against Google
after he sees the so-called statement of objections, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
confidential. Almunia, who has previously described the document
as a report, would be able to quickly send it out as a formal
complaint.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, is under
growing pressure from global antitrust agencies probing whether
the company is thwarting competition in the market for Web
searches. While Microsoft Corp. and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have
about a quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost
95 percent of the traffic in  Europe , Microsoft said in a blog
post last year, citing data from regulators.  The EU is investigating claims Google discriminated against
other services in its search results and stopped some websites
from accepting rival ads.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and shopping-
comparison site Foundem are among companies that asked for a
review of Google’s actions.  A spokesman for Google in Brussels declined to immediately
comment. The EU’s press office also wasn’t immediately able to
comment.  Almunia has said he will decide next month on whether
“investigations are advanced enough” after he sees what he
described as a report on the case. He said he would then decide
on the EU’s concerns and communicate them to Google.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 