-- Google Customers Sue Over Changes to Privacy Policy Rules
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-21T20:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/google-customers-sue-over-changes-to-privacy-policy-rules.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  customers sued the
company over claims they were deceived by its new privacy rules
merging separate policies for about 60 services into one.  The suit seeks to represent in a group, or class action,
people who held Google accounts and mobile phones powered by its
Android operating system from August 19, 2004, until after March
1, when the new privacy policy went into effect, according to a
complaint filed today in federal court in Manhattan.  Google says the revised privacy policy will provide a
simpler, more streamlined experience for users. A consumer’s
YouTube viewing history can be used to tailor results in Google
Search while an individual’s search history will enable more
relevant ads across Google products, Google spokesman  Chris Gaither  said before the policy was introduced.  “This change violates Google’s prior privacy policies,
which deceived and misled consumers by stating that Google would
not utilize information provided by a consumer in connection
with his or her use of one service, with any other service, for
any reason, without the  user’s consent,” the three plaintiffs,
represented by law firm of  Grant & Eisenhofer (3260259L)  PA, said in the
filing.  The lawsuit seeks money damages for the alleged deception,
as well as for alleged violation of the Computer Fraud Abuse Act
and Stored Electronic Communications Act.  Consumer advocacy groups including the Center for Digital
Democracy and the Electronic Privacy Information Center, or
EPIC, have complained about the new privacy policy, saying it
doesn’t give consumers a choice about keeping their data
separate. The National Association of  Attorneys General  sent a
letter to Google Chief Executive Officer Larry Page Feb. 22
signed by 36 attorneys general criticizing the new policy.  Gaither, the spokesman for  Mountain View , California-based
Google, declined to comment, saying the company hadn’t been
served with the lawsuit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 