-- Great Wolf Chief Calls $703 Million Apollo Deal ‘Compelling’
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-21T16:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/great-wolf-chief-calls-703-million-apollo-deal-compelling-1-.html
Kimberly Schaefer, chief executive
officer of  Great Wolf Resorts Inc. (WOLF) , said her company’s proposed
sale to Apollo Global Management LLC, which has drawn
shareholder opposition, offers investors a “compelling”
opportunity.  “ Apollo (APO)  was the best overall bidder because they had the
fully financed and most credible proposal for us,” Schaefer
said in a telephone interview yesterday from Madison,  Wisconsin ,
where the water-park operator is based. “That’s how we came
down to it. For us, we really looked at the highest bid that we
could get for the company and the most likely to close this
transaction.”  Great Wolf was sued by shareholders following the March 13
proposed buyout by New York-based Apollo, which offered $5 a
share in a deal valued at $703 million, including the assumption
of Great Wolf’s outstanding debt. The lawsuits claimed Great
Wolf didn’t obtain the highest possible tender offer, saying its
own financial adviser, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., valued the
company between $3.74 and $7.98 a share.  “We look at the valuation metrics,” Schaefer said. “The
offer is a 19 percent premium over the day we announced and a 73
percent premium to a one-year average. So we definitely feel
that this was a compelling opportunity for shareholders.”  Great Wolf rose 27 percent to $5.32 on the day the deal was
announced as at least 11 law firms said they would represent
shareholders in investigating the company’s sale process. The
firm’s shares gained 1.3 percent to $5.53 at 11:28 a.m. today in
New York trading.  Indoor Water Slides  Great Wolf runs 11 family entertainment parks in the U.S.
and  Canada . The parks feature indoor water slides, pools, hotel-
like rooms and lodges.  The proposed deal with Apollo includes a no-solicitation
provision and a $5.3 million termination fee, shareholder Scott
Ferguson said in his complaint, filed March 15 in Delaware
Chancery Court. Ferguson and David Raul, a shareholder custodian
who filed a separate lawsuit, seek to represent all Great Wolf
shareholders in an effort to get the court to bar the deal.  “Lawsuits such as these are not uncommon following the
announcement of a transaction like the one we have proposed,”
Great Wolf said in a March 15 filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. “But we believe they are entirely
without merit.”  ‘Undercover Boss’  Over a nine-month process, Deutsche Bank, on behalf of
Great Wolf, contacted 38 potential bidders, Schaefer said. Of
them, 33 expressed interest in a deal and 11 eventually signed
confidentiality agreements to review the company’s financials.
Three bidders, including Apollo, submitted final proposals to
the board of directors with offers of $5, $5 and $5.05 a share.  “Numerous parties were contacted, both financial and
strategic buyers, domestic and international,” Schaefer said.  Schaefer, who in 2010 was the  first female CEO  on  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s “Undercover Boss,” said Apollo didn’t discuss
management details such as future compensation before its
proposal was chosen.  Great Wolf adopted a stockholder rights plan, or “poison
pill,” the day it announced the deal with Apollo to prevent any
shareholder from acquiring a 12.5 percent stake in the company.
Ferguson, in his complaint, said the poison pill would make it
more difficult for a buyer other than Apollo to acquire Great
Wolf.  “The poison pill was a negotiated part of the
transaction,” Schaefer said. “From our standpoint it doesn’t
prevent any party from making a superior proposal, and with a
fair and robust process we didn’t see any downside to that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  