-- Greek Premier Appoints Sachinidis as Finance Minister
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 2012-03-21T11:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/greek-premier-appoints-sachinidis-as-finance-minister-1-.html
Filippos Sachinidis, who has served
as the deputy and then alternate minister at  Greece ’s finance
ministry since 2009, will be the new finance minister, replacing
Evangelos Venizelos, who stepped down to lead the socialist
Pasok party.  Sachinidis, who will be sworn in at 2:45 p.m. local time,
according to an e-mailed statement from Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s office today. The new minister, born in 1963, takes
on the post after Venizelos tendered his resignation to focus on
national elections.  Greek lawmakers approved a new 130 billion-euro ($172
billion) bailout from the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  today, a move which takes the country a step
closer to elections that may be held as soon as next month.
Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign restructuring in
history earlier this month after getting private investors to
forgive more than 100 billion euros of debt, opening the way for
the second bailout.  Sachinidis, a Pasok lawmaker who has represented the Larisa
constituency since 2007, served as deputy finance minister from
2009, when Socialist Pasok won general elections, and was
promoted to alternate finance minister in Papademos’s
government. He did postgraduate studies in Economics at Queens
College, in  New York City , and has a PhD from the  University of
Manchester , where he lectured at the School of Administration
between 1991 and 1994.  As finance minister Sachinidis will be responsible for
following through on commitments made by Greece to secure
receipt of the second bailout and to work with other ministers
to identify possible spending cuts for 2013 and 2014.  He will attend his first Cabinet meeting as finance
minister today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  