-- Iceland Central Bank Raises Benchmark Rate to Cap Inflation
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-21T10:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/iceland-central-bank-raises-benchmark-rate-to-cap-inflation-1-.html
Iceland’s  central bank  raised
 interest rates  for a third time in seven months to contain
inflation after the krona slipped and economic growth picked up.  The seven-day collateral lending rate was raised to 5
percent from 4.75 percent, Reykjavik-based Sedlabanki said on
its website today. The bank indicated in February it would
resume a tightening cycle it halted in December as it seeks to
steer Iceland’s recovery and ensure a stable krona as capital
controls are unwound.  “In the absence of an improvement in the inflation
outlook, a further increase in nominal interest rates will
probably be required in the near term in order to bring the
monetary policy stance, which is still quite accommodative, to
an appropriate level,” the bank said in a statement.  The bank is emerging from crisis mode as Iceland’s economy
recovers from its meltdown in 2008. The country is trying to
ease  capital controls  put in place in 2008 without allowing a
sell-off of the krona. The currency has slipped almost 5 percent
against the euro this year, while inflation was 6.3 percent in
February, more than double the bank’s 2.5 percent target. The
government last week closed a loophole in capital controls it
said had allowed short-term investors to speculate on the krona.  Inflation Pressure  “The inflation outlook has gotten worse and it remains to
be seen what the tightening of the capital controls will do in
regards to strengthening the currency,” Ingolfur Bender, an
economist at Islandsbanki hf, said by phone. “Added to this is
the fact that a stronger krona might lead to greater  consumer
spending  with further inflationary pressures.”  Islandsbanki predicts the central bank will raise rates to
5.5 percent by the end of the year, he said.  “But obviously worsening conditions might force the bank
to raise rates even more,” he said.  The krona rose 0.3 percent against the dollar to trade at
125.61 as of 10:29 a.m. in Reykjavik. It was little changed
versus the euro at 166.66.  Iceland, whose banks defaulted on $85 billion in 2008,
completed a 33-month  International Monetary Fund  program in
August. The Washington-based fund expects Iceland’s economy to
grow faster than the average for the euro area this year.  Fitch
Ratings  in February raised the island to investment grade,
praising its “unorthodox crisis policy.”  Economic Outperformance  “The government’s decision last week to tighten the
capital controls will undoubtedly play a role in the bank’s”
future rate decisions, Thorbjorn Atli Sveinsson, senior
economist with Arion Bank hf, said in a note to clients before
the announcement. “We believe that the bank will choose the
moderate road” when it comes to raising rates and wait and
“see what the effects of changed laws on capital controls will
lead to in the coming weeks.”  Iceland’s $13 billion economy will expand 2.5 percent this
year, the IMF said March 2. That compares with a 0.3 percent
contraction in the 17-member euro area, the European Commission
said Feb. 23. The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.2 percent in 2012,
the  World Bank  said Jan. 18.  Iceland started European Union accession talks in 2010 and
the government has said it targets euro adoption as soon as
possible after joining the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  