-- Microsoft’s Allen Gives $300 Million to Brain Research Center
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-03-21T17:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/microsoft-s-allen-gives-300-million-to-brain-research-center.html
Paul G. Allen, a co-founder of
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , pledged an additional $300 million to the brain
center that bears his name to study how vision works.  The  Allen Institute for Brain Science , based in  Seattle  and
founded in 2003, will begin a 10-year project to map the visual
system. That brings Allen’s total contribution to $500 million,
said Allan Jones, the chief executive officer of the institute,
in a telephone interview.  The project, starting in mice, will involve several hundred
scientists and will apply knowledge from genomics, anatomy,
computer modeling and physiology. A map of the visual cortex,
the place in the brain that receives and processes the messages
of sight, may help improve understanding of higher brain
function, said Christof Koch, chief scientific officer of the
Allen Institute and R. Clay Reid of Harvard University Medical
School in  Boston , in an editorial today in the  journal Nature .  “Although the institute’s project will focus on visual
stimuli in mice, it will capture fundamental aspects of higher
brain functions: perception, conscious awareness and decision-
making, and how they lead to action,” Koch and Reid, who is
joining the Allen Institute, said in the article.  Once understood in mice, scientists may turn to the human
visual system, the researchers said. Human brains have a mass of
about 3 pounds, while mouse brains are .001 pounds. Human brains
have 86 billion neurons, mice have only 70 million.  Neural Networks  Researchers will catalog neurons and measure the electrical
activity of the cells as they transmit messages into and out of
the visual cortex. Using techniques of genetic engineering that
make the neurons light up, they will watch circuits activate
whenever the animal makes a decision, enabling them to chart the
anatomy of neural networks.  “The Allen Institute has found a unique niche to do these
things at a large scale,” Jones said. Usually in academic
settings, individual researchers’ questions drive the science.
This allows for a more-systematic approach, he said.  To support the initiative, the Institute plans to double
its current staff to more than 350 people over the next four
years. Today’s donation will fund the first four years of the
new project.  In April 2011, the Institute created a gene map of the
human brain and made it freely available to assist researchers
studying disorders such as Parkinson’s disease and autism. That
effort followed a 2006 map of the mouse brain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  