-- Midas Sued by Shareholder Over $173 Million TBC Buyout
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-21T18:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/midas-sued-by-shareholder-over-173-million-tbc-acquisition-1-.html
Midas Inc. (MDS) , the operator of car
service centers, was sued by a shareholder claiming the offer of
about $173 million for the company by tire supplier  TBC Corp. (TBCC)  is
“inadequate.”  The bid undervalues the company given its improving sales
trends and a strategy to co-brand its Midas and SpeeDee shops,
the shareholder, Glenn Freedman, said in the complaint filed
today in Delaware Chancery Court. Freedman is seeking to
represent all  shareholders  of Itasca, Illinois-based Midas and
obtain a court order barring the transaction.  “The proposed transaction is wrongful, unfair and harmful
to Midas public shareholders,” Freedman said in the complaint.  Midas, which has more than 2,250 franchised, licensed and
company-owned namesake stores in 14 countries, announced March
13 that it accepted  Palm Beach Gardens , Florida-based TBC’s cash
offer of $11.50 a share. The deal also includes the assumption
of $137 million in debt and pension liabilities by TBC.  Midas directors acted in their own self-interest at the
expense of shareholders, Freedman said in the complaint. The
same day the  board  approved the proposed transaction, it also
rewarded Chief Executive Officer Alan Feldman for supporting the
deal by approving favorable terms in the annual incentive
compensation plan, according to Freedman. Under those terms,
Feldman is entitled to a bonus of as much as 90 percent of his
annual base salary, Freedman said in the filing.  JPMorgan Chase  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which served as Midas’s financial
adviser, was unable to provide “independent, disinterested
financial advice” to the company because of its affiliation
with TBC parent  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , Freedman said in his complaint.  JPMorgan has disclosed that it owns 1 percent or more of
Tokyo-based  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  securities and
has performed and received compensation from that company for
both  investment banking  and non-investment banking services,
Freedman said in the complaint. JPMorgan wasn’t named as a
defendant in the case.  Bob Troyer, a spokesman for Midas, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the complaint.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, also didn’t return a phone
call and e-mail seeking comment on the claims.  The case is Freedman v. Midas Inc., CA7346, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  