-- Tiger Woods Comes Through Two Days of Tavistock Cup Unscathed
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tiger-woods-comes-through-two-days-of-tavistock-cup-unscathed.html
Tiger Woods came through two days
of exhibition golf at the  Tavistock Cup  without showing any
adverse reaction to an ankle injury that forced him to withdraw
from the Cadillac Championship on March 11.  Woods and playing partner  Justin Rose , who won the
exhibition tournament, had a 9-under 63 in the opening-day
fourballs and Woods scored 72 in singles play yesterday at the
competition between teams representing four golf clubs.  It was the first time Woods, 36, had played competitively
since he pulled out of this year’s second World Golf
Championships event midway through the fourth round. Woods said
four days later that the injury, a mild Achilles strain,
wouldn’t prevent him from playing April 5-8 in the  Masters
Tournament , the first of four annual major championships.  Woods is scheduled to tee off at 8:26 a.m. Eastern time
tomorrow in the Arnold Palmer Invitational at Bay Hill Club &
Lodge in  Orlando , Florida. Woods has won the tournament, his
last before the Masters, six times.  Woods secured the latest of his 14 major titles at the 2008
 U.S. Open . He’s seeking a fifth Masters win and first since
2005. The most recent of his 71 titles on the U.S. PGA Tour came
at the BMW Championship in September 2009. Woods won a limited-
field tournament he hosts in California in December, his lone
stroke-play victory over the past two years.  The team representing Tavistock Cup host  Lake Nona Golf &
Country Club  in Orlando, Florida, won the event for a fourth
straight year. Graeme McDowell, the 2010 U.S. Open winner;
 Retief Goosen , the 2001 and 2004 U.S. Open champion; Ben Curtis,
the 2003 British Open winner;  Ross Fisher , and Gary Woodland
represented Lake Nona.  Woods’s team, representing the  Albany  resort in the
Bahamas, finished last and also included three-time major
champion Ernie Els and 2008 Masters winner Trevor Immelman.  The team for Isleworth Golf & Country Club in Windermere,
Florida, which included Bubba Watson,  Sean O’Hair  and Bo Van Pelt, was second. Queenwood Golf Club in Ottershaw, Surrey, in
southeastern England, was third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 