-- Tiger Woods Uses Round at Augusta National to Test Injured Ankle
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-21T18:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tiger-woods-uses-round-at-augusta-national-to-test-injured-ankle.html
Tiger Woods tested his injured
ankle by walking around the hills of Augusta National Golf Club
three days ago.  He said he passed the test.  The round at the site of next month’s  Masters Tournament 
was the first of four straight days on a golf course for Woods,
a four-time winner of the season’s first major championship.  After today’s practice round at the Arnold Palmer
Invitational in  Orlando ,  Florida , Woods said there was no
adverse reaction to a strained left Achilles that forced him to
withdraw from the Cadillac Championship outside Miami this
month.  “I feel great,” Woods told reporters. “I wasn’t really
that concerned about it. When it gets that tight, I get
treatment for two or three days and it’s all fine, all the
swelling goes away and I’m good to go.”  Woods will continue the quest this week for his first full-
field tournament victory since September 2009.  He is scheduled to tee off at 8:26 a.m. New York time
tomorrow with Ernie Els and  Hunter Mahan  at Bay Hill Club &
Lodge. Woods has won the tournament, his last before the
Masters, six times.  Woods, 36, spent the past two days playing the  Tavistock
Cup  exhibition matches with several other U.S.  PGA Tour  players
at  Lake Nona Golf & Country Club  in Orlando. On March 18, Woods
said, he traveled to Augusta,  Georgia , to play a practice round
for the Masters. His most recent victory there came in 2005.  If he plays all four rounds of this week’s U.S. PGA Tour
event, Woods will have played eight rounds in eight straight
days.  ‘Felt Great’  “That’s one of the reasons why I played Tavistock,” Woods
said. “It felt great at Augusta, and that was the test. I
played Tavistock because of that test, and here I am ready to
go.”  The Tavistock event marked the first time Woods had played
competitively since he pulled out of this year’s second World
Golf Championships event midway through the fourth round. Woods
said four days later that the injury, a mild Achilles strain,
wouldn’t prevent him from playing April 5-8 in the Masters.  Woods secured the latest of his 14 major titles at the 2008
 U.S. Open . The most recent of his 71 titles on the U.S. PGA Tour
came at the BMW Championship in September 2009. Woods won a
limited-field tournament he hosts in  California  in December, his
lone stroke-play victory over the past two years.  To contact the reporter on this story: Michael Buteau in Orlando
  at  mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 