-- IILM Plans First Islamic Dollar Bill Sale of Up to $1 Billion
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2012-03-21T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/iilm-plans-first-islamic-dollar-bill-sale-of-up-to-1-billion.html
International Islamic Liquidity
Management Corp. plans to sell as much as $1 billion of the
first global Shariah-compliant dollar bills by the middle of the
year, according to Chairman Zeti Akhtar Aziz.  The Kuala Lumpur-based multinational agency postponed the
offering last year as it awaited a  credit rating , an issue that
will be resolved at a meeting in the  Middle East  this month,
Zeti, who is also governor of  Malaysia ’s central bank, told
reporters in the capital today.  “That meeting will finalize many issues,” said Zeti. “We
hope soon after that we we’ll receive the rating and following
that the process of issuance.”  The corporation was formed by 12 central banks and two
multinational institutions in January 2011 to provide Islamic
lenders with a broader range of instruments in which to park
idle funds. The Kuala Lumpur-based Islamic Financial Services
Board estimates the $1 trillion industry will grow to $2.8
trillion by 2015.  Growth in Malaysia’s Islamic banking deposits has outpaced
non-Shariah-compliant counterparts by almost three times,
increasing an average 17.6 percent over the past 10 years,
compared with 7.1 percent, according to the central bank’s 2011
Financial Stability and Payment Systems Report issued today.  “The continuous demands and challenges of effectively
managing liquidity and the associated asset-liability maturity
mismatches have provided the impetus for wide-ranging efforts to
further enhance the liquidity management framework,” the report
said.  Bank Assets  The country’s Islamic banking assets rose 23.8 percent to
434.6 billion ringgit ($141 billion) last year and accounted for
22.4 percent of the total, according to  Bank Negara . Shariah-
compliant insurance assets, or takaful, climbed 15.8 percent to
17 billion ringgit.  Sales of  sovereign  and corporate Islamic bonds, which pay
returns on assets to comply with the religion’s ban on interest,
almost tripled over the past five years to 353 billion ringgit
at the end of 2011, according to today’s report.  The Southeast Asian nation, which pioneered the industry 30
years ago, remained the world leader with a market share of 60
percent, or $108 billion, in outstanding Shariah-compliant bonds,
or sukuk, it said. Malaysia accounted for 73.2 percent of global
issuance last year, Bank Negara said.  Sales of foreign currency-denominated sukuk in Malaysia
increased to $2.1 billion, accounting for 14.5 percent of U.S.
currency Islamic bonds globally, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Barry Porter  in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in  Hong Kong  at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  