-- Tim Tebow Second Chance Looms for Jaguars With Manning in Denver
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tim-tebow-second-chance-looms-for-jaguars-with-manning-in-denver.html
The  Jacksonville Jaguars  may get a
second chance to land hometown hero Tim Tebow thanks to Peyton Manning.  Tebow, who won two national championships at the University
of  Florida , could be on the trading block after Manning signed
with the  Denver Broncos , vice president of football operations
 John Elway  said yesterday. A second-year quarterback, Tebow
helped the Broncos rebound from a 1-4 start last season and get
their first playoff win since 2005.  Jacksonville might now be the ideal destination for Tebow,
who grew up in the area before playing college football in
nearby Gainesville, Florida. The Jaguars,  Green Bay Packers ,
 Miami Dolphins  and  New York Jets  have all discussed the
possibility of signing Tebow internally or with the Broncos,
 ESPN said , citing a league source it didn’t identify.  The Jaguars have an estimated value of $725 million, the
lowest in the  National Football League  according to Forbes
magazine, and  Shahid Khan , who took ownership in December for an
undisclosed price, is seeking ways to boost ticket sales and
interest in the team.  “Tebow has financial upside beyond football and
Jacksonville is probably one of the franchises that could
justify the price,” said  Paul Swangard , managing director of
the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University of Oregon.  The Jaguars in 2010 passed on drafting Tebow, who was
selected by the Broncos with the 25th pick. Jacksonville had the
10th choice and took defensive tackle Tyson Alualu.  ‘20-20 Hindsight’  Khan, the owner of auto-parts maker Flex-N-Gate Corp., said
last month in an  interview with WOLV  television in Jacksonville
that he “absolutely” would have drafted the 24-year-old Tebow,
who had an 8-5 record as a starter last season, including a
playoff win against Pittsburgh.  “The first Jaguars game I came to was in 2010 and we
played Denver here,” Khan told KOLV. “There were a lot more
Tebow jerseys in the stands than the teal jerseys for any player.
You hate to get into 20-20 hindsight and finger pointing, but
certainly if I had anything to do with it... I think probably we
won’t have a chance like that again.”  Now Tebow may be available, just over two months after
being voted America’s favorite active pro athlete in an ESPN
fan-based poll.  “With the opportunity to have  Peyton Manning ’s services,
we had to take advantage of that,” Elway said. “Now we have to
go back and address Tim and see what is the best situation for
the Broncos as well as him.”  In response to queries about Tebow’s possible availability,
Khan said in a statement he “won’t comment on players who are
not members of the Jaguars organization.”  Bookmaker’s Favorite  The Jaguars are the favorite at online oddsmaker Bovada.lv
to acquire Tebow, who spawned a fad known as “Tebowing”
through his kneel-and-pray pose after victories.  Former Redskins General Manager Charley Casserly, now an
analyst for the NFL Network, said the Broncos might not get much
more than a fifth-round draft pick if they trade Tebow, whose
46.5 completion percentage as a passer was the worst among
starting quarterbacks last season.  “It’s a relatively low-risk, high-reward move,” Steve
Herz, the president and founder of New York-based sports and
media talent agency IF Management, said in a telephone interview.
“He could fill the stadium, he could sell a ton of jerseys, TV
ratings could go through the roof. It’s the most logical. I
don’t see who else it even makes sense for.”  Jaguars’ Quarterbacks  The only team in the four major U.S. professional sports to
play in Jacksonville, the Jaguars went 5-11 last season with
rookie Blaine Gabbert at quarterback. Gabbert was the 10th
player drafted in 2011 and Jacksonville also has former Dolphins
starting quarterback Chad Henne, who was signed last week as a
free agent.  Signing Tebow, who had one of the league’s best-selling
jerseys last season, would be about more than just on-field
production.  The Jaguars ranked 25th out of 32 NFL teams in attendance
last season, drawing an average of 62,331 fans to eight home
games at 67,246-seat EverBank Field.  Khan, a native of  Pakistan  whose company is based in Urbana,
 Illinois , has said the focus is on expanding the club’s fan base
while improving a team that’s made the postseason twice in 11
years and last had a winning record in 2007.  Bringing Tebow aboard might provide the franchise the
injection of excitement it needs, said Scott Becher, the
executive vice president of sports and entertainment for  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida-based Zimmerman Advertising.  “This is the ultimate second chance and maybe Jacksonville
gets it right this time,” Becher said by phone. “He’ll
immediately impact ticket and sponsorship sales but, more
importantly, he’ll excite what really is a dormant fan base.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  