-- Indonesia Says No Injuries From Blast Near Embassy in Paris
-- B y   A g u s   S u h a n a   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-03-21T09:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/indonesia-says-no-injuries-from-blast-near-embassy-in-paris-1-.html
Indonesian and French authorities
are investigating an early morning bomb blast outside the
Southeast Asian nation’s embassy in Paris that shattered windows
and damaged nearby buildings while causing no injuries.  “We cannot determine yet whether the bomb targeted our
embassy,” Indonesian Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa told
reporters at the Presidential Palace in Jakarta today. “We’re
working with the local police to secure and make sure that the
embassy in Paris is safe and to investigate the perpetrator.”  The blast, which occurred shortly after 5 a.m. Paris time
today, comes three days after Indonesian police killed five
suspected terrorists during raids on the resort island of Bali,
and the same day French police surrounded a house in Toulouse
where a man claiming ties to al-Qaeda, who is suspected of
killing four people at a Jewish school and three soldiers, is
holed up.  “French police indicated there were three perpetrators,
and the bomb was placed on the sidewalk in front of the
embassy,” Marciano Norman, head of  Indonesia ’s National
Intelligence Agency, said at the palace. “I’m not sure if it
targeted the embassy, as we didn’t receive any threat letter.
All is being investigated by the French police and
intelligence.”  Bali Raids  Five suspected terrorists killed by Indonesia’s Detachment-
88 squad on Bali March 18 had jihad literature, weapons and
ammunition in their possession and were planning robberies to
fund attacks, police said.  Authorities have data that links the men to  Jamaah Ansharut
Tauhid , known as JAT, a group founded by Indonesian cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, who is serving 15 years in prison for funding
terrorism, Ansyaad Mbai, head Indonesia’s National
Counterterrorism Agency, said March 20.  Bashir was found guilty of funding terrorism and sentenced
on June 16, 2011, five years after his acquittal for links to
bombings that killed 202 people in a Bali tourist resort. The
October 2002 attacks on a Bali nightclub are blamed on Jemaah
Islamiyah, an al-Qaeda linked group.  The terrorism trial of Indonesian militant Umar Patek
started last month in Jakarta for his alleged role in the 2002
Bali nightclub attack.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agus Suhana at 
 asuhana1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  