-- Indonesian Rupiah Falls as Costlier Oil Fuels Inflation Concern
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-03-21T09:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/indonesian-rupiah-falls-as-costlier-oil-fuels-inflation-concern.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah weakened on
concern a surge in global  oil prices  will boost the nation’s
import costs and spur inflation. Bonds were little changed.  Crude oil in  New York  jumped 7.8 percent this year to
$106.53 per barrel today. Indonesia, a net importer of crude,
has proposed revising its inflation target for 2012 to 7 percent
from 5.3 percent. Consumer-price gains may quicken to 6.8
percent from last month’s 3.56 percent if policy makers go ahead
with a proposed cut in fuel subsidies, Bank Indonesia Governor
Darmin Nasution said this month.  “The inflation issue resonates in Indonesia, giving the
rupiah a negative sentiment,” said Klara Pramesti, a Jakarta-
based analyst at PT Bank Negara Indonesia.  The rupiah lost 0.2 percent to 9,188 per dollar as of 4:31
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.3 percent this week.  One-month implied volatility in the rupiah, which measures
exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 0.39 to 7.86
percent today, the lowest level since September 13.  Bank
Indonesia  will intervene in the foreign-exchange and bond
markets to stabilize the rupiah, said a  note  posted on its
website March 8.  “The rupiah is always guided by Bank Indonesia through
intervention,” Pramesti said.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage points, to 5.93
percent, according to closing prices from the Inter Dealer
Market Association.  Monetary Tightening  The central bank will raise its benchmark  interest rate  by
75 basis points to 6.5 percent by the end of this year as a
planned rise in the price of subsidized fuel spurs inflation,
analysts at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore  led by
 Selena Ling  wrote in a research note today. Bank Indonesia
maintained its  reference rate  at 5.75 percent on March 8, after
reducing borrowing costs three times in five months.  “The recent rhetoric from various BI officials and the
latest monetary policy statement suggest that the BI had been
previously unaware of the government’s sudden u-turn in
announcing the fuel price hike,” they wrote in the note,
referring to Bank Indonesia. “We expect it to go ahead and
unwind the series of rate cuts that it has triggered since late
last year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 