-- Iran Diplomats Cased NYC Landmarks, Police Official Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-03-21T15:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/iranian-diplomats-cased-landmarks-police-official-says.html
Iranian diplomats may have carried
out “hostile reconnaissance” of sites in  New York  as many as
six times, a warning sign that the city might be targeted for
terrorist attack, according to a police official.  The incidents occurred between 2002 and 2010 and involved
videotaping or photographing landmarks, rail service and
bridges, said Mitchell Silber, director of the city police
department’s intelligence analysis unit, in testimony before a
U.S. House panel today.  Hezbollah, a militant group allied with Iran that has been
designated a terrorist organization by the U.S. State
Department, also has ties to the New York region, he said.  “The city remains the most likely venue for global
tensions with Iran to spill over onto American soil,” Silber
told the House Homeland Security Committee.  Tensions with Iran have increased over the country’s
unwillingness to scale back its nuclear program.  Last month, Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano 
said she was concerned that Hezbollah would attempt a terrorist
attack on American soil and that she had been in touch with U.S.
Jewish groups. Napolitano said she wasn’t aware of any specific
threats to the groups or other U.S. targets.  Operatives in U.S.  Government officials estimate “hundreds” of Iranian and
Hezbollah operatives are in the U.S., said Representative  Peter King , a Republican from New York who is the homeland security
panel’s chairman.  “We have a duty to prepare for the worst,” he said.  Representative Bennie Thompson of Mississippi, the panel’s
senior Democrat, complained that Obama administration officials
weren’t among the witnesses at the hearing.  “I am concerned about whether the testimony we received
will be based on current information,” said Thompson. “We
should not engage in a public discussion that creates fear and
delivers misinformation.”  New York police are facing criticism for conducting
surveillance of Muslim communities. The New York-based Human
Rights Watch yesterday requested in a letter to Attorney General
Eric Holder that the  Justice Department  formally investigate the
city department’s actions.  Economic Sanctions  The U.S. and  Europe  have tightened economic sanctions on
Iran since a Nov. 8 United Nations atomic inspectors’ report
raised questions about  Iran’s nuclear program . The sanctions are
meant to pressure Iran’s leaders to abandon weapons-related work
and head off a potential conflict in the Persian Gulf region
that holds more than half the world’s oil reserves.  The Iranian surveillance has been going on for years,
Silber said. In February 2010, federal air marshals found four
people who said they worked for the Islamic Republic of Iran
Broadcasting Co. videotaping and photographing the Wall Street
heliport, he said. One person held a camera at waist level,
focusing on the structure and not the helicopters in the air, he
said.  Several members of the Iranian delegation to the  United
Nations  in 2008 were seen taking pictures of the Metropolitan
Transportation Authority train tracks inside Grand Central
Station, Silber said. In the early to mid-2000s, police
interviewed people with ties to the Iranian government who were
taking pictures and videotaping infrastructure, he said.  Terror Plots  Police have been examining recent terrorist plots in  India ,
 Georgia , Azerbaijan and  Thailand  that may be connected to Iran,
Silber said.  An alleged Iranian plot last year to assassinate the Saudi
Arabian ambassador to the U.S. shows that Iran doesn’t fear
conducting American operations, said  Matthew Levitt , director of
the Stein Program on Counterterrorism and Intelligence at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy in Washington.  “America and its allies are already involved in a shadow
war with  Iran ,” he said.  Hezbollah’s presence in the New York region has been
uncovered in investigations, Silber said. Twenty-six people,
including a former Brooklyn resident, were indicted in 2009 for
conspiring to provide material support to Hezbollah by obtaining
weapons, and raising money through the sale of fraudulent
passports and other schemes, Silber said.  Past cases have shown that Hezbollah operatives, whose
primary purpose was to raise money and provide supplies to the
group, can have a “potential lethal nature,” said Chris Swecker, a former assistant director of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation .  Intelligence officials have told the committee’s staff that
“Hezbollah is the group most capable of flipping its nationwide
network of criminal fund-raising cells into an operational
terror force capable of great violence,” King said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  