-- Ireland Said to Ready Bank-Debt Proposal for ECB Review
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-03-22T08:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/irish-said-to-ready-bank-debt-proposal-as-ecb-gather-tomorrow.html
Irish Central Bank Governor  Patrick Honohan  will probably ask the European Central Bank Governing
Council today for permission to effectively delay a cash payment
on its banking debt, as the country tries to ease the burden of
saving its financial system, said two people with direct
knowledge of the matter.  The state is due to make a 3.1 billion-euro ($4.1 billion)
payment to the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which is then
supposed to use the funds to reduce its emergency borrowings
from the country’s central bank. Instead, the lender may use the
funds to buy a new Irish government bond, meaning no net cash
outflow from the state. The bond can be used to tap funding from
the ECB, the people said.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  confirmed to
lawmakers late yesterday the state was considering using a bond
for the March payment, without giving more detail. The
concession may facilitate a longer-term effort to cut the cost
of Ireland’s banking rescue, which helped tip the nation into an
international bailout in 2010. The Irish government is seeking
European help to restructure about 30 billion euros of so-called
promissory notes used to rescue the former Anglo Irish.  “It makes sense for European officials to facilitate a
restructuring, thus improving the chances of a return to the
market for Ireland,” said Juliet Tennent and   Dermot O’Leary ,
economists at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin, in a note.  Neil Whoriskey, a spokesman for the Irish Central Bank, and
Wiktor Krzyzanowski, a spokesman for the ECB, declined to
comment.  Ongoing Discussions  “We are now negotiating with the EU authorities, and
principally with the ECB, on the basis that the 3.06 billion-
euro cash installment due from the minister to IBRC on March 31
under the terms of the IBRC promissory note could be settled by
the delivery of a long term Irish Government Bond,” Noonan said
in an e-mailed copy of a speech in parliament yesterday. The
discussions are ongoing, he said.  At present, the government needs to repay the central bank
30 billion euros of money created to fund the former Anglo
Irish, now renamed the Irish Bank Resolution Corp.  The state needs to do so in a way that leaves the net
impact on the  money supply  at zero. Otherwise Ireland’s central
bank could be accused of printing money, a policy opposed by the
ECB.  At the moment, the government pays 3.1 billion euros each
year to the bank. Broadly, IBRC uses that money to pay off its
central bank borrowing. To neutralize the impact on the money
supply, the central bank would then cancel those funds.  By going ahead with the cash payment, Ireland is sticking
to its commitment to IBRC, avoiding a default even though the
bank may use the funds to buy a sovereign bond.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark,
yielded 6.9 percent today, down from 9.1 percent at the start of
December. The yield on the equivalent Greek security is 18
percent and on the Portuguese note it’s 12 percent.  Noonan has indicated he may ultimately seek to use the
euro-area bailout fund to refinance the cost of bailing out
IBRC.  “The postponement of the payment would give Ireland some
breathing space to conclude a comprehensive settlement on the
banking debt,” said Michael McGrath, finance spokesman for
Ireland’s largest opposition party,  Fianna Fail , in a statement.
“The government’s objective should be to secure a reduction in
the actual burden of bank-related debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  