-- Iron Ore to Decline as China Growth Slows, Biggest Shipper Says
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-03-21T12:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/iron-ore-to-drop-as-china-growth-slows-biggest-shipper-says-1-.html
Iron ore  may decline 8.5 percent
this year as global output increases and growth in Asian steel
production slows, according to a government forecaster in
 Australia , the world’s biggest exporter.  Prices may average about $140 a metric ton in 2012 from
$153 last year, the  Bureau  of Resources and Energy Economics
said in a report today. Shipments from Australia may climb 12
percent to 493 million tons in 2012, it said.  Steel-production growth in  China  has slowed as the fastest-
growing major economy puts greater focus on consumers rather
than building projects,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest
mining company, said yesterday. Shares in  Vale SA (VALE3) , the largest
iron-ore producer, fell the most in a week after BHP’s comments.
While China’s near-term growth is slowing, iron-ore output
significantly lags consumption,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  said yesterday.  “Over the remainder of 2012,  iron-ore  prices are forecast
to ease as production increases from new projects in Australia
and growth in Asian steel production weakens,” the Canberra-
based bureau said. “Further price decreases are expected to be
limited by an expected reduction in exports from India.”  Shares in Melbourne-based BHP dropped for a second day,
losing 1.7 percent to A$34.70 in Sydney.  Rio Tinto , the second-
largest iron-ore exporter, dropped 0.4 percent to A$65.34. Vale,
the biggest shipper, fell 0.8 percent yesterday.  ANZ Forecast  The bureau’s outlook tallies with that from Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., which forecast in a report yesterday
that iron ore may lose 7.5 percent to $147 a ton in 2012 on
higher Australian and Brazilian output.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
said on March 15 that prices may gain to as much as $160 this
year as higher steel production boosts demand.  Iron-ore exports from  Brazil , the second-biggest shipper,
may gain 6.4 percent, the bureau said in the report. Shipments
from India are set to decline 32 percent to 43 million tons in
2012 amid government restrictions and an export tax, it said.  China’s crude-steel production may advance 7 percent to 731
million tons in 2012 compared with an 8.9 percent gain last year,
the bureau said. The nation, the world’s biggest base-metals
user which accounts for 45 percent of global steel output, cut
its economic annual growth target to 7.5 percent this month.  ‘Persistent Slowdown’  “Iron-ore prices at current levels aren’t sustainable,”
Laura Brooks, a consultant at researcher CRU, said in a
presentation at a conference in Perth, Western Australia today.
“We expect a persistent slowdown in the foreseeable future.”  Economic growth  in China is set to ease from the highs of
the last decade, while  India  will grow strongly from 2015
without reaching the highs seen in China, Brooks said. There is
an extensive new pipeline of iron-ore projects that would be
gradually realized, she said.  The bureau’s forecasts referred to iron ore with 62 percent
content free-on-board Australia. Iron ore of the same grade
delivered to the Chinese port of Tianjin was at $144.80 a ton
yesterday after gaining 4.5 percent this year, according to data
from The Steel Index Ltd. Iron ore is measured in dry tons, or
metric tons less moisture. At Tianjin, moisture can represent 8
percent to 10 percent of the weight.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  