-- J&J Marketed Vaginal Mesh Implant Without U.S. Approval
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-03-21T22:11:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/j-j-sold-vaginal-mesh-implant-without-u-s-regulatory-approval.html
Johnson & Johnson sold a vaginal
mesh implant for three years before U.S. regulators approved the
device, now the subject of more than 550 lawsuits by women who
claim it injured them.  J&J’s Ethicon unit introduced the Gynecare Prolift device
in March 2005, touting it in an annual report as an “innovative
and effective surgical option” for weakened pelvic muscles. The
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  said it learned of the Prolift
in 2007, when J&J sought approval for a related product. The FDA
cleared both devices in May 2008.  The company, the world’s second-biggest health-care
products maker, said it could market the Prolift without
approval because it was so similar to an approved device, the
Gynecare Gynemesh, Morgan Liscinsky, an FDA spokeswoman, said in
a March 16 e-mail. “FDA disagreed with this assertion,”
concluding distribution began “without appropriate” clearance,
she said.  J&J’s unauthorized sales might cost it more to resolve
lawsuits over the product. J&J already has endured recalls of
artificial hip implants and over-the-counter drugs. Three J&J
units have pleaded guilty in the past two years to bribery or
illegal marketing of drugs. A fourth agreed to plead guilty in a
marketing case.  “They were initially able to put the Prolift on the market
without even telling the FDA,” said attorney Adam Slater, who
is suing J&J on behalf of more than 100 women. “Even though
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  supposedly lives by a credo to put the patient
first, this is an example of fast-tracking a product to market
quickly rather than going to the FDA first.”  New Questions  The conduct by Ethicon also raises anew questions about the
FDA’s approval process, which lets companies introduce products
without human testing if the agency decides they’re similar to
devices already for sale, or so-called predicates.  Congress has been pushing for changes to the system in
response to industry complaints about slow reviews and
inconsistent standards. The FDA also has faced criticism after
high-profile recalls, including J&J’s withdrawal in 2010 of
93,000 hip prosthetics with higher-than-expected failure rates.  In 2007, the FDA required J&J to submit a so-called 510(k)
application to review the Prolift, Liscinsky said. The FDA
learned of the Prolift after J&J cited it in July 2007 as a
predicate for a follow-on device, the Prolift+M, she said.  J&J introduced the original Prolift in March 2005 after
“applying the relevant FDA guidance and based on the safety and
effectiveness” of Gynemesh,  Matthew Johnson , a spokesman for
the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  company , said in an e-mail.  Actions ‘Responsible’  “Throughout this process, our actions were responsible,
appropriate and consistent with FDA regulations,” he said.
“Numerous clinical studies suggest that when combined with
proper surgical technique, surgical mesh can improve patient
outcomes, and Ethicon’s devices are among the most studied
devices on the market for this condition.”  Andrew Sokol, an associate professor of obstetrics/
gynecology and urology at the Georgetown University School of
Medicine, said he was “absolutely concerned” after hearing
that J&J marketed the Prolift without FDA approval.  “That information would have been important for most
surgeons,” Sokol said. “Most surgeons probably would have not
used a completely new product if there was no oversight.”  Surgeons use mesh products to treat incontinence or help
women with  pelvic organ prolapse , a condition in which weakened
muscles fail to support internal organs. Several mesh products,
like the Gynemesh and the Prolift, are threaded in place through
an incision in the vagina.  Fivefold Jump  An FDA report in July found a fivefold jump in deaths,
injuries or malfunctions tied to vaginal mesh for prolapsed
organs. In September, an advisory panel urged the FDA to
reclassify such mesh as “high-risk” devices needing human
testing. In January, the FDA said J&J,  Murray Hill , New Jersey-
based  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR)  and other makers must study organ damage
and complications related to the products.  The dispute between the FDA and J&J centers on how the
company should have acted in light of differences between the
Gynemesh Prolene Soft Mesh, the Prolift and the Prolift+M. The
FDA cleared the Gynemesh on Jan. 8, 2002, for the repair of
hernias and other defects with connective tissue.  The Gynemesh and Prolift are made of the same nonabsorbable
polymer, while the Prolift kit included pre-cut mesh and
instruments to help surgeons implant the device.  ‘Insignificant Change’  J&J applied in 2007 for the Prolift+M, which also included
an absorbable type of mesh and cited the Prolift as a predicate,
Liscinsky said. That application said the Prolift was an
“insignificant change” to the previously approved Gynemesh
under the 510(k) process, Liscinsky said.  When an FDA reviewer contacted Ethicon in July 2007 about
that conclusion, the  company  cited the agency’s guidance
document, “Deciding When to Submit a 510(k) for a Change to an
Existing Device,” according to Liscinsky and Johnson.  “The lead reviewer determined that Ethicon should have
submitted a separate 510(k) for Prolift,” she said.  The reviewer asked Ethicon for “information to support the
safety and effectiveness” of the Prolift, Liscinsky said. The
FDA reviewed that data during the Prolift+M application.  Both devices were cleared based on adequate J&J data to
support “substantial equivalence in safety and effectiveness to
predicate devices,” Liscinsky said today in an e-mail.  Companies that market devices without required approval are
subject to compliance actions such as warning letters, seizure
of illegally marketed devices, and injunctions or financial
penalties against companies and managers, she said.  ‘Good Faith’  “FDA typically would not take these actions against
companies that relied in good faith -- albeit mistakenly -- on
agency guidance,” she said. “But absent this reliance, or in
response to repeated mistakes, these actions might follow.”  Companies also can decide on their own whether a device
modification requires a new 510(k), based on the agency guidance
that J&J used, Liscinsky said.  A review of an FDA database of reported malfunctions,
deaths or serious injuries shows the agency got 123 complaints
about Prolift from 2005 to May 15, 2008, when the device won
clearance.  The last came the day of that clearance and involved a
patient who was experiencing “discomfort” and “a scalloping
and ridging erosion” of a pelvic muscle, according to the
database. The entry also noted the patient’s “tissue was poor
prior to the procedure.” A surgeon removed the implant.  2.3 Million Pages  The mesh lawsuits blaming J&J for injuries are pending in
state court in  Atlantic City ,  New Jersey . J&J has produced more
than 2.3 million pages of documents through the pretrial
exchange of evidence known as discovery. Superior Court Judge
Carol Higbee is coordinating discovery in those cases.  On Feb. 7, the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
consolidated more than 150 federal lawsuits against pelvic mesh
makers. U.S. District Judge Joseph R. Goodwin in Charleston,
 West Virginia , will oversee evidence-gathering efforts in cases
against J&J,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and the American Medical
Systems unit of Endo Pharmaceutical Holdings Inc.  Goodwin is already handling mesh litigation against Bard.
Henry G. Garrard III, an attorney in  Athens ,  Georgia , is helping
to lead that litigation on behalf of women claiming injuries. He
said he has spoken to doctors and patients around the U.S. about
mesh litigation and FDA regulation of devices. He said he also
has discussed how the Prolift was marketed without agency
approval.  “People are absolutely amazed and shocked,” said Garrard,
of Blasingame, Burch, Garrard & Ashley PC. “People are quite
upset with those facts. There are a lot of physicians who are
not well educated about these issues.”  Company Witnesses  In Atlantic City, patients’ lawyers are seeking to
interview more than 70 company witnesses, including Gary Pruden
and Sheri S. McCoy, the leader of J&J’s pharmaceutical and
consumer products unit. Both Pruden and McCoy previously served
as company group chairman and worldwide franchise chairman of
Ethicon.  McCoy was one of two executives in the running to succeed
outgoing Chief Executive Officer William Weldon. J&J announced
Feb. 22 that the post will go to  Alex Gorsky , who oversees
medical devices and the company’s supply chain.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers should be allowed to ask McCoy about
Prolift, given that the device was put on the market in early
2005, “yet 510K clearance was not obtained to legally market
the Prolift until May 15, 2008,” said Slater, of Mazie Slater
Katz & Freeman LLC in Roseland, New Jersey, in a March 8 filing.  “Ms. McCoy’s knowledge or lack thereof as to this and
other issues is directly relevant to establishing the
defendants’ liability in this litigation,” Slater said.  J&J opposes the request to interview McCoy and Pruden,
saying neither possesses “specific or unique knowledge or
information that cannot be obtained from less obtrusive and
burdensome methods,” according to a Feb. 23 court filing.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , based in  New York , is the biggest maker of
medical products based on annual sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 Anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  