-- Jaguar Said to Invest as Much as $3 Billion With Chery
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/jaguar-said-to-invest-as-much-as-3-billion-with-chery-auto-1-.html
Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land
Rover luxury division and Chery Automobile Co. may invest
as much as $3 billion over five years in their Chinese joint
venture, two people familiar with the matter said.  The two companies will spend as much as $1 billion on a new
factory, about $1 billion on establishing a China-specific brand
and from $500 million to $1 billion on research and development,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
the plans have not yet been made public.  Jaguar Land Rover and Chery yesterday announced they will
form a joint venture to build the U.K. company’s models in
China, following carmakers including Daimler AG,  General Motors
Co. (GM)  and Volkswagen AG in setting up manufacturing in the world’s
largest auto market. China requires overseas automakers to work
with local companies, who must own at least 50 percent of joint
ventures, to set up production. Locally built vehicles are
cheaper because they’re not subject to  import duties .  “Having a local assembly unit will help cut waiting lists
and production costs,” said Juergen Maier, a Vienna-based  fund
manager  at Raiffeisen Capital Management which oversees about
$1.1 billion of emerging-market assets including Tata Motors.
“A China-specific brand makes sense as you can target consumers
looking to upgrade to Jaguar and Land Rover products.”  Chinese Approval Needed  Tata Motors’  shares  rose 1.7 percent to 276.10 rupees at
the close of trade in  Mumbai  yesterday. The shares have gained
55 percent this year, making the company the  best performing 
stock on the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index this year.  The planned partnership between JLR and Chery has yet to
receive government approval, the two companies said yesterday in
a press release. The business will also include a research and
development facility and build engines. Paul Chadderton, a JLR
spokesman in Whitley,  England , and Jin Yibo, Chery’s spokesman,
declined to comment beyond the statement.  “We believe that JLR and Chery can jointly realize the
potential of these iconic brands in the world’s largest car
market,” the two companies said. “Demand for Jaguar and Land
Rover vehicles continues to increase significantly in  China .”  Jaguar Land Rover said March 13 that it was adding as many
as 1,000 jobs and moving to three-shift, 24-hour production at
its Halewood plant near Liverpool, England, to meet surging
demand for its luxury SUV models such as the Range Rover Evoque.  --Tian Ying and Siddharth Philip, with assistance from Chris Reiter and Steve Rothwell in Berlin. Editors:  Chad Thomas ,
Heather Harris  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ying Tian in Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 