-- Lin Leads Coke to Run Ads in Chinese at Madison Square Garden
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-22T04:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/jeremy-lin-leads-to-coke-in-chinese-ads-at-madison-square-garden.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  will add courtside
advertisements in Chinese at  Madison Square Garden (MSG)  to capitalize
on the appeal of New York Knicks point guard Jeremy Lin.  The first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in the
 National Basketball Association , Lin fueled television ratings
on the MSG Network along with merchandise and ticket sales after
joining the team’s starting lineup on Feb. 6.  His emergence on the international stage has been a boon to
the Knicks’ parent, Madison Square Garden Co. Buoyed by Lin’s
popularity, it settled a carriage-fee dispute with Time Warner
Cable Inc., doubled advertising rates on MSG, hit a record stock
price and fielded inquiries from Asia-based companies seeking an
affiliation with the franchise.  “For us, those ads signify an open-for-business sign,”
Scott O’Neil, president of MSG Sports, said in an interview.  Susan Stribling, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based Coke, the
largest soft-drink maker, said in a telephone interview that an
official at MSG approached the company with the Mandarin-sign
idea.  “Given that the NBA is a global association for our
company and that we do a lot of cross-cultural marketing around
the NBA, we agreed,” she said. “We thought it was a great way
to celebrate the things Jeremy Lin is doing for the Knicks.”  The courtside signs, which Stribling said should debut in a
couple of weeks, will be seen by television viewers as well as
spectators in the arena. Stribling said Coke might also change
advertisements in the Garden’s concourses.  Jersey Sales  O’Neil said Asian companies are taking notice of the Knicks
and the Harvard University-educated Lin, who has sold more
jerseys than any other player in the NBA since Feb. 4, according
to the league, which doesn’t disclose sales figures. In that
time span, Lin-related products have accounted for half of
online sales at the team’s website and 32 percent of in-arena
sales, the Knicks said, declining to give specifics.  The undrafted Lin was cut by two teams before joining the
Knicks who, since the birth of “Linsanity,” the term attached
to the hoopla surrounding the 23-year-old, signed sponsorship
agreements with Taiwan-based Maxxis International, a tire
manufacturer, and  Acer Inc. (2353) , the fourth-largest computer maker.  The demand for Lin in  Asia  prompted broadcasters in China
to alter their schedules, adding Knicks games whenever possible.
Lin has become the No. 1 searched term on Baidu, China’s version
of Google. About 100 million people in China watched the March 6
Knicks-Dallas Mavericks game.  Yao’s Example  Former Houston Rockets Chief Executive Officer George Postolos said Lin provides a “fantastic opportunity” for
companies agile enough to take advantage.  “This couldn’t have happened before the world became as
connected as it is today,” said Postolos, who presided over a
Rockets team that included Chinese All-Star  Yao Ming . “It’s
like a gold rush.”  The Rockets have an arena naming-rights agreement with
Japan-based  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which signed the contract when
Yao was playing and his games were being broadcast in Asia.  MSG’s stock hit a record $33.43 on Feb. 21 with the Knicks
having won eight of their past 10 games.  Laura Martin , an analyst at Needham & Co. who has a buy
rating on MSG shares, which she doesn’t own, said Lin helps the
company in two main ways: larger television audiences, which
mean higher ad rates, and a more diversified following.  “There is a screaming need in the fan base for an Ivy
League-educated player,” Martin said. “He has the same
credentials as those on  Wall Street .”  Ad Rates  The Knicks through 32 games on MSG Network averaged a 2.99
rating, up 99 percent from last season. The team is charging up
to $25,000 for a regular-season commercial and $40,000 for
playoff spots, two to three times the previous amount. MSG this
quarter will make about $25 million from carriage fees and $13
million from advertising, said  David Joyce , a media analyst at
Miller Tabak & Co.  The Knicks made a coaching change on March 14 amid a six-
game losing streak, replacing  Mike D’Antoni  with assistant Mike Woodson. New York has since won all five games, improving to 23-
24, and is one game ahead of the  Milwaukee Bucks  in the battle
for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference.  Lin last night had 18 points, five rebounds and three
assists as the Knicks beat the Philadelphia 76ers 82-79 on the
road. The Knicks are now three games behind the Atlantic
Division-leading 76ers.  O’Neil said he’s sending some employees to  China  in the
next few weeks and will make the trip himself in April or May to
solicit new sponsorship and marketing agreements.  Multiple Appeal  While winning is important, O’Neil and John Brody of
Wasserman Media Group said it isn’t the sole consideration to
those who consider themselves fans of Lin, whose Asian heritage,
Harvard pedigree and underdog storyline have widespread and
long-lasting appeal.  “Companies crave the opportunity to get closer to a story
that connects to the human element,” said Brody, president of
partnership and business development at  Wasserman  who brokered
the stadium naming-rights agreement between football’s New York
Jets and Giants and MetLife Inc. “Jeremy Lin is one of us if
you’re a basketball fan. He’s one of us if you’re an Ivy Leaguer.
He’s one of us if you’ve ever been left for dead in your career,
whether postal worker or NBA player. He’s the 21st century
success story that proves the world is flat.”  O’Neil said he’s most encouraged by his player’s presence
among digital consumers and place in social media such as
Twitter, where, according to the NBA, Lin since Feb. 4 has more
mentions than two-time Most Valuable Player  LeBron James . Users
of new technology such as the iPad tend to skew younger, which
means Lin is helping the franchise attract fans it otherwise
wouldn’t reach.  “Building the next generation,” said O’Neil. With Lin on
his team, he added, he doesn’t foresee some of the pitfalls
often encountered by companies seeking business partners in
China.  “I don’t think anybody in the history of sports will have
as easy a time getting in the door,” he said. “Jeremy is our
calling card.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  