-- JPMorgan Claims No. 1 for Government Debt After Jefferson County
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/jpmorgan-claims-no-1-for-government-debt-after-jefferson-county.html
Philadelphia was running low on
cash in August 2009 as Pennsylvania lawmakers refused to pass a
temporary sales-tax increase for the state’s biggest city.  Unable to sell notes with the legislation in flux, the
fifth-most populous U.S. city turned to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for
a $275 million loan. The firm was rewarded two years later, when
Philadelphia chose it over 13 other banks to manage a $254
million negotiated bond issue.  “JPMorgan brought their balance sheet to support the
city,” said Nancy Winkler, Philadelphia’s treasurer. “That’s
an important relationship, their ability to bring that.”  JPMorgan, which emerged from the worst financial crisis
since the 1930s as the most profitable  U.S. bank , has parlayed
crisis-era loans to cities and states and a willingness to
outbid other firms in local government bond auctions into
becoming the top underwriter of municipal debt last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the first time
the firm held that rank.  The turnaround was a milestone for JPMorgan’s municipal-
bond department, which has been marred by its involvement in two
of the biggest scandals in the history of U.S. public finance: a
so-called pay-to-play scheme in Jefferson County,  Alabama , that
contributed to the biggest-ever U.S. municipal bankruptcy, and a
federal probe that uncovered bid rigging of municipal-bond
investment products. It also underscores state and local
officials’ willingness to overlook bankers’ past abuses when
they set out to borrow money in debt markets.  ‘Good Service’  “I haven’t found an investment bank that hasn’t had some
problem in the last three years,” California Treasurer Bill Lockyer said in a telephone interview. “We do business with
them all. I think they provide good service. I think they’ve
been highly ethical with us.”  In November 2009, JPMorgan agreed to a $722 million
 settlement  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to
end a case over secret payments to friends of Jefferson County
commissioners in the sale of sewer bonds and interest-rate
swaps. The county filed for  bankruptcy protection  four months
ago. Last July the firm agreed to pay $211 million in a separate
settlement with state and federal regulators, admitting that
former employees had rigged bids of municipal-investment
contracts.  In 2011, JPMorgan managed $35.7 billion of long-term bond
sales, $200 million more than  Bank of America Merrill Lynch , its
closest competitor, according to Bloomberg data. This year
through March 19, JPMorgan also ranked first, with Bank of
America second.  ‘Deploying Our Capital’  “Deploying our capital for municipalities and non-profits
all around the country is one of the most powerful ways we, as
an institution, can use our position of strength,” said Paul Palmeri, 46, who was selected to head New York-based JPMorgan’s
public-finance department on March 13.  The financial crisis that began in 2007 led to a
consolidation of  investment banking , including in the $3.7
trillion U.S. municipal market. Bear Stearns Cos., the broker-
dealer operation of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc (LEH) . and  Merrill
Lynch & Co. (MER)  were absorbed by JPMorgan,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  respectively.  UBS AG (UBSN)  left the public finance
business.  Last year JPMorgan, Bank of America Merrill,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managed 46 percent of the $283.3 billion in
long-term municipal debt issued in the U.S.  Issuance fell 36 percent from the previous year because the
federal Build America Bonds program expired and cash-strapped
governments curbed new borrowing.  Palmeri took over the bank’s municipal business from Jeff Bosland, who was promoted last week to the head of sales and
marketing for fixed income and equities in the Americas.  Drummer  Palmeri, a drummer who played in high school and college
bands and counts Rush’s Neil Peart and rock-fusion percussionist
Shane Gaalaas among his favorites, was formerly head of
municipal sales and trading.  Bosland and Palmeri joined JPMorgan’s municipal department
from other parts of the bank in April 2008. Bosland, who was
JPMorgan’s head of agency trading and underwriting, became co-
head of public finance. Palmeri, who worked in the bank’s
mortgages group, became head of short-term municipal sales and
trading.  Financial damage was all around them. A month before,
JPMorgan had acquired Bear Stearns in a forced sale, after
clients and investors pulled $17 billion in cash from the 85-
year-old firm in two days, fearing losses on subprime bonds.  Meanwhile, the SEC was probing JPMorgan’s sales of $5
billion of bonds and derivatives to Jefferson County. And
federal prosecutors were targeting the bank’s former head of
municipal derivative sales and at least four others in a
criminal antitrust investigation into bid rigging involving
products that state and local governments use to invest bond
proceeds.  ‘Work to Do’  “It’s very fair to say, when we began in 2008, we had a
lot of work to do,” said Palmeri.  One of their first priorities was integrating the JPMorgan
and Bear Stearns banking teams. JPMorgan cut about 70 of its
public finance employees, replacing some of them with Bear
personnel. The acquisition boosted JPMorgan’s profile in state
housing finance and helped it expand its national banking
coverage. Key hires in transportation and public power brought
in more clients.  The bank also started addressing its regulatory and legal
issues.  In September 2008, JPMorgan said it would close its
municipal derivatives desk, stopping the sales of interest-rate
swaps to states and local governments.  SEC Lawsuit  A year later, the SEC sued two former JPMorgan bankers,
saying they made more than $8 million in secret payments to
friends of Jefferson County commissioners. The firm inflated the
cost of the swaps to cover the payments, the SEC said.  Larry Langford , the former Jefferson County commissioner in
charge of finance, was found guilty on U.S. criminal charges of
accepting bribes from a local investment banker who had received
payments from JPMorgan. No charges were filed against the firm.  Under chief executive  Jamie Dimon , who joined the bank
after the Jefferson County deals were done, JPMorgan largely
avoided investing in subprime housing loans. Dimon has said the
bank didn’t need $25 billion in bailout money offered by the
 Federal Reserve .  JPMorgan was the only major U.S. financial institution to
remain profitable throughout the crisis. On March 13, it raised
its dividend and authorized a share-repurchase plan after
passing the Federal Reserve’s tests of how lenders would fare in
an economic decline.  Continuing to Lend  The bank continued to lend to state and local governments
throughout the recession as others pulled back, with the support
of senior management.  “They walked into the financial crisis with one of the
strongest bank balance sheets. Why not use it?” said
Christopher “Kit” Taylor, former executive director of the
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. “You probably knew you
were going to get the underwriting on the other side.”  In August 2009, after  California  closed a $24 billion
 budget deficit , JPMorgan loaned the state $1.5 billion so it
could pay IOU’s issued during a cash crisis. The loan helped
keep the state funded until September, when it could issue $8.8
billion in short-term debt.  Last month, JPMorgan loaned California $500 million for
four months at 0.2 percent so the most-populous U.S. state could
pay bills after tax collections trailed budgeted amounts.
Barclays, which acquired Lehman’s investment banking and capital
markets operations, also lent the state $500 million, charging a
lower interest-rate than other banks, Lockyer said.  $1.9 Billion  JPMorgan and Barclays also co-managed a $1.9 billion
refinancing for the state. Lockyer said that the favorable terms
of the short-term loan “was one of the considerations” for
hiring the two banks to handle the refinancing.  Lockyer said JPMorgan’s support in hard times is something
officials remember when issuing new bonds.  “When there’s a stretch on the side of the bank and a good
deal for the state, we certainly consider that when we’re doing
future business,” he said. “It’s not automatic but it
certainly gives them brownie points.”  In addition to offering direct loans, JPMorgan has
increased its focus on competitive underwriting, showing a
greater willingness to commit the bank’s capital to buy bonds
and then resell them to investors. JPMorgan increased its share
of competitive long-term bond issues last year to 19.5 percent
from 10.3 percent the previous year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Competitive Sale  In a competitive sale an issuer offers its bonds for sale
and banks bid against each other to purchase the bonds. The bank
assumes the risk it might not be able to sell all the bonds it
bought.  Nationwide, about 20 percent of debt issued by states and
local governments is sold through competitive bids. The rest is
done through negotiated underwriting, in which municipalities
select a bank in advance to price the bonds.  JPMorgan’s readiness to take risks in competitive
underwriting was on display in December 2008, when, a week after
Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich  was arrested, it was the only
bank to bid on a $1 billion portion of $1.4 billion in short-
term notes. The state had delayed the deal because of
Blagojevich’s indictment for bribery.  JPMorgan also bought $9.1 billion of $9.8 billion of short-
term notes auctioned by  Texas  last August -- the biggest
competitive auction in municipal-market history.  ‘Shows Our Commitment’  “That shows our commitment to use our balance sheet when
we think it’s appropriate to help our clients,” Palmeri said.  This December, in a $400 million auction of  Massachusetts 
bonds on December 20, JPMorgan offered a total interest cost of
2.57 percent, beating Bank of America, the second-lowest bidder,
offering 2.79 percent. The competition helped Massachusetts save
$880,000.  As part of the Massachusetts deal, JPMorgan agreed to buy
$40 million of bonds maturing in 2021, paying $114 per $1,000
security. The same day, $10 million of the bonds were sold to a
customer for $113 per $1,000 bonds, a $100,000 loss, trade
records filed with the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
show.  ‘Incredibly Important’  “It’s not a high-margin business, but it’s a business
that’s incredibly important to our clients,” said James Lansing, JPMorgan’s head of municipal debt capital markets. “If
a firm is willing to commit its own capital to underwrite bonds
and it’s confident that it can distribute that paper, that’s a
great fact that other issuers can point to and say, ‘I know I
can award negotiated business to this underwriter because
they’re going to get great execution.’ ”  That’s what happened in  Washington  State last year. The
state chose JPMorgan from a pre-qualified pool of banks to
manage $1.1 billion of bonds. The state selected JPMorgan in
part because of the bank’s participation in its competitive bond
sales and also its expertise in structuring transportation
deals, said Chris McGann, a spokesman for Treasurer James
McIntyre.  “They’re able to place the bonds and they’re familiar with
the type of investors who like to invest in Washington,” McGann
said.  JPMorgan has beefed up its distribution to individual
investors through strategic agreements with UBS and Charles
Schwab & Co. The agreements give JPMorgan access to 17,000 of
the two firms’ retail brokers.  Beyond the Scandals  That JPMorgan was able get underwriting business in
Philadelphia shows it has moved beyond the scandals.  In 2005, two former JPMorgan bankers pleaded guilty to
arranging a $50,000 payment to a bond lawyer and fundraiser for
former Mayor John Street to get underwriting business.  That prompted officials working for the new mayor, Michael Nutter, to avoid doing underwriting business through JPMorgan
for more than year, Treasurer Nancy Winkler said.  That changed when JPMorgan loaned Philadelphia money to pay
its bills in August 2009.  “They got rid of a lot of people, a lot of leadership, as
well as the bankers,” she said. “The bankers that they have
covering the city are very good. We need to be able to have them
as partners.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  