-- Kinzinger Support From Cantor Draws Tax Group Warning
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-03-21T21:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/kinzinger-defeats-manzullo-in-house-primary-in-illinois.html
Freshman U.S. Representative Adam Kinzinger’s defeat of 10-term  Illinois  incumbent Don Manzullo,
with help from House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , prompted an
anti-tax group to warn Republican leaders not to take sides in
other intra-party races.  The Club for Growth, which supports fiscally conservative
Republican candidates, said it would support Arizona
Representative David Schweikert in a Republican primary fight if
House leaders back his fellow Republican, Ben Quayle.  Hours after Kinzinger, 34, a former military combat pilot,
was declared the winner over Manzullo in the March 20 Illinois
Republican primary, Club for Growth President  Chris Chocola 
urged House leaders to stay neutral in the Arizona race between
the two freshman Republicans. Both incumbent-versus-incumbent
races were prompted by legislative redistricting.  The Club for Growth was “alarmed” to see Cantor
“aggressively take sides in favor” of Kinzinger because
“Manzullo clearly had a better record of voting for limited
government,” Chocola said in a  letter  to Cantor, House Speaker
 John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Republican Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of
 California .  The redrawn Illinois 16th congressional district stretches
from the Illinois-Wisconsin line north and west of Chicago south
and east to the Indiana line.  Cantor had taken the unusual step of making an endorsement
during a Republican primary. YG Action Fund, a super-PAC run by
ex-Cantor aides, spent $52,000 to produce and place radio ads to
help Kinzinger. That’s the only independent expenditure the
super-PAC has reported, according to its Federal Election
Commission filings.  ‘Get His Name Out’  Those radio ads “definitely helped get his name out there
in the final days,” said Jessica Taylor, a senior analyst with
the non-partisan Rothenberg Political Report.  In his letter, Chocola said if Republican leaders try to
defeat Schweikert, the “Club for Growth PAC will vigorously
come to his defense.”  The letter noted that Boehner’s Freedom Project PAC had
given $10,000 to Quayle, the son of former Vice President Dan
Quayle, before legislative redistricting pitted him against
Schweikert. Chocola urged Boehner “in the name of neutrality”
to give $10,000 to Schweikert’s campaign as well.  Cory Fritz, a spokesman for Boehner’s political action
committee, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  Ray Allen Jr., a spokesman for Cantor’s re-election
campaign in  Virginia , said the majority leader “has not
endorsed in the Arizona race” and “has appeared at events for
both gentlemen.”  Risks for Party Leaders  Cantor’s endorsement of Kinzinger and the Club for Growth’s
reaction shows the risk of leaders getting involved in intra-
party disputes, said  John Pitney , a political scientist at
Claremont Mckenna College in Claremont, California.  “The risks exceed the benefits of getting involved,” he
said. “It’s very seldom going to end well.”  Schweikert, who was briefly a member of the House
leadership whip organization, called the Club for Growth’s
letter “heartwarming” because “it demonstrates that some of
the conservative community has made it clear they are going to
step up and defend us.”  The 50-year-old lawmaker said the Aug. 28 primary against
Quayle “seems to becoming a proxy” for “establishment versus
reform.”  ‘Outside Groups’  Because “I am not the son of a former vice president,”
Schweikert said “we fully expect” that “outside groups
because of that relationship step into our race.”  In Illinois,  Manzullo and Kinzinger ran against each other
because of redistricting after the state lost a House seat after
the 2010  U.S. Census .  Manzullo, 67, was targeted by the independent  Campaign for
Primary Accountability , a super-PAC that has spent more than $1
million to challenge incumbents, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a non-partisan Washington-based group that
monitors campaign finance.  The Campaign for Primary Accountability spent $227,731 on
direct-mail ads, postcard mailings and other independent
campaign efforts seeking to defeat Manzullo.  Kinzinger’s 56 percent victory to Manzullo’s 44 percent is
tantamount to election because no Democrat filed to run in the
congressional district.  ‘Even Worse Record’  Kinzinger, a former Air National Guard pilot who served
five tours of duty in Afghanistan and  Iraq , was elected to
Congress in 2010 with support from the  Tea Party  movement.  Chocola’s letter said Kinzinger had an “even worse
record” on issues important to the Club for Growth than
Manzullo.  In his campaign ads, Kinzinger characterized Manzullo as
being part of the “old majority” of  House Republicans  that
“lost its way on spending” by supporting a 60 percent increase
in federal expenditures during the two terms of President  George W. Bush .  Manzullo cast himself as the true “conservative choice,”
saying in one ad that Kinzinger “isn’t much different than the
Democrat he replaced.”  Manzullo’s defeat by Kinzinger may be a warning to
Representative  John Mica , a 10-term incumbent who is pitted in a
Florida primary against a freshman Republican, Pitney said.  ‘Old Bulls’  “In a year like this, the old bulls need to watch their
backs” Pitney said, because saying “‘I’ve served in  Washington 
a long time’ doesn’t necessary earn a lot of points with the
electorate.”  Mica, who is running against freshman Republican Sandy
Adams, said Manzullo’s defeat is isn’t unsettling. Mica says he
takes comfort that, this year, Manzullo had support from Tea
Party-allied groups.  “Mr Manzullo was a sweetheart for the Tea Party, so was my
potential opponent, so I got a little grin on my face today,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  