-- Kraft’s Name Change to Mondelez Leaves Experts Guessing
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-03-21T20:19:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/kraft-s-name-change-to-mondelez-leaves-experts-guessing.html
Is it pronounced mon-dah-lay? Mon-
dah-lezz? Oh, it’s mohn-dah-LEEZ.  That, according to corporate naming expert Nina Beckhardt,
is the first problem with Mondelez, the name  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) 
plans to give its global snacks business after spinning off its
U.S. grocery unit this year.  The second problem: What does it mean? The name is a
combination of the word “monde,” derived from the Latin for
“world,” and “delez,” an expression for delicious. The name
might suit a company commanding $32 billion in revenue from
Beijing to Berlin if the connection was apparent. It’s not,
Beckhardt said.  “The public gets sick of compressed words if they aren’t
intuitive,” said Beckhardt, founder and president of The Naming
Group, a New York-based firm that has named shoes for  Puma SE (PUM) 
and high-end stereos for  Sony Corp. (6758)  “When the pronunciation
isn’t accessible, it looks bad. It’s not intuitive.”  Mondelez isn’t the first corporate name to generate
confusion. When Andersen Consulting switched to Accenture in
2001, pundits wondered why they would leave behind such name
recognition. The move paid off later when Arthur Andersen
accounting -- once under the same corporate umbrella as the
consulting firm -- became embroiled in the  Enron Corp. (ENRNQ) 
accounting scandal.  Philip Morris  changed its name to  Altria Group Inc. (MO) ,
claiming that the Latin word “altus,” suggested high
performance. The name also disassociated the company from the
baggage of tobacco litigation and health concerns.  Corporate Versus Brand  Corporate name changes tend to have less of an impact,
either good or bad, than brand name changes, Beckhardt said.
That could be good news for Northfield, Illinois-based Kraft,
which plans to use Mondelez strictly on the back of packages of
such snack foods as Oreo cookies and Newtons snacks. After the
split, the snacks business will market those brands directly to
consumers and Mondelez will remain in the background.  Establishing the corporate name will take time, said Sharon
Shedroff, founder of San Diego consulting firm Strategic Vision
Inc. The Mondelez name may be understood in European countries
where Latin-based languages are spoken. People speaking other
languages will have a tougher time figuring it out.  “Until the brand is established, it will be difficult for
people to give it meaning in the U.S. and probably in  Asia ,”
Shedroff said in a phone interview. “Brands under it, like
Oreo, could lend credibility to Mondelez.”  Kraft Groceries  Kraft’s grocery business will retain the Kraft name as it
continues selling cheese and other items that have borne founder
J.L. Kraft’s moniker since he started as a wholesaler in 1903.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s decision to put its corporate name on
Datsun cars sold in the U.S. in 1981 was a disaster, said Jim Hall, principal of 2953 Analytics in Birmingham,  Michigan .  Americans liked the Datsun 510 sedan and 240Z sports car,
and Datsun was the second-best selling Japanese brand in the
U.S. behind  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  at the time. The change to Nissan
caused confusion, Hall said. Today, Nissan trails Toyota and
 Honda Motor Co. (7267)   Kraft asked employees to suggest names, and more than 1,000
participated, submitting more than 1,700 potential names, the
company said. The inspiration for Mondelez came from two
employees, one in  Europe  and another in  North America .  Kraft realizes that the pronunciation of Mondelez isn’t
easily picked up by everyone, said Michael Mitchell, a company
spokesman. People will figure it out before too long, he said.  “It will take a while to get used to,” Mitchell said in a
phone interview. “People will learn how to pronounce it, and it
will be good.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  