-- N.Z. Growth Slows More Than Forecast, Adding to Rate Pause Case
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-03-21T23:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/n-z-s-growth-slowed-more-than-economists-forecast-last-quarter.html
New Zealand ’s economic growth
slowed to half the pace economists predicted in the fourth
quarter as manufacturing fell, adding to the case for no change
in interest rates until next year.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.3 percent in the three months
ended Dec. 31 from the previous quarter, when it increased a
revised 0.7 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a report
released today in Wellington. The result compares with the 0.6
percent median projection in a Bloomberg News survey of 16
economists.  New Zealand’s dollar fell to the lowest level in a week as
investors reduced bets that central bank Governor Alan Bollard
will raise the official cash rate from a record-low 2.5 percent
this year. The fifth straight quarterly expansion last quarter
was half the growth the central bank had forecast, with spending
tied to  Rugby World Cup  tourism and a surge in farm production
helping prevent a bigger slowdown.  “We continue to look for a December start to the
tightening cycle, but stress this is based on an assumption that
economic momentum in the economy will pick up in the second
half,”  Mark Smith , an economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington, said in a research note.  New Zealand’s dollar fell as low as 81.01 U.S. cents from
81.32 cents immediately before the report. It bought 81.18 cents
as of 12:11 p.m. in Wellington.  The chance of a quarter-point rate rise by December fell to
40 percent from 56 percent late yesterday, according to swaps
prices from  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   Annual Growth  The economy grew 1.8 percent from the year-earlier quarter,
slower than the 2.2 percent estimated by economists and matching
the revised pace in the third quarter.  Growth accelerated in the second half of last year, adding
to the case for a steady recovery after earthquakes in the South
Island city of Christchurch curbed domestic demand.  The city, the nation’s second biggest, and the surrounding
Canterbury region were struck by quakes in September 2010 and
another in February 2011 that killed 185, making the latter the
nation’s deadliest temblor in eight decades. Bollard has held
the nation’s benchmark borrowing cost since lowering it a half
percentage point in March 2011.  Twelve of 14 economists expect no change in  interest rates 
until the fourth quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg
survey.  Bollard on March 8 signaled he may leave the benchmark rate
unchanged until the end of the year because modest growth and
the New Zealand dollar’s gain of about 10 percent in the past
year are curbing inflation. He expects annual growth will
accelerate to 3.3 percent by the end of 2012.  Farm Production Gains  In the fourth quarter, the production-based measure of GDP
was led higher by farm production and output from the retail and
hospitality industries amid spending by 133,000 foreign visitors
and local fans on dining, accommodation and souvenirs around the
Rugby  World Cup , which ended Oct. 23. Output from manufacturing
and government administration declined.  Farm production rose 3.5 percent on favorable weather
conditions that led to increased milk production.  Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd (FCG) ., the world’s biggest dairy exporter, said
in December that milk collection was 8.4 percent higher than a
year earlier. The Auckland-based company later said it loaded a
record volume of products for overseas customers.  Retail, accommodation and restaurant activity rose 2.2
percent to a record in the quarter, today’s report showed.
Construction rose for the first time in four quarters and there
was increased output from finance and business services, led by
advertising, the statistics agency said.  Consumption Patterns  Manufacturing (NZNTMANU)  fell 2.5 percent as meat slaughter slowed,
the agency said. Output from the government fell the most in 13
years as less work was done on earthquake response in
Christchurch.  Spending on furniture, appliances and other durable goods
led a 0.8 percent gain in household consumption, the statistics
agency said.  Investment increased 1.7 percent, led by a rebound in
spending on residential buildings from an 18-year low in the
previous quarter. Business investment in fixed assets rose, led
by one-time purchases of transport equipment including military
helicopters, the agency said.  Exports of goods, which make up 30 percent of the economy,
gained 4.3 percent, as dairy shipments rose to a record, today’s
report showed. Exports of services fell, led by transport
services, countering a gain in spending by foreign visitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  