-- NAB Wins $6.5 Million Security Payment in Shareholder Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-21T03:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/nab-wins-6-5-million-security-payment-in-shareholder-lawsuit.html
National  Australia  Bank Ltd.
shareholders must pay the bank A$6.2 million ($6.5 million) as
security for its legal costs in a class action lawsuit, a judge
said in a decision the stockholders’ lawyer said reduces access
to justice in Australia.  The shareholders sued in the  Supreme Court  of Victoria in
 Melbourne  in November 2010 seeking to recoup A$450 million they
claim was lost as the bank’s stock declined because of its
exposure to U.S. subprime debt in 2008.  National Australia Bank said it expects to spend more than
A$20 million on legal costs until trial and had asked the judge
to order the shareholders to pay A$11 million. The plaintiffs
challenged it, calling the sum “extraordinary in size and
unprecedented in Australian legal history,” according to the
ruling by Justice  Jennifer Davies , who cut the requested amount
by almost half.  The final amount is still “very high,”  Jacob Varghese  of
Maurice Blackburn Lawyers, who represents the shareholders, said
today in a phone interview. “It sets a precedent in Victoria”
and “reduces access to justice,” he said.  Plaintiffs would usually be unable to put up that much
money in security, he said. In this case the lawsuit is being
funded by International Litigation Funding Partners Pte, who
will pay the amount, Varghese said.  Sharna Rhys-Jones , a spokeswoman at National Australia
Bank, said the bank would comment later on the ruling.  National Australia Bank failed to disclose at the beginning
of 2008 that it had serious exposure and serious risk of losses,
from its subprime mortgage exposure,  Andrew Watson , Maurice
Blackburn principal, said when the lawsuit was filed.  Shares Plunged  The bank’s  shares  fell 36 percent from July 24, 2008, to
Sept. 18, 2008, after the Melbourne-based lender boosted
provisions for its exposure to U.S. subprime mortgages to A$1
billion from A$181 million in early May of that year. The bank
held A$1.2 billion of collateralized debt obligations,
structured debt securities that are backed by bonds or loans.  The U.S. subprime-mortgage market collapsed in 2007,
triggering a global financial crisis.  About 250 shareholders, including institutions, signed up
for the lawsuit.  National Australia Bank had asked a judge to order the
plaintiffs to identify the shareholders involved in the class
action suit.  Justice  Tony Pagone  rejected National Australia Bank’s
request in a March 5 ruling, saying the bank had other means to
identify the shareholders than a judicial order before trial.  The case is Between Pathway Investments Ltd. and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  SCL2010-6249. Supreme Court of Victoria
(Melbourne).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  