-- New York City’s Queens Now Cheaper for Buying Homes Than Renting
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-21T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/new-york-city-s-queens-now-cheaper-for-buying-homes-than-renting.html
Buying a home has become more
affordable than leasing in  New York City ’s Queens borough as
prices declined and landlords raised rents, Trulia Inc. said.  Purchasing was cheaper in 98 out of the 100 largest U.S.
metropolitan areas surveyed by the real estate data provider.
That’s up from 97 regions last year as New York, which
encompasses the suburbs as well as the city’s five boroughs,
flipped positions in favor of buyers. Renting was the better
deal in Honolulu and  San Francisco , where a tight supply of
homes pushed values higher, according to Trulia.  “ Buying (HOWNRATE)  is cheaper than renting almost everywhere because
prices have fallen so much since the housing bubble peaked,”
Jed Kolko, chief economist with San Francisco-based Trulia, said
in an e-mail. “At the same time, rents have been stable or
rising in most markets.”  As home values have fallen more than 30 percent from their
2006 peak, the monthly cost to  lease  is roughly the same or more
expensive than it is to buy in many U.S. markets, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Monthly apartment rents averaged $1,263 in
the fourth quarter, the highest since 2008, according to
brokerage CBRE Group Inc.  In  New York  City, purchasing became the better bargain in
Queens for the first time, while the Bronx favored buyers for a
second year, Trulia’s Kolko said. Renting remained cheaper than
buying in  Manhattan ,  Brooklyn  and Staten Island.  Queens Prices  The median sales price for a home in Queens fell 7 percent
in the fourth quarter from a year earlier to $343,000, New York
appraiser  Miller Samuel  Inc. and brokerage Prudential Douglas
Elliman Real Estate said in January report.  With more foreclosures coming on to the market in the
borough, “that’s going to keep house prices down,” Jonathan
Miller, president of Miller Samuel, said in a telephone
interview.  In Trulia’s survey, purchasing was cheapest in the  Detroit ,
Oklahoma City and Dayton, Ohio, areas.  The report was based on asking prices for sale and rental
homes on Trulia.com between Dec. 1, 2011, and Feb. 29, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  