-- Tebow Joins Jets From Broncos After Resolution of Pay Dispute
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-22T01:42:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/new-york-jets-acquire-tim-tebow-from-denver-broncos.html
Tim Tebow was traded to the  New
York Jets  from the  Denver Broncos  after the teams resolved a
snag over the quarterback’s contract.  The Broncos confirmed the deal in a statement tonight,
saying they were getting a fourth-round and sixth-round pick in
next month’s  National Football League  draft in exchange for
Tebow and a seventh-round choice.  The Jets agreed to pay half of a $5 million salary advance
to the quarterback, ESPN reported, without citing a source for
its information. Denver made no mention of the contract amount
in its statement.  Tebow, who was taken by the Broncos in the first round from
the University of Florida two years ago, created a national stir
with his comeback play and religious profile last season. He’s
now heading to a team that’s been rocked by an on-field collapse
and locker-room squabbles.  The trade comes a day after the Broncos signed four-time
NFL Most Valuable Player Peyton Manning to be their starting
quarterback. After leading Denver to the playoffs last season,
Tebow will be a backup in  New York  to  Mark Sanchez .  The Jets originally confirmed the trade on their official
 Twitter account  at midday today, without disclosing what they
gave up. The contract dispute then popped up, first reported by
ESPN.  Jaguars Option?  At one point, the network said that the Broncos were giving
Tebow the decision on whether to be sent to the Jets or the
 Jacksonville Jaguars , who play in the area of northeast Florida
where the quarterback grew up.  That story, which didn’t cite any source, was soon followed
by another report that New York was the destination, and then by
the Broncos’ confirmation.  The addition of Tebow won’t affect the Jets’  Super Bowl 
chances, oddsmakers said. Andrew Patterson of Las Vegas Sports
Consultants, which helps casinos set sports betting lines, said
they remain 25-1 shots for the title.  Tebow, 24, had a 7-4 regular-season record as a starter in
Denver last season, helping the team rebound from a 1-4 start
and get its first playoff win since 2005.  He was voted America’s favorite active pro athlete in an
ESPN fan-based poll in January and spawned a fad known as
“Tebowing” through his kneel-and-pray pose after victories. He
has been outspoken in professing his Christian faith.  Jets Turmoil  The Jets also finished last season 8-8 and missed the
playoffs as they were beset by locker-room controversy,
including verbal altercations between Sanchez and receiver
 Santonio Holmes .  Sanchez signed a new three-year contract this month and
Jets owner Woody Johnson said Holmes would be back with the team
next season.  As the Jets collapsed late in the season, losing their last
three games, the team they share a stadium with, the  New York
Giants , went on to win its second Super Bowl title in five
seasons. Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said after the season he had lost
the pulse of the team and promised not to keep predicting Super
Bowl championships for his club.  While Tebow guided five fourth-quarter comeback wins last
season, his 46.5 completion percentage as a passer was the worst
among the league’s starting quarterbacks.  Sanchez completed a career-high 56.7 percent of his passes
last season, his third as a starter. The Jets agreed March 16 on
a contract with backup quarterback Drew Stanton, who played his
first four seasons for the  Detroit Lions . They also have
quarterback Greg McElroy on their roster.  Rushing Game  The 6-foot-2, 236-pound Tebow, who won two national
championships at  Florida , rushed for 660 yards and six
touchdowns last year, when the Broncos had the league’s top
rushing attack.  The Jets may use Tebow in offensive packages that feature a
running back taking a direct snap from center. Jets offensive
coordinator  Tony Sparano  incorporated those types of plays when
he was coach of the  Miami Dolphins  and the Jets occasionally
used the strategy with former college quarterback  Brad Smith  to
help them reach American Football Conference championship games
in 2009 and 2010. Smith joined the  Buffalo Bills  before last
season.  Jets cornerback  Antonio Cromartie  on his  Twitter account 
questioned why the team is adding Tebow when it need to “bring
in more weapons” for Sanchez. The Jets’ offense ranked 25th out
of 32 teams in total yards last season.  Win Over Jets  Tebow led the Broncos to a 17-13 victory over the Jets in
Denver on Nov. 17 by directing a 95-yard drive in the closing
minutes, capped by his game-winning 20-yard touchdown run. He
completed 9-of-20 passes for 104 yards against the Jets, while
rushing eight times for 68 yards.  For the season, Tebow completed 126 of 271 passes for 1,729
yards, with 12 touchdowns and six interceptions.  Although Tebow emerged as a fan favorite in Denver,  John Elway , a Hall of Fame quarterback with the Broncos and now their
executive vice president of football operations, personally
recruited Manning, who signed a five-year free-agent deal
yesterday that ESPN said is worth $96 million.  Elway said during Manning’s introductory news conference
that the Broncos were looking into trading Tebow.  ‘Tough Business’  “This is a tough business and I will tell you the toughest
thing about this whole thing is  Tim Tebow , because of what I
think about Tim Tebow,” Elway said. “The things that he did
last year were tremendous in helping turn this organization
around from a 4-12 team to a playoff team and winning the
division. I have a great deal of respect for him, as a person
and for the things that he does.”  While the odds on the Broncos winning the Super Bowl
dropped to 10-1 after the signing of Manning, Tebow’s arrival in
New York won’t have that kind of impact on the Jets’ chances of
winning the championship next season, according to Patterson of
Las Vegas Sports Consultants.  “I don’t see how he makes the Jets a better football
team,” he said by telephone. “He’s not going to play
quarterback, he’s going to come in maybe on third downs, but if
a team signs a really good fullback, does it affect their win
total or game lines? No, not really.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  