-- NFL Suspends Saints’ Coach Payton for Year Over Bounty Program
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-03-21T17:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/nfl-suspends-saints-coach-payton-for-year-over-bounty-program.html
The  National Football League 
suspended the New Orleans Saints’ Super Bowl-winning coach Sean Payton for one year, banned General Manager Mickey Loomis for
eight games and indefinitely barred former assistant coach  Gregg Williams  for running a bounty program that paid players for
injuring opponents.  No players were immediately punished by the league, which
said in an e-mailed statement that the case remained under
review. The NFL said on March 2 that about two dozen Saints
players, led by Williams, paid each other as much as $1,500 for
injuring opponents. It said the bounty plan targeted players
including Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Brett Favre  and  Kurt Warner  from 2009 through 2011.  Today’s action was among the stiffest penalties ever
imposed by the league on a team and its leadership.  “A combination of elements made this matter particularly
unusual and egregious,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said in
the statement. “When there is targeting of players for injury
and cash rewards over a three-year period, the involvement of
the coaching staff, and three years of denials and willful
disrespect of the rules, a strong and lasting message must be
sent that such conduct is totally unacceptable and has no place
in the game.”  Loomis, Payton and Williams all apologized for their roles
in the program in statements after the league announced the
results of its investigation. Williams, 53, occasionally
contributed to the funds himself, the NFL said.  ‘Terrible Mistake’  “It was a terrible mistake, and we knew it was wrong when
we were doing it,” Williams, now defensive coordinator for the
 St. Louis Rams , said in an e-mailed statement this month.
“Instead of getting caught up in it, I should have stopped it.
I take full responsibility for my role.”  Players were paid $1,500 for a “knockout” in which an
opposing player was unable to return to the game, and $1,000 for
a “cart-off” in which opponents were carried off the field,
according to the NFL investigation. Payments doubled or tripled
during the playoffs.  Such a pool violates an NFL rule prohibiting non-contract
bonuses. Players can’t receive added pay for performance against
particular teams or opponents, or for on-field misconduct such
as injuring opponents or personal fouls.  The NFL has increasingly handed out fines and suspensions
for illegal hits, while changing rules to protect players over
the past three seasons. Pittsburgh Steelers Pro Bowl linebacker
 James Harrison  was suspended for one game last year for his
fifth illegal hit on a quarterback over that span.  That effort comes as the NFL is being sued by former
players who say it ignored the dangers posed by head injuries.  “There is no place in the NFL for deliberately seeking to
injure another player, let alone offering a reward for doing
so,” Goodell said in the league statement today.  Payton’s Knowledge  Payton knew about the pool, even though he wasn’t a direct
participant in funding or administering it, the NFL said. He
“did not make any detailed inquiry or otherwise seek to learn
the facts, and failed to stop the bounty program.”  Saints Owner Tom Benson learned of the program from
investigators, who began looking into the matter in early 2010
after allegations the Saints had targeted Favre and Warner.
Benson told Loomis to end it immediately, and there’s no
evidence Loomis made any effort to do that, the NFL said.  Four days after the NFL announced its investigation, Loomis
and Payton apologized for the bounty program, and said Benson
had “nothing to do” with it.  ‘Full Responsibility’  “We acknowledge that the violations disclosed by the NFL
during their investigation of our club happened under our
watch,” the two men said in a statement. “We take full
responsibility.”  Present and former players and coaches have said since the
NFL announcement that bounties are a part of life in the league.
Four former members of the  Washington Redskins  told the
Washington Post that team had a similar program when Williams
worked as defensive coordinator there between 2004 and 2007.  Previous hefty penalties in the NFL focused on off-field
actions.  The NFL fined the New England Patriots and coach Bill Belichick a combined $750,000 in 2008 and took away a first-
round draft choice for videotaping opposing teams’ signals in
violation of league rules, in a case that became known as
“Spygate.”  Running back Paul Hornung and defensive lineman Alex Karras
were suspended indefinitely in 1963 for betting on NFL games and
associating with undesirable people. Both were reinstated the
following year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 