-- NFL Bans Saints’ Coach Payton for Year Over Bounty Program
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-21T22:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/nfl-bans-saints-coach-payton-for-year-over-bounty-program-1-.html
The  National Football League 
suspended Super Bowl-winning coach Sean Payton for one year,
taking unprecedented action after finding the  New Orleans Saints 
ran a bounty program that paid players for injuring opponents.  The league also banned Saints General Manager Mickey Loomis
for eight games and indefinitely barred former assistant  Gregg Williams  for the program, in which about two dozen players, led
by Williams, paid each other as much as $1,500 for targeting
opponents such as Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks  Kurt Warner 
and  Brett Favre  from 2009 to 2011.  Today’s action was among the stiffest penalties ever
imposed by the league on a team and its leadership. NFL
spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail that the action on
Payton and Loomis was “unprecedented” against a coach and
general manager.  “A combination of elements made this matter particularly
unusual and egregious,” NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  said in
a statement. “When there is targeting of players for injury and
cash rewards over a three-year period, the involvement of the
coaching staff, and three years of denials and willful
disrespect of the rules, a strong and lasting message must be
sent that such conduct is totally unacceptable and has no place
in the game.”  The Saints also were fined $500,000 and stripped of second-
round draft picks in 2012 and 2013. No players were immediately
punished. The NFL said that part of the case remained under
review. Payton won’t be paid his 2012 salary, which the Times-
Picayune newspaper said was around $6 million.  “We offer our sincere apology and take full responsibility
for these serious violations,” the Saints said in an e-mailed
release. “It has always been the goal of the  New Orleans  Saints
to create a model franchise and to impact
our league in a positive manner. There is no place for bounties
in our league and we reiterate our pledge that this will never
happen again.”  ‘Stunning’ Sanctions  Brian Billick , who won a Super Bowl as coach of the
 Baltimore Ravens , called the extent of the sanctions
“stunning.”  “The commissioner is sending a clear message,” Billick,
now an analyst with News Corp.’s Fox and the NFL Network, said
in a telephone interview. “If you want to get rid of it, this
is how you do it.”  The loss of Payton and other penalties will have “a
minimal effect” on the Saints’  Super Bowl  chances, according to
Andrew Patterson, an oddsmaker for Las Vegas Sports Consultants,
which helps sports books set betting lines. He said New Orleans
was 8-1 before the penalties to win the title and probably will
move to 12-1, odds that may grow if players are punished. This
season’s Super Bowl is set for the Saints’ home field, the
Superdome, in February 2013.  Loomis, Payton and Williams all apologized for their roles
in the program in statements after the league announced the
results of its investigation on March 2. Williams, 53,
occasionally contributed to the funds himself, the NFL said.  ‘Terrible Mistake’  “It was a terrible mistake, and we knew it was wrong when
we were doing it,” Williams, now defensive coordinator for the
 St. Louis Rams , said in an e-mailed statement this month.
“Instead of getting caught up in it, I should have stopped it.
I take full responsibility for my role.”  Players were paid $1,500 for a “knockout” in which an
opposing player was unable to return to the game, and $1,000 for
a “cart-off” in which opponents were carried off the field,
according to the NFL investigation. Payments doubled or tripled
during the playoffs.  Williams acknowledged to the NFL that he designed and
implemented the program with the help of some defensive players,
including Jonathan Vilma, the defensive captain, who offered
$10,000 to any player who knocked Favre out of the National
Football Conference championship game in 2010.  Payout Order  The league’s ruling leaves little option for legal recourse
for Payton or Williams, according to Gabe Feldman, director of
the Sports Law Program at  Tulane University  in New Orleans. Any
formal appeal would go right back to the commissioner under the
league’s collective bargaining agreement, Feldman said in a
telephone interview.  “To get an outside review, you have to really make an
argument that the commissioner exceeded the scope of his
authority and acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner,” he
said. “That’s a tough argument to make, because this is a
really a contract issue. You agreed to give the commissioners
these powers.”  Within minutes of today’s announcement, the  Fleurty Girl 
boutique on Magazine Street in New Orleans was selling T-shirts
that read, “Free Payton.”  The Saints’ bounty pool violates an NFL rule prohibiting
non-contract bonuses. Players can’t receive added pay for
performance against particular teams or opponents, or for on-
field misconduct such as injuring opponents or personal fouls.
The Saints also made payments for interceptions or fumble
recoveries in violation of that rule, the NFL said.  Penalty Ranking  The Saints ranked among the NFL’s top-five teams in fouls
for unnecessary roughness penalties in 2009 and 2011, and for
illegal hits on the quarterback all three seasons, the league
said. Saints players totaled $45,000 in fines for fouls
committed in the divisional round and conference championship of
the 2010 playoffs.  Williams now says he misled investigators when first
contacted by the league in 2010 and made no effort to stop the
program, the NFL said. Assistant head coach Joe Vitt, who was
also suspended for six games, said he “fabricated the truth”
when questioned, denying the program existed.  Rodgers’ Bounty  Payton said this year he wasn’t aware of the program,
despite receiving an e-mail prior to the Saints’ opening game in
2011 that offered a $5,000 contribution for a bounty on Green
Bay Packers quarterback  Aaron Rodgers , the league said. Payton
said he never asked his defensive coaches if they were running a
bounty program and never ordered them to stop, even after Loomis
told him the about the NFL’s investigation early in 2010.  Loomis didn’t do enough to determine if the program existed
or to end it, making “only cursory inquiries” after being
ordered to do so by team owner Tom Benson in January 2012.  There’s no evidence that Benson had prior knowledge of the
bounties and ownership “made clear that it disapproved of the
program, gave prompt and clear direction that it stop, and gave
full and immediate cooperation to league investigators,” the
NFL said.  Four days after the NFL announced its investigation, Loomis
and Payton apologized for the bounty program, and said Benson
had “nothing to do” with it.  “We acknowledge that the violations disclosed by the NFL
during their investigation of our club happened under our
watch,” the two men said in a statement. “We take full
responsibility.”  NFL Campaign  The NFL has increasingly handed out fines and suspensions
for illegal hits, while changing rules to protect players over
the past three seasons. Pittsburgh Steelers Pro Bowl linebacker
 James Harrison  was suspended for one game last year for his
fifth illegal hit on a quarterback over that span.  That effort comes as the NFL is being sued by former
players who say it ignored the dangers posed by head injuries.
Owners of all 32 clubs were instructed today in a memo from the
league to ensure that no similar programs exist within their
teams, and to certify the fact in writing to Goodell by the end
of the month.  “I don’t think you can be too hard on people that put at
risk our players’ health and safety,” Goodell told NFL Network.
“That is a critical issue for us going forward and has been in
our past. We will always protect that. We will always make the
decision for the game long term and our players.  Present and former players and coaches have said since the
NFL announcement of its investigation that bounties are a part
of life in the league. Four former members of the  Washington
Redskins  told the Washington Post that team had a similar
program when Williams worked as its defensive coordinator
between 2004 and 2007.  Off-Field Focus  Previous hefty penalties in the NFL focused on off-field
actions.  The NFL fined the New England Patriots and coach Bill Belichick a combined $750,000 in 2008 and took away a first-
round draft choice for videotaping opposing teams’ signals in
violation of league rules, in a case that became known as
‘‘Spygate.”  Running back Paul Hornung and defensive lineman Alex Karras
were suspended indefinitely in 1963 for betting on NFL games and
associating with undesirable people. Both were reinstated the
following year.  David Carter , executive director of the Sports Business
Institute at the University of Southern California’s Marshall
School, said Goodell had to punish the Saints severely in order
to maintain the confidence of the league’s business partners.  “He could do nothing short of drop the hammer,” Carter
said in a telephone interview. “Whether you’re a broadcast
partner, sponsor or season-ticket holder, to think that
something like this might be going on in such a fashion is
totally unacceptable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 