-- Nigerian Finance Minister Said to Be Considered for World Bank
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-03-21T18:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/nigerian-finance-minister-said-to-be-considered-for-world-bank.html
Some African nations are planning
to nominate Nigeria’s Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala to
become president of the  World Bank , an official on the lender’s
board of directors said.  Okonjo-Iweala, who was a managing director at the
Washington-based World Bank until August, would be proposed by
 South Africa , according to the official, who spoke on condition
of not being named because the talks are not public. South
Africa also represents Nigeria and Angola on the 25-seat World
Bank board.  South African Treasury spokesman Jabulani Sikhakhane said
“we’re not commenting on the issue,” when contacted on his
mobile phone today. Mac Maharaj, a spokesman for South African
President Jacob Zuma, did not respond to a message left on his
mobile phone.  “It’s great there’s a conversation about merit,” said
Kevin Gallagher, associate professor of international relations
at  Boston University . “She knows a heck of a lot about
development. I’m not so sure what her thoughts and record is
with respect to environmental protection,” he said in reference
to a topic of increasing interest at the World Bank.  While the bank promised a “merit-based and transparent”
selection process, the position has always been held by a U.S.
citizen proposed by the U.S. president. Two days before a March
23 deadline, President Barack Obama’s administration has not
announced its candidate to replace Robert Zoellick, who has said
he will step down when his term ends June 30.  ‘Quite Surprising’  “The minister hasn’t put herself forward for the position
and she’s not actively seeking it,” Nigerian finance ministry
spokesman Paul Nwabuikwu said. “That’s why it’s quite
surprising the amount of support that the idea is getting from
 Africa  and other parts of the world.”  The World Bank’s board has said will decide on a shortlist
of as many as three candidates, whom it will interview, and that
it wants to make a decision by April 20.  The plan to nominate Okonjo-Iweala was reported earlier by
Reuters, which also said Brazil will nominate former Colombian
Finance Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo. Ocampo didn’t return a
call to his office at Columbia University in  New York .  Brazil, Russia,  India ,  China  and South Africa “and other
active developing countries in the World Bank are discussing the
issue,”  Carlos Cozendey, secretary for International Affairs
at the Brazilian Finance Ministry, said in a statement while
declining to confirm Ocampo’s candidacy. “The president of the
World Bank should be chosen by his merit and we think it is very
positive to have an open competitive process,” according to the
statement.  U.S. Nomination  Okonjo-Iweala’s possible candidacy may not be enough to
derail a nomination by the U.S., the bank’s largest shareholder,
said Uri Dadush, director of international economics at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in  Washington . The
U.S. last year also backed  Europe ’s pick for the  International
Monetary Fund  against Mexico’s candidate.  “The only scenario I can imagine where it would make it
difficult is if the U.S. doesn’t come up with a strong candidate
themselves,” Dadush said. “But if they do and they are
convinced they have a good candidate, I don’t think the African
countries can stop this.”  Another declared candidate is  Columbia University  economist
Jeffrey Sachs, who is backed by developing nations including
East Timor, which said it nominated him.  -- With assistance by Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia, Maram Mazen
in Abuja and  Franz Wild  in Johannesburg. Editors: Kevin Costelloe, Gail DeGeorge  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 