-- Nigeria February Inflation Unexpectedly Slows to 11.9%
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-03-21T13:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/nigeria-february-inflation-unexpectedly-slows-to-11-9-correct-.html
Nigerian  inflation  unexpectedly
slowed to 11.9 percent in February as record interest rates and
a partial removal of gasoline subsidies squeezed demand.  Inflation in  Africa ’s top oil producer slowed from 12.6
percent a month earlier, the Abuja-based  National Bureau of
Statistics  said on its website today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg  survey  of eight economists was 13.2 percent. Prices
rose 0.3 percent in the month.  President  Goodluck Jonathan  reduced subsidies in January,
retreating from a plan to completely remove them after a
weeklong general strike in protest. The Central Bank of Nigeria
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record high of 12 percent
for a second consecutive meeting on Jan. 31, after raising it
six percentage points since September 2010 to curb inflation and
bolster the currency.  The subsidy cut had a “contractionary impact” on real
disposable incomes, said  Razia Khan , the London-based head of
Africa research at Standard Chartered Plc, who described the
slowdown in inflation as a “huge surprise.” The central bank’s
policy tightening last year “is still feeding its way through
the real economy,” she wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Food price inflation eased to 10 percent from 13.1 percent
a month earlier. Food accounts for about half of the  consumer
price index .  ‘Support Bonds’  The central bank said in January that it expects inflation
to accelerate to as high as 14.5 percent in the first two
quarters, before slowing below the target level of 10 percent in
2013.  After today’s announcement, Absa Capital, a Johannesburg-
based investment bank owned by Barclays Plc, cut its inflation
projections. Strategists led by Ridle Markus said in an e-mailed
note that they now expect inflation to peak close to 14 percent
early in the third quarter, from an earlier prediction that it
would reach almost 15 percent by the middle of the year.  The drop in inflation “almost guarantees” that the bank
will keep interest rates unchanged at tomorrow’s monetary policy
meeting, said  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in  London , in an e-mail. Lower
inflation “coupled with the probable neutral  interest-rate 
decision, should also support bonds in the secondary market.”  Governor Lamido Sanusi said in January that the central
bank may need to raise the benchmark lending rate if lawmakers
increase spending above levels proposed by the government.
Nigeria’s National Assembly voted on March 15 to raise
 government spending  by about 6 percent above the budgeted
amount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  