-- NMDC to Cut Acqusition Funds After Failing to Buy Assets
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-03-21T06:41:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/nmdc-to-cut-acqusition-funds-after-failing-to-buy-assets.html
NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) ,  India ’s largest  iron ore 
producer, plans to slash the funds set aside to buy overseas
assets by 60 percent next year after spending 5 percent of the
budget to buy companies.  The company may spend as much as $200 million in the year
starting April 1, Finance Director Swaminathan Thiagarajan said
in a telephone interview. NMDC had planned to spend $500 million
in the 12 months to March 31.  Soaring valuations and competition hampered NMDC’s efforts
to acquire iron ore and coking coal assets last year, former
Chairman Rana Som said in November. The company is seeking to
secure raw material supplies for its proposed 3 million metric
ton steel plant that will start in 2014 in the eastern state of
Chhattisgarh.  NMDC may decide on buying  Minemakers Ltd. (MAK) ’s Wonarah rock
phosphate mine in Australia within a month and is also looking
to purchase a coking  coal mine  in Mozambique and an iron ore
project in  Brazil , Thiagarajan said, without giving details.  “Our team will visit the coal mine block in Mozambique
shortly to take a call on its feasibility,” Thiagarajan said
from his office in Hyderabad, where the company is based. “The
biggest challenge that we have to overcome in most of these
assets that we aim to buy is setting up of basic infrastructure,
which has large cost implications.”  The shares  fell  as much as 2.1 percent to 160.25 rupees and
traded at 161.70 rupees as of 11:05 a.m. in Mumbai. The stock
has gained less than 0.5 percent this year, compared with a 12
percent increase in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  NMDC, which spent about $20 million buying a 50 percent
stake in Australia’s  Legacy Iron Ore Ltd. (LCY)  in December, plans to
acquire a mine with 360 million tons of deposits in Mozambique’s
Tete province, Chairman Narendra Kumar Nanda said on Jan. 5. The
company is also considering buying a coal asset in Russia and an
iron ore and manganese mine in Brazil’s Amapa province, he had
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  