-- Nomura Said to Be Involved in Inpex Insider-Trading Case
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-03-22T07:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/nomura-said-it-s-fully-cooperating-with-insider-trading-probe.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
largest investment bank, was involved in an insider-trading case
connected to  Inpex Corp. (1605) ’s 2010 equity offering, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter.  Chuo Mitsui Asset Trust & Banking Co. obtained non-public
information from an employee of one of the lead underwriters on
Inpex’s sale, Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance
Commission said in a statement yesterday.  “Nomura expresses its regret, and will continue to
cooperate fully in the investigation,” the Tokyo-based
securities firm said in a  statement  on its website, without
explicitly confirming its role in the case. Nomura was a global
coordinator on the 507 billion yen ($6 billion) sale.  Shares of Nomura dropped on concern that the incident may
mar its reputation and distract Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe as he tries to generate profits overseas while fending
off competition at home. The case is the latest to taint
corporate Japan after AIJ Investment Advisors Co. was suspended
over missing assets and  Olympus Corp. (7733)  covered up losses.  “This incident creates uncertainty for Nomura that may
affect its underwriting business as well as the rebound in the
stock,” said  Takehito Yamanaka , a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, who has an “outperform” rating on the shares.
“It also clouds the outlook for the securities industry itself.
We need to watch how the regulators will carry out their
investigations.”  Shares Drop  Shares of Nomura fell 5 yen, or 1.3 percent, to 391 yen at
the close of trading in Tokyo, limiting its gains this year to
68 percent. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.4
percent. Nomura fell 5.5 percent yesterday in the U.S. market.  The cost to insure the bonds of the brokerage unit, Nomura
Securities Co., against default for five years jumped 20 basis
points yesterday, the most since November, to 270, according to
CME Group Inc.’s CMA in  New York . Credit-default swaps on
Nomura’s debt rose 1.7 basis points. The contracts rise as
perceptions of creditworthiness deteriorate.  Japanese regulators have been studying trading surrounding
equity offerings, responding to criticism from investors who
allege leaks on financing plans are eroding confidence in the
stock market. The securities watchdog yesterday chastised the
underwriter involved in the Inpex  insider-trading  case, without
naming the firm or commenting on potential penalties.  Reputation Risk  It’s a serious matter for a brokerage to be disclosing
confidential information, an SESC official told reporters at a
briefing yesterday on condition of anonymity, citing the
commission’s policy. The incident may damage the underwriter’s
reputation and that of the Japanese equity market as a whole,
the official said, adding that the regulator will continue to
investigate insider trading before big share offerings.  “It’s appropriate that the regulators take tough action
against anyone who breached the law, especially after the AIJ
issue,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “Japan has had
a history of shares plunging before corporate actions, such as
public offerings.”  An employee of Chuo Mitsui Asset, a unit of  Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Holdings Inc. (8309) , traded on information linked to the share
sale by Inpex, Japan’s biggest energy explorer, the SESC said.
As well as Nomura,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Mizuho Securities
Co. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were also underwriters.  Share-Sale Tip  The SESC recommended fining Chuo Mitsui Asset 50,000 yen
($600) for the alleged breach, an amount that corresponds to the
fees the company earned from selling  Inpex shares  for customers.  A salesperson of the underwriter passed the information on
to a Chuo Mitsui Asset fund manager on June 30, 2010, days
before the official July 8 announcement of the offering, the
SESC said. Inpex shares slumped about 10 percent in the
following month.  Chuo Mitsui Asset’s employee sold 210 shares of the energy
explorer from July 1 to July 7 for more than 100 million yen on
behalf of clients, the watchdog said. Of those, it short sold
120 shares, according to the statement.  In a short sale, an investor sells borrowed stock with the
intention of repurchasing it later at a lower price and
returning it to the lender, pocketing the difference.  In June 2009, Nomura said it fired an employee who worked
in its mergers advisory department because he breached an
internal rule on insider trading by passing on information
concerning takeover bids to an acquaintance.  Moody’s Downgrade  Nomura’s  credit rating  was cut to the lowest investment
grade last week by Moody’s Investors Service, which said global
competition raises questions over profitability. The Japanese
firm is trimming $1.2 billion of expenses that mounted since it
bought bankrupt Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and
European operations during the 2008 global financial crisis.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust is “fully cooperating” with the
SESC on the investigation, the Tokyo-based company said in an e-
mailed statement. “If something that needs to be disclosed
arises, we will announce it in a timely manner.”  Its stock rose 2.2 percent to 283 yen at the close today.  Inpex shares climbed 1.4 percent to 571,000 yen. The energy
company said in a statement that it “fully complies” with its
internal guidelines for preventing insider trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  