-- North Korea’s Gaeseong Pushed for Inclusion in FTA
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-03-22T07:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/north-korea-s-gaeseong-pushed-for-inclusion-in-south-s-u-s-fta.html
South Korea is pushing to include
the Gaeseong industrial zone in North Korea in its free-trade
deals with the U.S. and  Europe , a step that would deepen cross-
border ties after the North’s leadership transition.  “Unification is already taking place in Gaeseong, with
daily encounters and shared interests,” said Yoo Dong Ok, the
chairman of Daewha Fuel Pump Industries and a spokesman for
South Korean companies operating in the manufacturing enclave.
Shipments from the factories, mostly textiles and car parts,
would quickly surge 15 percent if they win free-trade status,
Yoo estimated in a March 20 interview.  Yoo and the government in Seoul want the fruits of North
Korean workers’ labors on the shelves of stores in Chicago and
Berlin, even as they condemn the regime of new leader Kim Jong Un for a planned rocket launch. The U.S. warned the test-firing
jeopardizes a food-aid deal and breaks international agreements,
and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon said today a
test-firing would be in “clear violation” of UN Security
Council resolutions.  “It may help any efforts by  North Korea  to open up if the
South wins inclusion for Gaeseong,” said Cho Bong Hyun, a
researcher at IBK Economic Research Institute in Seoul who has
visited the communist country more than 30 times since 2000 and
advises companies seeking to do business there. “North Koreans
have lived in a closed society under tight state control but now
through Gaeseong, they’re learning about and experiencing the
outside world.”  Hard Currency  Gaeseong, which is within sight of South Korean and U.S.
guard posts along the Demilitarized Zone, was developed as a
joint special economic zone in 2005 and now employs about 50,000
North Koreans, according to the Unification Ministry in Seoul.  More than 120 South Korean companies, including Daewha
Fuel, underwear maker Good People Co. and watchmaker  Romanson
Co. (026040)  paid the North Korean government about $60 million to $70
million last year to cover labor costs for workers, said Park
Soo Jin, the deputy spokeswoman at the Unification Ministry.
Authorities in Pyongyang then paid the employees in local
currency and vouchers, she said.  Trade Minister Bark Tae Ho said on March 14 that he will
try to persuade the U.S. and European Union to recognize
products made in Gaeseong as South Korean.  Singapore Tariffs  The EU and South Korea have agreed to establish a committee
this year to examine the issue, Tomasz Kozlowski, ambassador for
the EU delegation in Seoul, said in an e-mailed statement. Aaron
Tarver, a spokesman at the U.S. Embassy, said in an e-mail that
the trade pact does not include any products from North Korea,
including those from Gaeseong, without commenting further.  Singapore has reduced tariffs covering more than 4,000
products from Gaeseong under its bilateral trade pact with  South
Korea , said Lee Sang Mok, Deputy Director at Korea Customs
Service. Some products are also covered by agreements with the
10-member  Association of Southeast Asian Nations ,  India ,  Peru 
and the European Free Trade Association consisting of
 Switzerland , Iceland, Liechtenstein and  Norway , Lee said via e-
mail and telephone.  The value of output from Gaeseong jumped from $14.9 million
in its first year to $402 million in 2011, according to the
Unification Ministry. During the past seven years, its
production totaled $1.5 billion. That compares with $40 billion
for North Korea’s annual gross domestic product, according to
the CIA World Factbook.  “The U.S. seems to want more progress in North Korean
nuclear and human rights issues before including Gaeseong in
FTA,” IBK’s Cho said.  Rocket Tests  Next month’s announced rocket launch, which North Korea
said will be used to put a satellite into orbit, follows an
agreement in February to halt nuclear and missile tests in
exchange for U.S. food aid. The totalitarian state defied the
 United Nations  in 2009 by firing a rocket and saying the launch
was a satellite test, the same year it detonated a second
nuclear device.  “Gaeseong is currently the only way South Korea has into
the North,” Kim Choong Hwan, chairman of parliament’s  Foreign
Affairs , Trade and Unification Committee, said in Feb. 20. “It
is the only thing that is of mutual interest and benefit to both
Koreas and a good reminder of how we can coexist.”  Kim estimated that the economic zone’s operations could
expand more than 20 times within five years, if political and
diplomatic tension between the Koreas eases.  Boosting Operations  Yoo of Daewha Fuel Pump said he plans to spend 1 billion
won ($885,000) this year to boost capacity in Gaeseong by 50
percent and forecasts sales to jump to 65 billion won this year
from 45 billion won in 2011. His company, which also makes parts
in plants in South Korea, supplies automakers including Hyundai
Motor Co., Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co., he said.  The minimum monthly base salary paid by companies at
Gaeseong is about $64, according to the Unification Ministry’s
Park. Yoo, who was speaking at Incheon near  Seoul , estimated
labor costs would be 20 times higher in South Korea and three
times higher in  China .  “The security issue is of course a big risk but every
business has a risk,” Yoo said. “Gaeseong has survived all the
clashes and threats, including the sinking of a warship and the
shelling of a South Korean island”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  