-- North Carolina Prepares for Rest of Tournament Without Marshall
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-21T13:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/north-carolina-prepares-for-rest-of-tournament-without-marshall.html
The University of  North Carolina  is
preparing to play the rest of the national men’s college
basketball tournament without record-setting point guard Kendall
Marshall, who had surgery two days ago to repair a broken wrist.  “Our preparation is 100 percent to play without Kendall,”
Tar Heels coach  Roy Williams  said at a news conference following
yesterday’s practice.  North Carolina (31-5) is the top seed in the Midwest
Regional and plays against  Ohio  University on March 23 in  St.
Louis . The winner advances to the final eight of the National
Collegiate Athletic Association tournament against either  Kansas 
or North Carolina State.  Marshall, who set a school record with 351 assists this
season, broke the scaphoid bone in his right wrist in the final
minutes of a March 18 win over Creighton. The left-hander has
his wrist in a cast and his availability for the rest of the
tournament isn’t known.  The national semifinals are set for March 31, with the
championship two days later in  New Orleans .  Williams said the team is making preparations to be without
its on-court leader, who he has called “indispensable.”  “It was a terrible bus ride back, it was quiet as it could
be,” Williams said of the team’s return from the game in
Greensboro, North Carolina. “It’s my job to convince them that
we can win Friday. That’s the only thing we’re focusing on.”  Freshman Stilman White and senior Justin Watts played point
guard in practice yesterday. They combined to average 1.9 points
and 0.3 assists off the bench this season.  North Carolina is a 10 1/2-point favorite against Ohio,
which reached the final 16 as a No. 13 seed. The Tar Heels’ odds
of winning the NCAA championship remain 6-1, tied with Michigan
State as the third-favorite behind  Kentucky  and Ohio State,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel & Casino’s sportsbook. North
Carolina entered the tournament as the second favorite.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 