-- NYC 911 Improvement Plan Is $1 Billion Over Budget, Liu Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-21T19:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/nyc-911-improvement-plan-is-1-billion-over-budget-liu-says.html
New York City ’s attempt to improve
its 911 emergency-communications system has cost $1 billion more
than budgeted, for a total expense of $2.3 billion, Comptroller
 John Liu  said.  The project, created in 2004 to consolidate communications
among the fire and police departments and emergency medical
services, was supposed to create two call centers by 2008. They
won’t be finished until 2015, the audit reported. The city hired
Hewlett Packard Co. as project manager in 2005; Northrop Grumman
Corp. came in to develop the second center in January 2011.  “Auditors found an alarming lack of decision-making by
 City Hall  which led to major technical missteps, the abandonment
of a critical objective and poor vendor performance,” Liu’s
office said in a statement.  The audit follows a March 14 settlement between the U.S.
Attorney’s office and Science Applications International Corp.,
in which the company agreed to pay more than $500 million to the
city as reimbursement for overcharges and fraud related to an
Internet-based payroll-management system.  “Taxpayers are just tired of hearing about out-of-control
projects involving expensive outside consultants,” Liu said in
a statement. Liu, a 45-year-old Democrat, has been included by
pollsters in surveys about potential 2013 mayoral candidates.  Change in Scope  Caswell Holloway, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s deputy for
operations, said in an interview that the project’s increased
costs reflected a change in scope, including a decision to
construct a $700 million back-up call center in the Bronx,
instead of using an existing building in Queens.  The Bloomberg administration identified the problems cited
in Liu’s audit years ago and acted upon them, Holloway said.  “We took aggressive actions to address them years ago, so
the audit is a non-event. It validates management decisions
already made,” Holloway said in an interview.  Liu’s audit said the administration disregarded warnings
about the project’s progress from the agency as early as 2007. A
2009 report by the Gartner Group, a consulting firm, said the
project suffered from “lack of timely and effective decision
making” and a “lack of a clearly defined strategy and
direction.”  A computerized dispatch system never became operational,
resulting in additional expenditures, the audit found. In 2010,
the Bloomberg administration created the Office of Citywide
Emergency Communications as coordinator of the project.  “The agency has been plagued by personnel changes and
leadership problems since its creation,” remaining almost 40
percent below its targeted staffing as of September 2011, the
audit said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  