-- Tobacco Use Killed 6 Million in 2011, Cancer Society Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T08:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tobacco-use-killed-6-million-in-2011-cancer-society-says.html
Tobacco use killed almost 6 million
people last year and was the top cause of death in China, the
world’s biggest cigarette market, the  American Cancer Society 
and World Lung Foundation reported.  Four of every five deaths were in low- and middle-income
countries, and 1 billion people may die from tobacco use and
exposure this century if current trends continue, according to
the report, released in  Singapore  today.  Tobacco-related deaths almost tripled in the past decade
amid a 17 percent jump in cigarette production and increased
affordability of the cancer-causing products in low-income
nations. The tobacco industry generates about $500 billion in
annual sales, with the six biggest companies making a combined
profit of $35.1 billion in 2010, said Judith Mackay, who co-
wrote the report.  “The tobacco industry is among the top-10 most influential
industries in the world because of its sheer magnitude of wealth
and sales,” Mackay, a physician and adviser to the World Lung
Foundation and the  World Health Organization , said in a
telephone interview on March 20.  Governments have been trying to implement the WHO  Framework
Convention on Tobacco Control , a global treaty endorsed by more
than 174 countries and recommended by the Geneva-based United
Nations agency, to curb smoking.  Plain Packaging Challenge  Producers have been increasing efforts to combat those
measures with legal challenges in every region of the world,
according to the World Lung Foundation.  These include objections to smoke-free legislation, and
opposition to advertising bans and graphic warnings of disease
on cigarette packs.  “The wolf is no longer in sheep’s clothing, and its teeth
are bared,” Margaret Chan, director general of the Geneva-based
WHO, said in a  speech  in Singapore yesterday. “Paying people to
use a country’s judicial system to challenge the legality of
measures that protect the public is a flagrant abuse of the
judicial system and a flagrant affront to national sovereignty.
This is direct interference with a country’s internal affairs.”  Australia , the first nation to require plain packaging on
tobacco products, was the subject this month of a complaint by
Ukraine to the  World Trade Organization  over its plan.  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  and  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are among companies that have challenged the law,
which Australia is extending to include cigars and loose-leaf
tobacco products.  Chinese Consumption  “‘Big Tobacco’ first tried to bully the global community
out of advancing this treaty,” said John Stewart, senior
organizer of Corporate Accountability International’s campaign
Challenging Big Tobacco. “Now it’s attempting to bully
countries out of enforcing it.”  Bloomberg Philanthropies is a major donor to the World Lung
Foundation. Bloomberg Philanthropies was set up by New York
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  China is the world’s biggest producer and consumer of
tobacco, accounting for 38 percent of cigarettes smoked
worldwide in 2009, the groups said today.  Excise should be almost tripled in  China  to dissuade young
people from becoming addicted, the World Health Organization
said on March 14.  The price of cigarettes in China is already “quite high”
and the ability of higher prices to discourage smoking isn’t
proven, Minister of Industry and Information Technology  Miao
Wei said in Beijing on March 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  