-- Obama Agenda at Seoul Nuclear Summit Shaped by Campaign
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/obama-agenda-at-seoul-nuclear-summit-shaped-by-campaign.html
President  Barack Obama  brings along
the agenda of his re-election campaign when he travels to Seoul
next week for a two-day summit on the threat of loose nuclear
material.  Obama plans to arrive on March 25, a day before the summit
and early enough to visit the demilitarized zone between South
and North Korea, the last Cold War frontier. Then he holds a
news conference with South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak , a
chance to highlight the economic benefits of a free-trade accord
that took effect last week.  After those events, Obama will turn his focus to the issues
of nuclear materials smuggling and the weapons programs in North
Korea and  Iran .  Victor Cha, who was director of Asian affairs on President
 George W. Bush ’s National Security Council, said summit’s timing
so soon after the South Korea trade deal’s effective date allows
Obama to “toot the jobs horn.”  “It’ll give him an opportunity to talk about that and what
it will mean in terms of overall U.S. exports and jobs,” said
Cha, now a professor at  Georgetown University  and a senior
adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
Washington. While Obama’s effort to secure nuclear materials has
a positive message, “It won’t resonate that much for a domestic
audience.”  The summit itself, on March 26-27, bring together 53
countries and four international organizations. Who’s not there
might be as important: Neither  North Korea  nor Iran will be
attending.  North Korea’s Rocket  North Korea has announced a mid-April rocket launch,
potentially scuttling a Feb. 29 U.S. aid deal and broader
efforts to get the regime back to negotiations on its nuclear
weapons program.  Iran, under international sanctions, has said its nuclear
program is for peaceful purposes and refuses to halt
development. The U.S. is urging  Israel  to hold off on any pre-
emptive military strike and give international sanctions more
time to work.  The sanctions and the threat of war in the Persian Gulf
region is helping drive up energy prices. Crude oil for May
delivery increased $1.20 to settle at $107.27 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have risen 8.5 percent this
year. Obama’s opponents have sought to turn that to their
advantage as Republican presidential candidates seek to to turn
voter frustration about gas prices against the president.  Obama will portray the U.S.- South Korea  free-trade
agreement as a boon to U.S. jobs and part of a growing American
economic and security involvement with allies in  Asia .  Tariffs Cut 80 Percent  The biggest U.S. trade accord in almost two decades will
cut about 80 percent of tariffs between the nations and may
increase U.S. exports as much as $10.9 billion in the first year
it’s in full effect, according to the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  The North Korean and Iranian nuclear programs will be ever
present as Obama makes public appearances and holds private
discussions with other world leaders attending the Nuclear
Security Summit, White House officials said.  Obama has scheduled individual meetings in  Seoul  with
Chinese President Hu Jintao, Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
and South Korea’s Leeamong others.  Russia and  China , along with  Japan  and South Korea, are
part of six-party negotiations on North Korea and are key
partners in efforts to stop Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon.  “We can’t hold Iran or North Korea accountable for
commitments made at a summit in which they didn’t participate,”
said Corey Hinderstein, vice president for international
programs at the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a Washington-based
research center. That, Hinderstein said, is “the elephant
outside the room.”  Nuclear Trafficking  At the summit, countries will announce what they’ve done to
fulfill commitments to combat nuclear trafficking and secure or
dispose of nuclear materials. It is the second of its kind,
following one in  Washington  in 2010. Another is set for 2014.  The meetings grew out of a 2009 speech by Obama on the
threat of nuclear terrorism. The Nobel Committee cited that
speech among its reasons for awarding the U.S. president the
Nobel Peace Prize in his first year in office.  Obama’s attempts to reach out to North Korea have been “a
reality check on how this sort of reaching out with the
unclenched fist is not so easy to do,” Cha said. Early efforts
were followed by hostile acts by North Korea. Obama’s “had a
real learning experience on North Korea,” Cha said.  Kim Jong Un became leader last December after the death of
his father,  Kim Jong Il .  North Korea Pact  On Feb. 29, North Korea agreed to halt nuclear and missile
tests in exchange for 240,000 metric tons of U.S. food aid. The
accord opened the possibility of the resumption of six-party
talks to persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear program.  That was all but scuttled when the regime announced a
planned rocket launch between April 12-16, around the time of
the April 15 centennial of the birth of Kim Il Sung.  These themes are unfolding as Obama, domestically, has
turned his attention toward the November election.  The trip follows weeks of speeches and trips during which
Obama has defended his energy policies amid rising gasoline
prices.  Republican presidential candidates have made these issues
central to their criticisms of the president’s economic and
foreign policy records.  ‘Good Politics’  Mark McKinnon , a Republican political strategist who
advised former President George W. Bush, said Obama will try to
use the Korea trip to his advantage even if the substance of the
summit isn’t a topic U.S. voters are especially focused on.  “The best re-election strategy is to be an effective
president,” McKinnon said. “And with tensions running high on
nuclear security, it is good policy and good politics for
President Obama to be seen as an effective international player
at the summit.”  Democratic strategist Paul Begala, a onetime political aide
to former president  Bill Clinton  who now is advising an
independent campaign group that will raise money for the 2012
contest, said Americans like to see U.S. presidents “leading
the world.” Obama can juxtapose that against his opponents
“stuck in campaign mode, pandering to conservative
constituencies,” he said.  “If gas prices are going to harm the president’s political
standing, then they will do so regardless of whether the
president remains in Washington to absorb the abuse or is in
Seoul to absorb the abuse long distance,” said Bill Galston, an
analyst at the Brookings Institution in Washington, who was a
Clinton domestic policy adviser.  DMZ Visit  Obama’s visit to the DMZ is scheduled one day shy of the
anniversary of the March 26, 2010, sinking of a South Korean
naval vessel that killed 46 sailors. An international
investigation blamed North Korea.  Obama will use the DMZ visit to underscore U.S. support for
South Korea and his support for 28,500 U.S. forces there. He
will signal to North Korea that “there is a path” for the
regime to have “a better relationship with the international
community,” said  Ben Rhodes , Obama’s deputy national security
adviser for strategic communications.  While Obama gets his highest approval ratings for how  he
handles foreign policy and terrorism, the economy still ranks as
the number one issue for voters in this election, according to a
Bloomberg National Poll conducted March 8-11.  Sixty-one percent of Americans approve of Obama’s handling
of terrorism and 54 percent approve of how he’s maintained
relations with other countries. Only one percent of Americans
said terrorism was the number one issue for voters.  “The most ironic thing about public opinion and Obama is
that here we are at the end of his first term where his foreign
policy ratings are just much better than ratings for dealing
with domestic issues,” said  Andrew Kohut , president of the
nonpartisan Pew Research Center in Washington.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  