-- Obama Mounts Defense of Energy Plan With Pipeline at Center
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-22T01:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/obama-mounts-defense-of-energy-policy-with-pipeline-at-center.html
President  Barack Obama  is defending
his energy policies amid criticism from Republicans by
highlighting projects designed to increase U.S. supplies,
including a pipeline that is part of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL.  Speaking in front of a field of solar panels at the Copper
Mountain Solar 1 Facility near Boulder City,  Nevada , Obama said
the U.S. must stay ahead of countries such as China and  India  in
the development of alternative energy sources while increasing
production of fossil fuels.  “As long as I’m president, we will not walk away from the
promise of clean energy,” he said.  After stops in Nevada and  New Mexico  today, Obama tomorrow
will use the backdrop of an oil-storage hub in Cushing,
Oklahoma, to announce that the administration is making
TransCanada’s pipeline from there to refineries on the  Texas 
coast an infrastructure priority, according to a White House
statement. That will qualify the project for accelerated review
of permit applications under a previous executive order.  Republicans dismissed the move on the pipeline as political
window dressing on a project that is already well under way to
deflect criticism Obama has received for refusing to approve the
northern segment of TransCanada’s pipeline, which would carry
crude from  Canada ’s oil sands.  Question of Credit  “This is like a governor personally issuing a fishing
license,”  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , said. “This portion of the pipeline is being built in
spite of the president, not because of him.”  While Obama will also be focusing on natural gas, solar and
alternative energy research on his two-day trip, the cost of oil
is a political flashpoint as he seeks re-election in November.
Even as the broader economy improves, voters are reminded daily
by signs at local gas stations that they are spending more to
drive.  The average  retail price  of regular gasoline in the U.S.
was $3.84 a gallon as of March 20, up about 17 percent since the
start of the year, according to the American Automobile
Association’s daily fuel price survey. Crude oil for May
delivery rose  $1.66, or 1.6 percent, to $107.27 a barrel
yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Gasoline Impact  While the president may have little control over the price
of a gallon of gasoline, the public looks to him to ease their
strains, said Andrew Baumann, a vice president of the Democratic
polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner.  “Voters definitely believe that the president can have an
impact on gas prices,” Baumann said. “Voters are not going to
accept the argument that there’s not much he can do about it.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters
traveling with the president that the administration is
committed to increasing domestic energy production “in a safe
and responsible way.”  The Keystone pipeline has emerged as a point of attack by
Republicans in Congress and on the presidential campaign trail.  In January, Obama denied approval for  TransCanada’s (TRP)  $7.6
billion Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada. He blamed
congressional Republicans for imposing a deadline on his
decision that he said left no time to approve the project. His
administration invited TransCanada to reapply, an overture the
Calgary-based company accepted.  Battle Over Approval  Obama also lobbied Democrats to block attempts by
Republicans in Congress to force approval of the 1,661-mile
(2,673-kilometer) pipeline by attaching it to other legislation.  TransCanada said on Feb. 27 it would reapply for a permit
to build Keystone and proceed separately with the $2.3 billion
segment from Cushing to Texas.  The same day, the administration endorsed TransCanada’s
plans to build that segment and released a statement saying the
White House will “take every step possible to expedite the
necessary federal permits.”  A spokesman for Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma 
called Obama’s promise to fast-track permits for the southern
section of pipeline “meaningless.”  “The southern part does not require presidential
approval,” the spokesman,  John Hart , said. “The northern
section, which crosses an international border with Canada, is
the focus of the debate.”  Swing States  The themes Obama will be emphasizing in his trip are aimed
at countering Republican critics and making his pitch in three
states that will be in play in the election.  Along with the Keystone pipeline, Obama has been criticized
by Republicans over an Energy Department loan guarantee for
Solyndra LLC, a maker of solar panels that filed for  bankruptcy
protection  last year.  Without mentioning Solyndra, Obama said not all clean
energy investments will pan out.  “Some companies will fail; some companies will succeed,”
Obama said.  After leaving Nevada, Obama ended the day in Maljamar, New
Mexico, standing in front of an oil rig on federal land leased
to  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-biggest U.S. oil company. He
defended himself against critics who say he’s not doing enough
to promote domestic oil exploration.  “We’re drilling all over the place,” he said. Obama has
repeatedly said that domestic oil and gas production has
increased each year he’s been in office, with oil production at
an eight-year high and domestic natural gas production at an
all-time high.  In Cushing tomorrow, he will speak at the site where
construction is scheduled to begin in June on the pipeline to
Texas refineries. He finishes the trip in Columbus,  Ohio , at
Ohio State University’s Center for Automotive Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  