-- Oil Climbs After U.S. Inventories Unexpectedly Decline in
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-21T19:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/oil-rises-after-supplies-unexpectedly-fall-in-government-report.html
Oil rose after the U.S. Energy
Department said that  crude inventories  unexpectedly dropped 1.16
million barrels last week.  Futures climbed 1.1 percent as the report showed supplies
fell for the first time in five weeks and imports decreased.
Stockpiles were forecast to gain 2.2 million barrels, according
to analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Crude declined 2.3
percent yesterday after Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi
said the kingdom can boost output by 25 percent.  “The report was a little bullish because we were looking
for a big build and it didn’t happen,” said  Phil Flynn , vice
president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “The market
overreacted to the Saudi Arabian pledge yesterday.”  Crude oil for May delivery increased $1.20 to settle at
$107.27 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
have risen 8.5 percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement rose 8 cents to $124.20 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Oil imports decreased 5.6 percent to 8.22 million barrels a
day in the seven days ended March 16, the report showed.
Shipments have arrived at an average rate of 8.9 million barrels
a day over the past year.  Sixty-seven ships awaited passage through the Houston and
Galveston/Texas City ship channels on March 13 after pilots
resumed transits that had been halted by fog, the U.S. Coast
Guard said. The  Houston Ship Channel  links the largest U.S.
petroleum port with the  Gulf of Mexico .  Delayed Arrivals  “The fall in crude supplies didn’t have as much impact on
the market as would normally be the case because it was probably
due to weather-related delays,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at
Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on
energy. “Weather along the Gulf can wreak havoc with imports.”  Gasoline inventories  declined 1.21 million barrels to 226.9
million last week, the department said. Stockpiles were forecast
to slip 2 million barrels, according to the median of 11 analyst
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Consumption (DOEDMGAS)  of the motor fuel fell 0.4 percent to 8.38
million barrels a day in in the seven days ended March 16, the
report showed. Demand was down 7.7 percent from a year earlier.  “High prices are not a good thing for demand,” said  Chip Hodge , who oversees a $9 billion natural-resource bond portfolio
as senior managing director at Manulife Asset Management in
 Boston . “Stronger economic growth would make rising prices a
bit more palatable to consumers.”  Retail Gasoline  The national average retail price of unleaded regular
gasoline in the U.S. climbed to a 10-month high of $3.864 a
gallon yesterday, according to a daily survey by AAA, the
country’s largest motoring organization.  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, gained 1.76 million barrels to 136.6
million. Stockpiles were estimated to fall 1.5 million barrels.  Commercially held crude inventories in  China , the second-
largest oil consuming country, fell 3.8 percent in February,
according to a newsletter published by the official Xinhua News
agency. That’s about 28 million metric tons, Bloomberg
calculations showed. Supplies were down for the fourth time in
five months.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest oil producer, has output
capacity of 12.5 million barrels a day and will pump about 9.9
million this month and in April, al-Naimi said yesterday in
Doha, Qatar. The global market is oversupplied by as much as 2
million barrels a day and inventories are rising, he said.  Saudi Specifics  “We already knew that the Saudis were increasing output,”
said David McAlvany, chief executive officer of McAlvany
Financial Group in Durango,  Colorado . “What Ali al-Naimi did
was give us more specifics. We now know the exact amount they
are currently pumping and how much spare capacity they have.”  Oil in  New York  surged 8.7 percent last month on concern
European Union and U.S. sanctions aimed at Iran’s nuclear
program will disrupt oil shipments. The Persian Gulf nation has
threatened to shut the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for a
fifth of the world’s oil supplies, in response to an embargo.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton announced yesterday that
an “initial group” of countries, comprising  Japan  and 10
European Union nations, have “significantly reduced” their
Iranian oil purchases and thus qualified for an exemption from
U.S. sanctions for a renewable period of 180 days under the law.  The U.S. didn’t grant waivers to China, the leading
importer of Iranian crude in the first half of last year, or to
 India  and  South Korea , which were the third- and fourth-largest
buyers, according to the Energy Department. Japan ranks second.  “Fears about the  Middle East  are what is keeping oil at
these levels,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in New York. “We’re going stay in this $104 to
$110 range until there’s a resolution of the  Iran  issue. Either
there will be an explosion or we’ll come to some kind of
agreement.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 415,627
contracts as of 2:31 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 672,108
contracts yesterday, 6.5 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  