-- London Luxury-Home Prices Gain as Foreigners Seek Lower Risk
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-03-21T17:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/london-luxury-home-prices-gain-as-foreigners-seek-reduced-risk.html
Luxury- home prices  in central
 London  rose the most in 10 months as overseas buyers seeking the
safety of one of the world’s most resilient property markets
propelled demand,  Knight Frank  LLP said in a report today.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds ($5.9 million) gained 1.1 percent in March from a
month earlier, the London-based broker said. Prices have been
rising for three years and are 10.1 percent above the previous
peak in March 2008, before the global financial crisis, said
 Liam Bailey , Knight Frank’s head of residential research.  “Pressure on price growth and new demand is coming from
overseas,” Bailey said by telephone. “People are in danger of
underestimating the amount of foreign interest in London as a
 property market . That’s what keeps things moving.”  Investors from overseas are buying central London homes to
preserve wealth amid political and economic tensions in their
home markets. The government today raised the tax on home
purchases of 2 million pounds or more, which may crimp demand.  London luxury-home values rose 11.3 percent in the year
through March 20, the smallest 12-month gain since August,
according to Knight Frank. The affluent Kensington and Chelsea
districts helped to push the asking price of a London home to a
record this month as average values broke through the 2 million-
pound level for the first time, Rightmove Plc said this week.  Home prices in the whole of Britain rose 0.1 percent in
February, the  Land Registry  said March 19.  Tax Avoidance  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  attacked  tax
avoidance  on property transactions today in his budget
statement. Osborne raised a tax known as stamp duty on
residential real estate purchases of 2 million pounds or more to
7 percent from 5 percent, starting tomorrow.  “A major source of abuse, and one that rouses the anger of
many of our citizens, is the way some people avoid the stamp
duty that the rest of the population pays, including by using
companies to buy expensive residential property,” he said. “If
you buy a property in Britain that is used for residential
purposes, then we will expect stamp duty to be paid.”  Stamp duty currently starts at 1 percent for properties
costing more than 125,000 pounds and rises to 5 percent for
homes bought for over 1 million pounds.  Corporate Levy  The government will also levy a 15 percent tax on
residential real estate valued at more than 2 million pounds
bought using companies set up to avoid taxes.  Closing loopholes, such as the use of offshore companies to
buy properties, is unlikely to curb demand, according to Black
Brick Property Solutions LLP.  “There’s still a real tax advantage for international
buyers buying in company names who save on inheritance tax, so
they may decide that paying a one-off 15 percent tax is worth it
in order to save on future inheritance tax,” Camilla Dell,
managing partner at Black Brick, said in an e-mail.  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from its own
appraisal values of a sample of the same properties in the 13
most expensive neighborhoods of central London, including
Belgravia, Kensington and Knightsbridge.  “The rising level of speculation over a potential mansion
tax or new wealth taxes appears to have failed to dampen demand
for prime London property,” Bailey said in today’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 