-- Hong Kong as Dirtiest Financial Center Is Tsang’s Legacy
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-03-22T06:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/hong-kong-as-dirtiest-global-financial-center-is-tsang-s-legacy.html
Harboring an unlicensed duck in
 Hong Kong  can land a fine of HK$50,000 ($6,440) after the
world’s first human deaths from bird flu were recorded in the
city 15 years ago. That’s 50 times the penalty for driving a
vehicle belching  smoky fumes .  Failure to force aging buses and trucks off Hong Kong’s
streets is a key cause of air pollution that results in more
than 3,000 premature deaths a year, according to  Civic Exchange ,
a think tank. In contrast, the H5N1 virus has killed 350 people
 worldwide  since 1997, World Health Organization data show.  “People normally don’t realize that air pollution can
cause cancer, heart and respiratory diseases,” said Carlos Dora, coordinator at the Geneva-based health agency’s Department
of  Public Health  and Environment, who puts the global annual
 death toll  from filthy urban air at 1.3 million. “Those are the
diseases that really are the big, big plague.”  As Chief Executive Donald Tsang steps down after seven
years in office, he leaves a city that boasts the world’s most
valuable stock exchange, hosted three of the five biggest
initial share sales in history, and is the best place on the
globe for business, a new gauge by Bloomberg Rankings shows.
Blotting the record is another superlative: the most polluted
international financial center.  New York, London,  Tokyo  and  Singapore  all have  cleaner air 
and  more ambitious  improvement targets, according to WHO data
and the city governments’ websites. As  China  opens its economy,
removing the  capital controls  that led investors to use Hong
Kong as a proxy for Chinese growth, pollution risks undermining
Tsang’s economic successes.  Singapore Bound  “I am leaving Hong Kong explicitly because of the air,”
said Alex Turnbull, an Australian banker at a Wall Street firm,
who plans a move to Singapore in May. “When capital controls
leave, how on earth will this city stay competitive? Hong Kong
is at risk of being irrelevant in the long run.”  The government will continue to strive for better  air
quality , “both for our citizens’ health and to attract overseas
talents and enhance Hong Kong’s competitiveness as a financial
hub and tourist destination,” Tsang’s office said in an e-
mailed response to questions yesterday.  Sandwiched between the Asian headquarters of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and a  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  outlet, the air-quality meter in the
Central business district has registered an average roadside
pollution level of “high” or “very high” every day bar one
this year. In 1999, 66 percent of days were at those levels. By
2010 and 2011, it was more than 90 percent. Today in Central the
roadside reading was 70, and 89 in the  Causeway Bay  shopping
district,  government data  show.  Lung Cancer  Airborne particles from vehicle exhausts and power stations
have the greatest impact on human health, linked to  9 percent  of
 lung cancer  deaths globally, WHO estimates.  Hong Kong’s average reading of particulate matter with a
diameter of 10 micrometers -- about  1/7th the width of a human
hair  -- or less in 2009 was 50 micrograms per cubic meter,
according to a  WHO survey  of 1,100 cities. While that was less
than half Beijing’s, it compares with 29 in Singapore and
 London , 23 in Tokyo and 21 in New York. The WHO  guideline  is 20.  Average annual roadside levels of nitrogen dioxide, which
 inflames lungs , increased 27 percent in Hong Kong last year from
2007,  Environmental Protection Department  data show. The 2011
levels were more than triple WHO  safety limits .  Hong Kong also adopted the lowest or second-lowest  interim
targets  WHO offers. The agency has a number of objectives aimed
at poorer countries just “getting onto the curve,” said
Anthony Hedley, honorary professor of community medicine at the
 University of Hong Kong’s   School of Public of Health . “It’s not
intended for a modern developed city like Hong Kong.”  Trends Down  The government says pollution trends are down, with a one-
third drop in particulates since 1999. Nitrous oxide is 28
percent lower and sulphur dioxide has fallen 56 percent,
government data show. Still, Nitrogen dioxide is up 24 percent,
ozone 21 percent, and those pollutants that had dropped are
either up or little changed since 2009.  The city’s observatory recorded 750 hours of  reduced
visibility  that wasn’t caused by fog, cloud or rain in 1999;
that rose to 1,399 hours last year.  “It is such a shame as Hong Kong is an incredibly
beautiful place the 10 days a year when you actually realize
that the tree-lined hills are dark green and not a washed out
gray-green color,” said Alexander West, founder of Blue Pool
Capital, a hedge fund.  Tens of thousands of finance professionals and other
visitors to this week’s  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Asian investment
conference and the Hong Kong Rugby Sevens, the premier
tournament in the truncated form of the game, were greeted by
smoggy skies this week. The March 25 final of the Rugby pageant
coincides with the election of Tsang’s replacement.  Peak Lookout  At Victoria Peak yesterday, tourists seeking the iconic
view across Hong Kong’s skyscrapers to the mountains over the
harbor were disappointed.  “I’ve been to the Peak six times and I’ve never seen the
Kowloon mountains,” said Nadia Sturzengegger, from Lucern,
 Switzerland , who first flew into Hong Kong in 2007 when working
for Swiss International Air Lines AG. “Maybe I was just
unlucky.”  At the nearby  Laurence Lai Gallery , Maurice Szeto, 48, mans
the shop selling photographs of Hong Kong scenes. Tourists often
complain about the visibility, he said.  “Some even take photos of our photos to show the skyline
to their friends back home,” he said. “I used to come up here
as a teenager and you could see everything.”  Tsang repeatedly pledged to tackle the problem, including a
vow in May to introduce air quality objectives before leaving
office June 30. That timeline has slipped to 2014.  Economic Impact  The government has to “carefully assess the economic and
social impacts” of tightening air-quality rules, Tsang said
last year.  The laissez faire ideology of “big market, small
government” that underpins policy in the city has enabled
industries such as financial services and real estate
development to flourish, generating taxes that endowed the
government with a HK$595 billion  pot of savings . It has also
created the most unequal society in  Asia , where the poorest 10
percent earned a median wage of HK$3,500 a month in the third
quarter of last year, down from HK$4,400 in the comparable
period of 1997, government figures show.  Unlike most big cities, Hong Kong’s bus services are run by
private franchises under government supervision. Forcing
operators to modernize fleets would mean higher fares that many
Hong Kong people already struggle to meet. The government last
year allocated HK$5.17 billion to help low-income workers with
travel costs.  Tourism, Infrastructure  Policies to spur economic growth and create jobs -- such as
more tourism and infrastructure spending -- add to pollution.
Tour buses ferrying some of the 28 million mainland Chinese
visitors last year choke roads; the planned third runway at Chek
Lap Kok would only be able to operate at 40 percent capacity to
meet the proposed air-quality guidelines, a  study  found. The
two-year delay in introducing the objectives may allow the
project to go ahead using current standards.  Outside of environmental impact assessments for specific
projects, the EPD has few legal powers to force change where it
has no jurisdiction, such as transport.  For issues like bird flu that affect “all stakeholders --
businesspersons, government officials and the general public”
the government will be “highly motivated,” said Ming Sing, an
associate professor of social sciences at the  Hong Kong
University  of Science and Technology. “If interests are
divided, such as for tackling air pollution, that’s another
story.”  New York, Tokyo  In  New York , Mayor  Michael Bloomberg   brought together  25
city agencies in 2007 to target  climate change , green buildings,
air quality and solid waste. The city  legislated  emissions cuts
from school buses and heating oil, and reduced pollution from
ferries, private trucks and construction vehicles. The mayor is
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP.  The Tokyo 2008  environmental plan  seeks to “realize the
cleanest air among the world’s largest cities.”  In Hong Kong, a ban on idling engines that came into effect
on Dec. 15 took four years to pass from public consultation to
law, and with so many exemptions that critics said it was
meaningless. No drivers have been fined to date, the EPD said in
an e-mailed response to questions this week.  The government also spent HK$90 million to fund a  study  on
electronic road pricing in 1997, which was never implemented.
Singapore’s  ERP  project, started in 1998, decreased traffic
volumes  up to 25 percent , according to a 2010 report sponsored
by the U.S.  Federal Highway Administration .  Bus Fleet  Hong Kong has lagged behind rivals in upgrading its bus
fleet. More than half of the 5,798 buses plying franchised
routes in the city at the end of last year were Euro II standard
or earlier, according to a Feb. 22 statement from the EPD.
London has about 1,000 Euro II buses in its fleet of about 8,500
vehicles, according to  Transport for London . Singapore phased
out its Euro I buses last year, leaving fewer than 600 Euro II
vehicles out of more than 4,000, according to a document from
Hong Kong’s legislature.  Euro II models emit 2 1/2 times as much particulate matter
as Euro III standard buses, and 12 1/2 times as much as Euro V,
according to Hong Kong-based  Civic Exchange .  Policy Delays  The Hong Kong government plans to retrofit buses with
catalytic converters that scrub out noxious fumes, as well as
trialing hybrid and electric vehicles.  To date, six buses have been fitted with the filters in a
year-long test that started in September. The trial of hybrids
is due to begin at the end of next year, while no funding has
yet been provided to buy six electric buses, the EPD said in a
Feb. 22 response to a question from a lawmaker.  “These delays in policy are accountable in terms of
illnesses, damage to quality of life,” Hedley said. “We’ve got
cohorts of children that have been exposed to the most intensive
levels of exposure to very toxic air pollutants for quite a long
time.”  Meantime, construction of roads, including an expressway
beneath an existing highway through Central, Causeway Bay and
Wanchai, as well as a 19-mile (30-kilometer) bridge linking
Zhuhai and Macau to Hong Kong, may spur demand for cars that
offset their impact on current congestion. In the decade to the
end of last year, the number of private cars jumped 21 percent,
Transport Department data show.  “The trend for many cities is to take care of the quality
of urban life because they are competing for the same kinds of
industries: finance, services, tourism,” WHO’s Dora said.
“Cities are striving to be better, and those which don’t will
suffer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Ben Richardson  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  