-- Monti Risks Strikes to Revamp Italian Labor: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2012-03-21T08:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/monti-risks-strikes-to-revamp-italian-labor-euro-credit.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  will
impose a plan to ease firing rules, risking strikes and
protests, as he seeks an overhaul of Italy’s labor markets to
fuel the economic growth needed to trim  Europe ’s second-biggest
debt.  Monti told unions and employers last night in Rome there
would be no more discussion of his plan to allow companies more
leeway to fire workers when economic times turn bad. The
government may pass the measure by decree, meaning the plan
would be enacted immediately before securing parliamentary
passage.  The labor overhaul marks Monti’s fourth legislative push
since coming to power in November to shore up public finances
and spur an economy that’s lagged behind the euro-region average
for more than a decade. His efforts, plus unlimited lending by
the  European Central Bank , have helped Italian bonds gain 13
percent this year, the biggest advance in the euro area.  “There is no question in my mind that the rigid labor
market is one of the main reasons why the Italian economy has
performed so poorly,” said  Riccardo Barbieri , chief European
economist at Mizuho International Plc in London. An agreement
would be “an important sign of what Monti can achieve in terms
of structural reform, but there are still many difficult
challenges ahead,” he said.  Trimming Debt  Monti, 69, has said that only by unlocking Italy’s economic
potential will the country be able to trim a debt of $2.5
trillion, more than  Spain , Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece 
combined. After taking over from  Silvio Berlusconi  on Nov. 14,
Monti passed a $20 billion-euro austerity package to balance the
budget next year. He followed with measures to open closed
professions and reduce bureaucracy before tackling labor reform.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose 3 basis points to
4.93 percent at 9:40 a.m. in Rome. That’s down more than 2
percentage points since Monti’s arrival. The rate on German
bunds of similar maturity was 2.06 percent.  The ECB did its part to bring down yields by lending more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to the region’s banks,
giving them cash and helping shore up demand at sovereign debt
auctions. Italy sold 5 billion euros of three-year debt on March
14 at 2.76 percent, the lowest yield since October 2010.  “The market is working on the assumption that Monti will
deliver on the reform agenda,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .  Political Tension  Union opposition could complicate passage of the plan in
parliament should the  Democratic Party , which is closest to the
union opposing the measure, waiver in their support for Monti.  “That appears to be complicating factor, said  Richard McGuire , senior fixed-income strategist at Rabobank
International in London, said. “The largest union’s close
connection with the Democratic Party means there is some risk of
the emergence of an opposition to Monti’s reforms that we
haven’t seen so far in the early stages of this technocratic
government’s tenure.”  Attempts to overhaul the nation’s rigid labor laws have
vexed other Italian leaders. Berlusconi backed down from his
attempts to ease firing rules in 2002 after millions of Italians
took to the streets in protest and militants murdered Marco Biagi, an adviser to the government on labor policy who was
gunned down outside his home on Father’s Day.  Article 18  The thorniest part of the talks involved Monti’s efforts to
rework Article 18 of the labor code, which bans dismissals
without just cause and forces employers to rehire and compensate
workers deemed unfairly released. By making it difficult to fire
even during economic downturns, employers say the rule
discourages hiring when times are good.  With unemployment at a decade-high 9.2 percent, convincing
unions that easing firing rules will help create jobs has been a
tough sell.  “The government, after having said that it didn’t consider
Article 18 central to the reform, only asked for a conclusive
opinon from all the parties about making firing easy,” Susanna Camusso, head of the CGIL, the country’s biggest union, said
after the talks broke down. Camusso will hold a press conference
at 3 p.m. in  Rome  to announce their strategy on fighting
implementation of Monti’s plan.  German Reform  Economists point to  Germany ’s overhaul of its labor market
rules a decade ago as an example of how employment and economic
growth can benefit from more flexibility. Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder pushed through a labor market overhaul in 2003 that
loosened hiring and firing rules and reduced long-term jobless
benefits to spur people to look for work.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has repeatedly credited those
changes with helping reduce unemployment from a post World War
II high of 12.1 percent in March 2005, six months before she
took office, and the current rate of 6.8 percent, the lowest in
the two-decades of the reunified Germany.  Germany’s economic growth has averaged 1.1 percent since
2003, while  Italy  expanded an average of 0.3 percent over the
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  