-- Too Few Truck Drivers Means Swift’s Profit in Expansion: Freight
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-03-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/too-few-truck-drivers-means-swift-s-profit-in-expansion-freight.html
Trucking companies are struggling
to find qualified drivers even as the U.S. unemployment rate
remains at the highest level in almost 30 years.  Driver turnover rose to 89 percent in the third quarter of
2011, the highest since 2008 and the fourth consecutive quarter
of increases, according to data from the American Trucking
Associations. That’s mostly because new regulations and job
prospects in other industries are creating a “quality
shortage” of available workers, said Bob Costello, chief
economist for the Arlington, Virginia-based group.  The increase in turnover is troubling because as the
economic expansion continues to gain strength, trucking is “an
industry that has jobs and may not be able to fill them,” said
Charles Clowdis, managing director of transportation advisory
services at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts . To
attract and retain drivers, trucking companies will need to
offer higher pay, which will probably necessitate rate
increases, he said.  Companies such as  Swift Transportation Co. (SWFT)  and  Celadon
Group Inc. (CGI)  may be able to outpace the higher costs with rate
increases that will improve profit, said John Larkin, an analyst
in Baltimore at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. He maintains “buy”
recommendations on these stocks.  The U.S. jobless rate remains elevated by historic
standards, at 8.3 percent in February, compared with less than 5
percent before the 18-month recession that began in late 2007.
Even so, difficulty in recruiting and retaining workers probably
will be the “No. 1” issue affecting Swift and the industry,
President Richard Stocking said at a March 15 conference hosted
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Millions and Millions  “It’s kind of a weird situation when you have millions and
millions of people out of work to have a driver shortage, but
it’s starting to present itself again,” Stocking said.  Newfound stability in construction is partially to blame
for poaching candidates as hiring in this industry picks up,
said Thom Albrecht, an analyst in Richmond, Virginia at BB&T
 Capital Markets . Construction work offers a “better quality of
life,” he said: Instead of spending several days on the road,
people can work the same number of hours, make a comparable
salary and go home every night.  Worker mobility between these industries caused many people
to take trucking jobs during the recession, Clowdis said. Those
who obtain a commercial driver license often get one that’s
“all-encompassing,” qualifying them to drive both a dump
truck, for example, and an 18-wheeler, he said.  Construction Jobs  The number of people working in construction grew 1.2
percent in February to 5.6 million from a year earlier, the
sixth consecutive month of gains, Bureau of Labor Statistics
data show. The economy has added about 65,000 jobs in this
industry in the past year, though it’s shed more than 2.1
million since peaking in April 2006.  New regulations  intended to increase truck safety also are
affecting hiring, Larkin said. Some of these rules -- from the
Department of Transportation’s Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration -- were implemented in 2010. More are on the way
next year, which “will further reduce the effective workforce,
as well as hamper productivity,” he said.  Safety records are now posted online for infractions that
include speeding tickets, moving violations and improper load
securement, Larkin said. The resulting shrinkage in available
drivers has cost the industry as much as 3 percent of capacity.
Forthcoming changes include further limits on the number of
hours that drivers can work and requiring on-board trip
recorders.  Potential Drag?  This is tightening the supply of available drivers for such
companies as  Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN)  The Omaha, Nebraska-based
carrier anticipates finding drivers will be “even more
challenging” this year than last, the company said in a Jan. 26
statement.  Similarly,  Arkansas Best Corp. (ABFS)  forecasts a “potential
drag,” with more than 400,000 drivers possibly exiting the
industry by the end of 2014 due in large part to the regulatory
changes, Chief Financial Officer Michael Newcity said at a Feb.
16 conference hosted by BB&T Capital Markets, citing FTR
Associates data.  Some people laid off during the downturn may be claiming
jobless benefits and supplementing this with “under the table”
jobs instead of returning to work, Larkin said. The extension of
unemployment insurance payments to as much as 99 weeks is one of
the “larger competitors” for Werner, President Derek Leathers
said at a Nov. 16, 2011, conference hosted by Stephens Inc.  Raises and Bonuses  To combat this, companies are trying to make driving jobs
more attractive by offering pay increases, sign-on bonuses and
other perks, Clowdis said.  Phoenix-based Swift will provide raises based on miles
driven, safety and service to customers, Stocking said.  Old
Dominion Freight Line Inc. (ODFL)  bumped up salaries by 3 percent in
September, Chief Financial Officer J. Wes Frye said on a Feb. 2
conference call.  Higher wages probably will translate into increased rates
for customers, the trucking associations’ Costello said. An
index of truckload revenue per mile rose 5.3 percent in December
from the year earlier, to the highest level since July 2008,
based on a survey of the association’s members.  Swift and Celadon should be able to raise rates faster than
the cost of inflation, Larkin said. Swift shares have risen 50
percent this year and Celadon is up 38 percent, outperforming
the 12 percent rise in the  Russell 2000 Index. (RTY)   Growth-Free Expansion  Larkin projects rates will increase in the range of 2
percent to 6 percent this year, which will help to drive margin
expansion, “even if economic growth remains mediocre.”  U.S. gross domestic product climbed 1.7 percent last year,
data from the Commerce Department shows. It will expand 2.2
percent this year, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Still, if the economy were growing at a rate of about 3
percent annually, “we would be struggling right now, but we’re
not,” Costello said. There’s not yet a threat to the supply
chain and higher wages may be helping with retention, he said.
Without wage gains, the situation would probably be worse, he
added.  Recruitment also isn’t “nearly as bad” as in late 2005,
when turnover peaked at 136 percent, Albrecht said, citing the
trucking association’s index. Still, the current rate is more
than double the low of 39 percent in the first quarter of 2010.  Even so, the confluence of regulations and a rebound in the
U.S. construction market is reducing the supply of qualified
applicants, Clowdis said.  “Right now there simply are not enough drivers coming into
the market to fill all the seats at many trucking firms,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  