-- Top Junk Pummels Treasuries for Safest Profits: Riskless Return
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   A l a n   M i r a b e l l a
-- 2012-03-21T14:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/top-junk-pummels-treasuries-for-safest-profits-riskless-return.html
Top-tier  junk bonds  produced safer
returns than debt from the most creditworthy borrowers and the
U.S. government over the past five years, a period that included
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the biggest
bond market swings on record.  The BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows BB rated
corporate bonds from U.S. issuers returned 9.5 percent in the
period when adjusting for price swings. That’s best among 35
corporate global bond gauges and better than an index of
Treasuries, considered the safest and most liquid investment.
U.S. bonds rated BB had the lowest volatility and the fourth-
highest total return of all groups.  Bonds of speculative-grade borrowers from  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  to  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  surged as two rounds of asset
purchases by the  Federal Reserve  reduced yields on investment-
grade debt and recurring market volatility hurt the riskiest
bonds. While increasing risk appetite may make lower-rated debt
more attractive, the yield margin on BB rated debt is still
above its historical average.  “BBs have really been the sweet spot,” Brian Nold, senior
high-yield portfolio manager at Seix Investment Advisors and
sub-adviser of the $2.1 billion RidgeWorth Seix High Yield Fund,
said in a telephone interview. “They are right in between the
more rate-sensitive, investment-grade part of the market, where
volatility is linked to movements in Treasury rates, and the
more credit-sensitive parts of high-yield, like B and CCC.”  CCC Haven  The speculative-grade U.S. bonds came out on top of the
rankings over the past two and three years, and since the Sept.
15, 2008, failure of  Lehman Brothers . They also had the best
risk-adjusted return since the beginning of 2010, which factors
out the 45 percent the index delivered to investors in 2009.  As evidence mounts that the economic recovery is gaining
strength, investors are going further down the risk scale
seeking higher returns. Bonds rated CCC and lower have returned
0.95 percent this month, better than all other tiers of company
debt in the U.S.  The risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total
return by volatility, or the degree of daily price-swing
variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk. The
returns aren’t annualized.  The second-best performer in Bloomberg’s ranking over five
years was Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s global BB rated index,
which returned 8.7 percent, dragged down by higher volatility
than the U.S. index. The Global Broad Market Financial index and
the Global Corporates Banking gauge were the worst and second
worst, rising 3.2 percent and 3.3 percent, respectively.  Buying American  U.S. debt  outperformed because investors prefer to buy
domestic junk bonds during times of financial crisis, viewing
the U.S. securities as safer, Bradley Rogoff, head of credit
strategy at  Barclays Capital , said in a telephone interview from
New York.  “There are a lot of potential governance issues in other
parts of the world,” Rogoff said. “When you are dealing with
riskier companies, you need to think about bankruptcy regimes,
corporate governance and many other things.”  The U.S. junk bond market is also larger than those
overseas, making it more liquid and reducing volatility for
outstanding domestic securities. About $82.6 billion of high-
yield debt has been issued in the U.S. this year, compared with
$21.5 billion in  Europe , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The U.S. high-yield market is most established, from an
issuance and secondary-trading standpoint and driving that is a
dedicated institutional buyer base that is in the market in good
times and bad,” Seix Investment Advisors’s Nold said. “The
European part of the market doesn’t have the deep, dedicated
buyer base that we see here in the U.S.”  Lowest Volatility  The par value of Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High
Yield Master II index is $980.5 billion, compared to $1.43
trillion for its Global High Yield index, the data show.  U.S. BB rated debt had a volatility of 5.2, the lowest of
all indexes, including Treasuries with a volatility of 5.6. The
lower total return for Treasuries, at 34 percent compared with
49 percent for the highest tier of U.S. speculative-grade debt,
meant the index didn’t make the top 10 risk-adjusted ranking.  The rolling 60-day historical volatility on the 10-year
Treasury note reached 36 in March, the highest on record, while
the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index rose to 19 last month, the
highest since September 1990, Bloomberg data show.  Search for Yield  The Fed has taken extraordinary measures since the
September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers to inject liquidity
into the financial system to lower borrowing costs. The central
bank purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to spur
economic growth through lower  capital costs .  The 10-year Treasury yield fell to 1.72 percent Sept. 22,
2011, the lowest since at least 1962, reducing returns for
securities linked to the government benchmark and forcing
lenders to seek out riskier assets to boost returns. The Fed,
which has held the benchmark  interest rate  at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008, has pledged to keep it near zero
through at least late 2014.  Money-market derivative traders expect the central bank may
reverse course earlier. Treasury yields surged and money-market
rates rose after Federal Open Market Committee members raised
their assessment of the  U.S. economy  on March 13. The policy
statement drove traders to bring forward the time when they
predict the Fed will first lift its target of zero to 0.25
percent and damped speculation the Fed will buy more debt in a
third round of quantitative easing.  ‘Not Getting Paid’  Such a move, coupled with a strengthening economy, could
drive lenders to lower-rated, higher-yielding CCC debt, Marc Gross, a  money manager  at New York-based RS Investments, said in
a telephone interview. The average yield for BB bonds has fallen
10 percentage points since December 2008, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “You’re not getting paid for both credit risk and interest
rate risk,” said Gross, who rates BB bonds underweight. “There
is a yield floor that investors demand for owning BBs and we are
fast approaching that.”  Current low yields don’t match the risk-return profile,
said  Jeffrey Sherman , a money manager at DoubleLine Capital, a
Los Angeles-based firm with $30 billion in assets under
management.  “You make incremental yield, relative to U.S. Treasuries,
very slowly and can lose it very fast,” Sherman said in a
telephone interview. “The bonds can devalue 5 percent to 10
percent quickly when a crisis comes,” he said.  Excellent Spread  JPMorgan Chase & Co. researchers led by  Peter Acciavatti 
downgraded BB bonds to underweight in a note on Jan. 20, in
conjunction with an upgrade for CCCs, citing a reduction in
systemic risk from Europe. BB rated bonds would remain
attractive if Treasury yields were expected to remain low and
stock market volatility would return, they said.  BB rated corporate debt still offers excellent spread
relative to  credit quality , Barclays’s Rogoff said. Those
securities offered 214 basis points of extra yield margin as of
March 19 compared to U.S. investment-grade debt, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The option-adjusted spread, which fell to 404 basis points
March 19, is still 10 basis points higher than the 394-basis
point average for the index going back to 1996, the data show.
The yield on that index has fallen to 5.8 percent March 19 from
16 percent in December 2008.  ‘Cheapest Entertainment’  Dish Network’s $750 million of 7.75 percent notes that
mature May 2015 rose to 113.75 cents on the dollar March 16, up
from 71.44 cents November 2008, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The second-largest U.S. satellite-television provider
behind DirectTV is rated BB- by S&P and had $7.49 billion of
debt outstanding as of Dec. 31, according to a Feb. 23
regulatory filing.  “Dish has tremendous free cash flows, solid subscriber
base and provides the cheapest form of entertainment,” said RS
Investments’s Gross, who holds the bonds. “If you’re willing to
hold it there is going to be value at the end of the day.”  Chesapeake Energy, the most active U.S. oil and natural-gas
driller that is rated BB+ by S&P, saw its $669 million of 7.250
percent 10-year notes trade at 107 cents on the dollar March 16,
up from 62 cents in December 2008, Trace data show. Domenic Dell’Osso, the company’s chief financial officer, said Dec. 1
that it will reach the investment-grade category this year.  “BBs have the best combination of interest rate and credit
characteristics to make for a low-volatility asset class,”
 Ashish Shah , head of global credit investments at
AllianceBernstein LP in  New York , wrote in an e-mail. “Their
wider spreads and shorter maturities make them less interest-
rate sensitive in a rate sell-off. Their higher quality makes
them less vulnerable in a credit down cycle.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Mirabella in New York at 
 amirabella@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  