-- Options Signal Yen Volatility Spreads at Most Extreme Levels
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-21T15:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/options-signal-yen-volatility-spreads-at-most-extreme-levels.html
Traders are snapping up options on
 Japan ’s currency amid an 11 percent slide over the past six
months and a Bloomberg model of option prices signals yen
options volatility spreads at the most extreme levels.  The Bloomberg model that analyzes the gap between implied
volatility of two different currency pairs signals that the
three-month pound-yen versus euro-yen volatility spread is the
most expensive of 21 pairs tracked. Traders use implied
volatility to gauge expectations for currency swings and in
setting prices on options, or contracts that give the right to
buy or sell a security within a predetermined time period.  “There has recently been unprecedented amounts of interest
in yen volatility,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-
fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “Activity
has been dominated by purchases of options with strike prices
above the current exchange rates with maturities of one to six
months.”  The so-called correlation weighted Z-score model also shows
the difference between Swiss franc-yen and pound-yen implied
volatility is the cheapest. The model weights a spreads Z-score,
a standardized way to measure the degree to which an observation
deviates from the mean in a normally distributed set of data, by
the level of correlation between the volatilities.  The yen has depreciated 11 percent in the past six months
as demand for the currency as a haven dimmed according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The yen was little changed at 132.8
per pound at 11:16 a.m. in  New York , and rose 0.07 percent to
110.62 per euro.  Group of Seven  Implied volatility on three-month pound-yen options, at
10.87 percent, is 1.17 percentage points below that on euro-yen
options. Pound-yen volatility was 3.54 percentage points below
euro-yen volatility in November, after averaging 1.12 percentage
points below since the end June 2010.  A JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  index  of implied volatility on
three-month options for the most-traded currencies is at 10.05
percent, down from a 16-month high as 15.77 percent reached in
September. The bank’s index includes options on the yen, euro,
U.K. pound, Swiss franc, Norwegian krone, Swedish krona and
Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars versus the U.S.
currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  