-- Osborne Needs 5 Billion Pounds to Fund U.K. Budget Giveaways
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-21T09:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/osborne-must-find-5-billion-pounds-to-fund-u-k-budget-giveaways.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will need to claw back about 5 billion pounds ($8
billion) a year, largely from the wealthy, to fund giveaways
he’s suggested will feature in his annual budget today.  Osborne will have to raise more than 2.5 billion pounds a
year if he cuts the top income-tax rate to 40 percent from 50
percent, a step sought by lawmakers from his  Conservative Party .
Increasing the starting point for paying income tax by 1,000
pounds to please the Liberal Democrats in the coalition would
cost another 2 billion pounds, according to Treasury estimates.
Measures to compensate some middle-income families for the loss
of child-welfare payments might need 1 billion pounds.  “To pay for this, the rich are likely to be squeezed
further,”  Vicky Redwood , chief U.K. economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London, said in a note to investors. “A
clampdown on stamp-duty tax avoidance, a tax on more expensive
houses and a further cut in tax relief on pension contributions
all look possible.”  Osborne, who speaks to Parliament at 12:30 p.m. in London,
is constrained by his commitment to keep Britain’s AAA credit
rating. He told other ministers in Prime Minister David Cameron’s Cabinet during budget negotiations that he will not
borrow more money to finance tax cuts. Earlier this month,  Fitch
Ratings  added to warnings from Moody’s Investors Service that
Britain’s top rating carries more than a 50 percent chance of a
downgrade over the next two years.  Public-Finance Data  The  budget deficit  unexpectedly increased in February as
taxes fell and spending surged, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London today. Net borrowing excluding support
for banks was 15.2 billion pounds, the highest for any February
on record, compared with 8.9 billion pounds a year earlier. The
median of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was 8 billion
pounds.  Bank of England  policy makers  Adam Posen  and David Miles
maintained a push to increase the bank’s target for bond
purchases to stimulate the economy this month as the majority
favored waiting to monitor the “substantial risks” to the
medium-term inflation outlook, according to the minutes of the
Monetary Policy Committee’s March 7-8 meeting published today.  The Treasury prolonged austerity plans in November beyond
the 2015 election, with an extra 15 billion pounds of spending
cuts over the two following years to eat into the extra 158
billion pounds of borrowing needed because of weaker-than-
expected economic growth. Osborne has said the wealthiest will
have to shoulder their share of paying that debt back.  Jobs Axed  Budget cuts announced since the coalition came to power in
May 2010 will see more than 700,000 public-sector jobs axed in
the tightest fiscal squeeze since World War II. Osborne is
seeking to erase by 2017 the bulk of a deficit that’s more than
8 percent of gross domestic product.  Abolishing the top rate of tax would cost the Treasury as
much as 2.7 billion pounds in the 12 months starting in April,
according to budget documents prepared by the previous Labour
government in 2010.  Osborne will cite new estimates today compiled by the tax
agency based on how much the top rate has actually raised since
it started in 2010. Newspapers including the Guardian say the
report will conclude millions, rather than billions, have been
collected.  “It doesn’t bring in any revenue at all” because people
have moved abroad to avoid it, a former Conservative chancellor,
Nigel Lawson, told  BBC  Radio 4 today.  Mayor Opposed  Critics of the 50 percent rate, paid on personal income
above 150,000 pounds a year, include London Mayor  Boris Johnson ,
a Tory who’s running for re-election in May. They argue it is a
disincentive to entrepreneurs, encourages  tax evasion  and risks
diverting investment abroad. The levy has given Britain a higher
marginal  tax rate  than the U.S.,  Germany  and  France .  “It is completely the wrong priority to cut taxes for the
richest people in Britain,” the opposition  Labour Party  leader,
 Ed Miliband , said in a statement today. “What the chancellor
must do is ensure that every penny he can raise from those at
the top is spent on helping millions of ordinary families who
are struggling to get by.”  Liberal Democrats including Business Secretary Vince Cable
have said they will back the  tax cut  in return for speedier
adoption of a coalition agreement to lift the amount of income
that is free of tax to 10,000 pounds by 2015. A 1,000-pound
increase from the 8,105-pound tax-free limit planned for the
next fiscal year would cost about 2 billion pounds a year,
according to Treasury estimates.  Child Benefit  Earlier this month, the Liberal Democrat leader, Deputy
Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , suggested the government might soften
cuts to child-benefit payments for families with at least one
parent paying the middle 40 percent income-tax rate.  Under the existing proposal, due to come into force in
April 2013, a couple each earning 40,000 pounds would keep the
payments, whereas a neighboring household with a single income
of 43,000 pounds would lose them. When he announced the policy,
Osborne said the alternative would be “a very complicated means
test,” arguing it was right for the better off to bear the
burden.  While Osborne says the measure will be implemented, he’s
suggested he will take steps to soften its impact. The Treasury
said in last year’s budget that the step would save about 2.4
billion pounds in the fiscal year that ends in March 2014.  ‘Extremely Aggressive’  To begin financing the gaps, Osborne promised on March 18
he’d take “extremely aggressive” measures to stop  tax
avoidance , particularly on property transactions. He highlighted
the “completely unacceptable” practice of buying homes through
a company to avoid paying stamp duty, which amounts to 5 percent
on homes changing hands at more than 1 million pounds. People
who game the system will face “a very punitive charge,” he
said.  The BBC reported today that stamp duty might rise to 7
percent on purchases of property for more than 2 million pounds.  In addition to the stamp-duty measures, Osborne will also
say he plans to introduce a general anti-abuse rule to limit tax
avoidance, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Still, those measures may not suffice to finance the tax
cuts and child-benefit relief, and Osborne has the option of
introducing new levies to raise the extra revenue.  Cable has said he favors a levy on property valued at more
than 2 million pounds, known as a “mansion tax,” which could
be levied by local government and become part of the existing
council tax on property or be raised directly by central
government. Clegg has called for a “tycoon tax” on high
earners, without giving details.  A ComRes Ltd. poll found 64 percent of people saying they
believed they’d be worse off after the budget, 61 percent that
the government was out of touch with the economic needs of the
public and 59 percent saying that the budget will look after the
rich more than the poor. ComRes interviewed 2,057 adults online
March 16-18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  