-- Osborne’s Give-Take Budget Cuts 50% Tax, Targets Mansions
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-22T12:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/osborne-cuts-u-k-top-rate-tax-in-budget-keeping-austerity-drive.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  gave to the rich by lowering Britain’s 50 percent top
income- tax rate , provoking a backlash as he also took more than
1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) from pensioners.  Osborne staged a balancing act in yesterday’s annual budget
to appease members of his  Conservative Party  who wanted the top
tax rate scrapped to spur enterprise and their Liberal Democrat
coalition partners who were demanding help for low and middle-
income families. A decision to fund the moves by freezing
pensioners’ tax allowances threatened to erupt into a political
storm. The opposition Labour Party questioned Osborne’s
calculations, saying the rich would benefit most.  While  Osborne’s measures  may have done enough to win the
approval of Liberal Democrat lawmakers, they drew immediate
criticism from Labour, which seized on the decision to scrap the
50 percent rate amid polls showing public opposition. Still,
taking that step may mean Osborne has defused a potential
political time-bomb now rather than waiting for it to become an
issue at the next election in 2015.  “There is tremendous opposition to this, but it is better
to get this out of the way now,”  Bill Jones , a professor of
politics at Liverpool Hope University, said in an interview.
“It’s quite a big gamble” because “it will be a stick Labour
will use right up to 2015 and it will alienate quite a few Lib
Dems and Lib Dem voters.”  ‘Bash the Rich’  The headline budget measure was Osborne’s decision to lower
the top rate of income tax to 45 percent from next year. He told
BBC Radio 4 today that attempts to “bash the rich” had failed
because the Treasury was losing almost as much from tax evasion
as the top rate was generating.  “No chancellor can justify a tax rate that damages our
economy and raises next to nothing -- it’s as simple as that,”
Osborne told the  House of Commons  in  London  in his third budget
since becoming chancellor almost two years ago. “Thanks to the
other new taxes on the rich I have announced today, we’ll be
getting five times more money each and every year from the
wealthiest.”  ‘Moribund Horse’  Osborne’s measures amounted to “a reasonable compromise in
circumstances where compromises are unavoidable,” Liberal
Democrat lawmaker Andrew George said in an e-mail today. “This
is a coalition budget. Not a Liberal Democrat one. Of course we
would have kept the 50p rate because it conveys the right
message, but you can’t flog a moribund horse.”  The pound extended its drop against the dollar today after
a report showed U.K. retail sales fell more than economists
forecast in February. It was trading at $1.5804 as of 12:30 p.m.
in London, down 0.4 percent on the day. The currency ended
yesterday little changed. The yield on the benchmark 10-year
government bond fell 3 basis points to 2.337 percent today.  The  Labour Party  questioned Osborne’s use of a study by the
tax agency to justify scrapping the 50 percent rate.  That report showed the government would lose 3 billion
pounds next year from lowering the levy to 45 percent, while
gaining 2.9 billion pounds from people who had previously chosen
not to pay the tax now deciding they would.  ‘Heroic Assumption’  “That’s a heroic assumption,” said  Ed Balls , the Labour
lawmaker who shadows Osborne in Parliament. “This is a guess,
it’s a gamble and it’s deeply unfair to be cutting the tax bill
of the 300,000 wealthiest people by 10,000 pounds a year.”  Osborne said he’d claw back lost revenue with higher taxes
on homes bought for 2 million pounds or more, the loss of tax
breaks for pensioners and a clampdown on  tax evasion  by the
wealthy.  While Osborne emphasized an increase in stamp duty on the
most expensive property purchases to 7 percent from 5 percent,
the biggest revenue-raising measure came from the abolition of
additional tax-free allowances for pensioners, bringing in 1.25
billion pounds a year for the Treasury by 2017.  The move triggered a backlash in many of Britain’s best-
selling newspapers. The  Daily Mail  said Osborne “Picks the
Pockets of Pensioners” on its front page and the  Daily
Telegraph  said the “Granny Tax Hits 5 Million Pensioners.”  “He’s taxing a bunch of people with whom we all have
sympathy -- we all hope to grow old -- and who vote, and who are
numerous,” Tim Bale, professor of politics at Sussex
University, said in an interview. “I’m surprised someone as
political as Osborne allowed this through.”  Bank Levy  An increase in the bank levy will net the government a
further 455 million pounds, while tapping into the reserve that
won’t be used to fund the war in  Afghanistan  once troops return
home will give Osborne 1.5 billion pounds a year in 2014-15.  Osborne defended his decision to cut the top tax rate by
saying it had flopped as a revenue-generator, encouraged
avoidance and repelled entrepreneurs and foreign investors.  The measures will leave people earning 100,000 pounds
better off by 40 pounds a year, while the 330,000 people at the
very top of the income scale -- earning more than 150,000 pounds
-- will be worse off, according to the Treasury. Though their
income-tax rate falls to 45 percent, the tax relief they can
claim will be capped at 25 percent of their income or 50,000
pounds, whichever is the greater. Together with the increase in
stamp duty, they’ll lose an average of 1,300 pounds a year.  The budget was full of measures aimed at pleasing the
Liberal Democrats. Osborne toned down moves to restrict access
to child-welfare benefits for middle-income earners and
increased the threshold for paying income tax by 1,100 pounds to
9,205 pounds from April 2013.  Stamp Duty  He also sought to stop the practice of avoiding stamp duty
by buying homes through a company, imposing a 15 percent tax on
such transactions. Currently, the highest stamp-duty rate is 5
percent on properties above 1 million pounds.  Tax on tobacco was increased by the equivalent of 37 pence
on a packet of cigarettes, while credits were provided for
makers of video games and television films and access to loans
for young entrepreneurs improved. Even though  oil prices  have
risen, the fuel duty will rise in August as previously
announced.  The budget’s broader economic impact may be more limited.  Osborne said Britain will escape a renewed recession after
a contraction in the  final three months  of 2011, and that the
economy will grow by 0.8 percent this year compared with a
November estimate of 0.7 percent. Gross domestic product will
expand 2 percent in 2013 and unemployment will still peak at 8.7
percent this year, he said.  Corporation Tax  Osborne lowered the corporation-tax rate to 24 percent
starting next month, 1 percentage point further than previously
flagged. It will be lopped to 22 percent by 2014. The shift
comes a month after President  Barack Obama  said he wants to cut
the equivalent U.S. levy to 28 percent from 35 percent.  The autonomous  Office for Budget Responsibility  said the
budget gap will narrow to 7.6 percent of GDP in the fiscal year
beginning next month, still more than France, Germany and  Italy .
The public debt will peak at 76.3 percent in about 2015, less
than previously anticipated, it said.  Osborne was constrained by his desire to retain the U.K.’s
AAA credit rating by reducing a deficit now more than 8 percent
of gross domestic product and taking measures to support growth
that don’t require more borrowing.  Fitch Ratings  called the budget “neutral” for Britain’s
top ranking in a statement issued after Osborne’s speech.  “The growth story isn’t as bad as it might be,” Bale
said. That’s not a bad story to take into an election. In the
end, that could be what makes the difference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  