-- Osborne Says U.K. to Avoid Recession as He Keeps Austerity Push
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-21T12:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/osborne-says-u-k-to-avoid-recession-as-he-keeps-austerity-push.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Britain will avoid sliding back into recession as
he delivered a budget intended to maintain his austerity drive.  Forecasts from the nonpartisan  Office for Budget
Responsibility  show the economy expanding 0.8 percent this year,
up from a November estimate of 0.7 percent, Osborne told
Parliament in London today.  Gross domestic product shrank 0.2
percent  in the last three months of 2011.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government is seeking to
retain the U.K.’s AAA  credit rating  by erasing the bulk of the
deficit by 2017 and taking measures to support growth that don’t
require additional borrowing. The shortfall unexpectedly
increased last month, data released today showed.  “Britain is going to earn its way in the world,” Osborne
said. “There is no other road to recovery.”  With  Fitch Ratings  revising its U.K. outlook last week to
“negative” from “stable,” Osborne is sticking to plans to ax
a budget deficit now totaling more than 8 percent of gross
domestic product, a shortfall greater than in France, Germany
and  Italy .  Osborne cited the euro debt crisis and rising oil prices as
threats to growth. Unemployment will peak at 8.7 percent before
falling to 6.3 percent in 2016, while the budget gap will drop
to 7.6 percent of GDP in the fiscal year beginning next month,
the budget office said.  Tax Cuts  Osborne may use the budget to cut the 50 percent tax rate
on earnings above 150,000 pounds ($237,000) to 45 percent. That
cost may be offset by a higher levy on property sales topping $2
million and measures to quell  tax avoidance .  Handing a break to high earners would represent a political
gambit as opposition Labour leaders attack the government’s
priorities.  “It is completely the wrong priority to cut taxes for the
richest people in Britain,” Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said in a
statement before Osborne spoke.  The U.K.’s austerity drive distinguishes it from the U.S.
focus on spurring expansion and has drawn criticism from Labour
that Osborne is jeopardizing growth by cutting too fast. The
chancellor responds that failure to retrench would jolt  interest
rates  and cost the U.K. its top credit rating.  Fitch Ratings said last week that Britain has limited
ability to deal with shocks and that there is a “slightly
greater” than 50 percent chance that the AAA rating will be
lowered within two years. Moody’s Investors Service said last
month that Britain risks losing its top-level rating if the
economy deteriorates.  Recovery  The economy is still struggling to recover, with the pain
compounded by previous budget cuts that will see more than
700,000 public-sector jobs axed in the tightest fiscal squeeze
since World War II. The London-based  Institute for Fiscal
Studies  calculates that while about three-quarters of the
envisaged tax increases have been implemented, only about a
tenth of the spending cuts have.  The  budget deficit  unexpectedly increased in February as
taxes fell and spending surged, the  Office for National
Statistics  said in London today. Net borrowing excluding support
for banks was 15.2 billion pounds, the highest for any February
on record, compared with 8.9 billion pounds a year earlier. The
median of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was 8 billion
pounds.  Jobless Claims  U.K. jobless claims rose more than economists forecast in
February, and a broader measure of unemployment remained at the
highest level in 16 years, according to data released March 14
by the ONS. Minutes released today showed that  Bank of England 
policy makers split for a second month with two seeking more
stimulus as the majority favored waiting to gauge “substantial
risks” to the inflation outlook.  A ComRes Ltd. poll published yesterday found 64 percent of
people saying they believed they’d be worse off after the
budget, 61 percent that the government was out of touch with the
economic needs of the public and 59 percent saying that the
budget will look after the rich more than the poor. ComRes
interviewed 2,057 adults online March 16-18.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  