-- Emerging-Market Stocks Drop as Chinese Concerns Deter Investors
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-03-21T21:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/most-emerging-stocks-decline-on-china-economic-slowdown-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks retreated to
a two-week low as concern  China’s economy  is contributing to a
global slowdown deters investors from riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.2 percent to 1047.62
in New York, the lowest level since March 7, as 410 stocks
dropped while 314 gained. Raw materials producers and industrial
companies led the decline, while telecommunications companies
advanced.  Steelmaker  Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3)  lost the most in
three months, dragging  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  lower for a second day.
 OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) ,  Russia ’s biggest mining company, slid to
the lowest level in two months on concern nickel prices may
extend declines. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slumped
for a sixth day.  Prices for metals and raw materials have fallen as
declining Chinese retail sales and  home prices  add to signs that
the world’s second-largest economy is slowing. Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut the economic growth target for this year to the
lowest since 2004 on March 5.  “People are increasingly nervous about what may happen in
 China ,” John-Paul Smith, a London-based emerging-market
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, said by phone. “My own big fear
is that even though over the medium and long-term a
restructuring of the Chinese economy is what’s needed to avoid a
hard landing, in the near term you’re likely to see lower growth
rates.”  Emerging equities trade at 10.7 times estimated earnings,
after rallying 14 percent this year. That  compares  with a
valuation of 13.1 for the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-nation
shares, which is up 11 percent in 2012. The valuation gap was
the widest since February 2009 over the past two days, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  ETF Rebounds  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
added 0.2 percent to $43.24 today, gaining for the first time in
four days.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, lost 2.5 percent to 24.50 by 5
p.m. in New York.  Brazil’s Bovespa slumped 0.6 percent to the lowest level in
1 1/2 weeks, as Cia. Siderurgica Nacional lost 3.7 percent after
being downgraded to underweight from equal-weight by Barclays
Plc. Steelmaker  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  slid 4
percent.  Brazilian telephone companies advanced, led by  Tele Norte
Leste Participacoes SA (TNLP4) ’s 5.1 percent climb.  Profit Misses  Mexican stocks  rose 1 percent on the IPC Index, as retail
sales increased 4.4 percent in January from the same month last
year. The median estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a 4 percent jump.  China Oilfield Services Ltd. (601808)  dropped the most in three
months in  Shanghai  as profit missed analysts’ estimates.  China
Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the biggest Hong
Kong-listed shipbuilder, slid 8.1 percent in  Hong Kong  after
second-half profit dropped 59 percent.  China Oilfield (2883) , the drilling unit of the nation’s largest
offshore oil producer, lost 3.2 percent. Net income fell to 4.04
billion yuan last year, based on international accounting
standards, the company said in a statement. This compares with
an average of 4.2 billion yuan based on 10 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) ,  Hungary ’s largest refiner, declined 2.3 percent,
pushing the  BUX Index (BUX)  down 0.9 percent.  South Africa ’s stock market was closed for a holiday.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 324 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  