-- Houghton Mifflin Bonds at Record Low on Restructuring Report
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-03-21T20:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/houghton-mifflin-bonds-at-record-low-on-restructuring-report.html
Houghton Mifflin Harcourt
Publishing Co. (282996Q)  bonds fell to the lowest since they were issued
after the Wall Street Journal reported the publisher is seeking
to restructure its debt for the second time in two years.  The publisher’s $300 million of 10.5 percent bonds due in
June 2019, which were issued in May, dropped to 57.125 cents on
the dollar today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
were trading above 100 cents on the dollar, or par, as recently
as June. The Boston-based company has $3.7 billion of debt
outstanding.  “Like other companies with challenging balance sheets, we
are looking at our options to make sure we position the company
for long term growth,” Josef Blumenfeld, a senior vice
president in corporate affairs, said in an e-mail. “We have no
liquidity issues and no covenant issues,” he said. “We are
very optimistic about our position in the market and the
future.”  Houghton has retained the  law firm  Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton & Garrison LLP and the  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  as advisers,
the newspaper reported today without identifying the people who
gave it the information.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its corporate  credit rating 
on Houghton for the second time in two months last week to Caa3,
the third-lowest rating.  “The downgrade reflects Moody’s view that a debt
restructuring in the near term is increasingly likely,” the
ratings firm said in a March 13 report. Moody’s gave the company
a negative outlook.  Government budget cuts after the worst U.S. recession in
seven decades have delayed curriculum purchases, squeezing
revenue for a company that made 90 percent of its 2011 sales
through September from textbooks. The company might benefit from
an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  plan that would provide a lifeline by making
digital versions of its education titles available on the iPad
tablet computer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 