-- House Republicans Proposing 20% Small-Business Tax Cut
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-21T20:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/house-republicans-proposing-20-small-business-tax-cut.html
U.S.  House Republicans  proposed a
one-year, 20 percent  tax cut  for businesses with fewer than 500
employees, following through on a 2010 campaign pledge.  “We should all be able to rally around the cause of small
businesses,” House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia ,
sponsor of the plan, said at a news conference today in
Washington. The tax cut would cost $45.9 billion, he said.  Unlike earlier proposals by House Republicans, the bill
wouldn’t prevent any specific industry from qualifying for the
break amounting to 20 percent of businesses’ income, according
to text of the measure obtained by Bloomberg News. Income from
the sale of capital assets wouldn’t qualify, nor would income
from dividends, interest, royalties and annuities. Cantor’s
office didn’t immediately release a bill text.  The measure would limit the value of the deduction to 50
percent of wages paid by companies to employees who aren’t
owners. Those definitions and limitations may prevent many  hedge
funds  from qualifying for a significant tax break.  Republicans are promoting the short-term, deficit-
increasing legislation even as they try to reduce the  budget
deficit  and overhaul the  tax code  to remove tax breaks and end
the patchwork of temporary policies they often criticize.  ‘Something Immediate’  “As we pursue long-term tax reform, we need something
immediate,” House Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp 
of Michigan said at the news conference. He said he plans for
the panel to vote on the measure by the end of next week.  Camp said the tax break, if enacted, would be allowed to
expire after a year.  “This 20 percent deduction is something that will be
immediate to” small businesses, he told reporters later. “It’s
clear. It’s simple. They’ll be able to take advantage of it.”  The largest Washington lobbying groups that represent small
businesses haven’t endorsed the bill.  Brad Close, vice president for federal public policy at the
 National Federation of Independent Business , said in a statement
that the group “appreciates the continued focus” on small
business.  “NFIB looks forward to working with Congress to advance a
pro-growth tax policy for small business,” he said.  Chamber of Commerce  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce didn’t take a definitive
position either.  “The Cantor bill adds to the debate and underscores the
need for comprehensive, fundamental  tax reform ,”  Blair Latoff ,
a chamber spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Other groups, including the International Franchise
Association, the American Dental Association and the National
Association of Home Builders, support the measure, according to
a fact sheet from Cantor’s office.  Cantor and other House Republican leaders proposed a
similar small-business tax deduction in 2009 and 2010. The
measure didn’t advance in the House, controlled at the time by
Democrats. Republicans then rolled the plan into the 2010
campaign agenda that propelled them to the House majority.  The earlier proposals wouldn’t have allowed the deduction
for income from banking, insurance, financing or investing. They
also excluded golf courses, massage parlors, gambling
operations, farms, hotels, restaurants, engineering firms,
accounting firms and producers of pornography.  Census Figures  Companies in those industries would be eligible for the tax
break under the latest version of the bill, subject to the other
limits and the definition of income.  According to 2008 figures from the  U.S. Census Bureau , of
the 5.9 million companies that weren’t sole proprietorships,
18,469, or 0.3 percent, had 500 or more workers. Those larger
companies employed 50.6 percent of the U.S. work force.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan said the proposal
takes a “willy-nilly” approach to promoting economic growth.  “It’s unpaid-for and I think it’s very, very undisciplined
in terms of who would benefit from it,” said Levin, the top
Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  