-- Tower Bersama Hires Banks for $250 Million Senior Term Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-03-21T09:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tower-bersama-hires-banks-for-250-million-senior-term-loan-1-.html
PT Tower Bersama Infrastructure (TBIG) ,
the Jakarta-based provider of telecommunication infrastructure
to wireless carriers, hired five banks to help arrange a $250
million loan.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., DBS Bank Ltd., Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  will help facilitate the
 term loan , according to an e-mailed release from OCBC today.  The banks are seeking to expand the mandated lead arranger
group and expect to begin marketing the senior secured facility
in general syndication in early April, according to the release.  Proceeds will be used to help partially fund Tower
Bersama’s purchase of 2,500 mobile phone towers from PT Indosat
and for other capital expenditure requirements, according to the
release. The facility has a so-called greenshoe option for an
additional $75 million, or its equivalent in rupiah, OCBC said.
The loan’s main portion may also be part funded in local
currency.  A greenshoe option is a provision whereby a loan’s size can
be increased, depending on banks’ responses.  Tower Bersama Infrastructure, which is majority owned by
 Saratoga Capital  and PT Provident Capital, operated 4,868
telecommunications sites as at the end of 2011, OCBC said.  The acquisition financing package is also expected to
include an additional portion of mezzanine debt, to be provided
by lenders including Standard Bank Plc, a person familiar with
the matter said last month. Such debt includes embedded equity
instruments. The amount will depend on the amount of U.S.
dollars or rupiah raised by the senior facility, the person
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  