-- Pelamis Wave Seeks Industrial Partner to Boost Production
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-21T11:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/pelamis-wave-seeks-industrial-partner-to-boost-production.html
Pelamis Wave Power Ltd., the wave
power device maker that’s working with EON AG and  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,
said it’s seeking “teens of millions of pounds” of investments
to increase production.  The money, needed to expand Pelamis’s factory in Leith
Docks, Edinburgh, is the type of injection that would be
required from an industrial partner, Chief Executive Officer Per Hornung Pedersen said in a phone interview. Pelamis expects to
reach an agreement with such a partner this year, he said.  “We’re talking probably in the teens of millions, over a
period from now until 2020 in terms of what you will need to
invest in order to equip the facility and surroundings,”
Pedersen said yesterday from  New York . That would help the plant
build about 200 devices by 2020, assuming the current plans of
Pelamis customers are realized, he said.  Energy from the waves and tides has the potential to meet
as much as a fifth of the U.K.’s current electricity demand. Yet
the technology remains expensive -- almost twice as much the
cost per megawatt-hour of power generated from offshore  wind
turbines  and seven times as much as electricity from burning
gas, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  “We are using offshore wind as the target: That’s what we
think we need to be competitive with,” Pedersen said. “Where
offshore wind is in 2020, we expect to be competitive with.”  Pedersen said the search for an industrial partner is
“progressing well.” He declined to elaborate, saying “we
cannot be specific as to who’s in and when.” An investment in
the “teens” of 13 million to 19 million pounds is the
equivalent of $21 million to $30 million.  Eon Tests Device  Pelamis has one device that’s being tested by  Germany ’s EON
at the European Marine Energy Center in Orkney,  Scotland . A
second generator, to be tested by Iberdrola’s Scottish Power
unit, should be installed in the next two weeks, according to
Pelamis founder and director Richard Yemm.  “The mooring is in and we’re in the final stages of
completing the connection to the cable at the EMEC site before
the machine can be deployed,” Yemm said by phone.  Vattenfall AB on March 15 said it was planning to test a
third Pelamis machine at EMEC, with trials beginning in 2014.
EON, which has been testing Pelamis since October 2010, and
Scottish Power are coordinating their tests, a “unique”
situation among utilities, according to Pedersen and Yemm.  “What it means is that Scottish Power is party to the EON
data,” Yemm said. “We made a number of targeted improvements
with the Scottish Power machine. We took just over 12.5 percent
out of the cost of the machine and introduced a few new bits of
technology to test so EON can benefit from the knowledge of
that.”  Utility Tests  Yemm said Pelamis is now trying to advance the tests with
the three utilities in order to deliver three 10-megawatt
projects in 3-4 years. That would involve about 40 Pelamis
devices. That will give the company a chance to hone a
technology that’s still “immature,” he said.  “We’ve got a whole load of fundamental performance and
scale-up benefits to come,” Yemm said. “If we can get on the
hip of offshore wind by 2020 and still have those up our
sleeves, we’re in a pretty strong position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 