-- Peru to Seek Private Investors for $10.4 Billion Projects
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-03-21T16:57:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/peru-to-seek-private-investors-for-10-4-billion-projects-1-.html
Peru will auction concessions for
$10.4 billion in infrastructure projects by the end of next year
as it seeks to benefit from an upturn in investor confidence,
Finance Minister Miguel Castilla said.  The government will seek private industry involvement in 26
projects, including roads, power plants and a $3 billion subway
for Lima, Castilla told reporters in the capital today.  Peruvian business confidence rose to a one-year high in
February as  Europe ’s debt crisis eased and the  U.S. economy 
strengthened. The improved global outlook will spur foreign
investment, helping the government meet its target of 6 percent
annual growth, Castilla said.  “Delivering $10 billion of concessions in less than two
years is a very ambitious goal,” he said. “Together with the
fiscal stimulus, this investment will keep the country growing
at elevated rates.”  The sol was little changed at 2.6700 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:16 a.m. in Lima, from 2.6710 yesterday, according to Deutsche
Bank’s local unit.  The Andean nation is boosting investment in roads,
electricity and energy as it seeks to cut the country’s 30
percent poverty rate and increase exports to $86 billion by 2016
from $46 billion last year.  Concessions totaling $1.5 billion will be offered this
year, beginning in May with a license to build a power plant for
the central and southern jungle region, Castilla said.  The license to design, build and operate the 35-kilometer
 Lima  subway, which the government initially estimated to cost $2
billion, will be auctioned about the middle of next year, he
said.  Companies will provide about 40 percent of the financing
for the 26 projects, said Milton Von Hesse, head of the
government’s private investment promotion agency, Proinversion.
The energy projects will probably be financed entirely by
investors, while the government will provide a “very
important” portion of financing for the subway, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 