-- Poland Says Shale Reserves May Be 85% Below U.S. Estimate
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i
-- 2012-03-21T17:09:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/poland-may-have-768-billion-cubic-meters-shale-gas-reserves-1-.html
Poland ’s recoverable shale gas
reserves are probably as much as 768 billion cubic meters, or 85
percent less than a U.S. Energy Department estimate from last
year, according to the Polish Geological Institute.  The deposits are enough to cover as many as 65 years of
demand and are equal to as much as 200 years of the country’s
production, Deputy Environment Minister Piotr Wozniak said today
in Warsaw at a presentation of the institute’s data. “These
estimates would make Poland  Europe ’s third-largest holder of gas
reserves,” he said.  The minimum estimate is 346 billion cubic meters and is
based on an analysis by the  institute  of 39 wells drilled in
Poland from the 1950s to the 1980s. Reserves may be as much as
1.9 trillion cubic meters assuming maximum productivity, the
study shows. The Polish estimates are less than a forecast last
year by the U.S. Energy Information Administration that the
country had as much as 5.2 trillion cubic meters of shale gas.  “It’s a good, conservative estimate and as data from new
wells will be available these forecasts may rise,” Wozniak
said. The next report will be published in two years.  The forecast is still “substantial,” said Arkadiusz Wicik, a director at Fitch Ratings’ energy, utilities and
regulation team for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa .  “Shale gas in Poland could still be a game changer for the
country’s energy sector despite the disappointing shale gas
reserve estimate,” he said in a statement today.  Companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  are among the companies that
plan to drill  127 wells  in the eastern European country through
2017, Wozniak said today. Half of the new exploration wells are
“disappointing” and the rest are “encouraging,” he said.  Prices ‘Highly Profitable’  Lower estimates of reserves won’t trigger a pullout from
Poland by investors, Wozniak said.  “Prices of gas in Poland have reached an unbelievable
level so any investment in making hydrocarbons available on the
market is highly profitable,” he said.  Poland pays more than $500 a 1,000 cubic meters of the fuel
from  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, supplier of more than 60 percent of
the nation’s gas, according to government officials. That
compares with a price of 25 euros a megawatt-hour for next-month
gas traded at the Netherlands’ Title Transfer Facility. That’s
the equivalent of about $355 a 1,000 cubic meters. U.S. next-
month gas futures on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  were at
$2.312 a million British thermal units, or about $85 a 1,000
cubic meters.  Replicating U.S.  Poland’s commercial production is unlikely to emulate a
drop in U.S. prices in the first five to 10 years because of
higher break-even costs, different geology and the country’s gas
market structure, according to Fitch,  “We do not expect that the success in the U.S., which led
to about a 50 percent decrease in gas prices between 2008 and
2011, will be easily replicated in Poland,” Fitch said.  Poland’s recoverable shale oil resources are 215 million to
268 million metric tons, the institute said. Reserves may be as
much as 535 million tons, assuming maximum output, it said.
Shale oil could cover from 10 to 12 years of Poland’s oil
consumption, the institute said.  The report does not cover so-called tight gas and coal-bed
methane reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  