-- Posen, Miles Vote for More Bond Purchases as BOE Splits: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-21T11:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/posen-miles-vote-for-more-qe-as-boe-splits-for-second-month-1-.html
Bank of England policy makers  Adam Posen  and  David Miles  maintained a push for more stimulus for
the U.K. this month as the majority favored waiting to monitor
the “substantial risks” to the medium-term inflation outlook.  Posen and Miles wanted to increase the target of the
central bank’s bond-purchase program by 25 billion pounds ($40
billion) to 350 billion pounds, according to the minutes of the
Monetary Policy Committee’s March 7-8 meeting published today in
London. The seven remaining members voted to keep the current
325 billion-pound ceiling.  Divisions among MPC members have emerged about the outlook
for consumer prices and whether the economy needs more stimulus
as demand is curbed by Britain’s largest fiscal squeeze since
World War II. Data showed the budget shortfall almost doubled in
February, leaving Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne
little room to meet his full-year goal as he prepares to
announce his annual budget today.  The pound weakened against the dollar and the euro after
the reports were published. It fell as much as 0.3 percent
versus the U.S. currency and traded at $1.5876 as of 11:05 a.m.
in  London .  While the MPC today highlighted upside risks to  inflation 
from rising  oil prices  and wage settlements in today’s minutes,
it also said there were “significant risks to economic activity
that might result in inflation falling materially below” its 2
percent target in the medium term.  “The recurrence of the dovish dissents was only partly
balanced by the discussion of risks that might prevent inflation
falling back as the MPC expects,” said Philip Rush, an
economist at Nomura International Plc in London. Posen and
Miles’s “activism” suggests that the “seeds of the ground-
swell needed to deliver more easing have already been sown.”  Inflation Risks  Policy maker  Martin Weale  has said there is “risk that
there may be more persistence to inflation,” while Chief
Economist Spencer Dale said yesterday it may not slow as fast
this year as the MPC has forecast due to rising energy prices.  With regard to threats to the downside, the  Bank of England 
cited the euro-area debt crisis, “elevated” bank funding costs
and the potential for higher borrowing costs and energy prices
to undermine  consumer confidence  and spending.  The minutes also showed that that MPC voted 9-0 to hold its
 benchmark interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  Oil Prices  U.K.  consumer-price gains  eased to an annual 15-month low
of 3.4 percent in February. The central bank sees inflation
slowing from a peak of 5.2 percent in September to 1.9 percent
by the end of this year and 1.8 percent by end-2013. The MPC
said today that a “clear risk surrounded the outlook for crude
oil prices.”  “If oil prices were to rise to a level significantly
higher than the committee currently assumed, then that would
tend to slow the global and domestic recovery, reduce supply
growth and put upward pressure on domestic costs and prices,”
it said. In addition, “there had been some signs of an upward
drift in pay settlements.”  For Posen and Miles, a further stimulus was “warranted to
reduce the risk that persistently weak growth would damage the
future supply capacity of the economy.” They favored a 75
billion-pound increase in stimulus in February, when the central
bank increased the target by 50 billion pounds.  This month, the majority of the MPC said “recent data had
evolved in line with its expectations” and there had been
“little change to the balance of risks.” On that basis, they
saw “no reason” to change the current stimulus program.  Budget Deficit  Britain’s budget deficit unexpectedly widened last month as
taxes fell and spending rose, the  Office for National Statistics 
said. Net borrowing excluding support for banks was 15.2 billion
pounds, the highest for any February on record, compared with
8.9 billion pounds a year earlier. The median of 17 forecasts in
a Bloomberg News survey was 8 billion pounds.  Osborne will present his annual budget today amid calls to
relax his deficit-reduction measures. He speaks to lawmakers in
Parliament at 12:30 p.m. in London.  European (SXXP)  stocks were little changed and U.S. equity index
futures advanced before data later today that may show U.S. home
sales near a two-year high. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell less
than 0.1 percent to 268.95.  Purchases of existing  U.S. homes  climbed 0.9 percent in
February to a 4.61 million annual rate, the fastest since May
2010, from a 4.57 million pace in January, economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. An advance would be the fourth in
five months.  PBOC Power  In  Asia , departing adviser to  China ’s central bank, Xia Bin, urged more autonomy for the monetary authority as the
country prepares to free up interest rates and increase the
yuan’s role as an international currency. The People’s Bank of
China “should be given more power in the areas of some short-
term and specific monetary policy adjustment and operations,”
Xia, 60, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television in  Hong
Kong  yesterday, a week after his two-year term ended.  Elsewhere in Asia,  Thailand ’s central bank kept interest
rates on hold today. In  Japan , the Cabinet office said the
world’s third-biggest economy was “still picking up slowly,”
while  Malaysia ’s central bank said gross domestic product will
expand at a slower pace this year than the government previously
forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  