-- Previously Owned U.S. Home Sales Probably Climbed
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/previously-owned-u-s-home-sales-probably-climbed-in-february.html
Sales of previously owned U.S.
homes probably rose in February to an almost two-year high,
adding to signs of stabilization in the real-estate market,
economists said before a report today.  Purchases climbed 0.9 percent to a 4.61 million annual
rate, the fastest since  May 2010 (ETSLTOTL) , from a 4.57 million pace in
January, according to the median forecast of 77 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. An advance would be the fourth in
five months.  The industry that struggled to pick up for most of the
economic expansion is stirring as job and income gains, cheaper
homes and  mortgage rates  near the lowest on record keep
 affordability  at an all-time high. At the same time, distressed
properties and the threat of more foreclosures may limit the
speed at which prices and the residential real-estate market
rebound.  “Seeing sales edge up very gradually means things are
turning around,” said  David Semmens , a U.S. economist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “People are seeing the homes
they want becoming more affordable. But mortgage approvals are
very low. It’s still not easy for people to buy homes in
general.”  The National Association of Realtors’ data are due at 10
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from 4.44
million to 4.8 million.  Existing-home sales, tabulated when a contract closes,
climbed to 4.26 million  last year  from 4.19 million in 2010.
Demand peaked at 7.08 million in 2005 during the housing boom.
In 2008, sales totaled 4.1 million, the least since 1995.  New-Home Sales  New-home sales, which are calculated using contract
signings, have lost their ability to forecast the broader market
as demand shifts to cheaper previously owned houses. New
properties made up almost 7 percent of the market last year.  The improvement in employment has contributed to the recent
housing gains. Payrolls rose in February, capping the best six-
month increase since 2006, while the  jobless rate  held at a
three-year low, according to Labor Department figures.  Warmer weather may have may have encouraged more Americans
to shop for new properties last month. The average temperature
was 38.2 degrees Fahrenheit (3.4 Celsius), 3.6 degrees warmer
than the 20th century average and the 17th warmest February in
118 years, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Association.  Cheaper borrowing costs are luring buyers as well. The
 average rate  on a 30-year fixed mortgage reached an all-time low
of 3.87 percent in February, according to data from  Freddie Mac .  Fed Buying  Federal Reserve policy makers last week said they will
continue to swap $400 billion in short-term securities with
long-term debt to lengthen the average maturity of the central
bank’s holdings, a move dubbed Operation Twist and aimed at
holding down borrowing costs like mortgage rates.  A measure of housing affordability in January climbed to a
record 206.1, according to the National Association of Realtors.
A value of 100 means that a family with the national median
income has enough to qualify for a median-priced property.  Investors are upbeat about prospects in the housing market
and builder shares. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index has advanced 27 percent since the end of last
year, compared with a 12 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 .  ‘Strong Note’  “We finished the year on a strong note, entered the year
optimistic and still feel fairly optimistic today,” Larry Nicholson, president and chief executive officer at  Ryland Group
Inc. (RYL) , said March 6 at an investor conference in  Orlando ,
 Florida . “The good thing about the traffic we are seeing is
it’s new traffic. We feel a lot better than we did a year ago.
Hopefully, we can keep this trend up.”  Still, home foreclosures may be slow to wane in the coming
months. Filings in the U.S. fell 8 percent in February, the
smallest year-over-year decrease since October 2010, as lenders
began working through a backlog of seized properties, RealtyTrac
Inc. said last week.  A total of 206,900 homes received notices of default,
auction or repossession last month, down 2 percent from January,
the Irvine, California-based data firm said in a report. One in
every 637 households got a filing.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  