-- Rainwater Toilets in Apartments Add Value for Developers
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/rainwater-toilets-in-apartments-add-premium-for-u-s-developers.html
The 22-story apartment tower in
Portland,  Oregon , has a roof garden that funnels rainwater to
its public toilets. Because the water isn’t treated, state law
requires “Do Not Drink” warning signs.  “Just in case your dog can read,” said Dennis Wilde,
chief sustainability officer for Gerding Edlen, the Portland-
based builder of the development called Indigo @ Twelve|West.  Green features, such as reusing rainwater and generating
about 1 percent of the tower’s electricity with four rooftop
windmills, help the Indigo’s bottom line by saving energy and
attracting tenants who pay a premium to live an eco-friendly
urban lifestyle, said Mark Edlen, chief executive officer of the
closely held company that’s developed $5 billion of residential
and commercial real estate since 1996.  As Gerding Edlen takes its Portland experiments to other
cities, some of the largest U.S. multifamily owners are stepping
up green development, deciding that the extra construction costs
will save money on operations and give them a competitive edge.
 AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB) ,  Equity Residential (EQR) ,  UDR Inc. (UDR)  and
Related Cos. are among companies building projects with energy-
saving insulation, solar-heated water and ventilation to improve
indoor air quality as a growing number of people opt to rent
rather than own homes.  Last year, developers of 23,000 U.S. multifamily housing
units applied for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design,
or LEED, certification, according to the U.S. Green Building
Council, which developed the standards. That’s equivalent to 14
percent of the new apartments and condos that started
construction last year and almost double the 11,825 multifamily
units certified from 2008 through 2011.  ‘Apartments’ Moment’  LEED certification awards points for energy and water
efficiency, recycled construction materials, transportation
access, preservation of outdoor space and indoor light and  air
quality .  “This is apartments’ moment and it’s a moment that’s not
likely to go away quickly,”  Susan Wachter , professor of real
estate and finance at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
School, said in a telephone interview from Philadelphia. “The
green label is attractive to investors. But it’s also attractive
to high-end apartment renters who are increasingly looking to
quality of life and to green investments as a statement.”  Multifamily  housing starts  climbed to an annual pace of
233,000 in February, more than double the 112,000 rate a year
earlier, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.  Multifamily Increase  Construction of buildings with at least five dwellings is
expected to increase 61 percent to 270,000 units this year,
according to a March 6 report by  Paul Diggle  and  Paul Dales ,
analysts at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London . Rents will rise 3
percent both this year and next, while single-family  home prices 
are expected to be little changed for the two-year period, the
analysts estimate.  In  Manhattan  -- the U.S. market with the highest rents,
according to  Reis Inc. (REIS)  -- LEED-certified buildings can command
about 5 percent more on monthly leases in good times and fill
vacancies with fewer concessions to tenants in bad times, said
Martin Dettling, senior vice president for design and
construction of Albanese Organization Inc., which developed
three LEED-certified towers with 798 condos and apartments in
the Battery Park City neighborhood.  “I think we’re getting to that stage where it’s identified
as something you need to have to be in competition,” Dettling
said in a telephone interview from the Garden City, New York,
offices of the closely held company. “If you don’t, you’re a
thing of the past.”  Tax Deductions  Related Cos., which has nine LEED-certified residential
buildings with 2,075 apartments, is planning 21 more with 9,600
housing units, said Charlotte Matthews, vice president of
sustainability for the closely held New York-based company that
developed Time Warner Center. While trying to cut construction
costs at MiMA, a 63-floor LEED tower on West 42nd Street that
opened to renters in April, Related spent extra on heating,
ventilation and air-conditioning systems to qualify for a tax
deduction worth 60 cents a square foot, she said.  “We invested more because energy efficiency offers a good
return on investment,” Matthews said in a telephone interview.  UDR, which owned 60,465 multifamily homes as of Dec. 31,
plans to add about 2,200 more LEED-certified units to its
current 1,200, according to Harry Alcock, senior vice president
for asset management with the Highlands Ranch, Colorado-based
real estate investment trust.  ‘Expect Green’  AvalonBay, which operates 200 communities with 58,538
units, has three LEED-certified properties and is seeking
certification for 11 others under development, according to
Matthew Birenbaum, executive vice president for corporate
strategy at the Arlington, Virginia-based REIT. The design of
Avalon at Mission Bay III in  San Francisco  reduces energy use by
28 percent and water consumption by 26 percent through efficient
lighting, plumbing and appliances, he said in an e-mail.  “In certain markets, residents are coming to expect green
features in the community where they live, so we do believe that
LEED certification gives us a marketing advantage over our
competitors,” he said. “We’ve found that the hard costs to
achieve LEED certification are less than 1 percent and many
times less than a half percent of the total project cost.”  For such investors as pension funds and university
endowments, LEED certification increases a property’s potential
resale value, said Nate Kredich, the Green Building Council’s
vice president of residential market development.  Exit Strategy  “They’re thinking about an exit strategy,” he said in a
telephone interview from his office in Del Mar,  California .
“They see a premium.”  Research demonstrating the financial benefits of LEED
construction is limited because the program is recent and
there’s been little information on whether completed buildings
met their design goals, said Matthew Kwatinetz, managing partner
at QBL Partners, a New York-based consulting firm.  “We know that certain green features are the direct cause
of economic gains that show up in higher asset prices,” he said
in an e-mail. “If the answer were wholly non-controversial --
that is, market-accepted -- there would be a whole lot more
green buildings.”  Gerding Edlen closed its Green Cities Fund I to investors
on Dec. 31 after raising $183 million. It’s preparing to start a
second fund as soon as April.  ‘You’re From Mars’  “When we were launching our first fund, people would look
at you like you’re from Mars,” Edlen, 59, said during an
interview on the rooftop of the Indigo, with a view of
 Portland ’s skyline and rain-soaked hills. “Today we know
there’s a lot of demand.”  The fund has a targeted 16 percent internal rate of return
and is “performing above that,” said Molly Bordonaro, Gerding
Edlen’s senior vice president.  Gerding Edlen is raising money less than two years after it
transferred troubled condo projects in Portland,  Seattle  and  Los
Angeles  to lenders at a loss to its backers of more than $200
million, according to property records and interviews with
investors.  Robert Scanlan, chairman of  ScanlanKemperBard Cos ., a
Portland-based real estate investment firm, said he would
recommend Gerding Edlen to other investors, even after he lost
$54 million with them on condo projects in Portland, Seattle and
Los Angeles that were returned to lenders in the wake of the
2008 real estate crash.  Would Invest Again  “A lot of money’s going to be made with apartments,” said
Scanlan, whose firm has about $790 million worth of equity in
19.9 million square feet (1.85 million square meters) of
commercial real estate. “We would invest with Gerding Edlen
again.”  So far, the Green Cities Fund I has financed seven mixed-
use projects with 760 apartment units worth about $350 million
in Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles and  Boston , Bordonaro
said.  The company plans to expand to  New York  and  Washington ,
cities with low vacancy rates where landlords can charge higher
rents to tenants who want to live near their jobs, Edlen said.  “We’re trying to leave behind buildings that are much more
responsible to their community,” Edlen said. “Both from a
design perspective as well as from the perspective of their
environmental footprint.”  LEED Platinum certification, the highest level, adds about
2 percent to construction costs while reducing operating
expenses about 20 percent when lower energy or water use are
accounted for, he said.  Covering Operating Costs  At the Indigo, a LEED Platinum building, rents average
$2.40 to $2.45 a month per square foot, about 10 percent more
than nearby apartments, Edlen said. It opened in October 2009,
when the U.S. unemployment rate rose to 10 percent. Enough of
its 273 units were leased within 10 months to cover operating
and other costs, Edlen said.  Gerding Edlen markets to renters who like to shop at  Whole
Foods (WFM)  -- there’s one across the street from the Indigo -- and
want to commute by bicycle or light-rail train, he said. Across
the Willamette River, tenants in a 50-unit Southeast Portland
building, also developed by Gerding Edlen, leased only 27 of the
garage’s 30 parking spaces. The building’s bicycle locker has
run out of space and its biggest maintenance problem is wet
bicycle tracks on the hallway carpet, Edlen said.  The efforts to go green, such as reusing untreated so-
called gray water in toilets, may veer toward the earnestness
lampooned in “Portlandia,” the Independent Film Channel
television  show  about the Pacific Northwest city’s artsy, eco-
conscious hipsters, said Portland Mayor Sam Adams.  ‘Dogs Can Read’  “We in Portland know not to drink out of the toilet,”
Adams, who has acted in the cable television series as an
assistant mayor, said in an interview at City Hall. “And why
yes, our dogs can read.”  On a serious note, Gerding Edlen’s projects represent the
quirky creativity and concern for the environment “in
Portland’s underlying DNA,” he said.  “We act on our values and I think that’s expressed by this
company,” Adams said. “They were the first to build deeply
green buildings when, at the time those first sustainable
buildings were constructed, everybody told them they were
idiots.”  In the Los Angeles beach-front district of  Venice , the
Frank, a 70-apartment complex, had a waiting list two months
before its scheduled April 7 opening, Edlen said. Rents start at
$2,995 for a 776-square-foot one-bedroom apartment, according to
the property’s  website .  Vegan Restaurant  The Frank, where rooftop solar panels will heat an average
60 percent of the building’s water, is designed to qualify for
LEED Platinum certification. It will feature a community herb
and vegetable garden curated by employees of an on-site vegan
restaurant,  Cafe Gratitude .  “I can’t imagine a better location for what we do on
Earth,” said Matthew Engelhart, co-founder of Cafe Gratitude,
which will open in May and serve locally grown, non-processed,
organic food. Venice residents are “interested in health, yoga
and well-being. And the disposable incomes are there,” he said.  At the  Indigo  in Portland, amenities such as a roof garden,
movie screening room and in-house gym with a personal trainer
attracted Joe Vaughn, who lives with his cockapoo, Penny, in a
14th-floor, $1,525-a-month studio apartment.  Vaughn, 40, runs a business consulting company from his
apartment, a short walk to such Portland landmarks as  Powell’s
City of Books  and Jake’s Famous Crawfish restaurant. He drives
his Jeep Wrangler about 4,000 miles (6,400 kilometers) a year,
moving it so rarely that the battery once died from lack of use.  Before moving to the apartment in June 2010, Vaughn owned a
3,300-square-foot suburban Portland house with a $4,000 monthly
mortgage.  “I have 700 square feet now, but I have the amenities of a
mansion,” Vaughn said. “I have fewer things, but I have nicer
things.”  Penny had no comment about the water in the toilet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  