-- Real-Time Swap Rule, Sunstein Memo, Brazil Banks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-21T12:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/real-time-swap-rule-sunstein-memo-brazil-banks-compliance.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  has completed Dodd-Frank Act rules requiring swaps
brokers to decide within minutes whether to clear a trade in an
effort to reduce risk in the $708 trillion global swaps market.  The CFTC voted 4-1 yesterday to adopt the regulation, which
requires Wall Street banks or clearinghouses operating on their
behalf to accept or reject trades for clearing as soon as
technologically possible -- in “milliseconds or seconds, or at
most, a few minutes,” according to a CFTC summary of the rule.  Vanguard Group Inc., based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania ;
Citadel LLC, the Chicago hedge fund founded by Ken Griffin; and
 DRW Holdings LLC , a Chicago-based proprietary trading firm, have
urged the CFTC to require real-time decisions on clearing to
prevent the risks of disruption and uncertainty in the swaps
market.  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are leading
U.S. efforts to write new regulations for the swaps market after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.
Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial-regulation overhaul, is intended
to reduce risk by having most swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses
that stand between buyers and sellers.  The CFTC may require Wall Street banks and large funds to
clear certain types of swaps as early as October, CFTC Chairman
 Gary Gensler  said at the meeting in  Washington .  The agency may publish recommendations in April for which
types of swaps will face the mandatory clearing requirement,
which would then be open to a 90-day review process.  Once the CFTC determines that a particular type of swap
must be cleared, the largest swap-dealers have 90 days before
they must comply with the mandate, Gensler said. The first
determinations could come as early as July, he said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Tokyo Grain Exchange to Transfer Farm Futures Trading  The  Tokyo  Grain Exchange will transfer trading of farm
futures to either the Tokyo Commodity Exchange or the Kansai
Commodities exchange, said Yoshiaki Watanabe, president of the
grain bourse.  The transfer was made to maintain agricultural futures
markets in  Japan , Watanabe told reporters in Tokyo today,
without elaborating. The bourse trades corn, soybeans, coffee,
raw sugar, rice and azuki beans.  The exchange has been under pressure from shareholders to
halt operations and transfer trading of farm futures to rivals
because of declining volumes. The bourse is losing about 40
million yen ($477,398) a month as retail investor participation
shrank after the government tightened regulations covering sales
of riskier financial assets to individuals, according to Jitsuo
Tatara, chairman of broker and shareholder  Yutaka Shoji Co. (8747)   Tokyo Grain Exchange had an operating loss of 773.7 million
yen in the year ended March 31, 2011.  Japan’s cabinet approved a plan earlier this month that
would allow the formation of a one-stop platform where investors
can buy equities, futures and commodities from a single venue.  If the legislation is passed by parliament, the Financial
Services Agency would become responsible for oversight of stock,
commodity and grain exchanges. Oversight is currently divided
between the FSA and the trade and agriculture ministries.  Agencies Must Weigh Effects of Business Rules, Sunstein Says  U.S. agencies should weigh the cumulative regulatory burden
on small businesses and startups when crafting new rules, said
President  Barack Obama ’s top regulator.  “The President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness has
emphasized the need for a smart and efficient regulatory system
and has drawn particular attention to the cumulative effects of
regulation,” Cass Sunstein, administrator of the White House
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, said in a  memo 
yesterday. “Cumulative burdens can create special challenges
for small businesses and startups.”  Obama issued an executive order in January 2011 directing
U.S. agencies to promote “coordination, simplification and
harmonization” and calling for the issuing of rules only when
benefits justify costs.  Sunstein emphasized the need for early consultation “with
advance notice to, and close engagement with, affected
stakeholders” and said that “consideration of cumulative
effects and of opportunities to reduce burdens and to increase
net benefits should be part of the assessment of costs and
benefits.”  Rules approved in the first 32 months of Obama’s presidency
cost $19.9 billion, with net benefits of more than $91 billion,
according to the White House Office of Management and Budget.  William Kovacs, senior vice president of regulatory affairs
for the Washington-based  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , the nation’s
largest business-lobbying group, said Sunstein’s office hasn’t
listened to the group’s complaints about redundant rules.  Republicans have criticized Obama for issuing rules they
said are too costly and have made his approach to regulation a
campaign issue.  For more, click here.  Brazil Antitrust Agency Plans to Rule on Banks, Chinaglia Says  Brazil ’s antitrust regulator plans to continue ruling on
bank mergers and practices, defying previous government attempts
to limit its authority, said Olavo Chinaglia, acting head of the
agency.  In 2001, then-President Fernando Henrique Cardoso signed a
binding interpretation of the national laws granting the central
bank final word on antitrust issues involving financial
institutions. The goal was to ensure that the antitrust agency,
known as CADE, wouldn’t block acquisitions that were approved to
rescue troubled banks that posed a risk to the stability of the
financial system.  The central bank said yesterday in an e-mailed message that
it has sole authority over such mergers and it does take
questions of competition into account. CADE, despite the
controversy over its jurisdiction, gave final approval in 2010
to the creation of  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin America’s
biggest bank, and to the purchase of Nossa Caixa by  Banco do
Brasil SA . The agency last August demanded that Banco do Brasil
change contracts on lines of credit under which payments are
deducted from payrolls.  Officials from CADE and the central bank are holding talks
to evaluate changes in the law, said Isaac Ferreira, general
counsel at the bank, in the e-mailed statement. Ferreira added
that the rule is clear regarding the bank’s exclusive power to
rule on mergers of financial institutions.  SEC Urges U.S. Congress to Amend Dodd-Frank’s Swap-Data Rules  Congress should amend the Dodd-Frank Act to remove barriers
to global regulators sharing data about the $708 trillion swaps
market, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s head of
international affairs  said .  The 2010 law requires regulators from other nations to
indemnify so-called swap-data repositories and U.S. regulators
for litigation costs before accessing the data. The requirement
may undermine regulators’ access to data kept in repositories
such as the Depository Trust and Clearing Corp. as they seek to
enforce new rules designed to reduce risk and increase
transparency.  Ethiopis Tafara, the SEC’s head of international affairs,
said in testimony prepared for a  House Financial Services
subcommittee hearing yesterday  that the requirement interferes
with access to information because most foreign governments lack
authority to provide indemnification.  The House subcommittee, controlled by Republicans, is
considering legislation that would repeal the indemnification
requirement. Dodd-Frank, enacted after largely unregulated swaps
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis, is intended to increase
transparency of the derivatives market by requiring price and
trade information to be reported to data repositories.  Compliance Action  OSC Outlines Concerns for Emerging Market Issuers  The Ontario Securities Commission published a  report 
summarizing its review of emerging market issuers and outlining
principal sources of concern relating to issuer disclosure,
underwriter conduct, the role of auditors and the exchange
listing process.  The review uncovered areas where issuers and gatekeepers
need to improve in order to meet their obligations, Howard
Wetston, chief executive officer of the commission, said
yesterday in a statement. The commission “will be monitoring
their progress to ensure the interests of investors are placed
first,” Weston said in the statement.  China CIRC Issues Insurer Rules; Company Rules Eased in Taiwan  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission issued rules to
improve insurers’ management of reserve requirements for non-
life businesses, according to a statement posted on its website.
It didn’t elaborate.  Separately,  Taiwan  eased rules to allow Chinese investments
in that nation in 161 more industries, including LED and solar-
battery businesses, Taiwan’s economic ministry said in a
statement.  FSA Secures 32 Million-Pound Judgment Against Three Land Banks  Three land banks were ordered to pay 32 million pounds
($50.7 million) to the U.K.’s financial watchdog for selling
land unlawfully and operating an investment scheme without
authorization, the Financial Services Authority said in an e-
mailed statement.  Victims of the scam are unlikely to compensated as they
aren’t covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme,
the FSA said today in the statement. The FSA said it hasn’t
identified any assets that will enable more than a small
proportion of payments to be made.  Japan to Raid AIJ Investment, ITM Securities, Nikkei Says  Japan’s Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission 
will soon raid the offices of  AIJ Investment Advisors (0202964D)  and
affiliate  ITM Securities (ITMSCZ) , the Nikkei newspaper reported, without
attribution.  AIJ President Kazuhiko Asakawa may be summoned to
parliament to testify about company losses, Nikkei said.  Japan’s Financial Services Agency will revoke the company’s
registration March 23, the newspaper reported.  AIJ  was suspended by the Japan Financial Services Agency
on Feb. 24 over possible losses on assets it managed for pension
funds.  Senate Fails to Advance Amendment Reauthorizing U.S. Ex-Im Bank  Senate Republicans defeated a motion to set a vote on a
measure reauthorizing the U.S. Export-Import Bank as part of a
bill rolling back U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules
for newly public companies.  The Senate voted 55-44 yesterday, with 60 needed, to end
debate on the amendment sponsored by Democrats Tim Johnson of
South Dakota and Maria Cantwell of Washington and Republicans
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Richard Shelby of Alabama.  J&J Sold Vaginal Mesh Implant Without U.S. Regulatory Approval  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  sold a vaginal mesh implant for three
years before U.S. regulators approved the device, now the
subject of more than 550 lawsuits by women who claim it injured
them.  J&J introduced the Gynecare Prolift device in March 2005,
touting it in an annual report as an “innovative and effective
surgical option” for weakened pelvic muscles. The U.S. Food and
Drug Administration said it learned of the Prolift in 2007, when
J&J sought approval for a related product. The FDA cleared both
devices in May 2008.  The company, the world’s second-biggest health-care
products maker, said it could market the Prolift without
approval because it was so similar to an approved device, the
Gynecare Gynemesh, said Morgan Liscinsky, an FDA spokeswoman, in
a March 16 e-mail. “FDA disagreed with this assertion,”
concluding distribution began “without appropriate” clearance,
she said.  An FDA report in July found a fivefold jump in deaths,
injuries or malfunctions tied to vaginal mesh for prolapsed
organs.  J&J’s unauthorized sales might cost it more to resolve
lawsuits over the product. J&J already has endured recalls of
artificial hip implants and over-the-counter drugs. The conduct
by J&J’s Ethicon unit also raises anew questions about the FDA’s
fast-track approval process.  J&J introduced the original Prolift in March 2005 after
“applying the relevant FDA guidance and based on the safety and
effectiveness” of Gynemesh, Matthew Johnson, a spokesman for
the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  company , said in an e-mail.  For more, click here.  Courts/Tribunals  Ex- Morgan Stanley (MS)  Broker Faces Testimony Loss in Ruling’s Appeal  Former Morgan Stanley broker Mark Mensack, ordered by
industry arbitrators to repay $1.2 million in bonus and lawyer’s
fees, may struggle to overturn the ruling after eight hours of
testimony went unrecorded.  Mensack, now a managing director at Piedmont Investment
Advisors, said he is seeking to appeal a decision after it led
to his bankruptcy. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
which organizes arbitration proceedings for brokerages, their
employees and customers, told him that eight of the 18 hours of
testimony from the hearing weren’t recorded because of
mechanical or human error, he said.  The missing testimony may make it more challenging for
Mensack to have the arbitration panel’s decision overturned, a
procedure that is almost always daunting, said Howard Meyers, a
professor at New York Law School.  In April 2010, Morgan Stanley filed an arbitration claim
alleging breach of promissory note and demanding Mensack return
funds he got under a signing-bonus loan, according to the
arbitrators’ July ruling. Mensack filed a counterclaim, alleging
the firm violated  New Jersey ’s whistle-blower protections and
interfered with his business relationships, the order shows. He
demanded more than $5 million in damages and fees.  Mensack said in an e-mail that he initially sought to have
a claim heard in court, before Morgan Stanley filed its
arbitration case.  Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman for Finra, declined to comment.  Ex-Taylor Bean Finance Chief Admits Role in $3 Billion Fraud  Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.’s former finance
chief admitted to helping his boss,  Lee Farkas , commit what
prosecutors say was one of the largest bank frauds in U.S.
history.  Delton de Armas, 41, pleaded guilty yesterday in federal
court in Alexandria,  Virginia , to one count of conspiracy to
commit bank and wire fraud and one count of false statements in
a scheme that contributed to the failures of Montgomery,
Alabama-based Colonial Bank and its parent, Colonial BancGroup,
once among the nation’s 25 biggest depository banks.  He is scheduled to be sentenced June 15.  Taylor Bean , based in Ocala,  Florida , was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages, including $51 billion of Freddie Mac
loans, when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.      The case is U.S. v. Armas, 12-00096, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  Interviews/Speeches  SEC’s Schapiro Says Agency Making Leaps to Close Technology Gap  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is updating the
technology it uses to understand operations at the financial
firms it regulates and to catch wrongdoing, said SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro .  Schapiro discussed the technology upgrade in remarks
prepared for a  Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association  event yesterday in Miami Beach, Florida. The SEC,
she said, has been behind other regulators in use of technology
that may help the agency analyze and search the information it
gathers so that “malefactors will find themselves trapped by
more comprehensive investigations.”  The SEC has also been working on a wide range of technology
upgrades to core areas, Schapiro said, such as the EDGAR
financial filing system used by all U.S.-listed companies, the
agency’s website and the way it takes in and evaluates
enforcement tips.  Geithner Says No Meaningful Liquidity Risk in Volcker Rule  Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said he doesn’t
think the Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading will present a
“meaningful risk” to liquidity or credit availability in
European countries.  “I don’t believe, that despite the concerns expressed by
governments and central banks, the rule as drafted presents a
meaningful risk to liquidity or credit in those countries,”
Geithner told the House Financial Services Committee yesterday.
He said he’s confident U.S. regulators will find the “right
balance” in implementing the rule.  The Volcker rule is intended to reduce the chance that
banks will make risky investments with their own capital that
put depositors’ money at risk.  Officials from  Canada , Japan, the U.K. and the European
Banking Federation have said in letters to U.S. regulators that
the measure would harm global liquidity and international
cooperation.  The restrictions on banks’ trading activities are scheduled
to take effect July 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 