-- U.S. 10-Year Yields Fall as Mortgage Applications Drop
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-21T21:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/treasuries-snap-gain-as-goldman-recommends-bets-against-f.html
Treasuries climbed, pushing 10-year
note yields down the most in more than two weeks, as the  Federal
Reserve  bought $4.03 billion in U.S. debt and sales of
previously owned homes unexpectedly declined.   Yields (USGG10YR)  reached the highest levels since October yesterday,
luring back investors after prices slid for nine straight days,
the longest losing streak in almost six years. Investors have
been re-evaluating the prospects of further monetary stimulus
since Fed policy makers raised their assessment of the economy
March 13. Mortgage applications fell amid higher rates, and Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said a rise in oil may hurt growth.  “Weaker home-sales data, a drop in mortgage applications,
Fed buying and comments from Bernanke about damage from energy
prices and  Europe  have given Treasuries a reason to rise,” said
 Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Equally, the market’s inability
to sell off further has signaled a halt to the selling momentum
as the market is reassessing the severity of the price action.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 2.30 percent at 5:02 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They fell as much as
eight basis points, their biggest intraday decline since March
6. The price of the 2 percent securities due in February 2022
climbed 17/32, or $5.31 per $1,000 face amount, to 97 3/8.  Ten-year yields touched 2.40 percent yesterday, the highest
level since Oct. 28. They have gained more than 40 basis points
this year.  Thirty-year bond  yields declined six basis points today to
3.38 percent and touched 3.37 percent, the lowest in a week.  Bernanke on Energy  Yields reached the lows of the day after Bernanke told the
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform higher energy
prices may weaken the  U.S. economy  by sapping  consumer spending .
That “would probably slow growth, at least in the short run,”
he said. Bernanke also said Europe’s financial and economic
situation “remains difficult” even as stresses have eased.  The gap between yields on  10- and 30-year  Treasuries, the
yield curve, widened to 108.9 basis points after reaching 108.6
basis points yesterday, the least since Jan. 23.  “The short-term inflation risk is more in the five- and
10-year sector, and doesn’t extend out to the 30-year,” CRT’s
Lyngen said.  The 14-day  relative strength index  for 10-year note yields
declined to 66.6 today after exceeding 70 for five straight
days. A reading above 70 indicates to some traders that a gain
in the yields may be hard to sustain.  Taking a Breather  “People are taking a bit of a breather with the Fed
buying, and the danger that the Fed could step back in if rates
get too high” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate strategist in
 New York  at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “We didn’t break the 2.4
percent level, which is important from a technical standpoint.”  While 10-year note  yields  have climbed from the record low
1.67 percent set Sept. 23, they’re still below the average of
3.87 percent over the past decade. They’ll end the year at 2.54
percent, according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of banks and securities companies, with the most recent
projections given the heaviest weightings.  Yields on the benchmark note were 31 basis points higher
than those on 10-year  German bunds  today after the spread
reached 32 basis points on March 19, the widest since July.  Credit-default swaps on Treasuries have dropped to the
lowest level in two years. The contracts, which typically
decline as investor confidence improves, eased to 31 basis
points, the lowest since March 2010, according to data provider
CMA. The firm is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Fed Purchase  The Fed bought Treasuries today due from April 2018 to
February 2020 as part of its program to swap $400 billion of
shorter-maturity  U.S. debt  in its holdings with longer-term
securities to cap borrowing costs. It is acquiring U.S. debt
every day this week, the longest period of consecutive daily
purchases since January.  The central bank upgraded its view of the U.S. economy this
month while reiterating a pledge to keep its target  lending rate 
at virtually zero through at least late 2014.  “The market has finished discounting the Fed outlook for
now, and intense selling has been replaced with moderate inflows
of cash,”  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN
Financial in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote in a note to clients.  A  measure  of traders’ expectations for inflation that’s
tracked by the Fed has risen this year to 2.76 percent, the
highest level since September, as of March 16. The five-year,
five-year forward break-even rate, which projects annualized
price increases over a five-year period starting in 2017,
matches the 2.76 percent average over the past decade.  Rate Bets  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, whose rates show
what traders expect the federal-funds effective rate to average
over the life of the contract, signal a quarter-percentage point
advance around September 2013 from the current effective rate of
0.15 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last
month, such an increase in the effective rate wasn’t predicted
until early 2014.  The difference in yield between 10-year  Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities (USGGBE10)  and nominal notes, known as the break-even
rate, shrank for the first time in 11 days, decreasing four
basis points to 2.40 percent, from 2.44 percent yesterday. The
figure indicates the annual rise in consumer prices investors
expect over the next 10 years. The average over the past year is
2.19 percent.  The U.S. will sell $13 billion of 10-year TIPS at an
auction tomorrow.  Home Purchases  Treasuries extended gains today after a report from the
National Association of Realtors showed U.S.  purchases  of
existing homes declined 0.9 percent last month to a 4.59 million
annual pace, compared with a Bloomberg survey projection of a
0.9 percent rise to 4.61 million. January’s revised total was
4.63 million, the highest since May 2010.  Volatility fell today after climbing yesterday to the
highest level this year. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE 
index , which measures Treasury price swings based on options,
declined to 89.5 basis points, after reaching 93.3 basis points
yesterday, the most since Dec. 29. It fell to 69.9 basis points
on March 12, the lowest since July 2007.  Mortgage applications in the U.S. dropped last week,
reflecting the biggest slump in refinancing since November. The
 Mortgage Bankers (MBAVBASC)  Association’s index declined 7.4 percent in the
period ended March 16 from the prior week, the Washington-based
trade group reported today. The  refinance index  decreased 9.3
percent, while the  purchases gauge  fell 1 percent.  Refinancing of mortgages slowed as borrowing costs rose.
The  average rate  on a 30-year, fixed-rate loan was 4.19 percent,
the highest since late November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  