-- TriWest on Brink as Contract Loss Shows Peril of Government Bets
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/triwest-on-brink-as-contract-loss-shows-peril-of-government-bets.html
TriWest Healthcare Alliance Corp. (1893Q) 
and its 1,800 employees may learn today whether the company has
a chance to survive.  The U.S. military’s health program, called Tricare, stunned
company executives last week when it announced a $20.5 billion
contract would go to  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the nation’s
largest health insurer by revenue. UnitedHealth will manage care
for active-duty military, retirees and their families in 21
states, mostly in the West, starting April 1, 2013.  The work has been TriWest’s lifeline for 16 years,
generating more than $20 billion in awards for the closely held
company since fiscal 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Government. The probable loss of that revenue stream
holds a lesson for businesses dependent on federal contracts as
the government cuts back, said Charles Tiefer, a former member
of the Commission on Wartime Contracting.  “Contractors may feel that they have hit the jackpot when
they get a lucrative defense contract, but their feast can turn
into a famine,” Tiefer, a professor at the University of
Baltimore Law School, said in an interview.  “Their profits can shrink or disappear shortly if the
defense program is ended or they are canceled, and their
capability may be too specialized for them to fill the gap by
selling their product commercially,” Tiefer said.  ‘Only Business’  TriWest, based in Phoenix, was founded in 1996 by David J. McIntyre Jr., the company’s chief executive officer and a former
aide to Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona. The Tricare
work has been described by McIntyre as TriWest’s “only
business.”  “We’ve been acutely aware of the risks during all the
twists and turns down this path,” Scott Celley, a TriWest
spokesman, said in an interview.  At today’s meeting in  Colorado , where the military health
program has offices, TriWest and Pentagon officials will discuss
the reasons behind the award to Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
UnitedHealth. The discussions will help TriWest executives
decide whether to protest the award, Celley said.  Companies that depend on federal contracts are well aware
of the perils, said Robert Harvey, chief executive officer of
 Oakridge Holdings Inc. (OKRG) , a Chicago-based company that sells
aircraft equipment such as motorized staircases to the military.  “It’s a real challenge because our orders go up and
down,” Harvey said in an interview. “We can have 100 guys
working for us one day, and the next day we can have 50 guys.
It’s a tough business.”  Health Staff  The U.S. government accounts for about 60 percent of the
company’s estimated $15 million in annual revenue, Harvey said.
Oakridge has two or three federal contracts, he said.  TeamStaff Inc. (TSTF)  relies on federal contracts for almost all
its revenue. The company provides health-care staffing and
technical services to the U.S. military and the Department of
 Veterans Affairs .  Zach Parker, TeamStaff’s president and chief executive
officer, said the company lost about 150 employees in 2009 when
the government decided those jobs should be done by federal
employees.  The  company , based in Atlanta, managed to “weather that
storm,” he said in an interview. At the same time, Parker said
he knows it’s difficult for a company like TriWest to count on
the U.S. government.  “As a customer, you like to have an organization
supporting you that you know is 100 percent committed to your
nature of the work,” he said. “The downside is, in this
competitive environment, particularly in a difficult budgetary
environment, loyalty from the government’s standpoint does not
exist.”  Tricare Focus  TriWest never diversified, though the company has a few
smaller federal contracts, including a March award to operate
mental health call centers for the Marine Corps.  There have been informal, “more theoretical than
practical,” conversations in the past about whether the company
should expand its services, said Celley, the company’s
spokesman.  TriWest always has opted to stay focused on Tricare, he
said. The company also tries to employ former members of the
military, as well as spouses or other family members of active
members of the military, Celley said.  “At any one time we probably have 30 to 40 people whose
spouses are deployed and a handful of our own employees have
been deployed as well,” he said.  Federal Lawsuit  The  Department of Defense  occasionally steps in to protect
suppliers when it’s concerned about preserving critical weapons
and other products. For example, it awarded an $8.61 million
contract last year to Camel Manufacturing Co. of Pioneer,
 Tennessee , because it was one of a handful of vendors capable of
producing military tents.  TriWest is unlikely to receive the same treatment, because
the Pentagon has plenty of choices in the health-insurance
industry, said Dan Jacobs, the chief executive officer of The
Federal Market Group, a Warrenton, Virginia-based consulting
firm.  The military health program considered factors including
price and past performance when weighing the proposals from both
companies, Austin Camacho, a Tricare spokesman, said after last
week’s decision. A $10 million federal settlement that TriWest
agreed to pay last year was part of the “past performance
information” reviewed, he said. In the suit, four former
employees accused the company of failing to give the government
discounts negotiated with health providers.  Blue Cross  UnitedHealth’s original bid for the contract awarded in
2009 was lower than TriWest’s, according to an agency memo.  “TriWest may protest the decision, but if there’s a valid
reason for throwing them out and awarding it to UnitedHealth,
well, they’re toast,” said Mark Amtower, who owns a Highland,
Maryland, company that advises federal contractors on how to win
government business.  TriWest owes its existence to Tricare. Company founder
McIntyre had been directed to build a company capable of serving
the military community’s health needs while he was vice
president of strategic planning for Blue Cross Blue Shield of
 Arizona . TriWest is owned by a holding company made up of a
group of nonprofit Blue Cross Blue Shield plans and university
hospital systems.  The health-care provider got its first Tricare contract in
June 1996, a one-year deal with a value of $32.4 million. Later
that month, the Pentagon awarded TriWest a contract to manage
care for more than 740,000 patients in 16 states. The company
has won more than $21 billion in contract awards, almost all
related to its work for Tricare.  Tricare Regions  Tricare awarded three contracts in 2009 for the north,
south and west regions of the U.S., with a combined value of
$55.5 billion. All three awards were protested and eventually
overturned before the work had started.  The Pentagon gave the West region to UnitedHealth on March
16, almost a year after the company persuaded it to reconsider
the 2009 award to TriWest. Military health program officials
also rescinded an  Aetna Inc. (AET)  award for the North and gave it to
 Woodland Hills , California-based  Health Net Inc. (HNT)  in May 2010.  The South region, initially awarded to UnitedHealth, was
given to Louisville, Kentucky-based  Humana Inc. (HUM)  in February
2011.  “I don’t believe we made any mistakes, but obviously the
decisions we made, we felt were worth reconsidering,” Michael
Fischetti, the chief of acquisitions for Tricare, said in an
interview with Bloomberg last July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  