-- Romney Wins in Illinois Primary, Networks Project
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-03-21T01:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/romney-wins-in-illinois-primary-networks-project.html
Mitt Romney  won the Republican
presidential primary election in Illinois, scoring a victory in
a big Midwestern state and dealing a blow to challenger  Rick Santorum .  With 46 percent of precincts reporting, Romney led with 50
percent to 32 percent for Santorum, according to the Associated
Press. They were followed by U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of
Texas with 9 percent and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of
Georgia with 8 percent.  “What a night,” Romney told supporters in Schaumburg,
Illinois. “Elections are about choices,” and, after three
years of President Barack Obama’s administration, “we’ve had
enough.”  “Our economic freedom will be on the ballot,” in the
general election in November, Romney said.  Romney’s victory in a state with the type of large suburban
population important in general elections helps to restore the
air of inevitability that had been threatened by Santorum’s
victories this month in states including Alabama,  Mississippi 
and Tennessee.  Illinois (BEESIL)  is “a suburban powerhouse, and if Romney does
well in the suburbs here, I think it will indicate to people
across the country that he has the potential in the fall to do
well in the key parts of the battleground states” in a faceoff
with Obama, said Dan Curry, a Chicago-based Republican
strategist, before the race was called.  More than seven in 10 voters who said the most important
quality in a candidate is the ability to defeat Obama backed
Romney, according to exit polls.  Romney won the plurality of independent voters, as well as
men and women voters and those who said they support the  Tea
Party .  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and second-time
presidential hopeful, before today had 522 delegates out of the
1,144 needed for the nomination, according to the Associated
Press. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, had 253,
followed by Gingrich with 135 and Paul with 50, according to
AP’s count.  54 Delegates  The Illinois contest awards 54 delegates. Although
Santorum’s campaign failed to qualify for 10 of the delegates up
for grabs, he can still collect some based on the vote in each
congressional district.  Santorum, who has shown strength in the South, is pushing
for a win in Louisiana’s March 24 primary. In April, the
Republican race heads to Wisconsin, Maryland,  New York  and
Pennsylvania, among other states.  Hogan Gidley , Santorum’s communications director, played
down the importance of the  Illinois  primary, telling reporters
on a conference call earlier today that his candidate’s campaign
is “focused on the long haul.”  He also disputed delegate count estimates by the AP and
other news organizations. These estimates falsely assume that
delegates in some of states that have voted will fall in line
with the popular vote when county and state conventions are
later held to pick delegates for the national convention in
August, Gidley said.  Senior Strategist  John Brabender , a senior strategist with the campaign, said
the Santorum count showed him with 311 delegates, compared with
435 for Romney.  Romney raised money at a private lunch today, then held a
Google+ hangout with supporters at Google’s Chicago
headquarters, where he also toured the company’s primary color-
infused offices and greeted employees at their desks.  He said during the hangout that he had begun his day
washing a shirt in a hotel room sink and ironing it dry, after
realizing he had exhausted his supply of clean shirts suitable
for a fundraiser.  Romney, 65, planned to campaign tomorrow in Maryland.
Santorum, 53, returned today to his home state of Pennsylvania
and heads tomorrow to Louisiana.  Louisiana Campaign  Gingrich campaigned in Louisiana today. His strategy of
doing well in the South suffered when he lost the March 13
 Alabama  and Mississippi primaries to Santorum.  Paul is in Burbank, California, appearing on NBC’s “The
Tonight Show with  Jay Leno .”  Romney’s campaign made an all-out effort to win Illinois,
spending heavily and investing much of the candidate’s time. It
also deployed its top surrogate, New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , to campaign for Romney in Republican suburban
strongholds.  Such tactics were unusual for Illinois, since the state
typically attracts candidate visits only for fundraising.  Romney and his allies financed an onslaught of advertising
in Illinois to boost his bid, spending more than $3 million on
commercials in and around the state as of yesterday, compared
with $167,090 spent by Santorum and his backers over the same
period, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks the advertising.  Illinois last played a significant role on the Republican
side in 1988, when then-Senator  Bob Dole  of Kansas was dealt a
significant blow by losing Illinois to then-Vice President
 George H.W. Bush . That year also marked the last general
election in which Illinois backed a Republican for president.  In this year’s general election, it’s unlikely the
Republican nominee will return to the Illinois, Obama’s home
state, for much beyond fundraising visits.  To contact the reporters on this story:  John McCormick  in
Chicago, Illinois at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at  jcummings21@bloomberg.net  