-- Romney Gets Endorsement While Facing Etch A Sketch Issue
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-03-21T21:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/romney-beats-santorum-in-illinois-as-long-race-remains-ahead.html
A misstep by a top adviser to  Mitt Romney  threatened to overshadow the Republican presidential
candidate’s victory in the Illinois primary and a coveted
endorsement from former  Florida  Governor Jeb Bush.  Romney was forced to answer renewed questions about his
consistency this afternoon after adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom 
suggested that his candidate will get a fresh start on policy
positions if he wins the nomination. Fehrnstrom told  CNN  that
running for president is like a children’s toy that allows
drawings to be quickly erased.  “You hit a reset button for the fall campaign,” he said.
“Everything changes. It’s almost like an Etch A Sketch. You can
kind of shake it up and we start all over again.”  Rivals  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich  seized on the
comments. Santorum held up one of the red toys at a rally in
Mandeville, Louisiana, and told supporters, “You are not
looking at someone who is the Etch A Sketch candidate.”  Santorum adviser  Alice Stewart  appeared outside a town hall
meeting Romney held in Arbutus, Maryland, handing out the toy.
She told reporters that Fehrnstrom’s comment “confirms what a
lot of conservatives have been afraid of.”  The aide’s remark, she said, was an acknowledgement that
Romney’s “conservative credentials can come and go with the
climate, just like an Etch a Sketch, and we can’t have that.”  ‘Losing Strategy’  Gingrich posted on Twitter: “Etch A Sketch is a great toy
but a losing strategy.”  After initially ignoring reporters’ shouted questions about
the flap as he exited his  Maryland  event, Romney addressed the
issue. He said he wouldn’t change his “policies and positions”
in a race against President  Barack Obama .  “Organizationally, a general election campaign takes on a
different profile,” Romney said. “The issues I’m running on
will be exactly the same. I’m running as a conservative
Republican. I was a conservative Republican governor. I’ll be
running as a conservative Republican nominee.”  Romney’s ‘Big Day’  The day started off better for Romney, 65. He trumpeted
Bush’s endorsement on Twitter, saying, “March 21st is turning
into a pretty big day.”  Bush, who had remained neutral even as Romney claimed a 14-
percentage-point victory in  Florida (BEESFL) ’s Jan. 31 primary, is the
latest top Republican to call for an end to the prolonged
primary fight. He telephoned the former Massachusetts governor
today to endorse him, according to a Romney campaign official.  “Now is the time for Republicans to unite behind Governor
Romney and take our message of fiscal conservatism and job
creation to all voters this fall,” Bush said in a statement.  He has no immediate plans to make a public appearance with
Romney, according to a person familiar with the situation. Bush
believes that, after Romney won yesterday in  Illinois , the
nation’s fifth-most populous state, it was time for the party to
coalesce behind him, the person said, so he offered his
endorsement.  Bush joins his parents -- former President  George H.W. Bush 
and first lady  Barbara Bush  -- in backing Romney. His brother,
former President  George W. Bush , isn’t publicly supporting a
candidate.  ‘Great Things’  Romney told his Maryland audience gathered at an American
Legion Hall that he was appearing before them “fresh from a
couple of great things” -- his wins in Illinois yesterday and
 Puerto Rico ’s March 18 primary and the Bush endorsement.  He told them he learned of it this morning as he answered
his cell phone “and it was  Jeb Bush  and he said -- I didn’t
even have to ask -- he said, ‘Mitt, I want to let you know I’m
endorsing you today.’”  In defeating Santorum in Illinois, Romney notched his 20th
win of a state or U.S. territory. Still, Romney will have to
answer critics who question his conservative credentials and
constancy on issues, including abortion rights.  With 99 percent of Illinois precincts reporting, Romney led
Santorum 46.7 percent to 35 percent, according to the  Associated
Press . Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  had 9.3 percent,
followed by Gingrich, a former U.S. House speaker, with 8
percent.  Conservative Trust  Santorum brushed off Jeb Bush’s endorsement, saying Romney
is “getting all the establishment Republicans.” The former
U.S. senator from Pennsylvania told reporters in Harvey,
 Louisiana , this morning that Romney isn’t “someone that
conservatives can or should trust.”  “They should all start supporting me, because I am the
strong conservative candidate,” said Santorum, 53.  Some of the people who came to hear him in Harvey agreed.  “I would vote for Romney, only I would not be happy,”
said Linda Terrebonne, 60, a retired Louisiana Clerk’s office
worker who is supporting Santorum. She said her Bible study
group before the event talked about honor and Santorum.  Santorum, stung by a loss in Illinois that undercut his
claim to be strong in politically competitive areas, is trying
to regain momentum by focusing on  Louisiana’s (BEESLA)  March 24 primary.
The South has proved a favorable region for him and his appeal
to evangelical voters.  Romney’s Big States  Romney proved in Illinois, as he did in Michigan and  Ohio ,
that he can win large industrial states with primary electorates
less centered on evangelical Christians. Yesterday’s victory was
by a much larger margin than in Michigan and Ohio, where Romney
won by 3 percentage points and less than 1 point.  After Louisiana this weekend, the nomination contest moves
on to primaries on April 3 in Wisconsin, Maryland and
Washington, D.C.  Romney won at least 41 of the 54 Illinois delegates that
were at stake in yesterday’s election, with 15 more to be
selected at a state convention later year, and has 563 delegates
with 1,144 needed to win the party’s nomination, according to
the Associated Press. As was the case in Ohio, Santorum failed
to file a full slate of delegates in Illinois, competing for
just 44. He has 263 delegates, to Gingrich’s 135 and Paul’s 50,
according to the AP’s estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Mandeville, Louisiana, at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Arbutus, Maryland at   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  