-- Russia’s Support for Syrian Leader Assad Begins to Waver
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-21T14:24:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/russia-s-support-for-syrian-leader-assad-begins-to-waver.html
Russia  agreed to have the  United
Nations   Security Council  endorse envoy  Kofi Annan ’s plan to end
the bloodshed in Syria, the strongest sign yet that Russia now
may be willing to pressure its main Mideast ally.  The UN decision-making body offered Annan’s peace mission
its “full support” and will “consider further steps as
appropriate,” according to a statement adopted today by all 15
members. To get Russia aboard, a review of implementation within
seven days was dropped.  The Security Council statement affirms Annan’s goals to
“facilitate a Syrian-led political transition,” secure
humanitarian access and obtain a UN “supervised cessation of
armed violence in all its forms by all parties.”  While a step down from a binding resolution, this is the
first time since August that a divided council has been able to
reach consensus on how to act on  Syria .  By throwing its united weight behind Annan, the council is
making it harder for Assad to spurn the UN mediator’s overtures
as Annan prepares to visit Damascus a second time after
returning empty-handed earlier this month from his first peace
mission.  Although Russia has twice used its veto powers to block
Western-led efforts to pass resolutions holding the regime
accountable, it has been showing growing discomfort with
shielding a Soviet-era ally and arms customer.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has ignored international
pressure and continued a yearlong crackdown that the UN
estimates has killed more than 8,000 people.  ‘Intolerable Situation’  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the international
community needs to act quickly to stem the bloodshed.  “The current situation in Syria has reached an
unacceptable and intolerable situation where the international
community must take urgent and immediate action,” Ban said in a
speech in Jakarta today.  At stake for Russia are economic and strategic interests in
the Middle East, where its influence has waned since the
collapse of communism. Its only military base outside the former
 Soviet Union  is a naval maintenance and supply center in the
Syrian port of Tartus on the  Mediterranean Sea .  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  has said repeatedly
that the Security Council shouldn’t be delivering ultimatums to
the Assad regime, with whom his government maintains regular
contact.  Growing Frustration  A former envoy to the UN, Lavrov has voiced growing
frustration with Assad, saying last week that the “Syria
authorities bear a huge share of responsibility for the current
situation.”  Yesterday he went further, telling Russian radio station
Kommersant that the “Syrian leadership reacted incorrectly to
the initial peaceful protests” and is “making an awful lot of
mistakes.”  He has stuck to the Russian line that a cease-fire can be
reached only when government forces and the armed opposition lay
down their arms at the same time.  Syrian troops have seized the key urban opposition
strongholds of Homs and Idlib this month, forcing fighters from
the lightly armed Free Syrian Army to retreat into the
countryside. Syrian security forces today killed 52 people in
Homs,  Al Jazeera  reported, citing unidentified activists.  ‘Terrorist Attacks’  Evidence is mounting that Assad’s forces aren’t the only
ones committing abuses.  The Security Council agreed to a Russian-drafted statement
that “condemned in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks”
on March 17 and March 19 in bombings of government facilities in
Damascus and the city of Aleppo.  Human Rights Watch , in a public letter to opposition
groups, said elements in Syria’s armed opposition have carried
out kidnappings and tortured members of Assad’s security forces
and pro-government militias, called shabeeha, as well as
government supporters.  “The Syrian government’s brutal tactics cannot justify
abuses by armed opposition groups,” said Sarah Leah Whitson,
the group’s  Middle East  director. “Opposition leaders should
make it clear to their followers that they must not torture,
kidnap, or execute under any circumstances.”  -- Editors: Terry Atlas, Larry Liebert  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  