-- Ryan Plan May Lead to Single-Payer Health Care
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-03-21T23:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/ryan-plan-could-pave-way-to-single-payer-health-care-ezra-klein.html
Let’s play a game: I’ll describe a
health-care bill to you. Then you tell me if I’m describing
President  Barack Obama ’s  Affordable Care Act  or the  budget 
released this week by Representative  Paul Ryan .  The bill works like this: The federal government subsidizes
Americans to participate in health insurance markets known as
“exchanges.” Inside these exchanges, insurers can’t discriminate
based on pre-existing conditions. Individuals can choose to go
without insurance, but if they do so, they pay a penalty. To
keep premium costs down, the government ties the size of the
subsidy to the second-least-expensive plan in the market -- a
process known as “competitive bidding,” which encourages
consumers to choose cheaper plans.  This is, of course, a trick question. That paragraph
describes both the Affordable Care Act and Ryan’s proposed
Medicare reforms. The insurance markets in both plans are
essentially identical. And for good reason.  The Affordable Care Act was based on two decades of
Republican thinking about health care. The basic structure was
first proposed by the conservative  Heritage Foundation  in 1989,
first written into a bill by Senate Republicans in 1993, and
first passed into law by a Republican governor by the name of
 Mitt Romney  in 2005.  About 2008, Democrats decided they could live with a system
based on private health insurers, federal subsidies and an
individual mandate as long as it produced universal coverage. A
year later, Republicans decided they couldn’t live with such a
system, at least not if a Democratic president was proposing it.  ‘Repeal and Replace’  The problem for the Republicans, however, is that they
don’t have a better -- or even alternative -- idea. Since the
passage of the Affordable Care Act, “repeal and replace” has
been a reliable applause line at Tea Party rallies and an oft-
uttered incantation on the floor of the  House of
Representatives . But while Republicans have united around
“repeal” of health-care reform, they haven’t managed to come up
with a policy for “replace.”  Instead, they’ve opted to apply their old policy framework
-- the one the Democrats stole -- to Medicare. That has left the
two parties in a somewhat odd position: Democrats support the
Republicans’ old idea for the under-65 set, but oppose it for
the over-65 set. Republicans support the Democrats’ new idea for
the over-65 set, but oppose it for the under-65 set.  This isn’t quite as incoherent as it seems. Democrats say
they would prefer Medicare-for-All for the under-65 set, but
they’ll take whatever steps toward universal health insurance
they can get. Republicans say they would prefer a more free-
market approach for the over-65 set, but that a seniors’ version
of “Obamacare” is nevertheless a step in the right direction.
For both parties, it’s the direction of the policy, rather than
the policy itself, that matters.  There’s an added complication for Republicans. They have
assumed huge  savings  from applying the exchange-and-subsidies
model to  Medicare (USBOMDCR) . But they don’t assume -- in fact they
vehemently deny -- that those same savings would result from the
identical policy mechanism in the Affordable Care Act. The
Democrats haven’t assumed significant savings from the exchange-
and-subsidies model in either case. If the concept works as well
as Ryan says it will, then the Affordable Care Act will cost
far, far less than is currently projected. There’s no compelling
reason to believe competitive bidding will cuts costs for
seniors but fail among younger, healthier consumers who, if
anything, are in a better position to change plans every few
years and therefore pressure insurers to cut costs.  Competitive Bidding  The discrepancy highlights another difference between
Republicans and Democrats right now. Republicans have put all
their eggs in the competitive-bidding basket. If that doesn’t
work to control costs -- and versions of it have failed in the
past -- they’re sunk.  Democrats, on the other hand, are promoting a slew of
delivery-system reforms in the Affordable Care Act. They’re
hoping competitive bidding works, but they’re also trying
comparative-effectiveness review, pay-for-quality, accountable-
care organizations, electronic health records, penalties for
excessive readmissions and medical errors, and a host of other
experiments to determine which treatments and processes actually
work and how to reward the doctors and hospitals that adopt
them.  It’s unlikely that the model in the Republican budget will
prove sustainable. That legislation would repeal the Affordable
Care Act, cut Medicaid by a third and adopt competitive bidding
for Medicare. The likely result? The nation’s uninsured
population would soar. In the long run -- and quite possibly in
the short run -- that will increase the pressure for a universal
system. Because Republicans don’t really have an idea for
creating one, Democrats will step into the void.  As a result, Republicans’ long-term interests are probably
best served by Democratic success. If the Affordable Care Act is
repealed by the next president or rejected by the  Supreme Court ,
Democrats will probably retrench, pursuing a strategy to expand
Medicare and Medicaid on the way toward a single-payer system.
That approach has, for them, two advantages that will loom quite
large after the experience of the Affordable Care Act: It can be
passed with 51 votes in the Senate through the budget
reconciliation process, and it’s indisputably constitutional.  Conversely, if the Affordable Care Act not only survives
but also succeeds, then Republicans have a good chance of
exporting its private-insurers-and-exchanges model to Medicare
and Medicaid, which would entrench the private health-insurance
system in America.  That’s not the strategy Republicans are pursuing. Instead,
they’re stuck fighting a war against a plan that they helped to
conceive and, on a philosophical level, still believe in. No one
has been more confounded by this turn of events than  Alice Rivlin , the former White House budget director who supports the
Affordable Care Act and helped Ryan design an early version of
his Medicare premium-support proposal.  “I could never understand why Ryan didn’t support the
exchanges in the Affordable Care Act,” Rivlin says. “In fact, I
think he does, and he just doesn’t want to say so.”  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 