-- TSA Pressed to Expand Faster Screening to More Travelers
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-03-21T18:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/tsa-pressed-to-expand-faster-screening-to-more-travelers.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  is being pressed to speed up its expansion of a
program that lets some frequent fliers speed through airport
security while keeping their shoes, belts and jackets on.  The TSA is extending its PreCheck expedited screening
program to 35 airports by year-end from 7 last year. Asked by
Senator  Mary Landrieu , a Louisiana Democrat, at a hearing today
when 20 percent or a third of U.S. passengers will be enrolled,
TSA administrator  John Pistole  declined to be specific, saying
the goal was to expand as broadly and quickly as possible while
maintaining security.  “Ten years after TSA was created the screening process is
viewed by many as overly burdensome,” Landrieu said. “For too
long, travelers with low-risk profiles have been screened no
differently than those with high-risk profiles in a one-size-
fits-all system.”  PreCheck is only open to top-level frequent fliers
nominated by their airlines or travelers who pay $100 to enter
the  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection Global Entry program.  The barriers prevent people from joining, said Roger Dow,
president and chief executive officer of the U.S. Travel
Association. A Global Entry applicant from  New Orleans  would
have to drive six hours to Houston for a background interview,
Dow said. The same person would have to spend about $10,000 on
airline tickets to earn frequent flier miles needed to qualify,
according to an association analysis.  Terrorist Watch Lists  The TSA has declined to disclose its criteria to qualify
frequent fliers. The nomination by airlines is just a starting
point, and the agency checks all names against terrorist watch
lists, Pistole said.  “We’re not publishing the exact standards that we’re using
because we don’t want terrorists to game the system,” Pistole
said.  Airports are eager to help enroll more passengers in
PreCheck and may use a clearinghouse they operate to conduct
background checks for workers to evaluate security risks, said
Charles Barclay, president of the Alexandria, Virginia-based
 American Association  of Airport Executives.  Pistole was also asked why a separate expedited screening
program for flight crews is being restricted to pilots. Flight
attendants undergo the same security checks as pilots, and they
are essential parts of the system to foil terrorist attacks,
said Sara Nelson, international vice president of the
 Association of Flight Attendants , a Washington-based labor
union.  The idea was to start with pilots and then move to flight
attendants, Pistole said.  U.S. citizens remember the Sept. 11 attacks and realize
adjustments in travel are necessary to ensure security, said
Senator  Dan Coats , an Indiana Republican.  “There’s this yin and yang that goes back and forth,”
Coats said. “Everyone wants to be perfectly safe at the same
time having everything as convenient as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  