-- Sainsbury Sales Beat Estimates as Grocer Closes Gap on Tesco
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-03-21T08:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/sainsbury-sales-beat-estimates-as-grocer-closes-gap-on-tesco-1-.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket owner, reported fourth-quarter sales growth
that beat estimates as the Taste the Difference food range
helped the retailer close the gap on market leader Tesco Plc.  Revenue at stores open at least a year rose 2.6 percent in
the 10 weeks ended March 17, the London-based company said today
in a statement. The growth, reported on a basis which includes
value-added tax and excludes gasoline, outpaced the 2.2 percent
median estimate of six  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Sainsbury is among supermarkets making inroads into the
market leadership of Tesco, which is ramping up investment in
 customer service  after sales growth slowed to almost half that
of the industry. Sainsbury increased its share of U.K. grocery
spending to 16.6 percent in the 12 weeks ended Feb. 19,
according to Kantar Worldpanel, while  Tesco (TSCO) ’s share declined to
29.7 percent, the lowest in almost seven years.  “Sainsbury is still hitting the right notes with its
marketing and advertising and are entitled to be confident of
standing up to whatever Tesco will throw at them,”  Nick Bubb ,
an independent retail analyst, said in an e-mailed note.  Sainsbury rose as much as 2.4 percent in  London  trading and
was up 2.1 percent at 311.7 pence at 8:18 a.m.  Taste The Difference  Sales of higher-priced Taste the Difference products
increased almost 20 percent in the fourth quarter, the company
said. The range includes items such as Cornish clotted cream
scones and smoked salmon and watercress quiche.  Customers also increased purchases of Sainsbury’s Basics
own-label foods to save money as household incomes dwindle.
Sales of the range increased 10 percent in the quarter.  “The economic climate is likely to remain challenging, and
we are committed to helping customers make their money go as far
as possible,” Chief Executive Officer Justin King said in the
statement.  Sainsbury said it has invested more than 85 million pounds
($135 million) this year to improve its fresh food offer.  “It’s very important to get the quality right and the
service right,” Chief Financial Officer  John Rogers  said in an
interview. “Pricing is very important, but it’s only one of the
components” to sales growth.  Sainsbury said it has become the fastest-growing online
grocer, serving an average 165,000 customers a week. Its Click
and Collect service, where customers order online and pick up
their goods in-store, is available at almost 900 outlets and has
attracted more than 50 percent of the grocer’s online customers.  Full-year same-store sales, including value-added tax and
excluding fuel, rose 2.1 percent, Sainsbury said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  