-- Saints Deserve This Martyrdom at Hands of NFL’s Goodell
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-21T22:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/saints-deserve-this-martyrdom-at-hands-of-nfl-s-goodell.html
After leading the  New Orleans
Saints  from the post-Hurricane Katrina doldrums to a Super Bowl
victory in 2010, Sean Payton was widely heralded as America’s
Coach.  Now, facing a one-year suspension over so-called
Bountygate, many feel he’s become America’s Scapegoat: the one
taking the fall because National Football League Commissioner
 Roger Goodell  is “shocked, shocked” to find violence being
rewarded in this inherently brutal sport.  Although there’s some legitimacy to this view, we think
Goodell made the right call.  Payton’s crime was apparently failing to stop, and then
lying about, a scheme in which Saints defensive players and
coaches gave cash rewards to teammates who injured opponents.
The bounties were hardly good sportsmanship, but football has
never been a sport where knocking the other guy out of the game
was frowned upon. So it’s understandable that, to some, the
sentences meted out to Payton, former Saints defensive
coordinator  Gregg Williams  (an indefinite ban from the game),
and other Saints officials and the franchise, are harsh and
seemingly excessive.  Payton’s defenders also point out that  Bill Belichick , the
coach of the  New England Patriots , was fined but not suspended
in 2007 for having aides steal opposing teams’ defensive hand
signals. Since when, they ask, is rewarding big hits worse that
such out-and-out cheating?  Since it became clear just how many players have suffered
serious, lifelong and debilitating injuries during their years
in the game. And since the public became aware of just how
little the NFL and the players union had done about it.  Payton’s forced year off pales in comparison to the fate
of, say, Mike Webster, the former Pittsburgh Steelers center
whose life became a trail of depression, dementia and
homelessness before he died at age 50 in 2002. A brain-tissue
study found that Webster suffered from chronic traumatic
encephalopathy, a condition that produces symptoms similar to
Alzheimer’s disease. A 2000 study of 1,090 former NFL players
found that more than 60 percent had suffered at least one
concussion in their careers and 26 percent had had three or
more. More than 300 former players are now suing the league,
which they say hid the neurological dangers of the game.  Goodell has at least taken the health of current players
seriously since becoming commissioner in 2006. He has pushed for
rule changes to cut down on injuries, often incurring the wrath
of fans who see him as spoiling hard-hitting tradition. He has
handed out fines and suspensions with all the haste and
assurance (if not necessarily accuracy) of  Peyton Manning  in the
two-minute drill.  Yes, this can be seen as self-serving for the league, as
injured players don’t draw TV viewers. But it’s also good for
fans -- ask any  Indianapolis Colts  supporter how much fun last
season was with Manning on the sidelines.  The question is whether Goodell’s crackdown has been
effective. Despite repeated punishments and forced apologies,
many players --  James Harrison  of the Steelers and  Ndamukong Suh 
of the  Detroit Lions  come to mind -- seem incapable of changing
their ways. So when it came to Bountygate -- a situation where
violence was elevated above football -- Goodell had to be
certain his message would get through. There is no question that
Sean Payton is paying for the league’s sins of the past. But his
punishment is in the best interests of the sport and, just as
important, the long-term health of the players.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 