-- Sarkozy Hones Crisis-Fighting Credentials in French Manhunt
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-03-21T05:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/sarkozy-hones-crisis-fighting-credentials-in-french-manhunt-1-.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is
burnishing his crisis-fighting credentials as he seeks to catch
up to Francois Hollande in an election campaign upended by the
hunt for a man who shot dead seven people in nine days.  Having vowed to find the shooter who killed three children
and a rabbi outside a Jewish school and three soldiers of Arab
descent, Sarkozy’s role as  France’s leader  in a national
emergency may bolster him just a month before the first round of
the presidential election, especially if security jumps up the
list of voter concerns, analysts and pollsters say.  The case is enabling “the re-presidentialization of
Sarkozy’s image,” said Eric Bonnet, a pollster at  BVA Institute 
in Paris. “It can help him be seen as more of a unifier than he
normally would be.”  Although French politicians made a show of unity as the
nation mourns the dead by halting all election campaigning, a
tough and efficient handling of the case may boost Sarkozy, who
has been lagging behind his Socialist opponent Hollande. Both
Sarkozy and Hollande will attend the funeral today of three
paratroopers who were killed in shootings in Toulouse and
Montauban, 30 kilometers away, in southwestern  France .  “Barbarity, savagery and cruelty cannot win,” Sarkozy
said at the school hours after the attack. “The perpetrator of
these crimes should know that everything, absolutely everything
will be done to find him and make him pay the price.”  House Raided  French police investigating the killings raided a house in
northern Toulouse and two policemen were slightly injured in a
shootout, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing news
services. A man claiming to be linked to al-Qaeda was holed up
in the building, the newspaper reported, citing a person linked
to the investigation.  The first round of the election will be held on April 22,
with the two winners of that vote squaring off in the decisive
second round on May 6.  Opinion Surveys  While Sarkozy trails in all voter surveys ahead of the
likely run-off against Hollande, he has narrowed the lead. An
Ipsos SA poll on voting intentions yesterday showed he has
narrowed his deficit against Hollande to 1 percentage point in
the first round from 3.5 in a March 3 poll. For the second
round, Hollande’s lead narrowed to 55 percent against 44 for
Sarkozy, compared with a 16-point lead in the previous poll.  Sarkozy leads on security issues. An Ifop poll showed that
the French rate him better than Hollande on security by a 58-
to-39 percent margin. The survey for Le Monde involved 4,728
people questioned from Feb. 16 to 21.  Sarkozy’s government has deployed more than 200
investigators to “identify and localize” the Toulouse killer,
who used the same gun in all the shootings. Catching the killer
quickly will be critical for Sarkozy. An absence of swift
results may soon start hurting him.  “This event is off the scale, making the outcome hard to
predict,” said  Helen Drake , Loughborough University in
Leicester, U.K.  Security Issues  France’s terror alert has been put on its highest level in
the Toulouse area, where 14 military police units have been sent
to protect Jewish and Muslim houses of worship and schools.  Interior Minister Claude Gueant and Defense Minister Gerard Longuet have set up bases in Toulouse to oversee their
ministries’ effort.  Both Sarkozy and Hollande visited the school on March 19
just hours after the attack, attended a service at a Paris
synagogue that evening, and yesterday observed a minute of
silence at different schools in Paris. Sarkozy met yesterday
with Jewish and Muslim leaders, some of whom left the meeting
arm in arm.  The Toulouse killings were the first shootings at a French
school and the worst attack on a Jewish target since 1982.  Security had been a bigger issue in the 2007 election,
which followed Sarkozy’s stint as Interior Minister. The French
 interior ministry  oversees law-enforcement agencies.  ‘Climate of Intolerance’  This year, his campaign speeches have been peppered with
suggestions that France’s Muslim immigrants have failed to
properly integrate and assurances that French school canteens
won’t be forced to serve Halal meat, or meat killed according to
Muslim religious dictates.  While the shootings of the soldiers and at the school allow
Sarkozy to “say it’s me or chaos,” some voters may blame him
for “creating a climate of intolerance,” Drake said.  Religious leaders have tried to keep the killings and the
election separate.  “There is no link between the campaign and what
happened,” said Richard Prasquier, head of the CRIF, France’s
largest Jewish lobby, after meeting Sarkozy. “Nobody grabs a
child by the hair so he can put a bullet in her head because he
heard something about religious slaughter of animals.”  Hostage Crisis  Security hasn’t been a major issue in the election so far,
with just 15 percent of voters saying it will weigh on their
choice, behind the economic crisis at 50 percent, unemployment
at 46 percent and government debt at 32 percent, according to
the Ifop poll. Political observers are watching closely to see
if that is about to change  “If security comes back as an issue, Sarkozy will probably
be seen as more credible than Hollande,”  BVA’s Bonnet  said.
“Historically, whenever security is a problem, the right
benefits, even if the difficulties happen on their watch.”  Sarkozy first came to national attention as mayor of
Neuilly, a town near Paris, when in a 1993 kindergarten hostage
drama he talked a dynamite-belted, ransom-demanding gunman into
releasing a child, with television footage showing the mayor
leaving the classroom with the youngster in his arms. After 46
hours of talks, the gunman was killed by police sharpshooters
and the seven remaining hostages were freed unharmed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  