-- Single-Cup Coffee Reduces ‘Waste,’ Bean Demand, Illy Says
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2012-03-21T14:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/single-cup-coffee-cuts-waste-lowering-bean-demand-illy-says.html
Expanding sales of single-cup
coffee packets may trim bean consumption by reducing the amount
that typically ends up as beverage “waste” from a larger pot,
according to Illycaffe SpA.  Demand for coffee may decline 1 percent in the long term as
the single-cup servings allow consumers more control over bean
usage than traditional drip-coffee makers, Chief Executive
Officer Andrea Illy said yesterday in an interview in New York.
Coffee drinkers using drip machines may make a whole pot, while
only having one or two cups, throwing the rest out and using
more beans than they needed, he said.  “Depending on how fast portion systems penetrate
households, we could see a drop in per-capita consumption of
about 5 percent,” Illy said. “Overall, demand may only drop 1
percent because coffee drinkers who used to take two or three
cups a day will drink more.”  Illycaffe, based in Trieste,  Italy , will announce a
partnership soon that involves the design of a new machine to
compete in the single-cup market, the CEO said. The closely held
company, which makes specialty coffee and sells the brand in 140
countries, had revenue of $434 million in 2010, according to its
 website .  Arabica coffee for May delivery gained 2 percent to $1.8725
a pound at 10:33 a.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in New York. Before
today, the price declined 19 percent this year.  In 1933, Francesco Illy, the grandfather of the current
chief executive, developed the modern espresso machine.  Sales of coffee by U.S. retailers climbed 19 percent to
$4.52 billion in the 52 weeks ended Dec. 25 from a year earlier
as demand increased for ground beans and single-cup packets,
SymphonyIRI Group, a Chicago-based research company, said on
Jan. 24. Single serve accounted for 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  