-- Slovakia’s Fico Committed to Cutting 2013 Budget Deficit
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-03-21T15:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/slovakia-s-fico-committed-to-cutting-2013-budget-gap-to-eu-goal.html
Slovakia’s next government is
committed to narrowing the budget  deficit  to below the European
Union’s ceiling of 3 percent of economic output in 2013 by
taxing the rich and companies, Premier-elect  Robert Fico  said.  The second-poorest euro-area nation needs to find about 1
billion euros ($1.32 billion) in savings and additional tax
revenue to meet the goal, Fico said today. As much as one-half
of the amount may come from tax increases, he said.  “This is a goal that must be met,” he said in an
interview in the Slovak capital, Bratislava, adding it will “be
done in a way that will protect” the country’s poorest
citizens.  Fico, whose Smer party won March 10 elections with a
majority in parliament, seeks to balance out campaign pledges to
boost  living standards  for poorer Slovaks with a need to improve
public finances to distance the eastern euro nation from ailing
peripheral peers. The European Commission will probably later
this year ask the country to adopt more measures to ensure that
the fiscal shortfall narrows, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  earlier
this year cut Slovakia’s credit rating one level to A2 and A,
respectively, citing a worsening fiscal outlook and concern over
the euro area’s debt woes. Slovak bond yields and credit-default
swap prices have since fallen, mirroring moves in its euro-
sharing peers, on optimism the crisis can be contained.  ‘Protect the Euro’  Slovakia has benefitted from the euro adoption in 2009 and
his administration will therefore be pro-European and support
all measures to “protect the euro,” Fico said, adding he’s
“quite optimistic” about the future of the euro area as the
measures undertaken so far to fight the bloc’s sovereign-debt
crisis have brought relief.  The caretaker government of Iveta Radicova, in power until
Fico takes office, targets a  budget deficit  of 4.6 percent of
GDP in 2012, down from 5 percent last year. The goal is
realistic as the economy will probably  expand  2.3 percent this
year compared with a forecast for 1.7 percent, on which the
spending plan is based, outgoing Finance Minister Ivan Miklos
has said.  To help reach the deficit target next year, the government
will end the current flat-tax system and implement levies on
higher-income earners,  luxury goods  and the most-profitable
companies, including banks, Fico said. The administration also
plans to support economic growth with infrastructure projects
carried out in tandem with private companies, he said.  The Slovak benchmark 4 percent 2020 bond traded at a yield
of 3.906 percent, or 2.29 percentage points more than German
bunds with similar maturity. The spread has narrowed from this
year’s high of 3.76 percentage points on Jan. 16.  The cost of insuring against Slovak default for five years
using credit-default swaps has fallen 99 basis points this year
to 220 basis points today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  