-- Somali Kidnappers Free British Hostage Held Since September
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-03-21T13:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/somali-kidnappers-free-british-hostage-held-since-september-1-.html
Somali kidnappers freed Judith
Tebbutt, a British hostage seized more than six months ago in an
attack at a luxury beach resort in neighboring  Kenya  that left
her husband dead, a U.K. government official said.  “We can confirm that the British hostage Judith Tebbutt,
held in Somalia since September 2011, has been released,” John
Bradshaw, a spokesman for the British High Commission in
Nairobi, said by phone today. “The priority now is to get her
to a place of safety.” Relatives and friends raised money for
Tebbutt’s release, the  British Broadcasting Corp.  reported on
its website, without saying the amount of ransom paid.  Gunmen shot dead David Tebbutt, the finance director of
London-based book publisher Faber & Faber, on Sept. 11 at a
resort on Kiwayu Island, 503 kilometers (313 miles) southeast of
Nairobi, and then took his wife Judith by boat to Somalia.  Kenya deployed its army in southern Somalia in October
after blaming the abduction of Tebbutt and other tourists and
foreign aid workers on al-Shabaab, a charge the al-Qaeda-linked
militia denied. Marie Dedieu, a disabled Frenchwoman, died in
captivity after being kidnapped from her house on Kenya’s Manda
Island on Oct. 1, according to  France ’s Foreign Ministry.  The Lamu archipelago, where the incidents took place, is
one of Kenya’s main attractions for tourists who generated 98
billion shillings ($1.2 billion) for the country last year.  Lawlessness  Somalia descended into lawlessness after the ouster of
dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991, leading to a rise in
criminal gangs operating in the Horn of African nation and
pirate attacks on merchant ships off the country’s coast.  In January, U.S. President  Barack Obama  approved the rescue
of two aid workers, an American woman and a Danish man, by
special commandos in a pre-dawn raid in central Somalia.  Jessica Buchanan and Poul Hagen Thisted had been abducted
three months earlier in Galkayo, about 575 kilometers (358
miles) northwest of the Somalia’s capital Mogadishu, while
visiting a de-mining project there.  Security in Somalia may improve if the international
community heeds the government’s call for more assistance,
Hassan Khalif, spokesman for the office of Somalia’s president,
said by phone from Nairobi today.  “The only way out is to support the government to defeat
these armed group and pirates,” he said.  Kenyan forces are expected to come under the full command
of an African Union peacekeeping mission in Somalia at the end
of this month, after the  United Nations  approved an increase in
troop numbers to 17,731, from 12,000. Ethiopian soldiers entered
Somalia in December in shared pursuit of al-Shabaab fighters.  Soldiers from Uganda, Burundi and Djibouti that are part of
the African Union mission have managed to wrest control of the
capital, Mogadishu, from al-Shabaab. The group has been battling
the UN-backed administration of President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed since 2007 and it controls most of south and central
Somalia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  