-- Sony Said to Tap Studio Chief Lynton to Oversee Media Units
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-03-22T02:46:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/sony-said-to-tap-studio-chief-lynton-to-oversee-u-s-media-units.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  plans to name studio
Chairman Michael Lynton as chief executive officer of U.S.
entertainment, putting film, television and music under a single
CEO, two people with knowledge of the situation said.  The promotion will be announced by Tokyo-based Sony within
a week, said one of the people, who sought anonymity because the
matter isn’t public. The role won’t include oversight of the
PlayStation’s U.S. operations, the people said. Not all of the
details have been worked out, they said.  Kazuo Hirai, who is replacing Howard Stringer as CEO, is
consolidating oversight of units that produced more than 30
percent of Sony’s profit last year. That frees Hirai to focus on
the money-losing consumer electronics business, the people said.
Lynton, 52, who will report to Hirai, will remain in  Los Angeles 
and continue to lead Sony Pictures Entertainment with co-
chairman Amy Pascal, the people said.  George Boyd , a Tokyo-based spokesman for Sony, declined to
comment.  Doug Morris , who oversees Sony Music, and Martin Bandier,
who runs the Sony/ATV Music Publishing joint-venture with the
estate of Michael Jackson, will report to Lynton, the people
said. The New York Post reported Lynton’s promotion March 20.  Sony also plans to appoint Nicole Seligman, currently
general counsel and executive vice president, as president of
Sony Corp. of America, gaining oversight of legal and
communications, one of the people said. Seligman will be in New
York and travel frequently to Tokyo, the person said.  Rob Wiesenthal, executive vice president and chief
financial officer of Sony Corp. of America, may take a role at
Sony/ATV, assisting with the planned purchase of EMI music
publishing, the people said.  Sony rose 0.5 percent to 1,741 yen as of 11:30 a.m. in
 Tokyo  trading, while Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average
was up 0.5 percent. The shares have gained 26 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  