-- Soybeans May Gain on Speculation U.S. Planting Didn’t Increase
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-03-21T10:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/soybeans-rebound-from-biggest-loss-since-january-on-inventories.html
Soybeans may rebound from their
biggest decline since January on speculation that next week’s
U.S. Department of Agriculture planting report will show farmers
didn’t increase oilseed planting.  The USDA’s prospective plantings report, scheduled to be
released on March 30 in  Washington , may show a 11 percent rise
in soybean futures this year hasn’t encouraged farmers to
increase acres, said Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank
International. Growers may increase area seeded with corn, which
is little changed since Jan. 1, she said.  “I’m not confident soybeans have bought much acreage from
corn in the U.S.,” London-based FitzPatrick said in an e-mail
today. “Soybeans will probably be fairly range bound until we
get next Friday’s USDA release. Fundamentally there isn’t a lot
of downside from here.”   Soybeans for May delivery gained 0.1 percent to $13.465 a
bushel by 10:25 a.m. London time on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price dropped 1.6 percent yesterday, the biggest loss for
the most-active contract since Jan. 30.  Corn for May delivery fell 0.2 percent to $6.46 a bushel in
 Chicago . Futures yesterday declined 2.4 percent, the biggest
drop since Jan. 12.  Wheat for May delivery was little changed at $6.415 a
bushel after losing 4.4 percent in the previous two days.
Milling wheat for May delivery on NYSE Liffe in Paris was
unchanged at 208.75 euros ($276.80) a metric ton.  Soybean production in  South America  may slide to 120.6
million tons from 136.5 million tons last year after crop
conditions deteriorated because of hot and dry weather in
southern  Brazil  and northern  Argentina , industry researcher Oil
World said yesterday.  Short-term investors and speculators “are very much
looking for the weather stories in the agricultural market” as
drought trims production of oilseeds, grains and sugar in South
America,  Paul Deane , an agricultural economist at  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said on a conference call today.
“Prices are going to remain very strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net , or
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 