-- Spain’s Default Risk Is Rising, Buiter Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-21T16:17:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/spain-risks-default-now-more-than-ever-buiter-says-tom-keene.html
Spain has never been so close to
default and  Greece , Ireland and Portugal may need further
bailouts, Citigroup Inc. chief economist  Willem Buiter  said.  “Spain is the key country about which I’m most worried,”
Buiter, a former  Bank of England  policy maker, said in a radio
interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. “It’s really moved to the wrong side of the
spectrum and is now at greater risk of sovereign restructuring
than ever before.”  Two years of debt-driven stresses in European markets have
eased as Greece avoided a disorderly default, the building
blocks of a new euro economic management system fell into place
and the  European Central Bank  pumped over 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into the banking system.  “The European Central Bank has drowned the markets and the
banks in liquidity,” Buiter said. “There’s a general feeling
of near euphoria at the moment which leads those drowning in
liquidity to believe that all troubles are over.”  Spanish bonds fell, pushing 10-year yields to the highest
level in more than a month at 5.388 percent at 5 p.m. Madrid
time, widening the spread over similar German maturities to 3.4
percentage points, 20 basis points more than yesterday.  Overshooting Target  Spain  sold 5.04 billion euros of 12-month and 18-month
bills at the lowest rates in almost two years yesterday. Still,
the  budget deficit , the fourth-biggest in the euro area, will
overshoot its target set by the European Union for the second
year in 2012 and overall public debt last year surged to the
highest in over two decades.  The economy, the fourth-biggest in the euro area, is set to
enter its second recession since 2009 in the first quarter as
the deepest austerity measures in three decades crimp domestic
demand and a contraction in the region weighs on exports.  Spanish export growth slowed in January to 3.9 percent from
a year earlier, compared with 6.6 percent in December. The
government predicts a 4 percent fall in domestic demand in 2012.  “Spain is one of the big losers in the first quarter, it
has replaced  Italy  as the lightening rod in the second tier of
the periphery,” said  Marc Chandler , the head of global currency
strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman in  New York .  Euro-area finance chiefs agreed on March 12 that Spain
won’t achieve its budget goal for the second year in 2012,
easing the target to 5.3 percent of GDP from 4.4 percent, after
the shortfall came in at 8.5 percent last year, compared with a
6 percent goal.  Greece, Portugal, Ireland  Buiter said Greece may need another bailout before the end
of the year and no later than next year.  “The Greek sovereign is by no means on a sustainable path
so they will have to restructure again,” he said.  Portugal  and Ireland aren’t out of the woods either, Buiter
said. Portugal is at a “very high” risk of a restructuring,
which may occur next year, and Ireland needs “additional
official sector support,” he said.  “The efforts for recapitalization in the case of banks and
deleveraging for governments tend to slacken off” when they are
no longer confronted with extreme difficulties in funding
themselves, Buiter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  