-- Stocks Rebound in N.Y. on Bank Credit Easing: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-03-21T20:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/stocks-rebound-in-n-y-on-bank-credit-easing-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks listed in the U.S.
climbed for the first time in four days, led by Internet
companies, as China moves to bolster credit growth and ward off
a worsening economic slowdown.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 1.2 percent to 104.66 yesterday
in New York, rebounding from an eight-day low.  NetEase.com Inc. (NTES) ,
the nation’s second largest online games operator, surged to a
record after renewing its license for ‘World of WarCraft’ in
China. Online book seller  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  jumped
the most in a week, while Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. traded at
the highest  premium  over its  Hong Kong  stock in four days.  The People’s Bank of China announced yesterday it will
expand a cut to reserve-requirement ratios to more branches of
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. from March 25. A total 23
billion yuan ($3.6 billion) has been freed up for loans by the
moves, the central bank said. Data from  home prices  to retail
sales signal that growth in the world’s largest exporter is
slowing.  Gross domestic product  in the last three months of 2011
rose the least in ten quarters amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “ China  will continue to be in an easing mode because of
the slowdown they are having, and they are concerned about a
hard landing,”  Dave Lutz , head of exchange-traded fund trading
and strategy at Baltimore-based Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said by
phone yesterday. “The PBOC is nimble enough to force liquidity
all the way through the system to help them mitigate a slowdown.
There is an excellent chance for the rally in Chinese stocks so
far this year to continue.”  China ETF Rises  China’s central bank has lowered the amount that must be
kept in reserves by lenders twice since December and has kept
 interest rates  on hold since July. The reserve ratio will be cut
by 2 percentage points for 379 branches of Agricultural Bank,
the nation’s third-largest lender, expanding a trial that
previously lowered requirements for 563 branches in eight
provinces, the PBOC said yesterday.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 0.4 percent to
$37.42, snapping a three-day slump. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  slid for a second day, falling 0.2 percent to 1,402.89.  American depositary deposits of NetEase climbed 3.2 percent
to $58.11, the highest price since they started trading in June
2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show. NetEase’s ADRs have
increased 30 percent this year.  Beijing-based NetEase and Blizzard Entertainment Inc.,
owned by  Santa Monica , California-based Activision Blizzard
Entertainment Inc., renewed a license for NetEase to operate the
‘World of WarCraft’ online multiplayer game in mainland China,
the two companies said in a joint statement on March 20.  Most Popular Game  The license renewal for the most popular three-dimensional
online game in China “removes a key overhang on the stock,”
Richard Ji, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Morgan Stanley said in
a research note yesterday.  Analysts at JPMorgan Securities Ltd. and Piper Jaffray Cos.
both  reiterated  their overweight recommendations on NetEase this
week, indicating that they expect the stock to outperform its
industry or market. NetEase’s ADRs may reach $60.76 in the next
12 months, according to the average price estimate of 17
analysts, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  E-Commerce, known as Dangdang, added 5 percent to $7.38,
the biggest one-day increase since March 13 and bringing its
advance this year to 68 percent.  There will be mergers and acquisitions in China’s online
retail market this year as operators face difficulty obtaining
funds, Dangdang’s Chief Financial Officer Conor Yang said in an
interview in Hong Kong on March 19.  Chalco Premium  Aluminum Corp. (ACH) , known as Chalco and the nation’s biggest
producer of the lightweight metal, advanced 2.1 percent, the
most in a week, to $12.37 in New York. The ADRs, each
representing 25 common shares in the company, traded 0.3 percent
above its Hong Kong shares, from a 0.7 percent discount on March
20.  The stock  surged  10 percent in Shanghai trading yesterday
to 7.59 yuan, or $1.20 per share, amid reports that the
government will boost investments in the Shanghai share market
and that they may regulate rare-earth output.  As much as 40 percent of Guangdong province’s 100 billion
yuan of pension funds may be invested in stocks, the 21st
Century Business Herald reported yesterday.  China’s government will boost punishment for excess
production of rare earths and also encourage the formation of
large producers,  China Central Television  reported, citing the
Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology . Chalco’s parent
company has taken over rare earth ventures.  Youku Rebounds  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was little changed at
2,378.20. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  for Chinese
companies traded in Hong Kong declined for the sixth straight
day, the longest losing streak since December. The measure fell
0.9 percent to 10,776.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest video sharing website, snapped
a six-day drop, adding 2.5 percent to $25.70 to rebound from a
one-week low reached on March 20.  Beijing-based Youku plans to buy its competitor  Tudou
Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  in a stock swap deal, the two companies said in a
joint statement on March 12. Holders of Tudou’s ADRs will
receive 1.595 ADRs of Youku for each Tudou ADR they own.  Shanghai-based Tudou increased 1.5 percent to $34.47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  