-- Stocks to Begin a ‘Steady Upward Trajectory’ Goldman Says
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-21T12:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/stocks-to-begin-a-steady-upward-trajectory-goldman-says.html
Stocks will probably begin a
“steady upward trajectory” over the next few years because any
declines in economic growth are already reflected in share
prices,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said.  “Given current valuations, we think it’s time to say a
‘long goodbye’ to bonds, and embrace the ‘long good buy’ for
equities as we expect them to embark on an upward trend over the
next few years,”  Peter Oppenheimer , chief global equity
strategist at Goldman Sachs in  London , wrote in a report today.  The prospects for returns in equities versus bonds “are as
good as they have been in a generation,” he wrote.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  is trading at 11.2 times
estimated earnings, compared with an average of 11.8 over the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
index dropped 11 percent last year as policy makers tried to
stop  Greece ’s sovereign-debt crisis from spreading. The  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  is trading at 13.2 times estimated earnings after
falling 7.6 percent last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Periods of sustained falls in the market are typically
better times to buy for the long run,” Oppenheimer wrote.
“Partly, of course, this is also a function of valuations
typically improving after a period of sustained losses in the
market. Nonetheless, the key point is that in particularly bad
economic periods, once the news is fully priced, investment
outcomes tend to improve.”  Bond Yields  The euro area’s economy will contract 0.1 percent this
year, the  European Central Bank ’s projections show, down from
its previous forecast for 0.3 percent growth. At least six of
the 17 nations that use the euro are in recession. The ECB left
its  benchmark rate  at 1 percent earlier this month. The central
bank also said this month that inflation in the euro area will
probably exceed the bank’s 2 percent limit this year.  In the U.S., the  Federal Open Market Committee  said this
month that economic conditions would still warrant holding the
benchmark  interest rate  near zero at least through late 2014.  Gains in bond yields can also support equities, according
to Goldman. Ten-year yields have climbed from a record low of
1.67 percent set on Sept. 23, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
U.S. 10-year yields were little changed at 2.37 percent at 9:30
a.m. in London, near their highest in almost five months.  “We would expect the early rises in bond yields to be
positive for equity prices as they both become a reflection of
rising growth and inflationary expectations, and could expect
some equity re-rating in the initial stages of rising yields,”
Oppenheimer wrote.  Equities offer an opportunity now, the strategist wrote,
saying some risks to future growth are exaggerated, and  emerging
markets  may offset fiscal policy tightening in some developed
markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  