-- Stryker Stent May Not Be Worth the Stroke Risks, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-21T20:08:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/stryker-may-need-to-provide-more-wingspan-data-fda-staff-says.html
Stryker Corp. (SYK) ’s Wingspan stent may
not be worth the risks because the device has no added benefit
over drugs used to prevent stroke in patients with narrowed
arteries in the brain, U.S. regulators said today.  The brain stent may be inferior in some cases than standard
therapy for stroke prevention, including blood thinners,  Food
and Drug Administration  staff wrote in a  report  today. The
agency is scheduled on March 23 to convene an advisory panel to
review the safety and effectiveness of the stent from Kalamazoo,
Michigan-based Stryker. The FDA asked the panel to discuss
whether the benefits of the stent might outweigh the risks.  The consumer group  Public Citizen , based in  Washington ,
urged the FDA to pull the stent from the market last year after
the first definitive trial of the device’s safety risks was
halted. Patients whose arteries were propped open with Stryker’s
stent were more likely to have a stroke than patients who were
treated with drugs, according to a National Institutes of
Health-funded study published in September in the  New England
Journal of Medicine . The FDA further examined groups of patients
within the NIH study.  “It is notable that all of the subgroup results point in
the same direction of no added benefit, and in some cases,
significantly worse outcomes,” FDA staff wrote.  Stryker rose less than 1 percent to $54.85 at the close of
New York trading.  More Data  The agency  asked  the panel to discuss whether more clinical
data should be gathered on the safety and effectiveness of the
device or whether the stent might benefit patients who don’t
respond to blood thinners or who have a history of stroke.  Stryker  generated  $750 million in neurotechnology and
neurovascular product sales in 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Stryker acquired Wingspan in its 2010 purchase of
 Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) ’s neurovascular unit. The device likely
isn’t a big product for Stryker, which doesn’t break out sales,
Michael Matson, an analyst with Mizuho Securities USA Inc. said
in a telephone interview.  “ It’s not all that material to Stryker in the grand
scheme of things,” he said.  Researchers stopped enrollment in the NIH study at 451
patients when they determined the 30-day rate of stroke or death
was 14.7 percent in patients who received the stent compared
with 5.8 percent in those who took drugs to treat their narrow
arteries, according to the journal article.  The FDA approved Wingspan in 2005 under a humanitarian
device exemption that requires Stryker prove the product doesn’t
cause significant risk of illness or injury and treats fewer
than 4,000 people in the U.S. a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  