-- Student Borrowers Lack Understanding of Loan Terms
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-03-21T17:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/student-borrowers-lack-understanding-of-loan-terms-study-shows.html
Almost two-thirds of U.S. student-
loan borrowers misunderstood or were surprised by aspects of
their loans or the student-loan process, a study shows.  About 20 percent of the respondents in an online survey
said the amount of their monthly payments was unexpected,
according to the study released today by  Young Invincibles , a
nonprofit group in  Washington  that represents the interests of
18-to-34 year-olds. The respondents had an average of $76,000 in
student debt.  More students are borrowing to pay for college and graduate
school, and taking out greater amounts as tuition costs climb
faster than the rate of inflation. Outstanding student-loan debt
reached $867 billion in the fourth quarter, according to the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York . With caps on the amounts that
undergraduates can take in federal loans, many also borrow from
private lenders.  “There are many indebted graduates whose assumptions about
how they would deal with their loans after college proved
inaccurate,” wrote Healey Whitsett, the study’s author and a
senior analyst in Philadelphia at NERA Economic Consulting. As
students borrow from multiple lenders, “this fragmentation may
make it more difficult for them to understand the implications
of their student-loan decisions.”  While 13,451 participated in the survey conducted between
Dec. 22, 2011 and Jan. 31, 2012, the results are based on 6,654
respondents who completed a bachelor’s, graduate or professional
degree after 2000 and reported taking out loans -- federal,
private or both.  Long-Term Burden  Two-thirds of students who graduated from college in 2010
and took out loans had an average of $25,250 in debt, up 5
percent from the previous year, according to a November report
by the  Project on Student Debt , an Oakland-based nonprofit
organization.  In the Young Invincibles study, more than two-thirds of
respondents with private loans said they didn’t understand the
main differences between those loans and their federal student-
aid options.  Marjorie Gelin Goodwin, 37, one of the respondents, said
she owes about $107,000 in federal loans and about $15,000 in
private loans for college and graduate school. She is in
forbearance on her federal loans, meaning she isn’t making
payments. She didn’t understand that her private loans would
have a variable rate that could fluctuate so greatly, she said
in an interview.  “I was surprised by how much my student-loan payments
would take away from my income,” said Goodwin, who works at a
nonprofit organization in  San Francisco . “I’ll be retired and
still paying my  student loans  at the rate I’m going.”  Eight percent of respondents in the survey said they
“strongly agreed” and 26 percent “agreed” that they would be
able to pay off all their federal and private student loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janet Lorin in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 