-- Suzlon Rejects Report of Relisting Repower as ’Speculative’
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-21T12:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/suzlon-rejects-report-of-relisting-repower-as-speculative-1-.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s largest
wind-turbine maker, dismissed a report that it may relist its
German unit to raise cash and repay debt.  Repower Systems SE may return to the stock exchange in May
or June after Suzlon failed to sell the Hamburg-based unit to
France’s  Alstom SA (ALO) , Manager Magazin said today, citing
unidentified company officials.  “Our position remains unchanged,” Pune-based Suzlon said
in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg News. “These are totally
speculative reports.”  Suzlon extended gains after the report to close up 5.8
percent at 29.15 rupees in Mumbai. The wider BSE Sensitive Index
rose 1.7 percent.  Suzlon said last month it’s exploring options including
asset sales to meet $569 million in bond redemptions this year
as losses widen. It delisted Repower in October after a four-
year effort to buy the company starting in 2007.  The turbine manufacturer has loan repayments of $700
million due in the financial year starting April, HSBC Bank Plc
analyst Charanjit Singh said in a March 5 note. That includes
the $569 million in foreign currency convertible bonds that
mature in June and October. The notes are set to miss their
conversion into equity, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Under pressure from creditors, Suzlon Chief Executive Tulsi
Tanti met several potential bidders for Repower including
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Alstom, the Wall Street
Journal reported March 15. Alstom Chief Executive Officer
Patrick Kron and Suzlon denied they were in talks.  Suzlon can’t tap 750 million euros in financing raised by
Repower on Feb. 29 to pay off debt, Repower said last week.
That’s not allowed under its  agreement  with the banks for a 725
million-euro loan guarantee and 25 million-euro  credit line ,
Repower said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  