-- Swiss Life Invests in German Nursing Homes to Boost Returns
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-03-21T12:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/swiss-life-invests-in-german-nursing-homes-to-boost-returns.html
The German unit of  Swiss Life
Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s biggest life insurer, plans to buy
more nursing homes in Germany to help boost investment returns.  “We started to buy nursing homes in 2004 and will continue
to do so as we are very happy with this asset class,” Stephan Illsinger, chief investment officer of Swiss Life’s German unit,
said in an interview in Munich. “As soon as there’s more
clarity on  capital requirements  under Solvency II, I wouldn’t
have a problem to double our commitments to this area.”  Swiss Life’s German unit has invested about 100 million
euros ($133 million), or 10 percent of its property holdings, in
14 nursing homes in Germany and is focused on non-urban areas
near bigger cities. Most of the properties are being managed by
 BeneVit Holding . The number of nursing homes in  Germany  has
grown to 11,634 in 2009 from 8,859 in 1999, according to
 statistics  by the Federal Ministry of Health.  “We expect returns of about 7 percent from our investments
in nursing homes, which exceeds the average return from other
conservative asset classes including higher-rated  government
bonds  and residential and commercial real estate,” Illsinger
said.  About 1,400 care facilities with a capacity of at least 100
beds in an investment volume of 12.5 billion euros need to be
built in Germany through 2030 to meet growing demand from
patients, according to  research  by real-estate broker CB Richard
Ellis Group Inc.  Investment ‘Advantage’  The investment market for nursing homes in Germany had a
volume of about 295 million euros in 2010, with most of it being
made by specialized real-estate funds from companies including
Axa Investment Managers Germany, RREEF Real Estate and Immac
Holding, according to CBRE, which expects initial net yields of
6.5 percent to 7.5 percent for such investments.  “The advantage of direct investments in nursing homes over
investments via specialized funds is that we remain in control
of the objects and the quality standards,” Illsinger said.  Swiss Life, led by Chief Executive Officer Bruno Pfister,
said last month it expects market conditions to remain
“challenging” after second-half profit declined by 30 percent.
The  Zurich-based company plans to make more savings after
reducing annual costs by 404 million Swiss francs ($444 million)
since 2009 and cutting 520 jobs in  Switzerland .  Swiss Life’s German unit  represents  about 10 percent of the
insurer’s annual premium income. Germany is the company’s third-
biggest market after Switzerland and  France . Operating profit in
Germany adjusted for major one-time items and currency effects
declined 36 percent to 58 million euros last year.  “Going forward, we could also imagine teaming up with
other insurers in our investments in nursing homes, but we
haven’t held talks on that yet,” Illsinger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  