-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed After U.S. Housing Data
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-03-21T16:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/swiss-stocks-snap-two-days-of-losses-logitech-advances.html
Swiss stocks  closed little changed,
after yesterday’s biggest loss in two weeks for the benchmark
 Swiss Market Index (SMI) , as a report showed existing-home sales in
the U.S. unexpectedly dropped in February.  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the largest supplier of agricultural
chemicals, added 1.2 percent after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended the shares.  Rieter Holding AG (RIEN) , the biggest maker of
staple-fiber spinning machines, dropped the most since August as
profit missed projections.  The SMI slipped 0.1 percent to 6,290 at the close in
Zurich. The gauge has still  rallied 6 percent  this year as the
 European Central Bank  disbursed more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) to the region’s lenders and U.S. economic data topped
estimates. The broader Swiss Performance Index also retreated
0.1 percent today.  “Market sentiment has been very bullish in the past few
weeks,” said Christoph Riniker, head of strategy research at
 Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  in Zurich. “Markets are overbought, but
there are too few investors in the market for a correction.
We’re likely to see some additional buying on lower levels,
which could generally lead to a sideways trend in the coming
weeks.”  The number of shares changing hands on the SMI today was 25
percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Data  In the U.S., a report showed that sales of  previously owned
houses  fell. Purchases dropped 0.9 percent in February to a 4.59
million  annual rate  from a revised 4.63 million pace in January
that was faster than previously estimated. The median forecast
of 77 economists in a Bloomberg News survey had called for a
rise to 4.61 million.  Goldman Sachs said stocks will probably begin a “steady
upward trajectory” over the next few years as any declines in
economic growth are already reflected in share prices.  “Given current valuations, we think it’s time to say a
‘long good-bye’ to bonds, and embrace the ‘long good buy’ for
equities as we expect them to embark on an upward trend over the
next few years,”  Peter Oppenheimer , chief global equity
strategist at Goldman Sachs in  London , wrote in a report today.  Syngenta gained 1.2 percent to 298.90 francs after Goldman
Sachs raised the shares to buy from neutral.  Rieter declined 11 percent to 165 francs, its biggest drop
since Aug. 4, after saying earnings before interest and taxes
increased to 112.6 million francs ($124 million) in 2011 from
75.7 million francs a year earlier. That missed the average
analyst forecast for 123.6 million francs.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s second-largest
lender, slipped 0.8 percent to 26.59 francs.  Swiss Life Holding
AG (SLHN) , the country’s biggest life insurer, fell 0.9 percent to
112.30 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  