-- Syrian Rebels Retreat From Eastern City as Annan Plans New Visit
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-03-21T07:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/syrian-rebels-retreat-from-eastern-city-as-annan-plans-new-visit.html
United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan 
plans to return to Damascus in a new push to end the unrest in
Syria, where government forces made gains against rebels in the
east and pounded the central city of Hama.  At least 42 people, including two children and two women,
were killed across the country yesterday, the opposition Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-mail. Troops loyal
to President Bashar al-Assad bombarded several neighborhoods of
Hama, pushing residents to leave for safer areas, it said.  In the eastern city of Deir al-Zour, opposition fighters
were forced to flee yesterday in the face of a fierce army
assault, Al Jazeera television said, citing a statement from the
Deir al-Zour Revolution Committees Union. “The Free Syrian Army
pulled out to avoid a civilian massacre,” the group said.  Syrian troops have seized the key urban opposition
strongholds of Homs and Idlib this month, forcing fighters from
the lightly armed Free Syrian Army to retreat into the
countryside. Annan’s first visit to  Syria  earlier this month
ended without a deal as Assad’s forces intensified attacks on
rebel strongholds to try and extinguish the uprising, pushing
the death toll from a year of fighting above 8,000 people.  Syria’s state-run SANA news agency said a number of law-
enforcement officers were killed yesterday in a suicide bomb
attack in the countryside in the southern province of Daraa.  Annan will return to Damascus “very soon” in an effort to
end the violence and defuse the humanitarian crisis, UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon said at a seminar in Jakarta
today.  Ban said he has been in constant touch with Annan and with
Arab League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi. “It is necessary
for all of us to work together to help the Special Envoy create
the political space required for progress towards a solution,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  