-- U.K. Considers Environment Tax to Replace Carbon ‘Burden’
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-21T18:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-k-considers-environment-tax-to-replace-carbon-burden-.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said today that he may introduce an environmental
tax to replace a carbon-reduction program that’s become a
“burden” on business.  Proposals for the new tax will be made in the fall should
the government not be able to simplify the so-called Carbon
Reduction Commitment to reduce its administrative expenses,
Osborne told lawmakers in Parliament.  “We’re serious in making sure that green tax is effective
and not a complicated burden on business,” Climate Change
Minister  Greg Barker  said in a phone interview. “We’re
determined not to tie the green sector up in red tape.”  In a budget with few environmental announcements, Osborne
doubled a surcharge on  carbon emissions  by utilities starting
2014. He indicated support for airport expansion near London,
pledged measures to encourage investment in offshore oil and gas
and reduced environmental regulation to cut business costs by at
least 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) over five years.  “It’s a bit like  Sherlock Holmes ’ dog that didn’t bark:
although not a lot was said, in a way that might be seen as a
good thing because many of the crucial policies are still being
finalized,”  Impax Asset Management Group Plc (IPX)  Chief Executive
Officer Ian Simm said by phone. They include reform of the
 electricity market , the government’s Green Deal program to
insulate homes and details about how the “Green Investment
Bank” is going to work, he said.  ‘Nail in Coffin’  Green Party leader and lawmaker Caroline Lucas called
today’s budget “the nail in the coffin” of the government’s
pledge on entering office to be the “greenest ever.” The
environmental group Friends of the Earth said the plans ignore
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s promise to build a clean future.  “The determination to plow ahead with growth-at-any-cost
planning reforms and aviation expansion, throw money at North
Sea oil and gas, and ignore the potential of green energy shows
that this administration’s environmental policy is blue, not
green,” Lucas said, referring to the color associated with
Cameron’s Conservative Party.  Osborne has “fired the starting pistol for more roads,
airports and gas power that will keep the U.K. hooked on costly
fossil fuels for decades to come,” Friends of the Earth
Executive Director Andy Atkins said in a statement.  Barker said his department hadn’t made any “major asks”
of Osborne in this budget.  ‘Harder for Business’  “What we wanted was a clear commitment to the renewables
sector and we got that,” Barker said. One request the energy
department had made and Osborne delivered was for the so-called
carbon floor price to apply only to the emissions associated
with electricity generation from combined heat and power plants,
and not the heat produced, he said.  The U.K. solar power industry, already reeling from
unscheduled cuts to subsidies, faces another hit because of
restrictions imposed by the chancellor, according to David Symons, a director at global environmental consultancy WSP
Environment & Energy.  The solar industry “faces a further 300 million-pound hit
over the next five years as its capital allowances are
restricted,” Symons said. “This will make it harder for
business to invest in renewables because companies won’t be able
to recoup their investment as quickly.”  The carbon-reduction commitment compeled 5,000 U.K.
organizations to pay about 3.5 billion pounds over four years in
fees for emitting carbon. Osborne in October 2010 turned the
program into a tax instead of a system that redistributed money
from those organizations that made the least progress in
curtailing emissions to those that made the most.  ‘Overly Burdensome’  “No amount of tinkering with this doomed tax on British
business will ever make it work and therefore the government
should scrap the scheme in the autumn,” Gareth Stace, head of
climate and environment policy at the EEF manufacturers group,
said. “The scheme is overly burdensome, costly and provides no
guarantee of carbon reductions.”  Osborne today set the carbon price support at 9.55 pounds
($15.13) a metric ton for 2014, almost double the 4.94-pound
cost that takes effect April 2013. The U.K. is introducing the
tax on power production to encourage investment in nuclear and
renewable power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell  in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 