-- U.K. to Guarantee Tax Breaks for Dismantling Oil Platforms
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-03-21T15:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-k-to-guarantee-tax-rates-for-dismantling-north-sea-platforms.html
The U.K. government pledged to end
the unpredictability of taxes related to the dismantling of
 North Sea  oil platforms to encourage investment in Britain’s
energy industry.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said he would
guarantee tax relief for the dismantling of installations,
making it easier to sell off assets to buyers who will spend
more on them. U.K. law holds sellers responsible for
decommissioning if the buyer can’t pay, leading sellers to
demand letters of credit for the potential costs and adding to
the expense of deals.  “While much work remains to be done to work out the
detail, and legislation is not expected until 2013, this is a
very positive development,” said Roman Webber, head of U.K. oil
and gas at accountancy firm Deloitte LLP. “This will remove a
major fiscal risk for U.K. North Sea investors and release
significant funds for investment.”  Companies including  BP Plc (BP/)  are trying to dispose of older
fields in the North Sea to focus on new exploration. The
government is seeking to unlock as much as 17 billion pounds
($27 billion) of investment in North Sea energy that is being
held back because of uncertainty over decommissioning costs,
which amount to 30 billion pounds for the rigs currently
operating, a person familiar with the Treasury’s plans said last
week.  ‘No Doubt’  “There’s no doubt there’s a big logjam of assets that
companies are trying to sell,” Mark Groves Gidney, chief
executive officer of explorer Trap Oil Group Plc, said earlier
this week. Clarifying the taxes “will stop the logjam and free
up assets for small players. That in turn may generate more tax
for the country.”  Rising oil prices are increasing incentives for the
government to encourage production. Brent crude prices have
gained 11 percent this year to $124 a barrel.  “I also want to ensure we extract the greatest possible
amount of oil and gas from our reserves in the North Sea,”
Osborne said in his budget speech today in  London . “We will end
the uncertainty over decommissioning tax relief that has hung
over the industry for years by entering into a contractual
approach.”  There was 34 percent less exploration in the North Sea last
year than in 2010, with levels this year similar to 2011,
Deloitte said today.  New Investment  Oil and natural-gas projects on the U.K. continental shelf
will attract investments in the next three years, Wood Mackenzie
Consultants Ltd. said Jan. 10. Energy explorers spent a record
7.5 billion pounds on U.K. projects in 2011, it said.  The government will sign contracts with North Sea producers
guaranteeing tax relief for the lifetime of a project. The
contracts will prevent future governments from changing the rate
of tax relief, which is typically 50 percent and can reach 75
percent.  The government also plans to introduce new tax allowances,
including 3 billion pounds for “large and deep fields to open
up West of Shetland,” Osborne said. This is “a huge boost for
investment in the North Sea.”  In last year’s budget, Osborne raised the  tax rate  on oil
production profit to 62 percent from 50 percent to pay for a  tax
cut  on gasoline for consumers. The move prompted  Statoil ASA (STL)  to
put a $10 billion investment in the region on hold.  Total SA (FP) 
said in September it would halt exploration of a gas field west
of  Scotland ’s Shetland Islands because of the tax increase.  Tax Allowances  In July, the Treasury said it would increase a tax
allowance to encourage investment in North Sea oil production as
it sought to soften the impact of last year’s tax increases.  The Ring Fence Expenditure Supplement for the North Sea
will rise to 10 percent from 6 percent, the Treasury said in a
statement March 16. The move aims to increase investment in
marginal fields that qualify for the current allowance.  “These proposed changes are the result of intense dialogue
between government and industry,” Deloitte’s Webber said.
“They will go some way to restoring trust which had been shaken
by last year’s oil tax increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  