-- U.K. Posted Larger-Than-Forecast Budget Deficit in March
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-24T08:39:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-k-budget-deficit-doubles-as-taxes-fall-spending-jumps-1-.html
Britain posted a larger budget
deficit than economists forecast in March, underscoring the
challenge facing Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  as
he tries to cut borrowing.  Net borrowing excluding support for banks was 18.2 billion
pounds ($29.4 billion), compared with 18 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. The median of 20 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a shortfall of 16 billion pounds. Spending rose 4.2 percent
and  tax revenue  climbed 1.4 percent.  The figures come as Prime Minister  David Cameron  renews his
commitment to erasing a budget deficit that totaled 8.3 percent
of gross domestic product in the last fiscal year. Austerity is
putting governments under strain across  Europe , with  Nicolas
Sarkozy  slumping to second place in the first round of French
presidential elections and the government of the Netherlands
collapsing yesterday amid a clash over spending cuts.  “When one considers the level of the deficit then it’s a
big reminder that the degree of fiscal tightening that remains
necessary is considerable,”  Philip Shaw , an economist at
Investec Securities in London, said before the data was
released. “Without strong growth it’s difficult to see quick
improvement from the public finances.”  The pound fell as much as 0.1 percent against the dollar
after the report and was trading at $1.6153 as 9:38 a.m. in
London, up 0.1 percent on the day.  Austerity Pledge  The Conservatives and their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners have made erasing the structural deficit their key
policy objective after borrowing swelled to 11.2 percent of GDP
in the aftermath of the financial crisis and recession.  The program will see more than 700,000 government jobs axed
by 2017 in the deepest cuts since World War II.  Fitch Ratings 
and Moody’s Investors Service have warned that any slippage
could cost Britain its top  credit rating . The Labour opposition
says the government is going too fast and damaging the recovery.  In the fiscal year through March, the deficit narrowed to
126 billion pounds from 136.8 billion pounds a year earlier, in
line with official forecasts. Taxes rose 3.9 percent and
spending gained 2 percent. Departmental spending fell 0.1
percent, the first decline since 1955, the statistics office
said.  The deficit including government support for banks was 15.9
billion pounds in March compared with 15.1 billion pounds a year
earlier. Net debt rose to 1.02 trillion pounds, or a record 66
percent of GDP, up from 60.5 percent a year earlier.  Poll Slump  There was a public-sector cash requirement of 16.5 billion
pounds in March. Economists predicted a 13 billion-pound
deficit.  With polls showing the Conservatives losing public support
since the budget, Cameron yesterday sought to unify the
government around a renewed commitment to  deficit reduction  by
ordering departments to identify potential savings equal to 5
percent of their annual spending to meet unexpected costs.  Labour has attacked the budget measures for helping the
rich at the expense of pensioners and charities and says the
government is holding back the recovery by trying to cut the
deficit too quickly.  Government figures tomorrow may show Britain narrowly
avoided a recession in the first quarter as the economy grew
just 0.1 percent following a 0.3 percent contraction in the
fourth quarter, according to the median of 40 forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Output is still well below its pre-recession peak in early
2008 and official forecasters see little growth until next year
as inflation outpaces wage increases, unemployment rises and tax
increases and spending curbs eat into household budgets.  Concern is also growing that the recession in the euro
region, a key market for British exports, is intensifying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  