-- U.K. Budget Was Better Theater Than Economic Policy
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-21T23:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-k-budget-was-better-theater-than-economic-policy-view.html
The  budget  announced Wednesday by
Britain’s Conservative government was less a change of economic
direction than an exercise in political theater.  The good news is that the outlook is no longer
deteriorating. For the first time since coming to office in
2010, the Tories didn’t have to explain how worsening growth
projections had wrecked their plans. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  could have simply confirmed his previous revenue
and growth targets, but in Britain budgets call for melodrama.
So he enraged the Labour opposition by cutting the top rate of
income tax from 50 percent to 45 percent.  Under different circumstances, that wouldn’t be such a bad
idea. A top rate of 50 percent is high by international
standards, and there are better ways to collect revenue from the
rich. But Osborne’s justification -- instead of raising
substantial sums, the 50 percent rate caused economic
distortions -- was weak. The politics could backfire if the
public agrees with Labour’s characterization of Osborne’s
blueprint as “a budget for millionaires.” The typical U.K.
household, after all, still struggles with stagnant wages and
deep cuts in public services.  No Second Recession  Britain’s projected growth is just 0.8 percent this year.
Not great, but at least the U.K. has avoided a second recession.
The fiscal-squeeze program, amended in November, can proceed as
planned. After assessing the new budget, the independent Office
of Budget Responsibility says public debt will peak at 76
percent of gross domestic product in 2014, and the structural
budget -- adjusted for the business cycle -- will be balanced by
2016. Growth in output should pick up in 2013 and beyond.  Growth of less than 1 percent in 2012 could justify a
milder fiscal squeeze, though the question isn’t clear-cut.
Another deviation from the program would have rattled the
markets and could have raised borrowing costs. Also, Britain is
doing better than its European neighbors, and the  Bank of
England  is ready with unorthodox monetary stimulus if the
economy slides back. In all, the budget’s macroeconomic judgment
is defensible. More so than some of its details.  Osborne justified the cut in the top  tax rate  by saying
that it had raised less revenue than expected. Tax-avoidance
schemes, he said, had virtually neutralized it, so trimming the
rate back to 45 percent would cost just 100 million pounds ($159
million) in revenue. Other changes, including a big increase in
the tax on sales of very expensive homes, would more than make
up for it.  These calculations look dubious. Revenue grew by less than
expected in the first year of the 50 percent rate because
taxpayers shifted income forward in anticipation of the rise.
But this was a first-year effect. Once the tax is in place,
shifting like that stops. The revenue loss will probably be more
than the government says.  In addition, the increase to 7 percent from 5 percent in
stamp duty (transfer tax) on sales of houses costing more than 2
million pounds ($3.2 million) is a bad way to raise more from
the rich. The main effect will be to suppress turnover. A simple
property tax on expensive homes would be harder to avoid, bring
in more revenue from a broader base of well-to-do taxpayers and
provide a steadier flow of money. This was an option the
government considered; Osborne was wrong to reject it.  The budget’s other headline was an increase in the basic
income-tax allowance -- the amount you can earn before you pay
any tax. This will rise to 9,205 pounds in 2013, from 8,105
pounds this year, and the chancellor said he would raise it to
10,000 pounds in due course. That’s a nice round number and the
move will be popular. But it’s a bad way to help those on low or
moderate incomes, which Osborne said was his aim.  Low Incomes  The poorest, who pay no tax, get no benefit. And with the
increase spread across everybody else, the policy surrenders a
lot of revenue -- about 3 billion pounds’ worth. Targeted
credits to those on low incomes would make more sense.  Osborne is right to want to make Britain a better place to
invest. His cut in corporate tax -- to 24 percent right away,
with more to come later -- is wise. Once the fiscal situation
improves, a lower top rate of income tax would also be good,
provided it is honestly accounted for. But while severe fiscal
tightening is under way, changes that mainly benefit the rich
are bad politics and bad economics.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 