-- U.K. Tax on 2 Million-Pound Home Purchases May Deter Buyers
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-03-21T16:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-k-tax-on-two-million-pound-home-purchases-may-deter-buyers.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s decision to raise the tax on home purchases of
2 million pounds ($3.2 million) or more will probably crimp
demand for the most sought after homes in London’s best areas.  Starting tomorrow, the tax on residences sold for that
amount will increase to 7 percent from 5 percent, Osborne said
in his annual budget report today. The government will also levy
a 15 percent tax on residential real estate valued at more than
2 million pounds bought using companies set up to avoid taxes.  “There’s the potential that it will skew the market more
toward those wealthy overseas purchasers,”  Paul Diggle , a
property economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , said by
telephone. “There’s a large share of people who are home-grown,
well-off residents who this will affect more.”  About 1,620 homes worth more than 2 million pounds were
sold in  England  and  Wales  last year, according to the  Land
Registry . Luxury-home prices in central London rose the most in
10 months in March as overseas buyers sought the safety of one
of the world’s most resilient property markets, Knight Frank LLP
said in a report today.  Closing Loopholes  “If you buy a property in Britain that is used for
residential purposes, then we will expect stamp duty to be
paid,” Osborne said today. “I will not hesitate to move
swiftly without notice and retrospectively if inappropriate ways
around these new rules are found.”  The tax, known as stamp duty, currently starts at 1 percent
for properties costing more than 125,000 pounds and rises to 5
percent for homes bought for over 1 million pounds. A two-year
stamp-duty exemption for first-time buyers purchasing a home for
less than 250,000 pounds ends on March 24.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition of Conservatives
and Liberal Democrats will also consult on the introduction of
an annual charge on those 2 million pound residential properties
that are already owned by corporate entities, the Chancellor
said.  A 15-percent levy will probably discourage most people from
using offshore companies to buy homes, according to Lucian Cook,
a residential research director for  Savills Plc (SVS)  and author of
“Taxing Mansions: the Taxation of High Value Residential
Property.”  ‘Shock’ News  Finchatton Ltd. , a closely held luxury-home developer in
London, expects property transactions to decline, particularly
in the U.K. capital and the southeast of England, following the
government’s announcement.  “News that properties bought through corporate envelopes
will now be liable for a 15 percent stamp duty land tax was a
shock,” co-founder Alex Michelin said in an e-mail. “We need
to review the details to see what effect this will have.”  Mortgage loans  were used to buy 845 properties sold for
more than 2 million pounds last year, according to the  Council
of Mortgage Lenders . Residential stamp duty raised around 4
billion pounds in the year through April 5, according to the
U.K. tax authority.  Kensington and Chelsea helped to push the asking price of a
London home to a record this month as average values in the
district broke through the 2 million-pound level for the first
time, Rightmove Plc said earlier this week.  A higher tax “will have a negative impact on transactions
at the top of the market and will disproportionately impact the
London property market,” said Adam Challis, head of research at
property broker Hamptons International.  Higher Prices  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds in London gained 1.1 percent in March from a
month earlier, London-based Knight Frank said in today’s report.  British buyers bought two in every five luxury homes in
London’s best neighborhoods in the three months through
December, according to  Liam Bailey , a residential research
director for the broker.  Home prices  in England and Wales rose 0.1 percent last
month, the Land Registry said March 19.  Britons who earn less than 8,150 pounds a year won’t pay
income tax on their earnings, Osborne said today. He also cut
the top levy on earnings of 150,000 pounds or more to 45 percent
from 50 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 