-- U.K. Plans Change to Tax Rule That Sent Nadal to Play in Germany
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-21T18:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-k-plans-change-to-tax-rule-that-sent-nadal-to-play-in-germany.html
The U.K. government is proposing a
change to a tax rule that caused Wimbledon champion  Rafael Nadal 
to warm up for the tennis tournament in  Germany .  Britain’s Lawn Tennis Association has been lobbying for a
modification in the legislation covering foreign sports and
entertainment figures, and welcomed proposals announced in
today’s U.K. budget.  The country’s tax authorities will now include training
days during consideration of the proportion of global
endorsements to tax, it said in an e-mailed statement today.
Previously, Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs based the tax on
the number of U.K. tournaments players participate in as a
proportion of total events per year.  “This means that the U.K. should be more competitive in
attracting the top tennis players to come and play here,” Roger Draper, chief executive officer of the LTA, said today in an e-
mailed statement. “Having a world class player field is crucial
to successful sports events, which inspires more people to play
our sport, generates investment for British tennis, and provides
a boost to the national and local economies.”  Two-time Wimbledon champion Nadal last year said he
wouldn’t prepare for  Wimbledon  at the grass courts of the
Queen’s Club in west  London , instead opting to play in Halle,
Germany in the same week in June. The Spaniard told reporters in
Shanghai that he would “lose money” if he played Queen’s,
where he competed in five of the past six years.  Former Wimbledon champion  Andre Agassi  in 2006 lost a
27,500-pound tax dispute at Britain’s highest court, which
blocked other sports and entertainment figures from claiming
millions from British tax authorities. He had challenged the
taxation of sponsorship payments made by some of his endorsers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 