-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed as Osborne Unveils Budget
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-03-21T17:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-k-stocks-gain-for-first-day-in-three-sainsbury-rises.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed
after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  presented his
annual budget to Parliament.  J Sainsbury Plc rose 4.5 percent after reporting fourth-
quarter sales growth that exceeded estimates.  Debenhams Plc (DEB) 
climbed as Citigroup Inc. recommended the retailer. Bookmakers
 Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  and  William Hill Plc (WMH)  declined as Osborne announced
a tax on gambling machines. APR Energy Plc plunged 20 percent
after delaying the release of its results.  The FTSE 100 Index advanced 0.54, or less than 0.1 percent,
to 5,891.95 at the close of trading in London, after alternating
between gains and losses at least 10 times. The gauge has
rallied 5.7 percent this year as U.S. economic data exceeded
forecasts and the  European Central Bank  funneled about $1.3
trillion to the region’s lenders to support growth. The broader
FTSE All-Share Index and Ireland’s ISEQ Index also rose less
than 0.1 percent today.  “With no new money and official growth forecasts barely
changed after last autumn’s big downgrades, the budget hasn’t
changed the fundamental picture,” said Trevor Greetham, who
helps manage about $214 billion as director of asset allocation
at Fidelity Worldwide Investment in  London . “With the global
growth backdrop improving the U.K. economy could surprise to the
upside. However, the U.K. remains on a path of austerity and
growth remains weak.”  Austerity Budget  Osborne said Britain will avoid sliding back into recession
as he delivered a budget intended to maintain his austerity
drive. Forecasts from the nonpartisan  Office for Budget
Responsibility  show the economy expanding 0.8 percent this year,
up from a November estimate of 0.7 percent, Osborne told
Parliament in London today.  “Today’s budget re-affirmed the balance the coalition
government is attempting to strike between growth and austerity,
whilst not delivering anything dramatic,” Joshua Raymond, chief
market strategist at City Index in London, wrote in e-mailed
comments.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  earlier rose as much as 0.5 percent as Bank of
England policy makers Adam Posen and David Miles maintained a
push for more economic stimulus measures.  Posen and Miles wanted to increase the target for Bank of
England bond purchases by 25 billion pounds ($39.6 billion) to
350 billion pounds, according to minutes of the Monetary Policy
Committee’s March 7-8 meeting published today. The seven
remaining members voted to keep the current target.  Bernanke, Goldman  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said  Europe  must
further strengthen its banks and that its financial and economic
situation “remains difficult” even as stresses have lessened,
according to testimony today to U.S. lawmakers.  Stocks will probably begin a “steady upward trajectory”
over the next few years as any declines in economic growth are
already reflected in share prices,  Peter Oppenheimer , chief
global equity strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London,
wrote in a report today.  Sainsbury (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket owner,
advanced 4.5 percent to 319.3 pence, gaining for a fourth day.
The company reported fourth-quarter sales growth that beat
estimates, aided by its “Taste the Difference” food range and
online delivery service.  Revenue at stores open at least a year rose 2.6 percent in
the 10 weeks to March 17, on a basis that includes value-added
tax and excludes gasoline, the London-based retailer said. The
growth outpaced the 2.2 percent median estimate of six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Debenhams Upgrade  Debenhams, the U.K.’s second-largest department-store
company, climbed 2.3 percent to 78.3 pence as Citigroup upgraded
the shares to buy.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose chip designs are used in Apple
Inc.’s iPad, added 1.5 percent to 593.5 pence. The stock was
raised to buy from hold at Peel Hunt LLP.  Imagination Technology
Group Plc (IMG) , a computer technology firm, rose 4.5 percent to 703
pence. ARM and Imagination were among picks by Peel Hunt to
benefit from the current “tech boom.”  Ladbrokes fell 2.2 percent to 152.5 pence after Osborne
said the government will introduce a machine games duty and
intends to tax gambling based on where the customer is based,
not the company. William Hill dropped 2.1 percent to 243.1
pence, a third day of losses.  Savills Plc (SVS) , a U.K. property broker, slid 2.4 percent to
373 pence as the chancellor raised the tax on home purchases of
2 million pounds or more to 7 percent from 5 percent.  APR Sinks  APR Energy (APR) , a supplier of temporary power generation,
plunged 20 percent to 884 pence. The company said in a statement
it will release 2011 results in mid-April “due to complexities
in reporting and accounting for the various corporate
transactions which have taken place during the period.”  Horizon Acquisition Co., an investment vehicle backed by
Pizza Express founder  Hugh Osmond , bought Jacksonville, Florida-
based APR Energy in June for $855 million before changing the
merged entity’s name to APR Energy Plc in August.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. fell 3 percent to 643.5
pence after the producer of metals in Kazakhstan and Africa
reported a drop in full-year profit.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , the world’s biggest maker of pumps for the
mining industry, dropped 6.2 percent to 1,859 pence for the
biggest slide in the FTSE 100 as U.S. rival Baker Hughes Inc.
said profit is likely to decline.  Logica Plc (LOG)  fell 2.4 percent to 99.05 pence after the Anglo-
Dutch computer-services provider was lowered to sell from hold
at Societe Generale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  