-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for March 16 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-03-21T14:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-march-16-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged just under 14.4 million
barrels per day during the week ending March 16, 100 thousand
barrels per day below the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 82.2 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production decreased last week, averaging nearly 8.8
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased
last week, averaging about 4.3 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 8.2 million barrels per day last
week, down by 492 thousand barrels per day from the previous
week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged
8.7 million barrels per day, 215 thousand barrels per day above
the same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline
imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 632 thousand barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 174 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) decreased by 1.2 million barrels
from the previous week. At 346.3 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are in the upper limit of the average range for this
time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by 1.2
million barrels last week and are in the upper limit of the
average range. Finished gasoline inventories increased while
blending components inventories decreased last week. Distillate
fuel inventories increased by 1.8 million barrels last week and
are in the upper limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 0.5 million
barrels last week and are above the upper limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 1.5
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged nearly 18.2 million barrels per day, down by 5.7
percent compared to the similar period last year. Over the last
four weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged about
8.4 million barrels per day, down by 7.8 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
just under 3.6 million barrels per day over the last four weeks,
down by 8.5 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel
product supplied is 1.0  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  