-- U.S. Stocks Fall as Energy Shares Drop on Profit Concern
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-21T20:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-s-stock-futures-climb-before-existing-house-sales-data.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down a second day, on concern the
best first-quarter since 1998 has outpaced economic prospects
and as Baker Hughes Inc. drove a selloff in energy shares.  Baker Hughes, the world’s third-largest oilfield-services
provider, tumbled 5.8 percent after saying that a shift away
from gas rigs will hurt earnings.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Fifth Third
Bancorp dropped at least 1.7 percent to pace losses in financial
companies.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  slumped 2.2 percent for the
biggest decline in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  The S&P 500 slipped 0.2 percent to 1,402.89 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. The Dow retreated 45.57 points, or 0.4 percent, to
13,124.62. About  6.1 billion  shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 7.9 percent below the three-month average.  “People won’t play real hard at these levels,” said
 Jeffrey Saut , chief investment strategist at Raymond James &
Associates in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , which oversees more than
$300 billion. “I don’t think you should get bearish. Yet the
market’s energy seems to be used up after the strong rally.”  The  S&P 500  has rallied 12 percent this year amid better-
than-estimated economic and corporate data. More than $3.6
trillion was restored to U.S. equity values since last year’s
low for the benchmark gauge in October. The rally drove the
index to about  14.6 times  reported earnings this week, the
highest valuation level since July.  Data today showed purchases of previously owned U.S. houses
dropped 0.9 percent to a 4.59 million annual rate from a revised
4.63 million pace in January that was faster than previously
estimated. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a rise to 4.61 million.  ‘One-Way Ride’  “The housing situation is not a quick turnaround,”  Hank Smith , chief investment officer at Haverford Trust Co. in
Radnor,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview. His firm
manages about $6.5 billion. “In addition, the stock market had
an almost one-way ride. It’s due for a pause.”  Energy shares in the S&P 500 slumped 1 percent for the
biggest decline among 10 groups.  Baker Hughes (BHI)  tumbled 5.8 percent to $45.04. North American
first-quarter profit margin will drop to as low as 13.2 percent
from 18.7 percent because of lower prices, higher costs and
supply shortages as U.S. operators shift rig locations, the
company said. Companies are drilling for oil because it’s worth
about eight times more on an energy-equivalent basis than gas on
U.S. markets, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Financials Fall  A measure of  financial shares  in the S&P 500 lost 0.4
percent for the second-biggest decline among 10 industries.
Morgan Stanley fell 1.7 percent to $20.06. Fifth Third retreated
1.8 percent to $14.24.  Hewlett-Packard slid 2.2 percent to $23.46. The company
will combine its personal-computer unit with the division that
sells printers into a group led by  Todd Bradley , who ran the PC
business, to help cut expenses amid declining sales and profit.  “Deeper issues will likely take more than management
changes,” Maynard Um, an analyst with UBS AG in New York, said
in a note to investors.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  rose 1.4 percent to
$22.02. Chief Executive Officer Liam McGee responded to
billionaire  John Paulson ’s call for a breakup with plans to shut
or sell parts of the 201-year-old insurer. Hartford will stop
selling individual annuities and seek buyers for its individual
life, Woodbury Financial Services and retirement-plan
operations.  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  surged 6.5 percent to $97.78. The biggest
professional-networking website was raised to buy from neutral
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Netflix Jumps  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  gained 4.4 percent to $120.10. The online and
mail-order video-rental service said the mystery series
“Hemlock Grove” will be available exclusively to its members
for instant viewing early in 2013.  Stocks will probably begin a “steady upward trajectory”
over the next few years because any declines in economic growth
are already reflected in share prices, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said. The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  is trading at 13.2 times estimated
earnings after falling 7.6 percent last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Given current valuations, we think it’s time to say a
‘long goodbye’ to bonds, and embrace the ‘long good buy’ for
equities as we expect them to embark on an upward trend over the
next few years,”  Peter Oppenheimer , chief global equity
strategist at Goldman Sachs in  London , wrote in a report today.  The prospects for returns in equities versus bonds “are as
good as they have been in a generation,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  