-- U.S. Intelligence Says Water Shortages Threaten Stability
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-03-22T17:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-s-intelligence-says-water-shortages-threaten-stability.html
Competition for increasingly scarce
water in the next decade will fuel instability in regions such
as South Asia and the  Middle East  that are important to U.S.
national security, according to a U.S. intelligence report.  An all-out water war is unlikely in the next 10 years, as
nations will be more likely to use water as a bargaining chip
with each other, according to the report from the  Director of
National Intelligence  released today. As shortages become more
acute, water in shared basins will increasingly be used as
leverage, and the adoption of water as a weapon by states or
terrorists will become more likely after 10 years, it found.  “These threats are real, and they do raise serious
security concerns,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in
a speech today at the State Department, which requested the
report. The study was drawn from a classified national
intelligence estimate.  The report, drafted principally by the  Defense Intelligence
Agency , reflects a growing emphasis in the U.S. intelligence
community on how environmental issues such as water shortages,
natural disasters and  climate change  may affect U.S. security
interests. It assumes no major changes in water-management
practices.  Population and economic growth are the biggest near-term
drivers of water shortages, while climate change rises as a
threat, Clinton said.  Terrorist Targets  Increased tensions over water will require the U.S. to take
a leading role in water development, she said. As nations
increase water-related projects to gain influence, vulnerable
dams, irrigation projects and reservoirs could become more
attractive targets for terrorists or military strikes, according
to the report.  Depleted groundwater for agriculture, which uses 70 percent
of water, could destabilize markets and contribute to price
swings such as those last year that sent food costs to  a record 
and created unrest in the Middle East and North  Africa , the
report’s authors said.  “Many countries important to the  United States  will
experience water problems -- shortages, poor water quality, or
floods -- that will risk instability,” the study found. “North
Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia will face major
challenges coping with water problems.”  Annual global water requirements will be 40 percent more
than current sustainable water supplies by 2030, according to a
2009 report by the 2030 Water Resources Group, a World Bank-
sponsored collaboration that included  Coca-Coca Co. (KO)  and  Nestle
SA (NESN)  among its members.  Vulnerable Basins  The report also examines seven river basins that may
present risks to U.S. security interests, ranking as
“inadequate” the management capacity of the Amu Darya in
Central Asia and Afghanistan, and the Brahmaputra, which flows
from Tibet through  India  to Bangladesh. The study defines
management capacity as the ability of nations, treaties and
organizations in an area to manage political grievances over
water.  In northern India, overuse of groundwater may limit access
to food and water for millions of people, and wells in Yemen may
run dry in a decade, Clinton said. China will also face strains
because of its rapid economic development, population growth and
reliance on the Himalaya mountains for fresh water, Maria Otero,
the State Department’s undersecretary for civilian security,
democracy and human rights, told reporters.  The intelligence report described the political stability
of the Mekong River watershed in Southeast Asia; the Tigris and
Euphrates in Turkey, Syria, Iraq and Iran; and the Nile Basin in
northern Africa as “limited.” The report rates the Indus in
South Asia and the Jordan in the Middle East as “moderate.”  The  United Nations  designates each March 22 as World Water
Day. Clinton today unveiled a new public-private U.S. Water
Partnership that includes  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  Ford Motor
Co. (F)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  