-- Volcker Says U.S. Needs Reforms in Finance, Government
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/u-s-needs-more-finance-reform-volcker-says.html
Paul Volcker , the former Federal
Reserve chairman whose name was given to a provision of the
Dodd-Frank overhaul of financial rules, called for reforms of
both government and the financial system in a speech yesterday.  Speaking at New York’s  Cooper Union , where  Abraham Lincoln 
was propelled to national prominence with a February 1860 speech,
Volcker said the U.S. faces economic and political challenges
that present a “grave threat” even if they’re mundane compared
to the strife that Lincoln confronted.  “It is not only our economic prosperity that’s in jeopardy,
but our national security and our ability to play a constructive
role in a changing world,” said Volcker, 84.  Volcker said that progress has been made toward improving
financial regulatory oversight, capital and liquidity standards
and rules for derivatives. He said more needed to be done to
regulate money market mutual funds, which he called “a new
systemic risk,” and to rebuild a private market for home
mortgages to replace the government-sponsored entities that
dominate the business.  “The reform report card still reads, ‘Promising but
definitely incomplete,’” Volcker said.  Volcker, who has served as an economic adviser to President
 Barack Obama , was an advocate for the so-called Volcker rule
that would limit banks from making speculative bets with their
own money. Some banks have criticized the regulation, saying
that it could increase risks, while governments outside the U.S.
have said it could curb their ability to raise money.  Deep Pockets  “Complexity is quite an important issue. So are
considerations of the competitive impact and the desire for
international consistency,” Volcker said. “Strong resistance
to the principles involved by affected institutions, each with
deep pockets and phalanxes of lobbyists, shouldn’t be
surprising.”  Government isn’t functioning well enough to address issues
such as tax reform and spending, Volcker said. One step in the
right direction would be to improve the method for confirming
presidential nominations, a process that he said has become
“dangerously distorted.”  He suggested establishing a common set of vetting processes
for possible appointees, a four-week limit for the relevant
Senate committee to vote on a nominee, and a four-week limit for
the full Senate to vote.  “A severely compromised appointment process is only a part
of the increasingly bitter partisanship that seems to be
poisoning our political life,” Volcker said.  Volcker, who waged a successful fight against inflation
during  his tenure  as Fed chairman from 1979 to 1987, was asked
by an audience member about the current economic outlook.  “There’s always a risk of inflation but right now it’s not
on the top of the list,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 