-- US Airways CEO Says Advisers Still Studying Merger With AMR
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-21T19:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/us-airways-ceo-says-advisers-still-studying-merger-with-amr-2-.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  Chief
Executive Officer Doug Parker said the carrier’s review of a
possible merger with American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AMR)  remains
in progress and probably won’t be resolved soon.  “We have disclosed that we have hired advisers to
investigate the American situation,” Parker told reporters
today in Phoenix. “That work continues. I suspect it will for
quite some time.”  Parker said a tie-up with American, the third-largest U.S.
airline, might be beneficial to No. 5 US Airways without being a
necessity for the smaller carrier’s survival. He confirmed
Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways’ interest in AMR in January
following that company’s Nov. 29 bankruptcy filing.  “Consolidation is no longer an industry imperative,”
Parker said. “I was, for a long time, advocating industry
consolidation. It’s happened.  US Airways  does not need to merge.
At the same time, it always could be in our best interest to do
something that would result in a bigger airline with stronger
revenue.”  Travel demand since the start of the year has been strong,
and bookings have rebounded from an unexpected slowing close to
the day of travel that occurred in February, President Scott
Kirby said at the meeting with reporters.  Shares of US Airways rose less than 1 percent to $7.75 at
3:02 p.m. in New York trading.  “The economy feels like it’s on a firmer footing,” Kirby
said. “We are cautiously optimistic.”  The outlook for the company’s performance for the full year
is uncertain because of rising fuel prices, Kirby said. Jet-fuel
for immediate delivery in New York Harbor has climbed 10 percent
to $3.29 a gallon this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  