-- Utah Governor Signs 72-Hour Abortion Waiting Period Bill
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-03-21T15:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/utah-governor-signs-72-hour-abortion-waiting-period-bill.html
Utah (BEESUT) ’s Republican Governor Gary Herbert signed legislation extending a required waiting period
for women seeking an abortion to 72 hours, one of a number of
measures to curb abortions advancing in state legislatures.  “He felt the bill appropriately allows a woman facing such
a decision time to fully weigh her options and the implications
of that decision,” the governor’s communications director, Ally Isom, said today in an interview.  Two weeks earlier, Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell approved
a new requirement that women undergo an ultrasound at least 24
hours before having an abortion. Lawmakers in  Idaho  are
considering similar legislation even as a poll by  Quinnipiac
University (78104MF)  shows the measure is unpopular in  Virginia .  Virginia (STPIVA)  voters disagree with the law by 52 to 41 percent,
according to the poll released today. Seventy-two percent said
the government shouldn’t make laws that try to persuade women
seeking an abortion to change their minds.  The poll, conducted March 13-18 among 1,034 registered
voters, also showed the Virginia legislature’s approval rating
fell to 38 percent from 47 percent on Feb. 9. McDonnell’s
approval rating fell to 53 percent from 58 percent in the
February poll.  Last year five states approved ultrasound mandates,
according to the Guttmacher Institute, a nonprofit group that
backs reproductive and abortion rights. Laws in  North Carolina 
and  Texas , which required ultrasound technicians to show images
to the woman and describe them to her, were blocked by federal
courts.  The other three measures, in Arizona, Florida and  Kansas ,
are in effect. In total 1,100 bills seeking to curb reproductive
rights were proposed in the U.S. last year, according to
Guttmacher.  To contact the reporter on this story: Heidi Przybyla in
Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  