-- Vedanta Offers $3.4 Billion for Full Control of Indian Units
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-03-22T11:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/vedanta-offers-3-4-billion-for-full-control-of-two-indian-units.html
Billionaire Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta
Group offered 170 billion rupees ($3.4 billion) to buy the
Indian government’s remaining stakes in  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ)  and
Bharat Aluminium Co., a ministry official said.  Vedanta offered 150 billion rupees for Hindustan Zinc and
20 billion rupees for Bharat Aluminium, Vishwapati Trivedi,
secretary at the  Ministry of Mines , said today in New Delhi. A
panel of bureaucrats from ministries, including law, corporate
affairs, finance and mining, met and decided to seek the advice
of a group of ministers on the proposal, he told reporters
yesterday.  Buying the stakes will give Vedanta’s Mumbai-based unit
 Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT)  control over a combined 964,000
metric tons of annual zinc and lead-producing capacity and full
ownership of a 2 million ton-a-year bauxite mine. The government
is seeking to narrow its fiscal deficit through measures
including asset sales and capping of expenses.  “This will be positive for Sterlite,” Rakesh Arora, head
of research at Macquarie Capital Securities ( India ) Pvt., said
in Mumbai. He has an outperform recommendation on Sterlite and
expects the shares to rally 59 percent in 12 months. “The cash
that Sterlite will spend will come back in the form of surplus
from Hindustan Zinc.”  Pavan Kaushik, spokesman at Hindustan Zinc, declined to
comment. Senjam Raj Sekhar, a spokesman at  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED) , didn’t respond to two calls and a text message to his
mobile phone seeking comments.  Government Stake  Vedanta is offering to buy the government’s 29.5 percent
stake in Hindustan Zinc at a 10 percent discount to the 20-day
moving average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
zinc maker has  cash and equivalents  of $3.35 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hindustan Zinc fell 1.4 percent to 128.40 rupees at the
close of trade in Mumbai, giving it a market value of $10.6
billion. Sterlite declined 1.7 percent to 113.55 rupees.  Sterlite, the nation’s biggest copper producer, owns 64.9
percent of Hindustan Zinc. The company may complete the
transaction this year, Agarwal said on Feb. 25. It bought 51
percent of Bharat Aluminium, which owns the bauxite mine, in
2001 and a majority stake in Hindustan Zinc a year later.  Lack of full control at Hindustan Zinc has undermined
decision-making at Vedanta. In 2010, Vedanta’s plan to buy  Anglo
American Plc (AAL) ’s Skorpion zinc mine in  Namibia  through Hindustan
Zinc failed after the Indian government didn’t ratify the deal.
Vedanta completed the purchase through Sterlite.  Combining Units  Agarwal is combining the group’s publicly traded Indian
units into a new company after an $8.67 billion purchase of oil
producer  Cairn India Ltd. (CAIR) , Vedanta said Feb. 25.  Sesa Goa Ltd. (SESA) ,
India’s largest iron-ore exporter, will absorb Sterlite in an
all-share deal.  Vedanta Aluminium Ltd. and Madras Aluminium Co. will also
be merged into the new company, Sesa Sterlite.  Vedanta plans to transfer debt of $5.9 billion to Sesa
Sterlite, reducing loans outstanding by 61 percent to $3.8
billion and cutting debt-service costs by $300 million for the
year ending March 31, 2013, the company said.  India’s budget deficit may widen to 5.9 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ending March, compared with a
target of 4.6 percent. Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  aims to
cut the shortfall to 5.1 percent of GDP in the next fiscal year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  