-- Verizon’s Deal With Cable May Be Truce of Rivals, Kohl Says
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-03-21T20:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/verizon-s-deal-with-cable-may-be-truce-of-rivals-kohl-says-1-.html
Verizon Wireless ’s deals to buy
airwaves from cable companies and cooperate with them may amount
to a “truce” among rivals at the expense of consumers, a
lawmaker examining the transactions said.  U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl , speaking at a hearing today, urged
regulators to ensure the arrangements don’t “reverse the
historic gains in competition between phone and cable
companies” over the past 15 years.  Verizon, the largest mobile provider in the U.S., in
December announced a deal to pay $3.6 billion for unused
airwaves from a group including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
cable provider, and No. 2  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  The companies
also agreed to market one another’s services.  The transactions would solve a critical need for more
airwaves without reducing competition, Randal Milch, general
counsel of the wireless company’s parent,  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) , said in testimony submitted to the antitrust panel
yesterday.  Opponents have said the accords would result in less
competition and higher prices.  “The fundamental question we must answer is whether these
deals will bring beneficial new choices to consumers, or amount
to previously fierce rivals standing down from competition,”
Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat and chairman of the subcommittee,
said.  ‘Encourage Innovation’  Senator  Mike Lee  of  Utah , the subcommittee’s top
Republican, said the marketing agreements “may likely be seen
as pro-competitive deals that encourage innovation” unless
contrary evidence emerges.  “Regulators must take care to make good use of spectrum
and not penalize private enterprise,” Lee said.  The  Justice Department  and Federal Communications
Commission are examining the proposal, and a similar $315
million agreement between Verizon Wireless and  Cox
Communications Inc. (COX)  Both agencies must approve the transactions
before they can close.  Today’s session carried the title, “The Verizon/Cable
Deals: Harmless Collaboration or a Threat to Competition and
Consumers?” It was held by the Judiciary Committee’s
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer
Rights.  Influence Over Agencies  Senators don’t vote on mergers. They do have influence over
the agencies that decide whether deals can go ahead. Kohl last
year urged regulators to block  AT&T Inc. (T)  from buying  T-Mobile
USA Inc. (166783Q) , and AT&T abandoned the deal after the Justice
Department sued to block it.  Verizon Wireless wants airwaves to help meet demand that’s
soaring as consumers buy more smartphones and data-hungry tablet
computers such as Apple Inc.’s iPad. Basking Ridge, New Jersey-
based Verizon Wireless is 55 percent-owned by Verizon and 45
percent-owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury, U.K.  The deal would create an “unchecked monopoly by the
nation’s largest cable and wireless companies,” the
 Communications Workers of America  and the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers said yesterday in a statement.  Verizon Communications will retain “every incentive” to
compete against cable companies with its FiOS high-speed wired
service, Milch said in his testimony. More than 85 percent of
households served by the cable companies aren’t in areas reached
by FiOS, he said.  ‘Compete Vigorously’  “No one is constrained,” Milch told senators today.
“FiOS will be selling through its channels and I assume Comcast
will continue to compete vigorously as well.”  The cable companies decided not to build wireless networks
before the agreements, and Verizon decided not to expand FiOS
before the deal, Comcast Executive Vice President  David Cohen 
said in written testimony.  Comcast talked with “virtually every other wireless
provider” before agreeing to sell airwaves to Verizon, Cohen
said today. Discussions with T-Mobile stopped before the fourth-
largest U.S. mobile carrier agreed in March 2011 to its ill-
fated merger with No. 2 AT&T, Cohen said.  The airwaves and marketing accords “aren’t contingent upon
one another,” Milch said and Cohen agreed that there’s no legal
connection between them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  