-- Vodafone Wins Return of $500 Million Indian Tax Deposit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-21T10:55:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/vodafone-wins-return-of-500-million-indian-tax-deposit.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  received a 25
billion-rupee ($500 million) deposit from the Indian government
the same day the country’s  Supreme Court  rejected a $2.2 billion
tax claim against the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator.  The payment, which had been withheld by the Indian
government ahead of the court’s ruling, was paid within four
hours of the decision yesterday, Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford said in an interview today.  “Yesterday was very encouraging, when they could have
deferred it,” Halford said at Bloomberg's offices in  London . The 
Newbury, England-based company hasn’t yet heard whether it will 
be liable to further tax claims after a planned change in the 
law, he said.  The Supreme Court yesterday reaffirmed its earlier
dismissal of the tax claim after the government last month
petitioned it to reconsider its decision. The government last
week proposed amending a law to retrospectively tax cross-border
transactions, potentially enabling the authorities to enforce
the tax claim on Vodafone’s 2007 purchase of  Hutchison Whampoa
Ltd. (13) ’s  India  operations.  The new wording of India’s Income Tax Act would apply to
transactions dating back to April 1, 1962.  Vodafone and Hutchison conducted their $10.7 billion
transaction offshore, with Vodafone’s Dutch subsidiary, Vodafone
International Holdings BV, acquiring CGP Ltd., a Cayman Islands
company controlled by Hong Kong-based Hutchison.  Indian IPO  Vodafone, which has been proceeding with plans for an
initial public offering of its Indian unit, will have to look
again at the level of investment in the country amid the renewed
uncertainty, Halford said.  In January, when the Indian Supreme Court rejected the tax
claim for the first time, analysts including Sanford C
Bernstein’s  Robin Bienenstock  said an initial public offering of
Vodafone’s local mobile-phone unit may value the business at as
much as 11.3 billion pounds ($17.9 billion).  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  last year
said that an Indian IPO could be similar to the share sale of
the company’s South African unit. Vodafone kept a 65 percent
stake in Vodacom Group Ltd. after the business was listed in
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  