-- Volkswagen Mans Up With Bug Leaving Women Behind in Sales
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-03-21T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/volkswagen-mans-up-with-bug-leaving-women-behind-in-sales.html
The VW Beetle is cute as a bug.
Unique and recognizable, it’s an icon of affordable personal
transportation. What it hasn’t been: manly.  Once intended as a ride for the common man, it had become a
model that put the driver’s masculine reputation at risk. So the
new version of the two-door was redesigned last year with a more
angular, sporty look to attract more male shoppers. TV ads show
a Beetle-driving guy getting a high-five from a beautiful woman
and a fist-bump from a tough-looking dude on a motorcycle.  Persuading men that it’s cool to drive the Beetle has been
a challenge since  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  brought it back to showrooms in
1998. Now it’s more important than ever. Volkswagen, seeking to
double U.S. sales by 2018, doesn’t want to alienate half of the
potential buyers for such an important model. The car is also a
so-called halo vehicle that attracts people who might then
purchase something else.  “Girls don’t mind driving masculine cars; I don’t think it
works the other way around,” Jessica Caldwell, an industry
analyst with Edmunds.com, said in a telephone interview. “Once
a car is labeled a chick’s car, a lot of guys don’t feel
comfortable driving it.”  The company is having some success. Since the new version
went on sale in September, 43 percent of U.S. buyers have been
men, up from 29 percent a year earlier, VW said. Marketing
efforts for the redesigned model include a tie-in with  Microsoft
Corp.’s (MSFT)  Xbox video-game console and an emphasis on the car’s
optional turbo power.  Buyer ‘Balance’  “One of the goals, obviously, was to potentially attract a
more-balanced buyer group,” Tim Mahoney, VW’s chief product and
marketing officer in the U.S., said in a telephone interview
last month. “We’re seeing that happen.”  In December, half of Beetle buyers were men, up from 36
percent a year earlier, according to Edmunds, which tracks auto
sales. The Beetle had the third-highest percentage of female
registrants in the U.S. last year, according to Edmunds. Only
VW’s Eos convertible and  Nissan Motor Co.’s (7201)  Rogue crossover were
sold more frequently to women.  VW’s aim is to increase annual sales, including the Audi
brand, to 1 million vehicles in the U.S. by 2018 from about
444,200 last year. The U.S. is a key part of the Wolfsburg,
Germany-based manufacturer’s goal to surpass  General Motors Co. (GM) 
as the world’s top-selling automaker.  Symbol of Brand  “This is a vehicle that gets a lot of attention and brings
a lot people into our showrooms,”  Jonathan Browning , head of
VW’s U.S. operations, said in an April interview after unveiling
the new design in  New York City . “This is very much a symbol of
VW, a symbol of connection with the U.S. customer, and so that’s
why I think of it as an enabler, an engine of growth.”  The redesign aimed to give the Beetle a more masculine look
with a broader, more aggressive stance. Cute features, such as a
flower vase on the dashboard, were eliminated.  It remains one of the less macho cars on the road, said
Jesse Toprak, an industry analyst with TrueCar.com.  “They’ve done some improvements in the styling of the
vehicle that made it slightly less feminine, but Beetle remains
a more feminine design,” he said. “This is not necessarily a
major problem. You don’t want to alienate your core buying group
for a particular model as long there’s a strong following.”  Michael Logue, 48, of Castle Rock,  Colorado , who works in
information management, bought a 1999 Beetle because his wife
thought it was cute, he said in an e-mail. While the new design
is more masculine, he said he’s leaning toward the VW GTI when
he buys his next car, because he prefers its styling.  Looks Customized  “The 2012 Beetle has the elongated hood, which makes it
look like it’s been customized by an after-market company,” he
said. “In addition, the interior has been redesigned to match
the rest of the  VW family . While not necessarily more masculine,
it wouldn’t put off male buyers.”  The number of men buying Beetles should remain strong as VW
adds a diesel version of the car, said Mahoney, the marketing
executive. VW said 70 percent of the so-called TDI or diesel
vehicles sold from January 2011 to February of this year went to
men.  Mahoney, who notes that he has both a daughter and a wife,
said that female buyers aren’t bad.  “We want cars that appeal to everyone,” he said. “It’s
not so much about saying we don’t want to be a girl’s car, but
it’s more about we want to be everybody’s car.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  