-- Watson Said to Be in Talks to Buy Swiss Drugmaker Actavis
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-03-21T20:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/watson-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-swiss-drugmaker-actavis.html
  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) 
is in talks to buy  Actavis Group hf , a Swiss maker of generic
drugs, for as much as 5.5 billion euros ($7.3 billion), a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  Watson made an unsolicited bid to closely held Actavis,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
discussions are confidential. There are no other suitors at the
moment and a deal may be weeks away, the person said. Watson may
pay 4.5 billion euros to 5.5 billion euros, the person said. Its
 shares jumped  the most in 3 1/2 years on the news.  Watson, which makes the authorized copy of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
cholesterol pill Lipitor, would reap “significant synergies”
in the U.S. from an Actavis acquisition and boost its presence
in  Europe , said Chris Schott, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, in
a note to clients.  “While we need additional financial details of the
potential transaction, we believe this combination has a strong
strategic rationale and would give Watson the scale it needs to
compete globally,” Schott said. He maintained his overweight
rating on the stock, meaning the company will outperform the
average of its peers during the next six to 12 months.  Watson Chief Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  said in January
the Parsippany, New Jersey-based company was interested in
buying either a generic or brand-name drugmaker. “Our appetite
for a larger transaction, it’s there,” Bisaro said at the
JPMorgan Chase & Co. health-care conference in  San Francisco .  International Reach  Bisaro said he’s also looking to expand the company’s
international reach as well as its portfolio of brand-name
drugs.  Charlie Mayr, a Watson spokesman, said the company doesn’t
comment on speculation. Frank Staud, a spokesman for Zug-based
Actavis, also declined to comment.  Watson climbed 8.8 percent to $63.69 at the close in  New
York  after earlier gaining as much as 10.1 percent, its biggest
one-day increase since October 2008. The shares have gained 16
percent in the past year.  Actavis, backed by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , overhauled its
business after billionaire owner Bjorgolfur Thor Bjorgolfsson
lost money in the financial crisis, leaving the Frankfurt-based
lender with as much as 5 billion euros of debt, people familiar
with the company said in 2009. The drugmaker  refinanced its debt 
in 2010. Deutsche Bank posted an impairment of 407 million euros
related to Actavis in the fourth quarter.  Exploring Options  Actavis Chief Executive Officer Claudio Albrecht said in an
interview last June that he was weighing taking the company
public through an initial public offering or pursuing a merger
within three years. Albrecht said he would prefer for Actavis to
be about three times its current size. He moved the company from
Iceland to Zug in May.  The generic-drug maker has about 850 products on the market
and another 350 products under development, according to its
website. It makes injectable drugs and creams as well as tablets
and capsules.  Actavis (ACT)  had about 1.9 billion euros in sales and more than
300 million euros in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization last year, said JPMorgan’s Schott,
citing a Reuters report from December. The figures “may be very
different today,” given that Actavis is restructuring its
business, he said. Watson reported  sales  of $4.58 billion last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Watson has “ample capacity” to add debt to finance the
deal and might improve its  tax rate  through a merger with the
European company, he said. Its annual  cash flow  would benefit as
well, he said.  “ We see little in the way of antitrust hurdles to
completing the deal as the companies’ European businesses have
little overlap, and overlap with the companies’ U.S. businesses
appears manageable,” Schott said.  Watson’s bid was reported by Reuters earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  