-- What Was Sony Thinking With Tablet P?: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-03-21T16:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/what-was-sony-thinking-with-tablet-p-rich-jaroslovsky.html
In technology, there’s a fine line
between innovation and eccentricity. Sony’s new Tablet P boldly
approaches the line, and then stomps all over it.  Overpriced and under-thought, the Tablet P -- which runs
the “Honeycomb” version of  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating system
-- is at least distinctive. No flat black slab here. Instead,
its rounded case houses two screens, each measuring 5.5 inches
diagonally, separated by a thick black bezel and two hinges that
allow it to fold up like a clamshell. Or maybe an eyeglass case.
Or a taco.  Folded, the Tablet P measures about seven inches long,
three inches wide and an inch thick. That makes it compact
enough to slide into a jacket pocket or purse, although at 13
ounces you won’t forget it’s there. Unfolded, each of the
screens is able to display content independently of the other if
the app you’re running supports it.  Sony (6758)  has collected about 40
of them on a special website.  Most Android apps, though, don’t take advantage of the
split screens. In those cases, the open Tablet P is the
equivalent of a seven-inch display, albeit one with a thick
black line bisecting it.  Thick Black Line  While watching movies from Sony’s online store is OK --
only one screen is used -- the hinge means that you won’t want
to use the Tablet P for watching, say, YouTube videos. Nor is
on-screen typing, for e-mail and the like, much fun either.  When the tablet is oriented horizontally, it’s a little too
wide to comfortably type with your thumbs, as you might on a
wireless phone, and a little too cramped if you set it down on a
surface and try to involve the rest of your fingers. Turned
vertically, you have to deal with that thick black hinge line
running straight down the screen.  So just what is the Tablet P good for? It isn’t an easy
question to answer.  One obvious application is gaming. The two-screen
configuration calls to mind  Nintendo (7974) ’s three-dimensional 3DS
handheld, which has a vaguely similar design and uses the lower
screen for controlling the action displayed on the upper screen.  The Tablet P, which carries the insignia indicating it’s
compatible with Sony PlayStation games, uses that set-up as well
with its pre-loaded version of the venerable “Crash
Bandicoot.”  Alas, the selection of games optimized for it via the
online PlayStation Store is extremely limited. And anyone who’s
seen “Uncharted: Golden Abyss” running on Sony’s new
PlayStation Vita handheld would take one look at the Tablet P’s
gaming experience and toss it aside.  Holding Position  Web-surfing is a little more successful. So is video-
chatting, thanks to a Sony-tweaked version of  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s Skype
service and the Tablet P’s front-facing camera. (There’s also a
five-megapixel rear camera.)  The hinge is stiff enough so the unit will remain at
whatever angle you’ve set it. The upper screen displays the
person you’re chatting with, while the lower shows you what
they’re seeing. Because the camera is offset to the right,
though, it’s sometimes hard to establish direct eye contact.  Reading e-books isn’t bad, at least using Sony’s own Reader
app; holding the tablet in portrait mode puts a page on each
screen in book-like fashion. But the Android version of
 Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s more popular Kindle app fares less well. You’ll
have to choose either to put your content on only one screen,
or, if you go the full-screen route, put up with the black bezel
running through the text.  Battery Blues  Sony claims battery life of up to seven hours in general
use, but, depending on what I was doing, I often fell short of
that. Moreover, the charge plunged even when the Tablet P was in
standby mode. I left the unit charged but unplugged a couple of
times over night and once over a weekend. When I returned to it,
the battery was dead.  You might, just might, put up with the Tablet P’s
shortcomings if it were rock-bottom priced -- if it, for
example, took aim at Amazon’s $199 Kindle Fire. But Sony and its
U.S. partner  AT&T (T)  have instead positioned the device as a
premium product, with a $400 price tag -- if you’re willing to
sign a two-year data-service contract.  If you’d prefer a month-to-month plan, the kind AT&T sells
for  Apple (AAPL) ’s iPads, the Tablet P jumps to a whopping $550. That’s
$20 more than the newly reduced price of an AT&T-connected iPad
2.  And while the Tablet P takes advantage of the souped-up 3G
network that AT&T markets as “4G,” it comes with a paltry four
gigabytes of storage for your apps and content, compared with 16
for the iPad 2.  The tablet market is filled with so many iPad wannabes that
there’s a strong temptation to award extra credit to any
manufacturer brave enough break from the pack and take risks.
But the Tablet P is so deeply flawed it leaves the user with one
inescapable question.  What were they thinking?  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 