-- Wheat Futures Decline as Rains May Improve Great Plains Crops
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-03-21T17:41:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/wheat-futures-decline-as-rains-may-improve-great-plains-crops.html
Wheat futures fell to a one-week
low on signs that rains in the U.S. Great Plains are improving
prospects for winter crops that recently emerged from dormancy.  Parts of Kansas,  Oklahoma  and  Texas  got 0.5 inch to and 4
inches (10 centimeters) of rain in the past seven days, more
than double the normal amount, and  showers  may persist tomorrow,
National Weather Service data show. Winter-wheat conditions in
all three states improved in the week ended March 18, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said this week.  “It does look like we’re seeing some pretty good rains
falling finally in some wheat areas,” Dan Kuechenmeister, the
manager of the commodities department at RBC Wealth Management
in  Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview. “The world
supply of wheat appears to be pretty hefty, with the U.S. crop
off to a decent start.”  Wheat futures for May delivery fell 0.3 percent to $6.4075
a bushel at 12:40 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade, after
touching $6.3825, the lowest since March 12. Before today, the
most-active contract was down 1.6 percent this year.  Far-western  regions  of  Kansas  and Oklahoma, as well as
eastern Colorado and  Nebraska , mostly missed out on rains in the
past week, according to the Weather Service. Much of the central
and southern Plains are still experiencing drought conditions
after below-normal rainfall in 2011, University of Nebraska at
Lincoln data show.  Spring Wheat  On the  Minneapolis Grain Exchange , spring-wheat futures for
May delivery advanced 0.4 percent to $8.0275 a bushel, on
speculation that U.S. farmers won’t boost planting this year
because corn and soybeans provide better profit potential.
Farmers start sowing all three  crops  in April and May. The USDA
will release acreage estimates on March 30.  “The big question mark is: how much will people really go
to spring wheat?”  Tom Leffler , the owner of Leffler Commodities
LLC in Augusta, Kansas, said in a telephone interview. “The
profits are more in corn and soybeans and sunflowers than they
are in wheat, so that could cut into spring-wheat acres.”  Last year, the U.S. planted 12.39 million acres of the
variety, the fewest since 1983, after excessive rains and
melting snow flooded fields.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $14.4
billion in 2011, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  