-- Widows Trailling Rivals as Outside Clients Withdraw Money
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-03-21T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/widows-trailling-rivals-as-outside-clients-withdraw-money.html
Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s asset-management arm, is
trailing U.K. competitors in attracting money from clients as it
struggles to improve fund performance.  The money-management units of insurers  Standard Life Plc (SL\) ,
 Prudential Plc (PRU)  and  Aviva Plc (AV\)  all had net inflows from third-
party customers last year, filings show. External assets managed
by  Scottish Widows  fell by 4.9 billion pounds ($7.7 billion), or
18 percent, in 2011, the company said in a Feb. 24 statement.  The decline is a setback for Chief Executive Officer Dean Buckley’s plans to boost profit by running more lucrative funds
for external clients. Over the past six months, he has added
fund managers and analysts, overhauled the firm’s property team
and named a new chief economist to help bring in business.
Lloyds decided last year against selling off the unit, which has
subsumed the Hill Samuel and Clerical Medical brands.  “We don’t use any of their funds,” said Ben Yearsley, a
financial adviser at Bristol-based Hargreaves Lansdown Plc, the
U.K.’s largest retail brokerage. “It’s a number of years since
they have had any decent funds. There’s nothing you have to go
and buy, and it’s a very competitive space out there.”  The company’s flagship equity fund, the 1.4 billion-pound
 Scottish Widows U.K. Growth Fund (TSBUKGA) , ranked 263rd of 282 competing
funds in the 12 months through March 15, according to data
compiled by Morningstar Inc. It gained 1.1 percent in the
period, versus an average increase of 7.5 percent. It ranked
257th of 279 funds in the previous 12 months, gaining 5.5
percent, compared with the average rise of 11.4 percent.  ‘Strategic Priority’  The firm’s biggest mutual fund, the 2.5 billion-pound
 Scottish Widows Corporate Bond Fund (SCWCOBI) , rose 5.4 percent in the
year to March 15, ranking 49th of 87 similar funds tracked by
Morningstar. That compared with an average increase of 5.3
percent. In the previous 12 months it ranked 57th of 81 funds,
returning 5.1 percent compared with the average of 5.9 percent.  Spokeswomen for Scottish Widows declined to make Buckley
available for interview for this story.  Kevin Brown , a spokesman
for London-based Lloyds, declined to comment.  “Growing our external business continues to be a key
strategic priority for us as we progress through 2012,”
Scottish Widows said in an e-mailed statement last week. “We
are well-positioned to deliver on our plans for future growth
and we are confident in our ability to build on our existing
third-party funds under management.” Two new clients added
funds in the first quarter, the firm said, again declining to
identify them.  Scottish Widows said in January it hired Geoff Hepburn from
a closely held property company in  England  in addition to six
internal promotions in the real-estate team. The same month it
appointed Lucy O’Carroll as chief economist, bringing her from
within the Lloyds group.  Unidentified Client  Scottish Widows now oversees less for outside clients
relative to its total funds under management than its four
competitors, data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm, the bulk of
whose assets come from 200-year-old life insurer Scottish
Widows, posted net outflows of third-party assets for the past
two years while its rivals all took in money from clients in
both years.  Most of the outflow was due to one institutional investor
pulling 2.7 billion pounds, the firm said in a statement on Feb.
24. It didn’t disclose the identity of the client. Pretax profit
at the unit still rose 13 percent to 99 million pounds, the
company said.  Lloyds has transferred all its fund management assets to
the Edinburgh-based firm since buying parent Scottish Widows in
1999, scrapping other brands including Hill Samuel, Clerical
Medical and Insight. The bank affirmed last year that Scottish
Widows is a central part of its strategy. There are no signs
that will change, said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Ltd..  ‘Very Surprising’  “Regardless of performance, I don’t expect there to be any
fundamental change,” Gordon, who has a buy rating on Lloyds,
said in an interview. “It would be very surprising if it was a
candidate for disposal.”  Of the four largest companies disclosing client fund flows,
Aviva Investors pulled in the most new money from outside
customers in the year, filings show. The London-based firm
attracted 5.2 billion pounds compared with 4.4 billion pounds at
Prudential’s M&G unit and 4.3 billion pounds at Standard Life
Investments.  Following is a table of assets under management, the
proportion of those invested for external clients and the level
of net inflows during 2011, based on company reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  