-- Women at Top Can Snap Japan Company Culture, Berlitz Says
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-03-22T07:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/women-on-top-can-snap-japan-company-culture-berlitz-says.html
At her first job in  Tokyo  in the
1970s, Yukako Uchinaga hid in the ladies’ room every day at 8
p.m. while an inspector made sure all female employees had gone
home. Then she came out and put in more hours.  “My boss used to say, ‘I don’t want to be put in jail,’”
said Uchinaga,  Berlitz Corp. ’s chief executive officer,
referring to a labor law that capped women’s overtime at two
hours a day. “I complained it was unfair, like being in a 100-
meter race with my hands and feet tied while all my male
colleagues ran freely.”  Four decades after Uchinaga played hide and seek with the
now-defunct law as an  International Business Machines Corp.
systems engineer , women occupy just 1 in 70 management positions
at Japanese companies. Promoting  women  would help companies be
more diverse and break the “salaryman monoculture” that
hinders change and growth, she said.  “Diversity is the key initiative needed in  Japan ,”
Uchinaga, 65, said in an interview. “Making better use of
Japan’s female talents, who are educated and trained in the same
way as men, should be the first step to promoting diversity.”  Companies must change as the world evolves, Uchinaga said
Feb. 29 in Tokyo. Princeton, New Jersey-based Berlitz, which
manages 565 learning centers worldwide, is responding to
clients’ needs by adding business training to its language
courses, she said.  Overseas Programs  Berlitz offers leadership training programs for executives
in Japan, the U.S., Germany and  France , and is expanding the
business to China, Brazil,  Mexico ,  Spain ,  Belgium  and  Colombia ,
Uchinaga said. Its flagship business program takes executives to
China and  Brazil  to teach them macroeconomics, supply-chain
management and politics.  Berlitz, which sold control to Okayama, Japan-based  Benesse
Holdings Inc. (9783)  in 1993, is targeting a sales expansion to $1
billion by the middle of this decade, from $563 million in 2010,
Uchinaga said. Revenue at the school rose 21 percent to $320
million in the first half ended June 30.  Benesse (9783)  rose 3.6 percent to 4,045 yen at the close in Osaka
trading, the highest level since July 8, 2010. The company,
whose key products include online shopping sites and magazines
for pregnant women and mothers, is scheduled to report 2011
earnings in May.  Sony, Nissan  Uchinaga sits on the boards of Benesse and  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
is an external auditor at Sompo Japan Insurance Inc. She is also
chairman of the  Japan Women’s Innovative Network , a Tokyo-based
nonprofit group that researches and advises on diversity
management, helping members such as  Nissan Motor Co.  advance
women’s roles at their companies.  The executive joined  IBM’s Japan unit  in 1971 after
graduating with a degree in theoretical physics from the
 University of Tokyo . She became the  first female board member  at
IBM Japan in 1995 and was promoted to general manager for Asia-
Pacific technical operations in 2004 before heading Berlitz in
2008, according to her  biography .  Uchinaga said she was inspired at IBM Japan by Louis Gerstner Jr. The former IBM CEO revived the U.S. computer maker
after three straight years of  losses  through 1993, helped by a
strategy of diversification.  IBM was a company with a monoculture, Uchinaga said. Its
core management was comprised predominantly of white males, and
it had been hugely successful as a business.  Stifling Environment  “Innovations cannot be born in such an environment,” she
said.  IBM expanded its minority markets dramatically by promoting
diversity in its workforce, David A. Thomas said in the Harvard
Business Review. By deliberately seeking ways to reach a broader
range of customers, the company saw significant results in its
bottom line, Thomson  wrote  in 2004, citing Gerstner.  Harnessing women is vital for Japan’s flagging economy,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Narrowing the nation’s
gender employment gap can boost gross domestic product by as
much as 15 percent, based on a 2010 estimate by Goldman Sachs.  “With decreasing population leading to a potentially
slowing economy, Japan has no choice but to leverage half its
population more fully,” Kathy Matsui, a strategist at Goldman
Sachs in Tokyo, said in an interview. “Unless Japan does that,
it’s like running a marathon with just one leg.”  Smaller Population  Japan’s economy shrank 0.7 percent in 2011, the first
contraction in two years. Its  population  has been declining
since 2006 and will reach an estimated 125.2 million by 2014,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  World Economic Forum ’s  Global Gender Gap Report 2011 ,
tracking measures such as income and education, ranked Japan
98th among 135 countries, behind  China ,  Zimbabwe  and  Tajikistan .
Iceland topped the list, while the U.S. was 17th.  Listed companies in Japan had 40,493 executives in
management as of July last year, according to an annual  survey 
by Toyo Keizai Inc., a Tokyo-based researcher on economics and
business. Among them, 585, or 1.4 percent, were women, the
survey said.  Japan wants to increase the proportion of women in
leadership roles at companies and public offices to 30 percent
by 2020, according to a  Cabinet paper  in June 2011.  The most common reason companies give for not having more
female managers is a failure to meet promotion criteria, such as
recommendations from superiors, the  Japan Institute for Labour
Policy and Training  said last year. Of the 53 companies in the
ministry’s survey, 89 percent didn’t provide reasons for not
promoting women.  Nomura, Panasonic  A lack of childcare support and inadequate attention to
employee diversity in the private sector are among the obstacles
to female employment in the nation, Matsui said.  Even after Japan enacted the Equal Employment Opportunity
Law in 1986, overtime for women was restricted until the Labor
Standards Act was  revised  in 1997.  Sony appointed Uchinaga a board member because of her
expertise in  information technology  and because it values her
advice on diversity management, said  Shinji Obana , a spokesman
at Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics.  Tokyo-based Sony has had female board members since 2003.
By comparison,  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , Japan’s largest securities
firm, and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the nation’s biggest maker of home
appliances, were among companies that appointed their first
female executives in the past year amid worsening earnings.  Japanese executives are starting to recognize the
importance of women in the workforce, Uchinaga said.  “Women will continue to raise their profile in the
corporate world,” she said. “We’re still at an early stage of
the whole process, but the trend can’t be stopped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  