-- Myanmar Leader Targets Vietnam Trade in Trip Across Region
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-21T04:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/myanmar-leader-targets-vietnam-trade-in-trip-across-region-1-.html
Myanmar President  Thein Sein 
pledged to boost trade with  Vietnam  as he travels through
 Southeast Asia  after agreeing to allow observers from the region
to monitor April 1 by-elections.  Thein Sein met in Hanoi yesterday with senior Communist
party officials, including Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung, on a
trip that will also feature stops in Cambodia and Laos. The two
countries aim to boost two-way trade to $500 million by 2015 and
strengthen ties on security, agriculture and tourism, according
to a statement on the Vietnamese government website.  Thein Sein’s two-day visit “significantly helps reinforce
and boosts bilateral relations between the two countries,”
according to a statement on Vietnam’s Ministry of Foreign
Affairs’s website citing President Truong Tan Sang. The two
nations agreed on the importance of maintaining peace in the
 South China Sea , according to the statement, highlighting an
area where Vietnam has territorial disputes with  China .  Myanmar has leveraged support from the 10-member
Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a grouping with about
600 million people, to press the U.S. and  Europe  to lift
sanctions. The former military dictatorship, which will chair
Asean for the first time in 2014, yesterday invited teams from
the bloc to observe by-elections on April 1 in which former
political prisoner Aung San Suu Kyi will participate.  The U.S. sees the special elections for 48 seats as a
“critical moment” as it considers lifting trade and financial
restrictions imposed on Myanmar for the past two decades,
special envoy  Derek Mitchell  told reporters in Yangon on March
15. Asean foreign ministers in January  reiterated  a call for
Western countries to lift sanctions against Myanmar.  Oil and Gas  Vietnam is not listed among Myanmar’s top trading partners
in data compiled by its Central Statistical Organization. In
2008, Vietnam accounted for $20 million of the nearly $1 billion
Myanmar received in foreign investment, the statistics show.  That year, Myanmar signed a contract with Vietnam Oil & Gas
Group, known as PetroVietnam, to explore offshore block M-2.
Under the contract, PetroVietnam Exploration and Production
Corp. holds 45 percent, Vietnam’s Vietsovpetro holds 40 percent
and Myanmar’s Eden group holds 15 percent, according to the
 Myanmar Times .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  