-- YPF to Use 91% of Profit to Issue New Shares, Official Says
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-03-21T18:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/ypf-to-use-91-of-profit-to-issue-new-shares-official-says-1-.html
YPF SA (YPF) , Argentina’s biggest energy
company, proposes using 91 percent of 2011 profit to issue new
shares instead of dividends as the government seeks to increase
control of the company. YPF American depositary receipts surged
on the announcement.  The  board  of Buenos Aires-based YPF dismissed a government
proposal to reinvest profits to increase output and instead
decided to capitalize the company, Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof told reporters today following the meeting. Kicillof
participated in the meeting with Roberto Baratta, the
government’s representative on the board.  The decision comes after YPF delayed using profit to pay
dividends at a March 8 board meeting when Baratta recommended
the cash instead be invested.  Argentina ’s Cabinet Chief Juan
Manuel Abal Medina yesterday said the government won’t consider
nationalizing the company, after three provinces last week
withdrew oil field operating licenses from the company for
underinvesting.  YPF’s American depositary receipts soared as much as 12
percent to $30.67 after the share plan was revealed and traded
at $30.60 at 1:45 p.m. in New York.  YPF is  controlled by Repsol YPF SA , Spain’s largest energy
company, which owns a 57.4 percent stake. Argentina’s Grupo
Petersen owns another 25.6 percent and operates the unit. Under
the terms of the sale through which Petersen bought its stake in
2008 from Repsol, YPF distributes 90 percent of annual net
income in dividends in semi-annual payments.  Repsol Chairman  Antonio Brufau  attended today’s YPF meeting
in  Buenos Aires . YPF shareholders will vote on the shares
proposal at a general meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  