-- Yuan Forwards Drop a Second Day as China’s Growth Seen Slowing
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-03-21T08:48:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/yuan-falls-most-in-one-week-on-speculation-china-will-slow-gains.html
Yuan forwards fell for a second day
on speculation  China  will slow currency appreciation to protect
exporters and support economic growth.  The yuan has lost 0.3 percent since Premier Wen Jiabao said
on March 5 the nation will target an expansion of 7.5 percent
this year, compared with an earlier 8 percent goal that in place
since 2005. The People’s Bank of China set the yuan’s  reference
rate  0.1 percent lower at 6.3092 per dollar today, weakening it
for the first time in four days.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said yesterday China’s steel production
is slowing, while a U.S. report showed housing starts fell in
February from a three-year high.  “The yuan will stay sluggish in the first quarter as
economic fundamentals are weak,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-
based economist at CCB International Securities Ltd., a unit of
China’s second-largest bank. “I expect economic data to improve
from the second quarter, which will boost demand for the
currency.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards dropped 0.05 percent
to 6.3387 per dollar as of 4:34 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts are at a 0.25 percent
discount to the onshore rate in  Shanghai . One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, was little changed at 2.45 percent.  The yuan closed at 6.3229 per dollar in Shanghai, from
yesterday’s 6.3241, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing. In Hong Kong’s offshore market,
the yuan gained 0.11 percent to 6.3233.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said yesterday
in  Washington  that China has “some way to go” in letting the
yuan rise. “By most measures, the Chinese currency is still
undervalued relative to the dollar and the currencies of  Europe 
and Japan and other trading partners,” Geithner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  