-- Zynga Said to Pay $200 Million for ‘Draw Something’ Creator
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-03-21T20:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-21/zynga-is-said-to-pay-200-million-for-draw-something-creator.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  agreed to acquire OMGPOP
Inc., adding the popular application “Draw Something” to its
portfolio of games played on  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Apple Inc.
iPhones.  Zynga will pay about $200 million for the startup, said a
person familiar with deal, who asked not to be identified
because the terms weren’t made public. OMGPOP will remain
headquartered in  New York , the companies said in a statement,
which didn’t disclose the purchase’s financial terms.  The biggest maker of social games is stepping up spending
on acquisitions after paying a combined $147.2 million for 22
companies in 2010 and 2011. Zynga, which raised $1 billion in a
December initial public offering, aims to lessen its reliance on
Facebook, accounting for more than 90 percent of its sales.  “They have done a lot of acquisitions of small game
companies along the way,” said Brian Blau, research director at
Gartner Inc. “Most of those acquisitions were for talent rather
than titles. This is a case where they are buying a title”
already popular with users, he said.  OMGPOP’s “Draw Something,” a game where users take turns
guessing what their friends draw, has 22.4 million monthly users
on  Facebook , according to the website AppData. A mobile version
for iPhones and iPads released in February is currently the most
popular program in Apple’s  App Store .  Adam Isserlis, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
declined to comment on the price of the acquisition.  Facebook takes a 30 percent cut of virtual goods sold in
Zynga’s games. Earlier this month, Zynga took the wraps off of
Zynga.com, a game-playing hub separate from the social network.  In 2010, Zynga acquired Newtoy Inc., the developer of the
mobile application “Words With Friends,” for $53.3 million,
according to a company filing.  Zynga shares rose 2.5 percent to $13.72 at the close in New
York. The stock has climbed 46 percent this year.  Technology blog TechCrunch  reported  earlier this week that
Zynga could pay between $150 million and $250 million to acquire
OMGPOP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  