-- 
Anil Ambani Group Says Indian Investigators Examined Officials

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 
2011-02-12T07:01:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/anil-ambani-group-says-indian-investigators-examined-officials.html
  Anil Ambani ’s group said Indian
federal investigators examined some of its officials, hours
after reporting it knows the brokers who spread “sensational
charges” that caused a $2.6 billion loss in value Feb. 9.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  “is reportedly
examining a large number of telecom companies and their
officials over the past several weeks, in relation to various
matters relating to the years 2001 to 2008,” Reliance ADA Group
said in an e-mailed statement today, without elaborating. “As
part of this process, CBI has also examined a few officials of
Reliance ADA Group.”  The group, which has power, mobile-phone and infrastructure
businesses, said yesterday brokers sent e-mails,  text messages 
and made telephone calls disseminating “baseless” accusations
about its firms and sought an investigation by India’s capital-
markets regulator. The group’s flagship,  Reliance Communications
Ltd ., plunged 15 percent this week, as analysts predicted the
company will post a sixth straight drop in profit on Monday.  “Earnings are immaterial now,” said Jigar Shah, an
analyst with Kim Eng Securities India Pvt. in Mumbai who has a
“sell” rating on the shares. “What is critical is how they
are able to reduce debt levels.”  Reliance Communications fell as much as 7.1 percent
yesterday to 89.70 rupees, the lowest level since trading began
March 7, 2006, as investors are concerned lower profit will
constrain the ability of India’s most indebted mobile-phone
operator to cut loans. It rose 0.6 percent at close of trading.  Worst Performer  The mobile-phone company is the worst-performing stock in
India’s benchmark index this year. Billionaire Ambani’s  Reliance
Infrastructure Ltd . is the second-worst.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index is the world’s
worst-performing benchmark gauge apart from  Egypt  this year. The
Sensex rose 1.5 percent yesterday.  Indian investigators are probing telecommunication
companies after a government panel said Feb. 4 that the
Department of Telecommunications failed to follow guidelines
while allocating mobile-phone airwaves. The Comptroller &
Auditor General of India said in November airwaves were sold for
an “unbelievably low” $2.7 billion.  Reliance Communications’ net income may fall 66 percent to
3.7 billion rupees ($81 million) in the third quarter, according
to the average of 25 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The company reports Feb. 14.  Debt Burden  The company’s net debt increased more than eight-fold to
about 292 billion rupees as of Sept. 30 from 33.7 billion rupees
at the end of September 2007, according to its quarterly
reports. The operator will cut investment in capacity expansion
as it aims to become debt free in three years, Ambani said last
year.  Ambani’s companies plunged Feb. 9, after which the group
said “vicious and illegal” rumors sparked a sell-off.  The company,  India ’s second-biggest mobile-phone operator,
was in talks to sell a stake or do an initial public offering of
its mobile-phone tower unit after negotiations to sell it to GTL
Infrastructure Ltd. collapsed Aug. 31.  The board also approved a separate plan to sell a 26
percent stake in itself at an “appropriate” premium to the
market price, to a strategic buyer or a private equity firm, the
company said in an e-mailed statement June 6.  “There have been so many attempts by the company to dilute
equity and raise some capital, but nothing has materialized,”
said Yogesh Kirve, an analyst at Anand Rathi Financial Services
Ltd. in Mumbai. He has a “sell” rating on the shares.  Wireless Spectrum  Reliance Communications is trying to reduce debt after it
and rivals  Bharti Airtel Ltd . and Vodafone Essar Ltd. spent a
combined $15 billion buying third-generation wireless spectrum
in India, where call rates are as cheap as a half-penny a
minute.  Reliance’s average revenue per user, a key measure of
performance in the mobile-phone industry, dropped 38 percent in
the second quarter.  Call rates have plunged in India since 2009 as new entrants
including Japan’s NTT DoCoMo Inc. and  Norway ’s  Telenor ASA 
triggered a tariff war. More than a dozen operators are
competing in India, which had 730 million mobile-phone accounts
as of November, making it the world’s biggest market after  China .  Nineteen of the 44 analysts tracked by Bloomberg recommend
selling Reliance Communications, 14 recommend holding and 11
recommend buying.  Ambani blamed rumors for the Feb. 9 plunges in shares of
his group’s telecoms, power and infrastructure companies.  ‘Unscrupulous’ Rivals  “A series of completely baseless and motivated rumors have
been spread by our unscrupulous corporate rivals,” Reliance ADA
Group said then. “This has been accompanied by vicious and
illegal bear hammering of our listed stocks, to create panic and
destabilize the markets.”  Ambani’s wealth has diminished along with the drop in the
group’s market value, according to estimates by Forbes magazine.
In 2010, his net worth was less than half of his older brother
Mukesh, who ForbesAsia said was worth $27 billion. Anil Ambani’s
worth was estimated to be $13.3 billion.  The decline started in 2008, when Anil Ambani’s net worth
fell by $32 billion, the magazine  estimated  in its annual
listing of the world’s wealthiest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  