-- 
Barclays Said to Cut Bonuses at Investment Banking Unit by 15%

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-02-12T12:36:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/barclays-said-to-reduce-bonuses-at-its-investment-banking-division-by-15-.html
  Barclays Plc , Britain’s third-
largest bank, reduced bonuses for employees of its investment-
banking unit,  Barclays Capital , by about 15 percent on average,
according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  Investment bankers, traders and analysts at the London-
based company were informed of their 2010 awards yesterday, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
information hasn’t been made public. The firm allocated 2.7
billion pounds ($4.32 billion) for the payouts last year.  Compensation for managing directors will be paid 50 percent
in cash and 50 percent in stock that vests over three years, one
of the people said.  At the end of the third quarter, Barclays allocated 2.2
billion pounds ($3.5 billion) for bonuses. Earlier this week,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  announced an
agreement with Britain’s biggest banks, including Barclays,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc ,  HSBC Holdings Plc  and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, that they would pay lower bonuses and boost
lending. RBS, the U.K.’s biggest taxpayer-owned lender, cut the
amount it set aside for bonuses at its investment banking unit
by 27 percent to less than 950 million pounds, the Edinburgh-
based lender said on Feb. 9.    Mark Lane , a New York-based spokesman for Barclays,
declined to comment and said the final bonus pool allocation
will be made public when annual earnings are disclosed.  Barclays will be the first of Britain’s five biggest banks
to report results on Feb. 15. The company may say pretax profit
excluding asset sales rose to 5.7 billion pounds from 5.3
billion pounds in 2009, helped by a decline in writedowns at its
investment-banking unit, according to the median estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans in London at  at
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  