-- 
Bundesbank's Weber Says Lack of `Acceptance' for Views Led to Resignation

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-02-12T15:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/bundesbank-s-weber-says-lack-of-acceptance-for-views-led-to-resignation.html
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said
a lack of “acceptance” among euro-area leaders for his views
on monetary policy caused him to give up on becoming the next
chief of the  European Central Bank ,  Der Spiegel  reported.  Weber, who resigned yesterday, said his decision not to aim
to replace  Jean-Claude Trichet  as ECB president started forming
last May, fueled by misgivings from “several governments” over
his opposition to the ECB’s program of buying  government bonds .  “The president is in an exceptional position,” Weber said
in an interview with the German magazine published today. “But
if he represents a minority opinion on important matters, then
the credibility of his office suffers.” Bundesbank spokesman
Benedikt Fehr confirmed Weber’s remarks by telephone.  The loss of the front-runner for the ECB’s top job leaves
European leaders balancing whether to reward policy experience
or protect national interest in picking  Europe ’s main monetary
official. Weber said “it’s not so important” what nationality
the next ECB chief has, though he called for Trichet’s successor
to be “credible” and embody a “stability culture.”  Weber, in his first public comments on the circumstances of
his resignation, said the “clear positions” he adopted over
the past year, for instance his opposition to the ECB’s
purchasing of sovereign assets, reduced support in government
circles for his promotion to ECB president.  ‘Conviction Formed’  “These stances may not have always helped my acceptance to
several governments,” the central banker said. “Therefore,
I’ve been aware since last May that a potential candidacy would
be impaired by this. It was this period during which my
conviction formed not to pursue this important office.”  The departing Bundesbank chief hailed Jens Weidmann, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s top economic adviser and one of his
former students, as an “absolute professional.” Weidmann is a
leading candidate to replace Weber at the helm of the Frankfurt-
based German central bank, Bild newspaper reported Feb. 9,
citing unidentified government and central bank officials.  “Weidmann is an excellent economist,” Weber said. “He
would from the first day live the contents of his new position
in every office.”  Weber said his “principal concerns” about the ECB’s bond-
buying program haven’t abated, though the volume of funds the
bank is lending to governments is “still controllable.” Weber
said the ECB won’t let up in its fight against inflation even
after he leaves the Bundesbank on April 30.  ‘No Doubt’  “The ECB council vehemently stands up for a stability-
oriented monetary policy and I have no doubt that the stability
orientation of the ECB and Bundesbank will persist also under my
successor,” Weber said.  Following his departure from central banking, Weber will
return to his professorship at Cologne University, spokesman
Fehr said. Weber was put on leave by the university for the
seven years he ran  Germany ’s central bank and he will resume his
academic duties by the end of this year.  In the Spiegel interview, Weber declined to comment on
reports in German media outlets including Die Welt saying he
might succeed  Josef Ackermann  as chief executive officer of
Deutsche Bank AG, the country’s largest commercial bank.  “For as long as I am in office, I’m having no talks about
my future career,” he said. “With no one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net . 