-- 
Canadian Currency Strengthens as Trade Surplus Buoys Interest-Rate Outlook

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-02-12T05:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/canadian-dollar-gains-as-trade-surplus-buoys-boc-rate-outlook.html
The Canadian dollar rose against
most of its major counterparts as an unexpected  trade surplus  in
December encouraged speculation the  Bank of Canada  will raise
borrowing costs sooner than other central banks.  The loonie advanced for a second week versus the yen in the
longest stretch of gains since November as the Egyptian
political turmoil that led President  Hosni Mubarak  to resign
spurred demand for North American assets. Canada’s currency
erased its weekly drop versus the greenback before next week’s
report on inflation as the nation posted its first trade surplus
in 10 months while the U.S. trade deficit widened.  “One of the reasons the Bank of Canada was cautious on
raising rates was the trade deficit, but that doesn’t appear to
be the case anymore with a huge surge in December,” said Blake Jespersen, director of institutional foreign-exchange sales at
Bank of Montreal in Toronto. “You take away that deficit and
you look at the Canadian dollar fairly stable at par and you
have the market starting to price in a hike a little sooner.”  The Canadian currency advanced 1.5 percent to 84.49 yen
yesterday, from 83.24 on Feb. 4. The loonie was little changed
at 98.74 cents against the  U.S. dollar , compared with 98.73
cents. The Canadian dollar has traded stronger than parity with
the greenback since Feb. 1.  Credit market prices show investors may be anticipating
high Canadian borrowing costs. The yield yesterday on the
September 2011 bankers’ acceptances contract was 1.77 percent,
compared with 1.59 percent on Jan. 31.  BOC Rate View  Swaps traders bet the Bank of Canada will raise its target
lending rate by 0.83 percentage point over 12 months, up from
0.60 percentage point on Jan. 31, according to a Credit Suisse
Group AG index.  The Bank of Canada has left its benchmark interest rate at
1 percent since boosting it for a third consecutive meeting in
September. BOC Governor  Mark Carney  said at the December meeting
exporters need to regain competitiveness damaged by a rising
currency and a global recession by making new investments to
boost productivity.  “The trade surplus is welcome news for the Bank of Canada
because we’ve seen a rise in real exports,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New
York. “We do believe the pause in the Bank of Canada’s
tightening cycle is likely to be temporary.”  The C$3 billion ($3 billion) trade surplus in December
followed a revised November deficit of C$115 million as energy
and metals powered the biggest jump in exports in almost three
decades, Statistics Canada said yesterday in Ottawa. The median
forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
deficit of C$300 million.  U.S. Trade Deficit  America’s trade deficit increased in December as the cost
of imported oil climbed to the highest level in two years. The
gap grew 5.9 percent to $40.6 billion, in line with the $40.5
billion median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, the Commerce Department reported in  Washington .  Canadian 10-year  government bonds  were little changed, with
the yield up one basis point to 3.47 percent after touching 3.50
percent this week, the highest level since May 18. The price of
the 3.5 percent security maturing in June 2020 dropped 9 cents
to C$100.25.    Canada ’s dollar rose against the euro for a second week as
Egyptian turmoil fueled demand for relative safety. The loonie
appreciated 0.2 percent to C$1.3386 versus the euro, from
C$1.3410, after touching C$1.3361 yesterday, the strongest level
since Feb. 7.  Crude Oil Falls  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, tumbled 3.9
percent to $85.58 a barrel in the biggest weekly drop since
November as Mubarak’s resignation reduced concern shipments from
the Mideast would be disrupted.  The loonie was supported by evidence this week of economic
recovery in Canada and the U.S., the nation’s biggest trading
partner.  U.S. first-time claims for  unemployment insurance  fell to
the lowest level since July 2008 last week, the Labor Department
said after reporting on Feb. 4 that the  unemployment rate 
dropped to the 21-month low of 9 percent.  Canada’s new home price index rose 0.1 percent in December
after a 0.3 percent gain in the prior month,  Statistics Canada 
said Feb. 10. The annual rate of inflation held at 2.4 percent
in January, according to the median forecast of 19 economists in
a Bloomberg News survey before the Feb. 18 report.  “Over the past several weeks the Canadian dollar itself is
trading more as a North American currency,” said  Jack Spitz ,
managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada 
in Toronto.  The extra yield investors get for holding 10-year U.S.
Treasuries instead of Canadian debt narrowed to 16 basis points,
from 18 basis points on Feb. 4, making assets denominated in the
loonie more attractive to international investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  