-- 
China Says Panel Will Begin Scrutinizing Acquisitions by Foreign Companies

-- B y   E v a   W o o   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-02-12T20:22:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/china-to-set-up-committee-for-national-security-takeover-reviews.html
  China  plans to create a ministerial
panel to review takeovers of local companies by foreign
investors.  The panel will be led by the National Development and
Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce and will be
overseen by the State Council, according to a statement
published today on the council’s website.  Coming under scrutiny will be acquisitions involving
military industrial companies and others relating to national
defense, the statement said. It also will look at takeovers
involving producers of agricultural goods, energy and natural
resources, as well as companies in some parts of the
infrastructure and transportation-services industries.  “Now foreign-funded M&A in China would be subject to
review by a state-level investment-review authority and can be
blocked on the ground of endangering national security, which
may not be received favorably by international investors,” said
Hubert Tse, a Shanghai-based partner at law firm Boss & Young.  Takeovers of companies in  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China,
surged almost 80 percent last year and account for a record 22
percent of the $2.23 trillion of transactions worldwide,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Acquirers from BRIC
nations announced $402 billion of takeovers, a
74 percent increase from 2009 and more than quadruple five years
earlier, the data show.  In 2011, China has accounted for 278 transactions valued at
$9.1 billion, compared with $19.6 billion for the Asia-Pacific
region and $229.4 billion globally, according to Bloomberg data.  In 2009, the Chinese government blocked Coca-Cola Co.’s
planned purchase of  China Huiyuan Juice Group Ltd ., which would
have been the biggest foreign takeover of a Chinese company. The
commerce ministry said competition would have been hurt by Coca-
Cola’s control over China’s juice and beverage market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva Woo in Beijing at   ewoo9@bloomberg.net ;  Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  