-- 
Dollar Advances as Egyptian Turmoil, European Debt Stoke Demand for Safety

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-02-12T05:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/dollar-advances-as-egypt-european-debt-stoke-demand-for-safety.html
The dollar rose against most of its
major counterparts as turmoil in  Egypt  and concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis may worsen fueled investor appetite for safety of
U.S. assets.  The greenback gained for a third week against the euro amid
speculation Portugal’s funding costs are becoming unsustainable
and as Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down yesterday
and handed power to the military. Job data in the U.S. helped
boost appetite for the currency. U.S. retail sales increased for
a seventh month in January, a report next week may show.  “The dollar’s rally was built on safe-haven flows amid
unrest in Egypt and renewed concern about Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington 
at Travelex Global Business Payments, a currency-exchange
network. “The other factor that really supported the dollar was
positive U.S. data.”  The dollar appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3554 per euro in
New York, from $1.3581 on Feb. 4. It touched $1.3497, the
strongest level since Jan. 21. The U.S. currency advanced 1.5
percent, the most in five weeks, to 83.43 yen, from 82.18. The
euro rose 1.3 percent to 113.06 yen, from 111.62 yen.  Mubarak bowed to the demands of protesters who occupied
central Cairo for 18 days demanding an end to his 30-year rule.
The protests, inspired by the revolt that ousted Tunisian
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14, sparked concern
that tension would spread in a region that holds more than 50
percent of the world’s known oil reserves.  Portuguese Debt  Speculation increased that  Portugal  will have to follow
Ireland in tapping the European Financial Stability Facility if
yields on its 10-year bonds remain above 7 percent, helping
drive the euro to the three-week low against the greenback.  Yields on 10-year Portuguese debt climbed on Feb. 10 to
7.64 percent, the highest level since the introduction of the
euro in 1999. They traded yesterday at 7.31 percent.  “All of the usual things are overhanging the euro from a
sovereign-risk standpoint -- it’s not as if anything has moved
in a euro-positive direction,” said  Alan Ruskin , New York-based
global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG.  The 17-nation currency also fell after a German government
spokesman said yesterday Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  will
leave office on April 30. A successor will be named over the
next week, the spokesman said.  The move took Weber, 53, out of the race to succeed Jean- Claude Trichet as president of the  European Central Bank  when
Trichet’s term expires on Oct. 31. The ECB has held interest
rates at 1 percent since May 2009 to support economic growth.  Injects Uncertainty  “It injects some uncertainty into the market,” said  Robert Lynch , head of currency strategy for HSBC Holdings Plc in
New York. Weber “is a known entity, and he’s considered
hawkish.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, increased 0.5 percent to 78.440 in its first weekly
rally since Jan. 7. It touched 78.697 yesterday, the highest
level since Jan. 21.  “The reason we’re seeing a decent-sized move like this is
because the outlook in the U.S. is better,” said Jens Nordvig,
a managing director of currency research in  New York  at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  U.S. Jobless Claims  The dollar rose on Feb. 10 for the first time in four days
versus the euro after U.S. initial claims for jobless benefits
fell last week to the lowest level since July 2008. They dropped
by 36,000, more than forecast, to 383,000, Labor Department
figures showed.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment rose to 75.1, the highest level
since June. The data were released yesterday.  U.S. retail sales increased 0.5 percent in January,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Commerce Department reports the data Feb. 15. Orders
and sales at factories in the New York region climbed last
month, economists in a separate survey forecast before a Federal
Reserve Bank of New York report is released the same day.  “We’re really pricing in a Fed exit from zero interest
rates in the next year,” Nomura’s Nordvig said.  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate at zero to
0.25 percent since December 2008. Analysts forecast the central
bank will raise rates to 0.5 percent by year-end, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  Canadian Dollar  Canada’s dollar rose versus 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as an unexpected  trade surplus  stoked speculation
the Bank of  Canada  will raise interest rates sooner than its
peers. The key rate is 1 percent.  The currency gained 1.5 percent to 84.49 yen, from 83.24
yen on Feb. 4. The nation had a C$3 billion ($3 billion) trade
surplus in December, its first in 10 months,  Statistics Canada 
reported yesterday.    Brazil ’s real was the No. 1 performer, gaining as Mubarak’s
resignation spurred demand for emerging-market assets. It ended
the week up 2 percent to 50.09 yen.    Australia ’s currency slid below parity with its U.S.
counterpart yesterday after Reserve Bank Governor Glenn Stevens
said policy makers judged it “sensible” to keep interest rates
on hold. The Aussie fell 1.2 percent to $1.0021 this week. It
touched 99.61 U.S. cents yesterday, the lowest since Jan. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  