-- 
Egypt May Need Stimulus to Create Jobs, Finance Minister Samir Radwan Says

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-02-12T08:49:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/egypt-economy-may-need-stimulus-for-jobs-radwan-says-update1-.html
  Egypt ’s economy may need a stimulus
package to help create jobs, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said
today, after President  Hosni Mubarak  bowed to pressure from
hundreds of thousands of protesters and stepped down.  “There is a need for a stimulus package that is very
closely related to employment,” Radwan said in a telephone
interview from Cairo. The government will run the daily affairs
of the country until further instructions from the military
council that Mubarak yesterday left in charge, he said.  More than two weeks of unprecedented protests against
Mubarak’s three-decade rule left about 300 people dead,
according to United Nations estimates. The turmoil hit exports,
tourism and raised borrowing costs for the government.  The unrest may slow economic growth in the fiscal year
through June to about 4 percent, though “it’s still too early
to tell,” Radwan said. Authorities had forecast the economy
would expand as much as 6 percent before the crisis. He declined
to give a forecast for the budget gap, which widened in the last
fiscal year to 8.1 percent of gross domestic product from 6.9
percent in the previous 12 months.  Emergency fiscal measures the government took in the past
two weeks didn’t have an impact on the  budget deficit , Radwan
said. “They were done through savings from the budget,” he
said.  Unemployment  About 9 percent of Egyptians were unemployed before the
crisis, according to the state-run statistics agency.
Unemployment among people between the ages of 20 and 25 was 28
percent in the last quarter of 2008, according to a paper Radwan
wrote for the  International Labour Organization  in April 2009.  Radwan, a former senior economist at the ILO, was named
finance minister on Jan. 31 after Mubarak fired the government
of Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif  in what proved to be a failed
attempt to placate the protesters.  Among Radwan’s first actions was creating a 5-billion
Egyptian pound ($850-million) fund to compensate people who lost
property during the unrest and to pay benefits for those who
became unemployed as a result of the crisis.  The government also gave permanent contracts to as many as
600,000 people who were listed as temporary workers, Radwan
said. “They basically had no rights,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Cairo at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 