-- 
Egypt Will Move to Democracy, Honor Peace Treaties, Military Council Says

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-02-13T10:14:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/egypt-s-ruling-military-vows-move-to-democracy-backs-all-peace-treaties.html
  Egypt ’s military vowed a transition
to democracy “as soon as possible” and indicated the country
will honor its peace treaty with  Israel  following the
resignation of President  Hosni Mubarak .  U.S. President  Barack Obama , in talks with foreign leaders,
raised the possibility of international efforts to provide
financial aid to Egypt, whose economy has been hurt by work
disruptions and the loss of tourism during the pro-democracy
turmoil.  The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, which has said it
won’t be a replacement for a legitimate government, will keep
the current cabinet in office during the transition process, a
military spokesman said yesterday on state television. The
council is headed by Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, who
has been defense minister.  “The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces is confident in
the ability of Egypt’s people and institutions to get through
these current critical circumstances,” the council said in a
statement.  Middle East markets rose with the  DFM General Index  gaining
0.5 percent, the most since Feb. 7, at 1:27 p.m. in Dubai and
the TA-25 Index in  Tel Aviv  advancing 1 percent.  Democracy Timetable  The military council hasn’t yet offered a timetable for
implementing democratic measures. Nor has it announced a time
for lifting the 30-year emergency law, which permits detention
without charge, one of the steps that the Obama administration
has said would show Egyptians that the changes are real.  Accepting the army’s role, the  Muslim Brotherhood , Egypt’s
main opposition group, called for an end to the state of
emergency, for Parliament to be dissolved and for “free and
fair elections under judicial supervision,” it said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Obama discussed the Egyptian crisis yesterday with Prime
Minister  David Cameron  of the U.K., Jordan’s  King Abdullah , and
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , according to a
White House statement issued by e-mail. He raised the issue of
“international partners” providing financial support to Egypt.  “The president welcomed the historic change that has been
made by the Egyptian people, and reaffirmed his admiration for
their efforts,” the statement said.  Peace Treaty  In Israel, where leaders have worried that the turmoil
might jeopardize the country’s peace treaty with Egypt, Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu welcomed reassurance from the
military council that it respects “all regional and
international obligations and treaties.”  After 30 years in power, Mubarak, 82, stepped down
following a popular uprising that began on Jan. 25 after the
resignation of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali on
Jan. 14.  Thousands of Egyptians gathered yesterday in Cairo’s Tahrir
Square, the focus of the biggest protests, helping to clear
rubbish left by demonstrations that had turned to celebrations
late Feb. 11. About 2,000 remained this morning as soldiers
formed a cordon around the protesters and cars began to flow
again into the square. Soldiers forcibly took down some of the
tents that protesters had used to camp out in the square.  “We want a civilian state, we don’t want the army to run
the country anymore,” said Mohamed Mehrez, 26, the manager of a
textile factory in Mahalla.  Artifacts Missing  During the riots and demonstrations, 18 artifacts,
including two statues of King Tutankhamun, went missing from the
Egyptian Museum,  Zahi Hawass , head of the Supreme Council of
Antiquities, said on his website.  The police and army are following up on the disappearances
with people in custody, Hawass said. The missing objects include
a gilded wooden statue of Tutankhamun carried by a goddess and a
separate gilded wooden statue of Tutankhamun harpooning.  A nighttime curfew in place since Jan. 28 will be shortened
to midnight to 6 a.m., state television reported. Security
forces have arrested 10,147 of 23,060 prisoners who escaped
during the unrest, state-run Nile News reported yesterday,
citing the Interior Ministry.  The military council, in its statement, called on the
police to comply with their motto -- “The police serve the
people” -- and urged Egyptians to cooperate “as amicability
and cooperation must prevail amongst all.”  Obama said yesterday that democracy in Egypt “will bring
more -- not less -- stability to the region” and said the U.S.
will seek to provide support for democratic aspirations in Egypt
“including working with international partners to provide
financial support,” according to the White House statement.  Key Ally  Egypt was a U.S. ally in the Middle East under Mubarak and
one of the main beneficiaries of American aid. U.S. Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  and Admiral Mike Mullen, Obama’s top
military adviser, have made regular telephone calls to their
counterparts, according to Pentagon spokesmen Geoff Morrell and
Navy Captain John Kirby.  The handover of power was announced by Vice President  Omar Suleiman , who read a statement on state television late Feb. 11.
Mubarak left Cairo for the Egyptian Red Sea resort town of  Sharm
El-Sheikh , state television reported earlier. There has been no
immediate mention of a role for Suleiman, Mubarak’s longtime
adviser and head of intelligence.  “We’re thrilled,” said Waleed Rashed, a co-founder of Six
of April Youth, a youth-activist group that helped organize the
first protest on Jan. 25. “There are a lot of things still to
be worked out, but we trust the army to supervise the
transitional period. We hope things will be better. If they are
not, we now know the way.”  Oil Fell  Oil fell after the Egyptian leader stepped down, reducing
concern that crude shipments from the Middle East will be
disrupted. Crude for March delivery declined $1.15 to $85.58 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  Feb. 11, the lowest
settlement since Nov. 30. Futures fell 3.9 percent this week and
have risen 14 percent from a year ago.  Egypt’s economy may need a stimulus package to help create
jobs, Finance Minister Samir Radwan said yesterday.  The stock exchange will open on Feb. 16, Hisham Turk, the
bourse’s communications manager, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. The bourse’s last day of operation was Jan. 27.  Algerian protesters and police clashed in Algiers yesterday
after authorities moved to arrest some of the demonstrators.
Earlier, authorities detained 100 people during a peaceful sit-
in in the capital inspired by pro-democracy protests in Egypt
and  Tunisia , Mustapha Bouchachi, head of the League for the
Defense of Human Rights, said. The  Associated Press  reported the
number of detainees was about 400.  “This is evidence that the authorities don’t accept
peaceful demonstrations,” Bouchachi said in an interview at the
protest in Algiers. “2011 will be a year for change. This is
the first attempt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  