-- 
Egypt Bans Former Prime Minister from Leaving Country

-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 
2011-02-12T19:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/egypt-bans-former-prime-minister-from-leaving-country-update1-.html
Egypt’s public prosecutor has banned
former Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif , former Interior Minister
Habib El-Adli and Information Minister Anas El Fekky from
leaving the country in the aftermath of former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s resignation.  The public prosecutor has also ordered that that the assets
of El-Adli and his family be frozen, Adel Saeed, head of the
technical office at the public prosecutor’s office, said by
telephone.  The prosecutor has also made a request with the foreign
minister to ask European authorities to freeze the assets of
Ahmed Ezz, a former party official at the ruling  National
Democratic Party , former Tourism Minister Zoheir Garranah,
former Trade and Industry Minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid, former
Housing Minister Ahmed El-Maghraby and el-Adli.  Nazif was not immediately available on his mobile phone. An
official at the office of El Fekky said that he didn’t come to
the office today. No phone number for el-Adli was listed and the
office of his former ministry didn’t have a number for him.  The government of premier Nazif, which Mubarak fired
following the outbreak of unrest, had attracted record foreign
investment, helping the economy expand at the fastest pace in at
least two decades. At the same time, political opponents said
some local executives used their links with Mubarak to further
their own interests.    Egypt ’s public prosecutor, Abdel-Meguid Mahmoud, on Feb. 3
banned El Maghraby and Ezz, along with Garranah, from travel and
had their bank accounts frozen, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported, citing Mahmoud. The next day he also banned
former Trade Minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid from traveling.  El Maghraby, a property developer, and Ezz, chairman of
Ezz Steel, Egypt’s biggest producer of the metal, were among the
businessmen ousted from cabinet and ruling party positions after
Mubarak turned to former military men for top posts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inal Ersan in Dubai at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 