-- 
TeliaSonera Will Seek Turkcell Control at Meeting, Milliyet Says

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-02-12T13:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/teliasonera-will-seek-turkcell-control-at-meeting-milliyet-says.html
  TeliaSonera AB  will seek control of
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,  Turkey ’s biggest mobile phone
company, at an annual general meeting due in April as Turkcell’s
performance is weakened by shareholder disputes,  Milliyet  said,
citing TeliaSonera Chief Executive Officer Lars Nyberg.  Legal disputes among the three major shareholders,
TeliaSonera,  Russia ’s Altimo and Turkey’s Cukurova Holding AS,
over control of Turkcell as well as regulatory price cuts in
past years hurt the Istanbul-based operator’s performance in the
last seven quarters, Nyberg said, according to the newspaper.  TeliaSonera and Altimo agreed to have two members each on
the seven-member board of Turkcell, Nyberg was cited as saying.
Having the other three members as independents will speed up
decision making as they could make the final call should
TeliaSonera and Altimo members fail to reach agreement, he said.  TeliaSonera has an effective 37.1 percent stake as the main
shareholder in Turkcell, though can’t control the company
because a special purpose company, Turkcell Holding AS, holds 51
percent of Turkcell Iletisim. Turkcell Holding is 53 percent
owned by a Cukurova-Altimo partnership and 47 percent by the
Scandinavian company. Cukurova and Altimo each effectively hold
about 13 percent in Turkcell Iletisim.  Turkcell failed to hold an extraordinary annual general
meeting in October after a government commissioner didn’t make
an appearance.  The government and regulators are monitoring Turkcell to
ensure the rights of small investors are maintained,
Communications Minister Binali Yildirim said on Oct. 21 in
response to questions about why the government commissioner
didn’t attend the meeting, forcing it to be postponed.  Mehmet Emin Karamehmet, founder of Turkcell and chairman of  Cukurova, stepped down in February 2010 as Turkcell’s
chairman after almost 17 years and was replaced by Colin Williams, who has served as an independent board member since
May 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 