-- 
Fed’s Raskin Urges Mortgage Companies to Help Housing

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-02-12T03:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/fed-s-raskin-urges-mortgage-companies-to-help-housing-market.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  called on mortgage companies and investors to look past
their own profits and help revive the housing market to
strengthen an “agonizingly slow” economic recovery.  “The government can only do so much, and relevant private
sector actors need to think beyond their bottom line and focus
on how their firms’ actions are or are not contributing to the
economic recovery,” Raskin, the newest Fed policy maker, said
today at a mortgage conference in Park City,  Utah .  The comments by Raskin, appointed by President  Barack Obama 
in October, strike a tougher tone than her central bank
colleagues toward the industry and show less optimism for an
economy where job growth is failing to reach its prerecession
pace. She urged changes to the way mortgage servicers and
investors set prices and payment flows.  “This isn’t easy, and time is of the essence because the
drag on our recovery is palpable,” Raskin said in remarks at
the 2011 Midwinter Housing Finance Conference. “Yes, our
economy has started to rebound, but we need a strong housing
market in order to ensure a complete, stable, and sustainable
recovery.”  Raskin, 49, the former Maryland commissioner of financial
regulation, didn’t discuss monetary policy in her speech. She
has voted to support the Fed’s $600 billion expansion of record
monetary stimulus at her first three Federal Open Market
Committee meetings.  Income Losses  “Today, demand for housing is weighted down by the
enormous losses in income and net worth that households suffered
in the recession,” Raskin said. “In addition, the persistent
high rate of unemployment is further depressing housing demand,
creating uncertainty about housing prices, and impeding that
robust recovery in the housing sector that we generally see.”  Housing prices may face “more downward pressure” because
of “a pipeline full of distressed properties,” Raskin said.  Preliminary results from a federal review of the mortgage-
servicing industry show that “widespread weaknesses exist,”
and agencies will give more-specific findings soon, Raskin said.
“These deficiencies pose significant risk to mortgage servicing
and foreclosure processes, impair the functioning of mortgage
markets, and diminish overall accountability to homeowners.”  In response to audience questions, Raskin said that
borrowers have been forgotten in the mortgage agreement. “The
consumer is really not part of the contract between the servicer
and the set of investors,” she said, adding she hopes to start
a dialogue about creating “a market that essentially does take
the consumer, the homeowner into effect.”  Three Options  Raskin spoke on the day Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  outlined three options for the future of the $11
trillion mortgage market, which would euthanize the government
sponsored enterprises  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The transition
to a new housing-finance system will likely take five to seven
years, Geithner said today.  “Clearly the need for some kind of standardization
potentially could be something dealt with as part of the GSE
reform,” Raskin said in response to an audience question.
“More than 90 percent of these standards are being driven by
Fannie and Freddie.”  The world’s largest economy shrank 4.1 percent from the
fourth quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2009, the most
during any recession since the 1930s, according to the U.S.
Department of Commerce.  Round Two  To help revive the economy, the Fed purchased $1.7 trillion
of assets, including mortgage-backed securities and Federal
agency debt, through March 2010. In November, the central bank
began a second round of large-scale asset purchases, planning to
buy $600 billion in Treasuries by June.  “The financial institutions that have been bolstered
directly and indirectly by government subsidy and aid must now
seek to support those who have been buffeted and injured by the
housing crisis,” Raskin said. “This must go beyond the
corrective actions that need to be taken to rectify current
deficiencies. It means that financial institutions need to
understand the effects their actions will have on consumers and
the country as a whole, and factor those considerations into
their business decisions.”  State Probes  All 50 U.S. states are investigating the way lenders and
loan servicers handle foreclosures after claims some were marred
by faulty documentation or by “robo-signing,” the mass
processing of paperwork without proper verification. The
coordinated probe began in October after the biggest U.S. banks
suspended some home repossessions to review their procedures.  Servicers collect monthly mortgage payments and may modify
or foreclose on a loan in a default. They often don’t own the
loans they are servicing. The four biggest companies by
portfolio size -- Bank of America Corp., Wells Fargo & Co.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup Inc. --service about half of
home loans by value, according to data from news website
Mortgagedaily.com.  Foreclosures in the U.S. dropped 17 percent in January from
a year earlier, according to data from  Irvine , California-based
RealtyTrac Inc. The data indicate “lenders have become bogged
down” because of the foreclosure-processing accusations, James J. Saccacio, RealtyTrac’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement yesterday.  A record 2.87 million properties got notices of default,
auction or repossession last year, a 2 percent gain from a year
earlier, according to RealtyTrac.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Park City, Utah, at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  