-- 
Fiat Plans to Invest $27 Billion to Revamp Italian Plants, Marchionne Says

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-02-12T14:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/fiat-plans-to-invest-27-billion-to-revamp-italian-plants-marchionne-says.html
  Fiat SpA  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  confirmed the Italian carmaker’s pledge to
spend 20 billion euros ($27 billion) revamping its domestic
plants after meeting with Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi.  “Fiat is a multinational which is expanding
internationally, but will keep an Italian heart,” Industry
Minister Paolo Romani said today after discussing the investment
plan with the CEO and Chairman John Elkann. Romani attended the
meeting with Berlusconi and other members of the government.  Marchionne, 58, caused a stir in  Italy  after saying Feb. 4
the Turin-based carmaker and Chrysler Group LLC may “end up
looking like one entity,” possibly based in the U.S. He later
backtracked, saying no decision has been made and the issue
would be dealt with no sooner than 2014. Fiat owns a 25 percent
stake in  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler.  “It’s evident that the positive evolution of Fiat’s plan
for Italy will condition the decision on” the location of its
headquarters, Turin Mayor Sergio Chiamparino said today after
attending the meeting.  Fiat plans to build as many as 280,000 cars and sport-
utility vehicles a year under the Jeep and Alfa Romeo brands at
its Mirafiori plant in Italy starting in 2012 as part of its
alliance with Chrysler. Under an accord with unions, workers
will put in more hours, take shorter breaks and risk having pay
withheld for persistent absenteeism.  1.4 Million Vehicles  The Mirafiori agreement is part of a project to revamp
Fiat’s five Italian car plants, where the company aims to raise
annual production to 1.4 million vehicles by 2014 from 650,000
in 2009. Marchionne will also discuss those goals at a
parliamentary hearing in  Rome  on Feb. 15.  “Marchionne and Chairman John Elkann confirmed Fiat’s and
Fiat Industrial SpA’s intention to invest 20 billion euros in
Italy,” the prime minister’s office said in a statement today.  Fiat aims to improve productivity and capacity utilization
to restore profitability in Italy, still its main market. None
of the company’s earnings came from Italy in 2010, Marchionne
has said. The automaker may lose 814 million euros in  Europe  in
2011, according to Kristina Church, a London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital .  Fiat can gain a further 10 percent stake in Chrysler in two
steps if the U.S. carmaker reaches milestones including some
sales goals outside of  North America . Fiat has an option to
raise its holding to 51 percent, a level Marchionne has said he
aims to reach before the end of this year, after Chrysler repays
U.S. and Canadian government loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;  Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ; 