-- 
Greek Government Criticizes EU, IMF Demands for Asset Sales

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-02-12T14:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/greek-government-criticizes-eu-imf-demands-for-asset-sales.html
Greece’s government criticized
demands from the European Union and  International Monetary Fund 
for sales of state assets to raise 50 billion euros ($67
billion).  “The behavior of the representatives of the EU, IMF and
ECB during yesterday’s press conference was unacceptable,”
government spokesman  George Petalotis  said in a statement today,
referring to the European Central Bank. “The only agent
responsible for these decisions is the Greek government. We take
orders only from the Greek people.”  Petalotis spoke after  Poul Thomsen , head of the IMF’s
Greece mission, and the EU’s Servaas Deroose told reporters the
country must focus on a tax-system overhaul and asset disposals
that may raise as much as 50 billion euros by 2015 to pay down
debt. The government had said in November, during the last EU-
IMF review of Greek progress, that it could raise 7 billion
euros over the next three years.  Thomsen and Deroose spoke in  Athens  after the latest
quarterly review under a 110 billion-euro EU-IMF bailout that
Greece received last May to avert a debt default. Approval of
the country’s efforts would ensure payment of the plan’s next
installment of 15 billion euros in March. Deroose said he’s
“confident” the funds will be disbursed.  Prime Minister George Papandreou and his socialist Pasok
party won power in October 2009 on a platform of more spending
and opposition to state asset disposals, such as the sale of a
stake in  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA  to Deutsche
Telekom AG. Papandreou backtracked on those pledges when he
revealed a deficit twice as large as previously reported,
sparking Europe’s debt crisis and leading to the bailout amid
strikes and protests.  Papandreou spoke by phone with  Dominique Strauss-Kahn ,
managing director of the Washington-based IMF, to discuss the
issues, according to an e-mailed statement from the prime
minister’s office today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen@bloomberg.net  