-- 
Obama Leadership Tested by Fast-Changing Egypt Crisis

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-02-14T17:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/obama-team-s-policy-tested-by-revolt-against-mubarak-in-egypt.html
As the crowd swelled in Cairo’s
Tahrir Square Feb. 10, chanting for Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  to resign, President  Barack Obama  sat aboard Air Force
One viewing a flat-screen television, reduced to learning
whether Mubarak would go, just as the rest of the world did.  The image of a U.S. president watching history unfold on TV
underscores a central challenge for Obama in his first foreign
policy crisis: How to respond to a revolution that is as fast-
moving as it is historic, and on which the U.S. has less
influence than some might like.  U.S. intelligence from Egypt once the protests began was
strong, according to a senior Republican in Congress, who spoke
on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the
issue. The administration’s response was less clear, ranging
from support for Mubarak to a verbal shove toward the door.  The unsteadiness of the public messaging robbed the
administration of an opportunity to exert more influence on the
outcome through behind-the-scenes diplomacy, say some critics.  The administration “spoke like a Tower of Babel with
multiple voices saying multiple things” when it should have
spoken “with one voice,” Republican Tim Pawlenty, a former
Minnesota governor considering a run for the presidency, said
yesterday on the ABC program “This Week.”  ‘Nothing is Seamless’  The administration and its defenders disagree.  “Anytime you have a situation like this, you’re going to
have some confusion, no matter how well oiled the machine might
be and how seasoned the people are,”  William Cohen , secretary
of defense under President  Bill Clinton , said in an interview.
“Nothing is seamless. I think they corrected it as soon as they
could.”  In the 18 days it took massive demonstrations to force a
once-immobile American ally to relinquish power, the Obama
administration revised its message several times. While talking
points solidified around non-violence, universal rights and
orderly political change, the administration’s initial response
to the protests was muted.  First, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Vice
President Joe Biden defended Mubarak; days later, Obama called
for a democratic transition. Then top envoys suggested it would
be least disruptive if Mubarak stayed while elections were
planned, before the White House called again for a “prompt”
changeover.  ‘Day to Day’  “This has been and remains a very complex and dynamic
situation,”  Philip J. Crowley , assistant secretary of State for
public affairs, said in a Feb. 11 interview. “It was not like
we had an existing operational plan that we could take off the
shelf and execute. Everyone understood that a moment of history
was at hand, but there was no way to predict from day to day how
events would unfold.”  The Egyptian crisis is unlikely to be the end of regional
troubles the administration will have to address without a
playbook. Today, protests broke out in Iran, Bahrain and Yemen,
as demonstrators inspired by the recent fall of leaders in Egypt
and Tunisia were met by riot police.  “We live in a world that is getting smaller because of
technology. We saw recently what was happening in  Egypt , people
with Facebook and Twitter led an entire revolution in their
country and we were watching it live on television,” Obama told
students today in Parkville,  Maryland .  U.S. Response  The administration’s response to the crisis that has rocked
Egypt, an anchor of U.S. alliances in the Mideast, is in some
ways a familiar Washington story of a White House trying to keep
up with events it doesn’t control.  The administration’s learning curve on Egypt was made
steeper because the foreign policy team has been consumed with
the war in  Afghanistan  and the risks of a nuclear Iran.  From the start of this crisis, officials say, Obama,
Clinton, Biden, Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  and other
envoys talked to Egyptian counterparts almost daily, as U.S.
Ambassador to Egypt Margaret Scobey reached out to opposition
figures, while being careful not to anoint a new leader. Clinton
was on the phone yesterday with Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed
Aboul Gheit and several European and Mideast allies, Crowley
said in postings on Twitter. Admiral Mike Mullen, Obama’s chief
military adviser, traveled to  Jordan  yesterday and  Israel  today
to reaffirm U.S. support in the aftermath of the collapse of
Mubarak’s government.  Biden Message  When it appeared to the White House that the Mubarak regime
was not reforming quickly enough, Obama directed Biden to
deliver a stern message when he phoned his counterpart,  Omar Suleiman , on Feb. 8. Biden included a list of specific steps,
according to an administration official, who requested
anonymity.  At the same time, Middle East experts were invited to the
White House to offer counsel. All the while, a debate was raging
within the administration.  On one side, old-school “realists” -- including longtime
Mideast experts at the Pentagon and State Department, as well as
retired U.S. Ambassador to Egypt Frank Wisner and Dan Shapiro, a
Mideast watcher at the National Security Council -- argued that
continuity in Egypt, a moderate Arab ally, was essential to
protect U.S. interests in Israel’s security, the  peace process 
and containing  Iran ’s ambitions, according to participants in
strategy sessions.  Different Perspectives  Another group of mainly political appointees at the White
House and State -- including Samantha Power, NSC director for
human rights; Jeremy Weinstein, NSC director for democracy;
Gayle Smith, NSC senior director, and  Ben Rhodes , deputy
national security adviser -- wanted to telegraph more forward-
leaning support for protesters’ democratic aspirations.  “There are different perspectives between the State
Department and White House,” said Michele Dunne, a former NSC
and State Department official, who was among more than a dozen
Egypt experts invited by the NSC to offer counsel during the
crisis. While declining to comment on individuals or specific
debates, Dunne said the State Department and Pentagon were under
pressure from allies such as Israel, Jordan and  Saudi Arabia  not
to abandon Mubarak.  Several advisers who had long viewed Mubarak as an anchor
to U.S. interests in the region, including former U.S.
Ambassador to Israel Martin Indyk, changed their views, arguing
in meetings that the U.S. had to support the public’s democratic
aspirations.  Long-Time Ally  To expect the administration “to come out immediately
against this longstanding idea of Egypt as a solid ally since
Camp David would be damaging and also unrealistic,” said Leslie
Campbell, director for the Middle East at the National
Democratic Institute in  Washington , who was invited to the White
House twice in the last two weeks to offer ideas.  “The fact that the administration has gone from the idea
of Egyptian authorities can do no wrong to advocating an
immediate transition to democracy in a matter of days is
incredible,” Campbell said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , unlike Republican colleague
Pawlenty, declined to criticize the Obama administration’s
response. “I think they’ve handled what is a very difficult
situation about as well as it could be handled,” the Ohio
congressman said yesterday on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program.  Contradictory Language  From his first public remarks Jan. 28, the president sided
with calls for change. Speaking after Mubarak’s resignation Feb.
11, Obama praised the “moral force” of peaceful protests
“that bent the arc of history.”  “There are very few moments in our lives where we have the
privilege to witness history taking place,” Obama said. “The
people of Egypt have spoken, their voices have been heard, and
Egypt will never be the same.”  While Obama’s words have been clear and consistent, the
message was muddied by multiple U.S. officials who reacted to
confusing events in sometimes contradictory language.  On Jan. 25, Clinton said the Egyptian government was
“stable.” Two days later, Biden declared Mubarak was not a
dictator and needn’t resign.  The following night in a hastily arranged address, Obama
said he told Mubarak to “take concrete steps and actions”
toward democracy. Clinton appeared on that Sunday’s news shows
insisting on an “orderly transition.” On Feb. 1, Obama said he
told Mubarak that a transition “must begin now.”  Stable Transition  The message was repeated for a week before Wisner, whom the
administration sent to Cairo to urge Mubarak to step down, told
a security conference in Munich that a stable transition might
benefit from Mubarak staying in office while elections were
planned.  The president was angered by Wisner’s message, according to
an administration official who requested anonymity to discuss
the president’s private reaction. It marked a low point in the
administration’s response, said another official, who also
requested anonymity.  Though the administration disavowed Wisner’s remarks,
Clinton suggested Feb. 6 that an orderly transition would be
harder if Mubarak were to resign, acknowledging she had been
unaware that his departure might trigger elections in 60 days.  U.S. Aid  The U.S. doles out $1.5 billion in mostly  military aid  to
Egypt annually, and while this has given successive
administrations over the last three decades substantial
influence with Egypt’s military leadership, it didn’t translate
into the power to order Mubarak to go. The leverage of that
military aid may have become weaker once Saudi Arabia pledged to
replace any decline in U.S. funding.  The White House’s ability to influence events in the
Mideast has declined in recent years, particularly with
diminished credibility in the aftermath of the Iraq War,
officials and analysts said. Mubarak, in a clear reference to
the U.S., said on Feb. 10 that he wouldn’t bow to foreign
pressure.  The U.S. is no longer “respected, admired and feared” in
the region as it was in the 1970s and 1980s, said  Aaron David Miller , a former Mideast peace negotiator and State Department
official now a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center
in Washington. “We’re really marginal to this right now.”  The administration has almost conceded as much, stressing
that the crisis is an Egyptian one and the solution is up to the
Egyptian people.  “Throughout these three weeks, we had to thread a needle
between a government that had long resisted change and a people
who wanted change immediately,” Crowley said. “We always
understood that we could offer our best counsel to Egypt as a
friend, but we could not influence actions and decisions.”  Obama on Feb. 12 called the leaders of the U.K.,  Turkey  and
Jordan to welcome the announcement by the Egyptian armed forces
that they “will stand by Egypt’s international obligations,”
according to the White House.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  