-- 
Obama Says Budget Will Make U.S. `Live Within Its Means,' Invest in Future

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-02-12T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/obama-says-budget-will-make-u-s-live-within-its-means-invest-in-future.html
President  Barack Obama  said the 2012
budget he will submit to the  U.S. Congress  in two days will help
the U.S. live within its means while making important
investments for the future.  In his weekly address on the radio and Internet, Obama
touted steps his administration is proposing to help reduce the
federal  budget deficit , which is projected to reach a record
$1.5 trillion this year.  “After a decade of rising deficits, this budget asks
Washington to live within its means, while at the same time
investing in our future,” he said.  Obama has already proposed freezing some domestic spending,
including the salaries of some federal employees, to save $400
billion over the next 10 years. He also pledged to eliminate
waste in the budget by vetoing any bill that contains earmarks -
- spending projects inserted into legislation by members of
Congress.  Obama said in his radio address that the nation must
continue spending on infrastructure, education and clean energy
and other programs to help the economy grow and compete with
other countries.  “I’m proposing that we invest in what will do the most to
grow the economy in the years to come,” he said.  Republican Response  In the Republican address, Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  said
indications are that Obama’s budget won’t cut spending enough.  “Our massive debt must be confronted immediately,” he
said. “America cannot afford to kick this can down the road any
longer.”  Hatch said Obama’s partial spending freeze is a “totally
inadequate solution” to the nation’s budget crisis because
outlays have already increased 24 percent over the past two
years. “These levels cannot continue,” he said. “Business as
usual is unsustainable.”  Obama and Congress have yet to resolve the budget for the
2011 fiscal year, which begin Oct. 1. Since then the government
has been funded by temporary measures called continuing
resolutions.  The latest resolution expires March 4. Republicans who took
control of the House following November’s elections are
proposing to slash by $100 billion the 2011 budget Obama
requested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in  Washington  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  