-- 
Top Stories: Business and Finance

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-12T00:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/top-stories-business-and-finance.html
The following are the day's top                    
business stories:                                                                1. Stocks Advance After Mubarak Resigns; Egyptian Debt-Default Swaps Decline   
2. U.S.  Consumer Confidence  Hits Eight-Month High on Job Outlook, Stock Gains  
3. Thain Says He Should Have `Grabbed, Shaken' U.S. Regulators to Aid Lehman   
4. Level Global Investors Will Close $4 Billion Hedge Fund After Raid by FBI   
5. Freescale Seeks to Raise $1.15 Billion in Biggest Tech IPO Since Google's   
6. Vietnam's Record Devaluation Adds Urgency for Action on Prices, IMF Says    
7. Anil Ambani's Reliance Blames Brokers' `Baseless' Claims for Stock Plunge   
8. Freeman Said to Make $22.7 Million on Sigma Designs Inside Trades at Sonar  
9. Bahrain Bonds to Rebound as Egypt Contagion Fades, Shaikh Al Khalifa Says   
10.Workforce Dropouts Show  Unemployment Rate  in U.S. Is Too Low: Chart of Day  
11.Madoff `Surrogate Father' Levy Moved Billions Through Account, SIPC Says    
12.Bustling Business of Cheating This Time Has Nothing to Do With Wall Street    1. Stocks Advance After Mubarak Resigns; Egyptian Debt-Default Swaps Decline     Stocks rose, reversing an early drop, and the cost to                     
 insure Egyptian debt from default declined as the resignation                 
 of the nation´s President  Hosni Mubarak  and a jump in U.S.                    
 consumer confidence bolstered investor optimism. The Standard &               
 Poor´s 500 Index rose 0.6 percent to 1,329.15 at 4 p.m. in New                
 York, its highest level since June 2008. An exchange-traded                   
 fund tracking Egyptian equities rallied 4.5 percent and the                   
 cost of credit-default swaps on the nation´s debt fell 16 basis               
 points to 322, according to CMA. The Dollar Index climbed 0.2                 
 percent and 10-year Treasury yields fell seven basis points to                
 3.64 percent. Oil slid to a 10-week low. Equities turned higher               
 as Mubarak handed power to the military, bowing to demands of                 
 protesters who have occupied central Cairo for the past 18 days               
 to demand an end to his 30- year rule. The resignation eased                  
 concern that tensions will spread throughout a region that                    
 holds more than 50 percent of the world´s oil reserves. Stocks                
 began rebounding earlier as consumer sentiment climbed to an                  
 eight-month high. "We should be able to forget about  Egypt , at                
 least in the near term, and focus on improving economic                       
 fundamentals," said  John Praveen , the Newark, New Jersey-based                
 chief investment strategist at Prudential International                       
 Investments Advisers, a unit of Prudential Financial Inc.,                    
 which oversees $750 billion. "The consumer confidence report                  
 today was just one of a series of very positive figures that                  
 show that the recovery is on track. That should bring some                    
 short-term relief despite the uncertainties that we may still                 
 have about other governments in the Middle East and oil."                       2. U.S. Consumer Confidence Hits Eight-Month High on Job Outlook, Stock Gains    Consumer confidence rose in February to the highest level                 
 in eight months as decreasing unemployment lifted Americans´                  
 spirits. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary               
 index of consumer sentiment for the month climbed to 75.1 from                
 74.2 in January, in line with the median forecast of economists               
 surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report showed the  trade gap                
 widened in December for a second month on a jump in oil                       
 imports. The sentiment data showed households´ perceptions of                 
 the economy and job market turned positive this month for the                 
 first time in seven years, signaling  consumer spending  may keep               
 contributing to the expansion. The increase in confidence and                 
 Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak´s resignation helped stocks                  
 advance, extending a second straight weekly gain. "At the end                 
 of the day, people spend on how they feel about their job                     
 prospects, and additional gains in confidence are likely to                   
 provide further support for spending," said Millan Mulraine,                  
 senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities in  New York , who                      
 projected the sentiment index would climb to 75.                                3. Thain Says He Should Have `Grabbed, Shaken' U.S. Regulators to Aid Lehman     Merrill Lynch & Co.´s former Chief Executive Officer John                 
 A. Thain said  Wall Street  leaders should have tried harder to                 
 convince U.S. regulators they needed to prevent the failure of                
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Banking chiefs weren´t "strong                  
 enough" during 2008 meetings in insisting that then-Treasury                  
 Department Secretary Henry Paulson reverse his opposition to a                
 U.S.-led rescue of Lehman, Thain told the Financial Crisis                    
 Inquiry Commission, according to audio files released                         
 yesterday. Lehman, based in New York, filed the largest                       
 bankruptcy in U.S. history, roiling markets and helping                       
 contribute to the bailout of insurer American International                   
 Group Inc. and the purchase of Merrill by Bank of America Corp.               
 Days before Lehman´s September 2008 collapse, Paulson convened                
 CEOs including Thain, Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs Group                  
 Inc. and Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase & Co. to try to get the                
 banks to help fund a rescue. "We collectively, the group of us,               
 we should have just grabbed them and shaken them and said,                    
 `Look, you guys cannot do this,´" Thain told FCIC interviewers                
 in a Sept. 17, 2010, interview. "Allowing Lehman to go bankrupt               
 was the single biggest mistake of the financial crisis."                        4. Level Global Investors Will Close $4 Billion Hedge Fund After Raid by FBI     Level Global Investors LP, among the  hedge funds  raided by                
 the FBI in November as part of a federal insider-trading probe,               
 decided to close and return cash to clients, according to a                   
 letter sent to investors. David Ganek, 47, who founded the $4                 
 billion fund in 2003 with Anthony Chiasson, 37, after they both               
 left SAC Capital Advisors LLC, said he expects the firm to sell               
 all of its holdings by the end of March. "Unfortunately the                   
 ongoing government investigation presents significant                         
 challenges to maintaining our collective focus," Ganek said in                
 a letter today. Level Global, which last year sold a stake to a               
 leveraged- buyout fund run by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., was                   
 raided in November by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The                
 hedge fund had received withdrawal requests of about 20 percent               
 of its assets for the end of March, according to a person                     
 familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified because               
 the information is private.                                                     5. Freescale Seeks to Raise $1.15 Billion in Biggest Tech IPO Since Google's     Freescale Semiconductor Inc., the chipmaker partly owned by               
 Blackstone Group LP, plans to raise $1.15 billion in what would               
 be the biggest initial share sale by a U.S. technology company                
 since Google Inc. went public in 2004. The company will use                   
 proceeds to pay down the balance of a $764 million loan                       
 maturing next year and other debt, it said in a regulatory                    
 filing today. Freescale has total debt of $7.62 billion,                      
 according to the filing. Chief Executive Officer Rich Beyer                   
 aims to reduce the liabilities that have resulted in losses for               
 the Austin, Texas- based company. He´s trying to take advantage               
 of a rally in chip stocks that began last year. The                           
 Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, which tracks the performance                
 of 30 of the industry´s largest companies, has climbed 51                     
 percent since August. "Things have improved in the                            
 semiconductor industry and Freescale´s been a beneficiary of                  
 that," said  Dave Novosel , an analyst in Chicago with Gimme                    
 Credit LLC.                                                                     6.  Vietnam 's Record Devaluation Adds Urgency for Action on Prices, IMF Says      Vietnam´s devaluation of the dong yesterday by about 7                    
 percent, the most since at least 1993, needs to be followed                   
 with steps to curb inflation, the  International Monetary Fund                  
 and Citigroup Inc. said. The dong slumped to as weak as 20,893                
 per dollar, compared with 19,490 on Feb. 10, and closed at                    
 20,875 in Hanoi yesterday. The State Bank of Vietnam fixed the                
 reference rate for the currency at 20,693 versus 18,932 the                   
 previous day, or 8.5 percent weaker. The trading band for the                 
 currency was narrowed to 1 percent on either side of the rate                 
 from 3 percent previously. Vietnam´s fourth devaluation in 15                 
 months to curb the trade deficit and narrow the gap between                   
 official and black-market exchange rates runs the risk of                     
 spurring inflation from almost a two-year high. The IMF                       
 yesterday called for steps to check price gains, while                        
 Citigroup said the central bank should have increased interest                
 rates at the same time. "Where is the rate hike?," Johanna                    
 Chua, the Hong Kong- based head of Asian economic research at                 
 Citigroup, said in a note. "The devaluation alone does not                    
 solve the fundamental problems of lack of domestic confidence                 
 in the dong."                                                                   7. Anil Ambani's Reliance Blames Brokers' `Baseless' Claims for Stock Plunge     Anil Ambani´s group said it knows the brokers who spread                  
 "sensational charges" after a $2.6 billion loss in value Feb.                 
 9. The statement came after analysts predicted flagship                       
 Reliance Communications Ltd. may post a sixth straight drop in                
 profit Monday. Reliance ADA Group said brokers sent e-mails and               
 text messages, and made telephone calls disseminating                         
 "baseless" accusations about its firms, according to an                       
 e-mailed statement yesterday. No brokers or brokerages were                   
 named in the statement, which also didn´t detail the                          
 allegations. Ambani´s group, which has power, mobile-phone and                
 infrastructure businesses, sought an investigation by India´s                 
 capital-markets regulator and "punitive interim orders against                
 guilty brokers." Reliance Communications plunged 15 percent                   
 this week, the most since Nov. 2009, on expectation profit will               
 drop raising concerns about reducing loans by India´s most                    
 indebted mobile-phone operator. "Earnings are immaterial now,"                
 said Jigar Shah, an analyst with Kim Eng Securities India Pvt.                
 in Mumbai who has a "sell" rating on the shares. "What is                     
 critical is how they are able to reduce debt levels."                           8. Freeman Said to Make $22.7 Million on Sigma Designs Inside Trades at Sonar    Noah Freeman, the Boston hedge-fund manager who pleaded                   
 guilty this week to securities fraud, made $22.7 million for                  
 Sonar Capital Management LLC on illegal insider trades in                     
 shares of semiconductor maker Sigma Designs Inc., a person with               
 knowledge of the case said. Freeman, 34, did the alleged                      
 trading in the Milpitas, California-based company in 2006 and                 
 2007 while he was a managing director with Sonar Capital,                     
 according to the person, who asked not to be named because the                
 information hasn´t been made public. Freeman left the firm in                 
 May 2008 and a month later joined the Boston office of Steven                 
 A. Cohen´s SAC Capital Advisors LP, according to data compiled                
 by Bloomberg. The alleged Sigma trades accounted for most of a                
 $30 million scheme involving hedge-fund managers and technology               
 firm employees selling material, nonpublic information as they                
 moonlighted as so-called expert-network consultants, according                
 to a civil complaint filed Feb. 8 by the U.S. Securities and                  
 Exchange Commission. On the same day, the U.S. Attorney in                    
  Manhattan  unveiled criminal securities-fraud charges against                  
 Freeman and three other hedge-fund employees. "Instead of                     
 competing on a level playing field with other investors, these                
 hedge-fund managers sought to illegally trade today on what                   
 others would not learn until tomorrow,"  Robert Khuzami , the                   
 SEC´s head of enforcement, said in a statement announcing the                 
 complaint.                                                                      9. Bahrain Bonds to Rebound as Egypt Contagion Fades, Shaikh Al Khalifa Says     Bahrain´s Islamic bonds will rebound as soon as next week                 
 after tumbling when anti-government protests in Egypt started,                
 said Shaikh Mohammed bin Essa Al Khalifa, chief executive of                  
 the nation´s Economic Development Board. "This is a classic                   
 case of `buy the rumor, sell the fact,´" Al-Khalifa, 41, said                 
 in an interview today at Bloomberg´s headquarters in New York                 
 before President Hosni Mubarak resigned. "People are fearing                  
 that this will spread to Bahrain from Egypt. What many people                 
 don´t understand is we actually have one of the most liberal                  
 societies in the Gulf. It spiked, but it will come back down."                
 Bahrain´s borrowing costs rose as investors speculated tension                
 between the country´s Shiite majority and the Sunni minority                  
 ruling party would increase as political turmoil spread in the                
 region. Bahrain´s 6.247 percent five-year Islamic bonds due in                
 June 2014 have lost 1.9 percent since Jan. 25, when Egyptian                  
 protesters began demanding Mubarak´s ouster. The country´s                    
 dollar bonds due in 2020 declined, pushing yields up 99 basis                 
 points, or 0.99 percentage point, to 6.08 percent, the highest                
 since its issuance in March. The debt selloff will be temporary               
 because Bahrain is embracing political reform, cutting the                    
 unemployment rate and focusing on economic growth, said                       
 Al-Khalifa, who heads the public agency responsible for                       
 supporting growth in Bahrain.                                                   10.Workforce Dropouts Show Unemployment Rate in U.S. Is Too Low: Chart of Day    U.S. joblessness would be much higher if Americans dropping               
 out of the workforce were taken into account, according to                    
  Albert Edwards , a global strategist at Societe Generale. "The                 
 impression that unemployment has fallen" results primarily from               
 a drop in the participation rate, Edwards wrote yesterday in a                
 report. The rate is the percentage of working-age people who                  
 are looking for a job or already have one. The CHART OF THE DAY               
 compares the unemployment rate, as compiled monthly by the                    
 Labor Department, with adjusted figures that assume                           
 participation was unchanged in the past decade. The adjustment                
 produces a 12.8 percent jobless rate for January, as the top                  
 panel shows. The actual rate was 9 percent after a two- month                 
 drop of 0.8 percentage point, the steepest since 1958.                        
 Labor-force participation appears in the bottom panel. The rate               
 declined last month to 64.2 percent, the lowest since 1984. The               
 adjusted unemployment data is based on a rate of 67 percent,                  
 the average for 1996 through 2000.                                              11.Madoff `Surrogate Father' Levy Moved Billions Through Account, SIPC Says      A New York real estate broker described as a "surrogate                   
 father" to  Bernard Madoff  transferred more than $83 billion in                
 and out of his account with the convicted con man from 1998 to                
 2001, the Securities Investor Protection Corp. said in a                      
 letter. Norman F. Levy´s transactions in those years dwarfed                  
 those of all other Madoff clients. The others put in a total of               
 $10.2 billion and took out $8.5 billion during the same period,               
 according to a Jan. 24 letter from the SIPC to U.S.                           
 Representative  Scott Garrett , a Republican from  New Jersey , who               
 is looking into the fraud. Levy died in 2005 at age 93.                       
 Suspicious transactions by the customer dealing with Madoff´s                 
 firm "most often and in the largest dollar amount" during that                
 time should have alerted JPMorgan Chase & Co. to the Ponzi                    
 scheme, according to allegations in a complaint against the                   
 bank demanding $6.4 billion for its role in managing Madoff´s                 
 main account.  Irving Picard , named as the trustee to liquidate                
 Madoff´s firm, claims in the complaint that JPMorgan, the                     
 second-largest U.S. bank by assets, was aware of "what appeared               
 to be a check- kiting scheme" in December 2001 between Madoff                 
 and that customer. The client, identified only as "Customer 1,"               
 also engaged in "suspicious loan activity" involving Customer 1               
 and another longtime Madoff friend, according to the complaint,               
 which was unsealed last week.                                                   12.Bustling Business of Cheating This Time Has Nothing to Do With Wall Street    Do you want to have an affair? After hearing an ad on                     
 Howard Stern´s radio show or seeing a schlocky commercial on                  
 late-night TV, you might find yourself on AshleyMadison.com --                
 the premier "dating" website for aspiring adulterers. Type in                 
 the URL, and as the page loads a gauzy violet backdrop appears                
 with a fuzzy image of a half-dressed couple going at it beyond                
 a hotel doorway. "Join FREE & change your life today.                         
 Guaranteed!" Setting up a profile costs nothing and takes about               
 12 seconds, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Feb. 14                     
 edition. First you check off your availability status:                        
 "attached male seeking females," "attached female seeking                     
 males," or, even though the concept of the site is that all                   
 users are in relationships and therefore equally invested in                  
 secrecy, "single female seeking males." Next you´re asked for                 
 location, date of birth, height and weight, and whether you´re                
 looking for something "short term," "long term," "Cyber                       
 affair/Erotic Chat," "Whatever Excites Me," and so on. If                     
 you´re like me, you choose a handle based on the cupcake you                  
 most recently ate -- "redvelvet2" -- and then shave a few years               
 and pounds off your numbers.                                                    -0- Feb/12/2011 00:35 GMT
 