-- 
Top Stories: Worldwide

-- B y  
-- 
2011-02-12T00:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/top-stories-worldwide.html
The following are the day's top                    
general news stories:                                                            1. Mubarak Cedes Power to Egyptian Military as Protests Finish 30-Year Reign   
2. Egyptians Cheer Mubarak's Resignation as Demonstrators Look to Elections    
3. Obama Says Egypt Forever Changed by `Moral Force,' Transition to Take Time  
4.  New Jersey Transit 's New York Trains Now Running On or Close to Schedule    
5. Detroit Pistons Owner, Potential Buyer Enter Two-Week Exclusivity Period      1. Mubarak Cedes Power to Egyptian Military as Protests Finish 30-Year Reign     Hosni Mubarak ceded power to the Egyptian military as a                   
 popular revolt swept away the leader of the Arab world´s most                 
 populous state, throwing into question the future course of a                 
 reliable U.S. ally in the Middle East. Egyptians, who only                    
 hours earlier shouted anger that Mubarak was clinging to power,               
 celebrated through the night in Cairo and other cities after an               
 announcement that Mubarak had resigned, bowing to the demands                 
 of protesters who had occupied central Cairo for 18 days. In                  
 downtown´s Mubarak subway station, revelers crossed out his                   
 name, replacing it with "Martyrs´ Station." After 30 years of                 
 autocratic rule by Mubarak, the only leader young Egyptians                   
 have known, the country begins a new day under a military                     
 council that promises to lead the country through a democratic                
 transformation. "The people know the power is in their hands,"                
 said Shehab Bassam, 30, a graphic designer attending a rally                  
 outside the presidential palace in the suburb of Heliopolis. He               
 said one of his friends had been shot dead on Jan. 26. "The                   
 army´s legitimacy is from the people, therefore we trust that                 
 they will help us build a better future."                                       2. Egyptians Cheer Mubarak's Resignation as Demonstrators Look to Elections      Thousands of Egyptians outside  Hosni Mubarak ´s palace                     
 erupted in euphoria when a general of the presidential guard                  
 announced he had resigned. Some screamed uncontrollably as they               
 hugged and kissed their friends, and even strangers, outside a                
 three meter-tall barbed-wire wall protecting the palace in                    
 Heliopolis, northeast of Cairo. Some broke into tears. Some                   
 just knelt and kissed the ground. "I feel like I´ve been                      
 reborn," said Aya Hamdy, a 20- year-old fine-arts student. "I                 
 feel like I now have a future to look forward to. The military                
 will do the right thing." Mubarak, 82,  Egypt ´s president a full               
 decade before Hamdy was born, stepped down today after 18 days                
 of protests that left more than 300 people dead and brought the               
 country´s economy to a standstill. Most of the people                         
 celebrating near the palace expressed their trust in the                      
 military´s ability to manage the transition, even as others                   
 were less certain. The institution hasn´t fought in a war since               
 1973, instead building bridges, hospitals and, since Jan. 28,                 
 ensuring the security of protesters in central Cairo´s Tahrir                 
 Square.                                                                         3. Obama Says Egypt Forever Changed by `Moral Force,' Transition to Take Time    President  Barack Obama  placed his office´s prestige behind                
 the demonstrators who toppled Egypt´s leader, as he today                     
 praised their use of the "moral force" of peaceful protest to                 
 change their nation and put it on the path toward democracy.                  
 While cautioning that the departure of Egypt´s President Hosni                
 Mubarak is the beginning, not the end, of the country´s                       
 transition, Obama expressed confidence that the Egyptians will                
 be able to fulfill the potential of the moment. "This is the                  
 power of human dignity, and it can never be denied," Obama said               
 in remarks at the White House. "For Egypt, it was the moral                   
 force of nonviolence -- not terrorism, not mindless killing --                
 but nonviolence, moral force, that bent the arc of history                    
 toward justice once more." Obama´s words echoed the language of               
 the U.S. civil rights movement and of his own presidential                    
 campaign. An emotional high point of Obama´s 2008 campaign                    
 stump speech came when he quoted  Martin Luther King Jr . on the                
 "arc" of the "moral universe;" the line is now inscribed on a                 
 carpet in the Oval Office.                                                      4.  Detroit Pistons  Owner, Potential Buyer Enter Two-Week Exclusivity Period      Karen Davidson, owner of the Detroit Pistons, will enter a                
 14-day period of exclusive negotiating with Platinum Equity                   
 founder Tom Gores, who is interested in purchasing the National               
 Basketball Association franchise. The two sides agreed today to               
 a two-week exclusivity period, Michael Layne, a spokesman for                 
 Davidson, said in a statement. If a deal is reached, it will go               
 to the NBA for approval. Davidson inherited 76 percent of the                 
 team when her husband, William, died in 2009, according to                    
 Forbes Magazine. In addition to the three-time NBA champion                   
 Pistons, she may also sell the Palace of  Auburn Hills  and the                 
 DTE Energy Music Theatre, the  Detroit Free Press  reported                     
 today. The 46-year-old Gores is a Flint, Michigan, area native                
 and Michigan State University graduate. He is the founder and                 
 chairman of Platinum Equity, a Beverly Hills, California-based                
 private equity investment firm that owns more than 30 companies               
 in a range of industries.                                                       -0- Feb/12/2011 00:35 GMT
 