-- 
Toyota Said to Cut Board in Biggest Shake Up in Eight Years

-- B y   K a e   I n o u e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-02-12T06:26:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/toyota-said-to-cut-board-by-half-in-biggest-management-shake-up-in-8-years.html
  Toyota Motor Corp ., the world‘s
largest automaker, plans to cut its board to at least 17 members
from the current 27 to improve decision-making after a series of
product recalls in its biggest management reorganization in
eight years, two people familiar with the company‘s plan said.  Toyota currently has 27 directors, including the chairman,
president, six executive vice presidents and 15 senior managing
directors. The reduction in the number of board members will
include cutting the number of executive vice presidents, the
people said. The changes are likely to take place as early as
April, before the  shareholders’ meeting  in June, they said.  The move, to be announced by President Akio Toyoda, will
be the first since Toyota more than halved the number of board
members to 27 from 58 eight years ago to help it speed up
decision-making, the people said. Even as a U.S. economic
recovery and rising demand in emerging markets boost demand for  Toyota vehicles , the company said it expects to earn less than a
third of the record 1.7 trillion yen ($20.4 billion) it made in
the year ended March 2008.  Toyota will announce its “2020 vision” in April, 
including a medium-term business-reform plan, Toyoda said last
month.  “Nothing has been decided yet on our management personnel
changes, including that of directors,” Keisuke Kirimoto, a 
Toyota spokesman said in a phone interview.  Toyota‘s plan to cut board members was earlier reported by
the Tokyo Shimbun.  The carmaker has continued to issue recalls for various
defects as it seeks to regain customer trust. The company said
Jan. 26 it would repair 1.7 million vehicles globally because of
faults in fuel pipes and pumps, pressure sensors and spare-tire
carriers. The announcement came after Toyota recalled more than
8 million vehicles for problems linked to unintended
acceleration.    NASA , the U.S. space agency, and the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration   said  on Feb. 8 their probe found
no evidence of electronic malfunctions and the only known causes
of unintended acceleration were pedals that stuck and floor mats
that jammed the pedals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  