-- 
Pakistan's Government Will Help Court Execute Arrest Warrant for Musharraf

-- B y   P a u l   T i g h e
-- 
2011-02-12T23:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/pakistan-s-government-will-help-court-execute-arrest-warrant-for-musharraf.html
Pakistan’s government will assist
courts seeking to implement an arrest warrant for former
military leader General  Pervez Musharraf , the Information and
Broadcasting Minister Firdous Ashiq Awan said.  Any court directions will be followed and all possible
cooperation will be provided, the state-run  Associated Press  of
Pakistan  cited  the minister as saying yesterday in the capital,
Islamabad. The government will contact Interpol, the
international police organization, requesting Musharraf be
detained if a court order is issued, according to a report from
the Associated Press.  A Pakistani trial court yesterday issued an arrest warrant
for Musharraf over allegations he played a role in the 2007
assassination of former prime minister Benazir Bhutto, the AP
reported, citing prosecutors. Musharraf hasn’t been charged in
the case, AP said.  The former military leader, who came to power after a
bloodless coup in 1999 and became a U.S. ally in the fight
against terrorism, stepped down as president in 2008 after the
Pakistani Parliament threatened to bring impeachment charges
against him, alleging the illegal seizure of power and economic
mismanagement. He left  Pakistan  after resigning and has lived in  London , AP said.  Musharraf, 67, has no plans to go to Pakistan, AP cited
Fawad Chaudri, his spokesman, as saying in London yesterday. The
former president considers the accusations to be “absurd and
ridiculous,” Chaudri said, according to AP.  Poor Security  Bhutto was killed in a gun and suicide bomb attack at a
rally in Rawalpindi on Dec. 27, 2007. The arrest warrant for
Musharraf stems from a case against two security officials
accused of not adequately protecting Bhutto, AP said.  An investigation team found Musharraf to be involved in the
conspiracy to kill Bhutto, AP cited Zulfikar Ali Chaudry, the
lead prosecutor, as saying. Musharraf has denied any role in the
assassination.  A United Nations report, issued last year, said Bhutto’s
assassination may have been prevented had security forces taken
proper steps after death threats were made against her.  Musharraf’s administration said former Pakistani Taliban
leader Baitullah Mehsud ordered Bhutto’s murder after she
criticized the Taliban for terrorist attacks in Pakistan and
announced she would help the U.S. eliminate the group.  Musharraf last year started a political party, the All
Pakistan Muslim League, and said he planned to contest the next
elections scheduled for 2013.  Pakistani police in August 2010 issued charges against
Musharraf for unlawfully keeping top judges under house arrest
in 2007, when he imposed emergency rule in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  