-- 
Premier American Acquires Bank in Florida as 4 U.S. Lenders Fail

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-02-12T02:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/premier-american-acquires-bank-in-florida-as-4-u-s-lenders-fail.html
Premier American Bank, a firm backed
by private-equity investors, purchased a seized lender as
regulators shuttered four banks, pushing this year’s failure
count to 18.  Premier American, based in Miami, acquired Sunshine State
Community Bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said today
in a statement on its  website . Lenders in  Michigan ,  Wisconsin ,
and  California  also closed, and the four transactions drained
$144.9 million from the FDIC’s deposit-insurance fund.  “Sunshine State’s customers will be served by a banking
franchise that combines superior financial strength with a proud
community banking tradition,” Premier American’s Chief
Executive Officer Daniel M. Healy said in a statement. “The
acquisition also meets with our strategic objectives of
expanding our franchise throughout  Florida  by prudently
deploying our excess capital.”  Banks are closing even as commercial real estate markets,
which fell 45 percent from the October 2007 peak to the trough
in August 2010, have risen three consecutive months, according
to Moody’s Investors Service. Since 2008, 340 lenders have been
shut down by regulators.  Premier American paid the FDIC a 0.50 percent premium for
the $117 million in deposits at Port Orange, Florida-based
Sunshine State, the FDIC said. Premier American acquired most of
the $125.5 million in assets and will add five branches.  Healy, the former chief financial officer of North Fork
Bancorp, runs Bond Street Holdings LLC, which raised about $440
million and purchased Premier American in January 2010. The bank
now has $2 billion in deposits and $2.6 billion in assets,
according to the lender’s statement.    Wilbur Ross   First Michigan Bank of Troy, Michigan, paid the FDIC a 0.25
percent premium for about $390 million in deposits held by
Peoples State Bank, the agency said. First Michigan, whose
investors include billionaire Wilbur Ross, gets 10 branches in
the transaction.  The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency closed Canyon
National Bank of  Palm Springs , California, and sold its three
branches to  Costa Mesa , California’s Pacific Premier Bank, the
FDIC said. Pacific added more than $200 million in deposits.  In Wisconsin, regulators closed Badger State Bank of
Cassville and sold its $78.5 million in deposits and sole branch
to Royal Bank of Elroy, Wisconsin, the FDIC said.  Also today, the FDIC said it will close a temporary office
set up in Irvine, California, by Jan. 13, 2012. Employees in the
office, which was approved in November 2008, have helped manage
94 resolutions, according to the statement.  “Based on ongoing analysis and in recognition of the signs
of the improving health of the banking industry in the western  United States , the FDIC has determined that the current
projected workload does not support” the office, the agency
said in the statement.  The FDIC also has temporary offices in Jacksonville,
Florida, and Schaumberg,  Illinois , and “tentatively
anticipates” winding them down when the initial authorization
periods end, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 