-- 
Treasury Yields Reach Highs on Better Economic Growth, U.S. Debt Auctions

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-02-12T05:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/treasury-yields-reach-highs-on-economic-growth-u-s-auctions.html
Treasuries fell, with 10-year notes
touching the highest yield since April, as the U.S. sold $72
billion of debt amid data showing the economy is gaining steam.  Yields on 30-year bonds were the highest in 10 months as
the amount of bids at the Feb. 10 bond sale was less than the
average for the past 10 auctions and the Feb. 8 note sale drew
the lowest demand in the category of bidders that includes
foreign central banks since May 2007. The Labor Department
reported initial claims for  unemployment insurance  fell to the
lowest since July 2008. Government reports next week are
forecast to show January retail sales and housing starts grew.  “The market is looking away from Treasuries and focusing
more on the growing recovery and looking where the money is
going, and that is too risky assets,” said  Kevin Giddis ,
president of fixed-income capital markets at the brokerage firm
Morgan Keegan Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee . “The market will look
to economic reports for more confirmation of the recovery.”  Ten-year note yields fell one basis point to 3.63 percent
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data, compared with
3.64 percent Feb. 4. The yield touched 3.77 percent on Feb. 9,
the most since April 29.  Thirty-year bond yields were little changed at 4.69
percent. They reached 4.79 percent on Feb. 9, the highest since
April 7.  Economic Readings  “The bias seems to be towards higher rates now with
economic numbers generally coming in better than expected,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of government
debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “People are getting
defensive and positioning themselves for higher rates.”  Applications for jobless benefits decreased by 36,000, more
than forecast, to 383,000 in the week ended Feb. 4, Labor
Department figures showed. Economists forecast claims would fall
to 410,000, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The  University of Michigan  consumer sentiment index rose to
75.1 this month from 74.2 in January, in line with a Bloomberg
survey.  Retail sales may have increased 0.5 percent in January, the
seventh straight monthly gain, according to the median forecast
of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Housing starts in
January rose 1.7 percent after a decrease of 4.3 percent in
December, according to the average estimate of 59 economists in
a separate survey.  Bernanke Testifies  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House Budget
Committee in  Washington  Feb. 9 that the  unemployment rate  is
likely to remain high “for some time,” indicating the central
bank will maintain its policy of low  interest rates  and debt
buying.  The Fed released an updated schedule for its $600 billion
debt-buying plan, known as quantitative easing, to bolster the
economy. The central bank said it plans to buy about $97 billion
of Treasuries in 18 operations from Feb. 11 through March 9.  “We are seeing a little softening as the Fed is buying
significantly less this time than they did last time,” said  Sean Murphy , Treasury trader in New York at Societe Generale, a
primary dealer. “Last time they purchased $112 billion while
this time they are only purchasing $97 billion.”  Thus far, the central bank has purchased $328.1 billion of
Treasuries. The Fed has held its short-term interest rate target
at almost zero since December 2008.  Mubarak Departs  Treasuries pared their weekly losses after Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  resigned yesterday, reversing plans
outlined in a speech Feb. 10 that drew calls for continued and
larger protests in Cairo. Mubarak stepped down and handed power
to the military, bowing to the demands of protesters who have
occupied central Cairo for the past three weeks demanding an end
to his 30-year rule.  “The Egyptian story is adding a bit to the market because
there is still a lot of uncertainty about what the situation
will look like going forward,” said Christian Cooper, head of
U.S. dollar derivatives trading in New York at Jefferies & Co.,
one of the 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Treasury auctioned $72 billion in notes and bonds last
week. The bid-to-cover ratio at the 30-year bond sale on Feb.
10, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount
of securities offered, was 2.51, compared with the average at
the last 10 auctions was 2.68.  Three-Year Notes  The U.S. sold $32 billion of three-year debt on Feb. 8 at a
yield of 1.349 percent, the highest since May. It sold $24
billion of 10-year securities on Feb. 9 at a yield of 3.665
percent, the highest since April and a record 71.3 percent
awarded to indirect bidders.  The U.S. Treasury Department will sell $9 billion in 30-
year inflation-indexed bonds Feb. 17.  U.S. government securities maturing in more than a year
have handed investors a 1.5 percent loss this month, among the
worst performers of 26 sovereign-bond markets tracked by the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  offered a report
that said the U.S. should “ultimately wind down” government-
sponsored secondary mortgage market companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . Geithner presented Congress with a set of options
for weaning the $11 trillion mortgage market from its dependence
on the government, while calling for changes to be phased in
“responsibly and carefully” to avoid economic disruptions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  