-- 
Republican Presidential Hopefuls Criticize Obama, Woo Activists

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-02-12T18:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/republican-presidential-hopefuls-criticize-obama-woo-activists.html
Nearly a dozen Republicans weighing
a bid for president criticized  Barack Obama , saying the
Democratic president is weakening the country’s economy, during
a three-day conference of party activists.  “The administration’s policies have been more hostile to  job creation  than any other I’ve ever seen,” said Mississippi
Governor Haley Barbour. “We can’t put America on the right
track until we elect a Republican president in 2012.”  Barbour, 63, joined other would-be contenders for the
Republican presidential nomination in wooing activists at the
annual  Conservative Political Action  Conference. Event
organizers said more than 11,000 people attended the gathering.  The conference gives Republicans a chance to differentiate
themselves and test potential primary messages. It culminates in
an unscientific presidential straw poll. Arizona Senator  John McCain , 74, skipped the conference and was ranked fifth in the
poll in 2007, the year before he became the Republican nominee.  Still, potential candidates work to build support at the
gathering. An organization affiliated with Texas Congressman  Ron Paul ’s presidential campaign, Campaign for Liberty, offered
discounted tickets and lodging for the conference.  Paul, 75, who won the straw poll of potential candidates at
last year’s conference, got a boisterous reception for his
speech. He attracted a following among some young voters in his
unsuccessful bid for the Republican nomination in 2008.  “I’m glad to see the revolution is continuing,” he said
to loud cheers.    Donald Trump   Prospective candidates who spoke on Feb. 10 included
Representative  Michele Bachmann , 54, of Minnesota and former
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , 67, of Georgia and former Senator
Rick Santorum, 52, of  Pennsylvania .  Billionaire real estate developer Donald Trump, 64, created
a buzz when he told the conference he would “decide by June”
whether to enter the race.  Among other potential Republican White House contenders,  Indiana  Governor Mitch Daniels, 61, addressed the conference’s
dinner yesterday and South Dakota Senator John Thune, 50, spoke
yesterday afternoon.  Daniels avoided direct criticism of Obama while
highlighting his own fiscal record in Indiana and casting the
nation’s burgeoning national debt as a national security
dilemma.  Red-Ink Menace  “We face an enemy lethal to freedom,” Daniels said. “It
is the new ‘Red Menace,’ this time consisting of ink.” He said
“if our nation goes over a financial Niagara, we won’t have
much strength and ultimately we won’t have much peace.”  Former governors Tim Pawlenty and  Mitt Romney , two of the
more active unofficial Republican White House contenders, spoke
yesterday.  Unlike many of the other prospective presidential
contenders addressing the conference, Pawlenty, 50, and Romney,
63, are actively competing for donors and building staff in the
states with early nominating races next year.  In their conference appearances, the two former governors
were seeking to win over skeptical Tea Party activists, who
prefer party insurgents such as Sarah Palin, 46, the 2008
Republican vice presidential nominee who didn’t attend the
conference.  “Romney has a base here, but it’s a thin base,” said
David Keene, former president of the  American Conservative
Union , which organizes the conference. “He’s trying to augment
that.”  Most-Improved Candidate  Keene said Pawlenty was making some inroads. “If there
were a most-improved candidate, it would be Pawlenty,” he said.  Focusing on the top priorities of the fiscally conservative
Tea Party movement, Pawlenty said Republicans should reject, as
part of a push to reign in “reckless”  government spending , a
soon-to-come administration request for an increase in the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit.  In an appeal to social conservatives, he said, “We, as a
nation, must move towards God, not away from Him,” he said.  Romney concentrated on Obama’s economic record, saying the
president failed in his response to America’s “job crisis”
during his first two years in office. Romney called the nation’s
unemployment rate, which stood at 9 percent in January, a
“moral tragedy.”  He touted the business experience he gained as co-founder
of the Boston-based private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC. “I
wouldn’t be asking Timothy Geithner how the economy works or  Larry Summers  how to start a business. I know,” Romney said.  Geithner serves as Obama’s treasury secretary; Summers
recently stepped down as director of the administration’s
National Economic Council.  Pawlenty’s critique of Obama included a call for repeal of
the health-care overhaul the president pushed into law last
year. Romney, who during his 2003-2007 gubernatorial term
spearheaded enactment of a state law comparable to the national
one, didn’t mention that issue.  Romney’s avoidance of the health-care issue left some of
his own supporters grumbling. He’s has faced increased pressure
over the issue amid court rulings in Florida and  Virginia 
finding unconstitutional the law’s requirement that individuals
carry health insurance.  Christopher Kniesler, a political consultant from  New
Jersey  who wore a Romney sticker, said after the speech that he
was heading to talk with Romney’s advisers about the matter.  “That’s going to be the biggest criticism hanging around
his head,” he said.  Attacks on the national law Republicans have dubbed
“Obamacare” were mainstays in the speeches by others. “The
individual mandate in Obamacare is a page right out of the Jimmy Carter playbook,” Pawlenty said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in  Washington  at   llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 