-- 
`Stunning' Rooney Goal Gives United 2-1 Win Over City in Manchester Derby

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-02-12T19:36:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/rooney-s-wonder-goal-gives-united-a-2-1-win-over-city-in-manchester-derby.html
Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  described as “absolutely stunning” the Wayne Rooney
goal that secured a 2-1 win over  Manchester City .  Rooney’s overhead kick in the 78th minute helped United
maintain a four-point lead in English soccer’s Premier League
and rebound from last week’s first loss of the season, to
Wolverhampton.  “It was unbelievable,” Ferguson told Sky Sport. “I
haven’t seen anything like it before, that’s for sure. It was
absolutely stunning, unbelievable.”  Rooney said it may have been his finest goal.  “I saw it come in the box and thought ‘why not?’” he told
Sky. “Nine times out of 10 it goes over the crossbar or goes
wide. Today it ended up in the top corner.”  United has 57 points, four more than Arsenal, which beat
Wolverhampton 2-0. City remains third with 49 points.  “I think a fantastic goal decided this game,” City
manager  Roberto Mancini  told Sky. “We lost a game we didn’t
deserve to lose.”  West Ham rallied to tie West Brom 3-3 to move out of last
place, Tottenham defeated Sunderland 2-1 and Birmingham beat
Stoke 1-0. Liverpool and Wigan tied 1-1, as did Blackpool and
Aston Villa, while the game between Blackburn and Newcastle
finished 0-0.  First Attempt  Manchester City controlled play in the first half at Old
Trafford and could have taken an early lead as  David Silva  shot
wide of the far post in the fourth minute after being alone
against goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar. Nani put the host’s first
attempt over the crossbar and  Darren Fletcher  had his header
caught by City’s  Joe Hart .  It was Nani who gave United the lead four minutes before
halftime when he ran onto a pass from  Ryan Giggs , took a touch
in the area and slid a shot inside the post for his ninth league
goal of the season.  City brought  Shaun Wright-Phillips  and Edin Dzeko on in the
second half and the two, along with a bit of fortune, helped tie
the game in the 65th minute.  Wright-Phillips sent a cross from the right side toward
Dzeko, whose shot deflected off the back of Silva and past van
der Sar.  Unbeaten Run  Rooney won the game with 12 minutes remaining. Nani lofted
a ball from the right side and Rooney, with his back to the goal,
sent his right-footed overhead kick into the corner of the net
which Hart had no chance to save.    Robin van Persie  had both goals as Arsenal beat Wolves to
keep pace with United. The victory extends the Gunners’ unbeaten
run to nine games, tops in the Premier League.  Demba Ba scored twice as West Ham came back from a 3-0
halftime deficit to tie West Brom. The point lifts the Hammers
over Wolves and off the bottom of the standings.  Nikola Zigic’s goal in injury time lifted Birmingham past
Stoke. Elliott Grandin’s goal canceled out a score from Gabriel Agbonlahor as Blackpool tied  Aston Villa , which finished with 10
men after Jean Makoun received a red card in the 70th minute.  Wigan tied Liverpool on a goal from Steve Gohouri, ending
the Reds’ four-match winning run. Newcastle is winless in five
games with its goalless draw at Blackburn.  Niko Kranjcar and  Michael Dawson  scored as Tottenham beat
Sunderland to move above Chelsea into fourth place. Tottenham
becomes the sixth club in Premier League history to record 1,000
points.  Bolton hosts Everton in tomorrow and Chelsea visits Fulham
in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  