-- 
U.S. Mortgage Finance Overhaul May Create New Winners, Losers

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-02-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/u-s-mortgage-finance-overhaul-may-create-new-winners-losers.html
The Obama administration’s proposal
for reducing the government’s role in housing finance may pit  Wall Street  against real estate groups as it restructures the
$11 trillion mortgage market.  The report released yesterday by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  offers three options for attracting private capital
back into housing finance while shrinking the role played by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored enterprises
that have been sustained by U.S. aid since September 2008. The
debate over the options may create new sets of winners and
losers, according to stakeholders on both sides of the issue.  Banking-industry groups praised the proposals for laying
out steps that could increase their share of a market long
dominated by the two GSEs. At the same time, community banks,
real estate agents, builders and consumer groups that have
benefited from the government support rallied to fight changes
that would shift power to big banks.  “The basic thrust of it is that we’ve got to reduce the
federal government’s role in the mortgage market,” said Bert Ely, a banking consultant based in Alexandria, Virginia. “The
challenge is how far can you go in that direction, how fast can
you go, and what should be the residual government role?”  Groups opposed to expanding the power of big banks said the
report’s most extreme privatization options should be off the
table. Another option, which would privatize the guarantee
function of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac , would only work
depending on how it is written, they said.  Privatization Plan  Under the privatization plan, the government would regulate
insurers and, in exchange for a premium, provide a backstop in
the event of a market failure. The approach, which follows the
contours of plans submitted by groups including the Financial
Services Roundtable, could give big banks the opportunity to
move into a niche that would be vacated by the GSEs.  “They’re saying let’s just move everything over to the
private sector,” said  Lawrence Yun , senior vice president of
the National Association of Realtors, who joined others in the
real estate industry in opposing the proposal.  The administration’s emphasis on expanding privatization,
won praise from  Tom Deutsch , executive director of the American
Securitization Forum, who cited short-term proposals that would
reduce the market share of  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, which now
own or insure almost 97 percent of mortgage bonds.  “We are encouraged by the plan’s objective of creating a
level playing field through an increase in guarantee fees that
removes Fannie’s and Freddie’s capital advantages,” Deutsch
said. “This unfair advantage has restricted the ability of
private capital to fully support our housing finance system and
shifted that burden to the American taxpayer.”  Benefits and Risks  The report acknowledged the benefits and risks of
privatization, saying it would provide the “lowest-cost access
to mortgage credit” among the three options by attracting
investors while creating the risk that it could “artificially
inflate the value of housing assets.”  A private system also doesn’t necessarily protect
taxpayers, the report said.  If oversight is lax or government premiums are underpriced,
“private actors in the market may take on excessive risk and
the taxpayer again could bear the cost,” the report said.  That concern is one shared by the real estate industry.  “The banking industry is so highly concentrated that it’s
very vulnerable to tacit collusion, meaning consumers will be
paying excess fees because of high concentration,” Yun said in
an interview.  However lawmakers and the administration decide to proceed,
banks, industry and consumer groups will have time to weigh in.  During a conference call with reporters yesterday,
Geithner estimated it would take “five to seven years” to
transition to the new system of housing finance.  One of the most important things to do during the debate
“is to make sure that this is a smooth, deliberate transition
that doesn’t disrupt the functioning of the mortgage market,”
Randy Snook, executive vice president of SIFMA, said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net 
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  