-- 
U.S. Stocks Rise After Mubarak's Resignation, Gain in Consumer Confidence

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J e n n i f e r   A .   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-02-12T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/u-s-stocks-rise-for-a-second-week-on-m-a-retail-sales-egypt.html
U.S. stocks rose for a second week,
sending benchmark indexes to 32-month highs, as takeovers, a
rebound in retail sales and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak’s
resignation bolstered investors’ optimism.    American Express Co . advanced 6.7 percent to lead gains in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  Walt Disney Co . surged 6.6
percent as the world’s biggest theme-park operator posted
higher-than-estimated quarterly profit. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index consumer companies reliant on Americans’ discretionary
spending climbed 3.5 percent as confidence rose.  NYSE Euronext 
soared 17 percent after saying it was in talks to be purchased
by  Germany ’s  Deutsche Boerse AG .  The S&P 500 rose 1.4 percent to 1,329.15. The Dow added
181.11 points, or 1.5 percent, to 12,273.26. Both have advanced
to the highest levels since June 2008.  “While the economy is doing well and CEOs are becoming
more optimistic, the highlight of the week for us was the
geopolitical events in Egypt, which couldn’t have worked out
much better,” said  Philip Orlando , New York-based chief equity
market strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which manages
$358.2 billion. “M&A continues to be a positive for the
market.”  The  S&P 500  has advanced 5.7 percent this year as better-
than-forecast economic data and company earnings boosted
confidence in the economic recovery, while the  Federal Reserve 
continued its program of buying $600 billion in Treasuries.
There have been 2,707 takeovers announced globally this year,
totaling $226.2 billion, a 21 percent increase from the $186.9
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Elevated Unemployment  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the economic
recovery has strengthened while unemployment will remain high
“for some time.” His comments back speculation the central
bank is waiting for further proof of a durable pickup in the job
market as it presses ahead with its quantitative easing plan.  Initial claims for unemployment insurance fell to the
lowest since July 2008. First-time applications for jobless
benefits dropped by 36,000 to 383,000, less than the 410,000
projected by economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Stocks erased their losses yesterday as Mubarak said he
would step down as president of Egypt and handed power to the
military, bowing to the demands of protesters that have occupied
central Cairo for the past three weeks demanding an end to his
30-year rule. The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF , an exchange-
traded fund that holds Egyptian shares, rallied following the
announcement and posted a weekly gain of 4.2 percent.  Reaction to Egypt  “The noise coming out of Egypt as of this moment anyway
has not disrupted global trade production, the U.S. economy or
credit markets to unseat what’s been a fairly decent market for
risk assets,” said Kevin Caron, a market strategist in Florham
Park, New Jersey, at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which has about $90
billion in client assets.  U.S. retail sales increased 2.2 percent in the week ended
Feb. 5 after four straight declines, the International Council
of Shopping Centers said. The numbers are based on the ICSC-
Goldman Sachs Weekly Chain Store Sales Index. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index of consumer
sentiment for the month climbed to 75.1 from 74.2 in January,
the highest level in eight months as decreasing unemployment
lifted Americans’ spirits.  American Express, the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, gained 6.7 percent to $46.75. An index of companies
that rely on consumer discretionary spending rallied 3.5
percent, the biggest gain among 10 industries in the S&P 500.
Retailers climbed 3.4 percent, collectively, for the fifth-
biggest advance when the S&P 500 is divided into 24 groups.  Theme Parks, ESPN  Walt Disney gained 6.6 percent, second-most in the Dow, to
$43.41. The company said first-quarter profit rose 54 percent,
beating estimates, after an increase in attendance at its theme
parks and advertising sales growth at the ESPN sports channel.
Sales rose 10 percent to $10.7 billion, also topping estimates.  More than 73 percent of the 348 companies in the S&P 500
that reported results since Jan. 10 have topped analysts’ per-
share profit predictions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Confidence among U.S. small companies rose in January
to the highest level in three years, as the outlook for sales
and profits improved, a survey from the National Federation of
Independent Business found.    McDonald’s Corp . added 2.8 percent to $76.14. The biggest
restaurant chain reported a 5.3 percent rise in comparable-store
sales that topped analysts’ estimates as European sales gained
the most in a year. Analysts projected sales would rise 4.5
percent, according to the median of five estimates.  Healthy Food    Whole Foods Market Inc . soared 13 percent to $59.67. The
largest U.S. natural-goods grocer raised its annual forecasts,
buoyed by freer-spending consumers prepared to pay for healthy
food. Whole Foods projected as much as $1.80 a share in 2011
earnings, compared with a previous estimate of up to $1.71.  Deutsche Boerse said it’s in advanced talks to buy NYSE
Euronext in an all-stock transaction that would create the
world’s biggest exchange operator, accelerating a week of
takeovers that began with  London Stock Exchange Group Plc ’s
acquisition of TMX Group Inc. Shares of NYSE Euronext, operator
of the  New York  Stock Exchange, surged 17 percent to $38.31.  “The political reactions will be interesting to follow,”
said Mike Shea, a managing partner and trader at Direct Access
Partners LLC in New York. “It will be interesting to see what
regulatory hurdles a merger will have to clear in  Europe , and
which members of the U.S. Congress will look at this as losing a
slice of something that is uniquely American and react
accordingly.”  Possible Sale    Big Lots Inc . posted the second-biggest gain in the S&P
500, jumping 22 percent to $41.57. The discount retailer is
working with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . to explore a possible sale
after receiving interest from buyout firms Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC, according to people with
knowledge of the situation.    JDS Uniphase Corp . rose the most in the stock index,
surging 24 percent to $28.16. The computer-networking company
had its share-price estimate increased to $30 from $25 by Stifel
Nicolaus, which said the company’s sales and profit margin will
expand in coming quarters.    Cisco Systems Inc . tumbled 15 percent, the most for a week
since November, to $18.70. The company’s gross margin, the
percentage of profit left after subtracting production costs,
slid to 62.4 percent in the period that ended Jan. 29. That
missed the 63.3 percent average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Cisco forecast profit excluding some items this
quarter of 35 cents to 38 cents a share, less than the 40-cent
average analyst projection.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer A. Johnson in New York at 
 jjohnson156@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 