-- 
U.S.-Afghan-Pakistan Talks Postponed, U.S. Says

-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 
2011-02-12T19:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/u-s-afghan-pakistan-talks-postponed-u-s-says-update1-.html
A U.S.-Afghan-Pakistan meeting
scheduled for Feb. 23-24 has been postponed “in light of the
political changes in  Pakistan ,” State Department spokesman  Philip J. Crowley  said in an e-mailed statement.  Pakistan formed a new cabinet yesterday and Pakistan’s
detention of a U.S. diplomat has raised tensions between the
governments in Washington and Islamabad.  “We remain committed to robust engagement between  Afghanistan , Pakistan and the  United States , as we share many
issues of mutual concern and benefit from being at the same
table,” the U.S. statement said. “We look forward to convening
a very productive trilateral meeting at the earliest
opportunity.”  Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari swore in 22 ministers
yesterday, kicking off the formation of a new cabinet under
opposition pressure to cut  government spending .  The State Department announcement, putting off the meeting
until an unspecified future date, also comes at a moment of
diplomatic tension between the U.S. and Pakistan over the
imprisonment of American diplomat Raymond Davis, who allegedly
shot and killed two men Jan. 27 after what he said was a robbery
attempt in Lahore.  Diplomatic Immunity  While the U.S. has asserted that Davis should be released
because he has diplomatic immunity, that has become a political
issue in Pakistan, where there is public pressure to put him on
trial.  Davis, a U.S. consulate worker in Lahore, didn’t shoot in
self-defense, Lahore’s police chief said yesterday as judge Anik
Anwara ordered Davis held for 14 days of investigation. He also
directed Pakistan’s government to say clearly whether Davis has
diplomatic immunity as the U.S. claims, Pakistan’s GEO
television reported.  The Obama administration, which has urged Pakistan’s
government and army to provide greater help in the war against
Islamic militants in the region, has suspended high-level
discussions with Pakistan over Davis’ case, the Washington Post
reported this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas at   tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  