-- 
Wal-Mart’s Massmart Bid Clears First Antitrust Hurdle

-- B y   N i c k y   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-12T09:39:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-12/wal-mart-s-massmart-deal-recommended-by-competition-commission.html
  Wal-Mart Stores Inc ., the world’s
largest retailer, received clearance from  South Africa ’s
Competition Commission for its $2.3 billion bid for a 51 percent
stake in  Massmart Holdings Ltd .  The commission referred the offer to the country’s
Competition Tribunal and recommended its approval without
conditions, according to an e-mailed statement today from an
external public-relations agency for Johannesburg-based
Massmart. The tribunal makes the final recommendation on
antitrust matters in the country.  “We are delighted that the commission has recognized the
inherent benefits in this proposed transaction for South African
consumers, suppliers, associates, employees and all other
stakeholders,” Doug McMillon, chief executive officer of Wal-
Mart International, said in the statement.  The purchase marks  Bentonville , Arkansas-based Wal-Mart’s
entry into  Africa . It aims to expand internationally to make up
for slowing growth in the U.S., where same-store sales have
fallen for six consecutive quarters. Wal-Mart scaled back a plan
to acquire full control of Massmart after some investment funds
indicated opposition to the offer of 148 rand ($20.34) a share.  The takeover has drawn opposition from labor unions. The
South African Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers’ Union
started an anti-Wal-Mart coalition on Nov. 4, saying the U.S.
retailer would “destroy jobs,” harm local manufacturing and
weaken unions.  The acquisition is Wal-Mart’s second-biggest after the $11
billion takeover of U.K. retailer Asda in 1999. Wal-Mart aims to
use Massmart to pilot its expansion in the sub-Saharan region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicky Smith in Johannesburg at 
 nsmith38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  