-- ‘Dark Knight’ Likely Had Sales of $80 Million, Analysts Estimate
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-22T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/-dark-knight-likely-had-sales-of-80-million-analysts-estimate.html
Warner Bros .’ “The Dark Knight
Rises” probably generated $75 million to $80 million in U.S.
ticket sales its first day, according to box-office analysts, in
a debut marred by violence at a Colorado theater.  The sales, including tickets that were purchased before
gunfire that killed 12 people at a screening in Aurora,
Colorado, early on July 20, mean the movie may take in about
$170 million for the weekend, the estimate of Jeff Bock, an
analyst for Exhibitor Relations Co.  Warner Bros., owned by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , and other
Hollywood studios aren’t reporting official sales figures, with
some issuing statements citing sensitivity to the victims.
Studios typically report figures for weekend sales every Sunday.
Warner, based in Burbank, California, also has curbed promotion
of the movie, one of the year’s most anticipated.  “Out of respect for the victims and their families,  Warner
Bros. Pictures  will not be reporting box office numbers for ‘The
Dark Knight Rises’ throughout the weekend,” Warner Bros. said
in a statement on July 20. “Box office numbers will be released
on Monday.”  Warner Bros. canceled its Paris premiere and some network
TV spots were pulled, people familiar with the situation said.
The studio also scrapped plans for events in Tokyo and Mexico
City, the Los Angeles Times reported, citing a person familiar
with the matter.  Two analysts, Bock and  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com Box-Office, both estimated Friday’s total at as
much as $80 million. Both said projections are difficult because
of the unprecedented circumstances.  No Reporting  “Obviously, with the pre-sales, with a lot of people
already holding their tickets, they were going to see this
movie,” Dergarabedian said.  If the film takes in $170 million, it would rank as the
second-best three-day debut, edging ahead of $169.2 million
taken in by the final “Harry Potter” film, Bock said.
“Marvel’s the Avengers,” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , had the best
opening of all time in May with sales of $207.4 million.  None of the studios followed their usual practice of
releasing Friday box-office sales to reporting services, Bock
and Dergarabedian said.  The estimates for July 20 for “ Dark Knight ” included
$30.6 million in midnight sales.  Gas Mask  Before the violence at the  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK)  theater
in Colorado, the movie was expected to generate $170 million to
$198 million in its first three days, the estimates of
researchers Fizziology and Boxoffice.com.  In the film, Batman comes out of retirement to battle Bane,
a powerful villain who incites class warfare in an attempt to
take control of Gotham.  Television ads show a masked Bane declaring his plan to
“liberate” Gotham City and explosions that destroy a football
stadium. Bane is also seen confronting Batman on the streets of
Gotham.  Christian Bale  reprises his role as Batman and  Tom Hardy 
portrays Bane. The film also features  Anne Hathaway  as Catwoman.
Cast members from the previous films, including  Gary Oldman ,
 Michael Caine  and  Morgan Freeman , also return.  The film features a grim and despairing tone.  Set eight years after “The Dark Knight,” Wayne is hobbled
by his many injuries from previous battles and is facing
financial ruin with the near collapse of his Wayne Industries
empire. Banes’ populist appeal to pit rich against poor prompted
some critics to draw comparisons to the “Occupy” movement.  The shooter in Aurora wore a gas mask, similar to a mask
worn by Bane in the film, and tossed tear gas into the
auditorium before firing at 12:30 a.m., according to witness
accounts. James Holmes, 24, was arrested later in the parking
lot of the shopping mall that housed the theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  