-- Alibaba’s Tmall Woos U.S. Retailers as Chinese Buy Brands
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-07-21T00:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/alibaba-s-tmall-woos-u-s-retailers-as-chinese-buy-brands.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s Tmall
online shopping unit aims to add more overseas retailers as
demand for U.S.-branded goods from its users in China increases.  The Chinese company met business owners at seminars in
Chicago, Detroit, Atlanta and  Seattle  this month as part of the
unit’s first U.S. tour to discuss opportunities to sell goods to
consumers in China via the Internet, said Janet Wang, head of
international business development at Tmall.  Tmall seeks to add more overseas retailers to its website
after signing brands including Levi Strauss & Co.,  Gap Inc. (GPS) , and
Adidas AG to open online stores. The Alibaba unit, fighting to
gain users against rivals including 360buy Jingdong Mall, is
widening the range of foreign goods on its site as economic
growth in China enables more consumers to afford them.  “Demand for foreign brands remains on the up and up,”
Wang said yesterday in an e-mail interview, without providing
figures. “Our goal is to continue to fulfill these consumer
demands and provide our users with the most comprehensive brand
and product selection as possible.”  Tmall, which operates online storefronts for retailers and
doesn’t sell its own goods, accounted for 37 percent of China’s
business-to-consumer online commerce market in the first-quarter,
according to research company Analysys International. It leads
second-placed 360buy, which has a 17 percent market share,
according to Analysys.  Alibaba Group, part-owned by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , is China’s
biggest e-commerce company, operating sites including Tmall,
Taobao.com and Alibaba.com.  “As Chinese consumers become more sophisticated, they are
becoming more open minded to foreign brands,” Wang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  