-- Maruti Suzuki Imposes Lockout at India Plant After Riot
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-22T09:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/maruti-suzuki-imposes-lockout-at-india-plant-after-riot.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
country’s largest automaker, locked out workers at a factory
near New Delhi and ruled out restarting production until a probe
is completed into rioting that led to the death of a manager.  The carmaker, majority owned by  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) , won’t
import cars to make up for the loss of production at its Manesar
factory, which accounts for about 40 percent of its total
capacity, Chairman R.C. Bhargava told reporters in New Delhi
yesterday. He didn’t say how long the investigation would take
or when workers would be allowed to return to the plant. The
latest production stoppage is the fourth in the past year at
Manesar factory.  All 3,000 union workers at the plant will be charged with
murder and attempted murder for the mob attack that caused the
death of Awanish Kumar Dev, a human resources general manager,
and at least 70 injuries, Indian police said July 19. The
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, one of
the nation’s two largest business lobbies, said yesterday that
the violence threatens  India ’s investment reputation.  “It’s a matter of deep concern for a country that seeks to
project itself as offering an environment that is business-
friendly,” R.V. Kanoria, president of the lobby, said in an e-
mailed statement, calling for authorities to deal “firmly”
with the situation.  ‘Trust Deficit’  Maruti has no plans to relocate the plant out of Manesar in
northern Haryana state, Bhargava said. A factory at Gurgaon,
about 12 miles northeast of Manesar, is operating at full
capacity, he said. Suzuki has said production facilities weren’t
damaged by the unrest.  “This is bad news for Maruti as it may take as little as
five days or as long as 50 days to identify the rogue elements
in the workers who did this,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an
analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai. “It
also shows the trust deficit between the management and the
workers. This lockout comes at a very efficient factory that
produces some of Maruti’s most popular models.”  The lockout comes amid a slowdown in car sales in India as
high gasoline prices and  interest rates  deter buyers. The
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  on July 10 cut its
forecast for growth to a range of 9 percent to 11 percent for
the year ending March 31, 2013, from an estimate of 10 percent
to 12 percent given in April.  Policy Paralysis  India’s  economic growth  slowed to the weakest in almost a
decade in the quarter ended March and the rupee slumped to a
record low amid a paralysis in policy making that has hurt
efforts to spur investment as a global recovery falters. The
government’s recent setbacks include the December suspension of
plans to let foreign companies such as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. open
supermarkets, and abandoning of plans to allow investment in the
pension and insurance industries.  The rioting at Maruti “may definitely impact the
investment in India in the short run,”  Malvinder Singh ,
chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry’s northern
region, said on July 20.  Narendra Modi , chief minister of India’s Gujarat state,
who’s on a visit to  Japan  from today, may meet Suzuki officials
at Hamamatsu, the  Press Trust of India  reported July 20, citing
officials it didn’t identify. Modi’s visit has fueled
speculation that he would convince Maruti Suzuki to consider a
bigger plant than the 250,000-unit it has announced in the state,
the  news agency  said.  Gujarat Investment  Maruti’s board in October approved buying as much as 1,400
acres (567 hectares) of land for future expansion in Gujarat,
where  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  and Ford Motor Co.
either have plants or are building factories.  Gujarat’s Minster of State for Industries Saurabh Patel
said media reports that Maruti may shift parts of its Manesar
plant to the state was “far from truth and a figment of
imagination.” Maruti’s decision to invest in Gujarat was made
long ago, he said in a statement on government’s website.  Maruti and the workers’ union have blamed each other for
the Manesar incident.  According to Maruti, the dispute began July 18 after a
worker beat up a supervisor on the shop floor. The union then
prevented management from taking disciplinary action, blocking
managers from leaving the factory after work, Maruti Suzuki said.
Workers attacked managers after talks to resolve the dispute
failed, with employees setting property on fire and ransacking
offices, according to the company.  Violence, Arson  The workers’ union has said it was keen to have a dialogue
with the company to resolve the matter and that workers were
attacked by bouncers working for Maruti while discussions were
ongoing with guild leaders.  “Following the incidents of violence and arson at the
Manesar facility, the management believes that if employees are
asked to report for work at the facility, their lives will be
endangered,” Maruti said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Ram Meher Singh, president of the Maruti Suzuki Workers
Union, and Sarabjeet Singh, the general secretary, could not be
reached for comments as their mobile phones were switched off.  Maruti  shares  had their biggest drop in almost two years on
July 19, falling 8.9 percent following the violence. On July 20,
the stock closed up 2.7 percent at 1,147.50 rupees in Mumbai.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  