-- Asian Stocks Post Weekly Climb Amid China Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-07-21T00:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/asian-stocks-post-weekly-climb-amid-china-stimulus-speculation.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark gauge posting its largest weekly gain this month, amid
speculation China and the U.S. will do more to boost growth in
the world’s two largest economies.  China Railway Construction Corp. (1186)  surged 6.2 percent in Hong
Kong, leading gains among infrastructure stocks.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  advanced 2.9 percent in Sydney as rising commodity prices
boosted the earnings outlook for the world’s biggest mining
company.  ZTE Corp. (763) , China’s second-biggest maker of
telecommunications equipment, slumped 16 percent after saying
first-half profit may have dropped as much as 80 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 1.2 percent to 116.66,
its largest weekly advance in three weeks. Concern that growth
in China’s economy will slow as Europe’s debt crisis deepens has
dragged down the regional benchmark gauge 9.4 percent from this
year’s peak in February.  “China is the only country where they have more power to
stimulate the economy,”  Pu Yonghao , Hong Kong-based regional
chief investment officer for Asia Pacific at UBS Wealth
Management, said in a Bloomberg TV interview. The Swiss bank
oversees about $1.5 trillion in assets. “We are betting that in
the second half of the year they should be able to turn the
economy around. On a long-term valuation basis we expect some
kind of 10 percent upside by year-end” for Asian equities,
without specifying any particular benchmark.  The MSCI Asia Pacific trades at 11.8 times estimated
earnings, compared with a multiple of 13.3 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 11 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Ready  Shares rose this week after  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  told the Senate that the central bank stood ready for
additional easing to combat high unemployment, with tools that
include further asset purchases and cutting the  interest rate  on
banks’ reserves deposited at the Fed.  “There will be some more action from the Federal
Reserve,” said Ewen Cameron-Watt, chief investment strategist
in London at the BlackRock Investment Institute, part of
BlackRock Inc., which manages about $3.7 trillion of assets.
“The  U.S. economy  remains in a slow-growth environment.”  Gains were limited as reports showed U.S. existing home
sales unexpectedly fell and manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region contracted for a third month, weakening the earnings
outlook for exporters.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  slid 0.6 percent this week
and the broader Topix Index lost 1.7 percent. Of the 1,671
companies on the Topix Index, 209 companies are scheduled to
report earnings next week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News.  Kospi Climbs  South Korea’s Kospi Index increased 0.6 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 2.9 percent, its biggest
weekly gain of the year and close to its highest in two months.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 2.9 percent, while
China’s Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.8 percent.  Shares also rose on easing prospects as swap market
indicators suggested China will cut banks’ reserve requirements
and encourage corporate lending as the cabinet meets to discuss
efforts to revive economic growth.  China has “relatively large” room to boost fiscal
spending to support economic growth, Zhang Peng, a Beijing-based
researcher at the Ministry of Finance, said July 18 in a
telephone interview.  Infrastructure-related stocks surged. China Railway, the
country’s biggest rail builder by market value, jumped 6.2
percent to HK$6.98.  Miners Advance  Metals producers advanced after the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials climbed 3.8 percent
this week.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , the nation’s biggest producer of
the industrial metal, climbed 1.6 percent to HK$17.48.  BHP
Billiton  gained 2.9 percent to A$31.36 after reporting a 15
percent gain in iron ore production.  Gauges of stock volatility fell this week. The  HSI
Volatility Index (VHSI)  retreated 3.8 percent to 18.75, indicating
traders expect a swing of about 5.3 percent on the benchmark
gauge over the next 30 days.  Money managers remained “significantly” underweight
equities and overweight cash in July amid concern of a slowdown
in global growth, according to a Bank of America Corp. survey
July 17 of asset managers who oversee a total of $567 billion
for clients. An underweight recommendation advises holding fewer
shares than are represented in benchmark indexes.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-largest oil
producer, advanced 8.2 percent to A$32.79 after raising its
output forecast as much as 14 percent, citing a stronger-than-
expected start at its A$15 billion ($15.6 billion) Pluto natural
gas project.  ZTE Plunges  ZTE slumped 16 percent to HK$10.50 after the company said
first-half profit may have declined as much as 80 percent.  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)  soared 17 percent to A$4.05 in Sydney
after Australian mining magnate  Nathan Tinkler  offered to buy
out the rest of the coal producer. A group led by Tinkler,
Whitehaven’s biggest shareholder, offered to buy the balance
with a conditional cash bid of A$5.20 a share, the Sydney-based
company said in a July 13 statement after the market closed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  