-- Robot Clears Bombs From Home of Suspect in Movie Killing
-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e ,   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-07-21T21:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/aurora-police-to-disarm-colorado-shooting-suspect-s-apart.html
Police and FBI agents in Aurora,
Colorado, used a robot to disarm a tripwire and clear bombs from
the apartment of James Holmes, the suspect in a shooting that
killed 12, wounded 58 and turned a suburban theater into a death
house.  The FBI sent equipment and technicians from Quantico,
 Virginia , to disarm explosive and incendiary devices without
ruining evidence, said James Yacone, special agent in charge, at
a news conference today.  The “skillfully driven” robot had to neutralize an 
oxidizing agent and fuel just inside the door, then an 
improvised explosive device, additional triggering mechanisms, 
wires and fuses, he said. Agents were still at work, he said.  “This apartment was designed to kill anyone who entered
it,” said Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates. “If you think we’re
angry, sure as hell we’re angry.”  About 11:40 a.m. local time, a fire truck raised its bucket
to a window of the apartment, which is adjacent to a grammar
school. Two helmeted bomb squad members placed a device inside.
The bucket retracted, a fire engine blasted its horn three times
and the explosion went off, sending debris flying from the
window into a parking lot.  Victims Emerge  The shootings about 12:30 a.m. July 20, about a half-hour
into a showing of the new Batman movie, “The Dark Knight
Rises” wounded 58 people in the Denver suburb. The rampage was
the deadliest shooting in  Colorado  since the Columbine High
School massacre in April 1999 and the worst mass shooting in the
U.S. since November 2009, when 13 people were killed at Fort
Hood in  Texas .  Among the dead were Jessica Ghawi, 24, an aspiring sports
journalist; Alex Sullivan, who was celebrating his 27th
birthday; Micayla Medek, 23, of Aurora; and Matt McQuinn, of
Springfield,  Ohio .  U.S. Air Force Staff Sergeant Jesse Childress, also died,
said Lieutenant Colonel Jack Miller, a Pentagon spokesman. The
Navy said that Petty Officer Third Class John Larimer, 27, a
cryptologic technician from Crystal Lake,  Illinois , was killed.  Veronica Moser, 6, also died, and her mother was in
critical condition, the girl’s great-aunt, Annie Dalton, said in
a telephone interview.  ‘Extraordinarily Difficult’  President  Barack Obama  devoted his weekly audio and video
 address  to remembering the victims.  “We will take every step possible to ensure the safety of
all our people,” Obama said. “And we will stand by our
neighbors in Colorado during this extraordinarily difficult
time.”  The shooter opened fire during a lull in the movie after
the opening sequence and threw a pair of tear-gas canisters,
Brandon Axelrod, who was in the theater, said outside the
hospital. Axelrod, 30, said he was treated and released for
minor injuries while his friend, Josh Nowlan, 32, remained in
the hospital with serious injuries.  Moviegoers who fled were more likely to be hit, he said.  The shooter acted deliberately, Axelrod said.  “He knew how to fire without being scared of the gun, I
would say,” he said.  The assailant wore a gas mask, similar to a mask worn by
Batman’s archenemy Bane in “The  Dark Knight ,” witnesses said.  Theater of Destruction  Television commercials show a masked Bane declaring his
plan to “liberate” Gotham City and explosions that destroy a
football stadium. Bane is also seen confronting Batman on the
streets of Gotham.  Authorities seized two .40 caliber pistols, a Glock G22 and
a Glock G23, a Smith & Wesson M&P .223 caliber semiautomatic
rifle and Remington 870 Express Tactical 12-gauge shotgun, said
a federal official unauthorized to speak publicly and who
requested anonymity.  Investigators found that Holmes began buying the weapons in
May at stores in the Aurora region, the official said. The
suspect hadn’t committed offenses that would have raised alarms
during background checks, the official said.  Oates said today that Holmes had received a high volume of
shipments, including ammunition magazines, at his apartment for
months. Frank Fania, a police spokesman, said he purchased
around 6000 bullets over past few months.  Holmes is being held at the Arapahoe County jail pending
his scheduled arraignment at 8:30 a.m. on July 23, Oates said
yesterday.  Quitting School  Holmes was a graduate student in neuroscience at the
University of Colorado-Denver who enrolled in June 2011 and was
in the process of withdrawing, according to a statement from the
school.  New York  City Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly told
reporters yesterday that that the shooter had dyed or painted
his hair red and said something about being the Joker, a Batman
villain, said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the department, in a
telephone interview. Oates, a former New York Police Department
officer, wouldn’t comment when asked about the statement at his
press briefing.  Authorities are trying to confirm that a photo of a man
with orange hair appearing on AdultFriendFinder.com, a dating
and sex-chat website, is Holmes, a law-enforcement official
said. Investigators may have to subpoena the website’s records
to ensure the photo is of Holmes, the official said.  Lindsay Trivento, a spokeswoman for  Boca Raton , Florida-
based  FriendFinder Networks Inc. (FFN) , which owns the website and
publishes Penthouse magazine, didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Oates said a vigil would be held tomorrow evening.  Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper said at today’s news
conference that the state must consider the mass shooting an
aberration.  “This is one event that has no relevance to what people
should expect today or tomorrow or the next day,” he said  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Denver at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  