-- Assured Guaranty Faces $100 Million Loss From Stockton
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-01T19:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/bankrupt-stockton-says-it-revealed-bondholder-offers.html
Stockton, the bankrupt  California 
city, is trying to force bond insurer  Assured (AGO)  Guaranty Corp. to
accept $100 million in losses instead of seeking more
concessions from labor unions, the company said.  The city filed a Chapter 9 bankruptcy on June 28 after
months of talks failed with creditors, including Assured and
labor officials. In a statement today, Assured said that its
claims should be treated the same as those of other creditors,
including any filed by employees.  “Chapter 9 was not intended to be used as a sword to
prefer one class of similarly situated creditor over another,”
according to the statement.  Stockton said it filed for bankruptcy after negotiating
with creditors on an out-of-court restructuring of its debts.
Last month, the city released details of the cuts it sought
during those talks. The federal judge in  Sacramento  who is
overseeing the bankruptcy barred the city from releasing any
counteroffers it received from creditors.  Before Stockton’s filing, Assured suggested areas the city
should consider cutting to avoid bankruptcy, Assured Chief
Executive Officer Dominic J. Frederico said in a telephone
interview today.  ‘All Costs’  Stockton’s financial problems won’t be fixed by trying to
persuade U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Christopher Klein to throw out
much of the city’s long-term debt, Frederico said. Even if all
long-term debt was eliminated, the city would still be left with
unsustainable costs for employee wages, pensions and health
benefits, he said. Those costs are higher for Stockton than for
many of its peers in California, he said.  “You’ve got to look at all the costs,” Frederico said.  Assured, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , fell 1.4 percent to
$11.81 at 3:40 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares earlier dropped as much as 3.1 percent.  Marc Levinson , a bankruptcy lawyer for Stockton, said
Assured never gave the city a formal counter-proposal.  “Instead it’s given us a press release,” he said in a
phone interview today. “Our goal, and I’m sure Assured feels
the same way, is to reach some sort of an agreement.”  Stockton is trying to become the first American city since
the Great Depression to use bankruptcy to successfully force
bondholders to take less than the principal they’re owed. The
California city of Vallejo used its bankruptcy last year to
persuade its main lender to take a lower  interest rate  and a
longer-repayment schedule.  Investment Losses  Stockton used  Assured Guaranty  to insure $125 million in
pension obligation bonds the city issued 2007. The money was
used to plug an unfunded pension liability with a payment to the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System .  After losses on CalPers investments, the $125 million is
now worth less than $100 million, according to California Common
Sense, a nonprofit research institute that advocates for better
transparency in government finances.  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for CalPers, and Marc Levinson,
the lead bankruptcy lawyer for Stockton, didn’t immediately
return calls requesting comment on Assured’s statement.  Stockton “gambled on the stock market” with money from
the  bond issue  and now cannot afford to pay it back in full, the
city said in a  document  describing its proposals to creditors.  The city says it plans to cut payments on the remaining
principal by about 83 percent. That would leave Assured with
about $100 million in losses tied to the debt, the company said.  In its bankruptcy petition, the city listed assets of more
than $1 billion and debt of more than $500 million. The filing
was followed by Mammoth Lakes, California. San Bernardino,
California, which faces similar budget woes, last month voted to
file bankruptcy.  The city will need approval from the judge to impose any
cuts on creditors.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at   schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  