-- Canada Dollar Gains as Stimulus Bets Fuel Risk-Asset Demand
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-21T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/canada-dollar-gains-as-stimulus-bets-fuel-risk-asset-demand.html
Canada ’s dollar rose against its
U.S. counterpart for a second week amid speculation global
central banks will take additional steps to sustain wavering
economic growth, increasing the demand for riskier assets.  The currency gained for a fifth week versus the euro, the
longest streak since January, as the  Bank of Canada  announced it
would hold its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged. Policy makers
indicated interest-rate increases are possible, putting the
central bank at odds with counterparts in the U.S.,  Europe ,
China and  Japan  who have been adding monetary stimulus. Retail
sales rebounded in May, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists before the July 24 report.  “There was a buy-the-rumor, sell-the-fact situation this
week, particularly after the  Federal Reserve  gave just enough
verbiage to keep hopes alive of some sort of accommodation,”
 Greg Moore , a currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said
in a telephone interview.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.2 percent
this week to C$1.0125 per  U.S. dollar  in Toronto. It touched
C$1.2290 against the euro, the strongest since the 17-nation
currency began trading in 1999. One Canadian dollar buys 98.77
U.S. cents.  Market Measure  The loonie fell 0.1 percent this week against nine major
counterparts, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. It has gained 2.4 percent this year, while the U.S.
dollar added 1.4 percent.  Futures traders  reversed their bets  that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed
yesterday.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
1,208 on July 17, compared with net longs of 4,338 the previous
week. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date.  Most  government bonds  gained, pushing yields on benchmark
10-year debt down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
1.61 percent. The 2.75 percent securities maturing in June 2022
rose 20 cents to C$110.35.  Bond Sale  The Bank of Canada plans to sell C$2.6 billion ($2.6
billion) of 10-year debt on July 25. The securities will mature
June 1, 2023.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose for a
second week, adding 5 percent to $91.44 a barrel. The  Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Commodity index  advanced for the fourth
week, gaining 3.6 percent.  Canada’s economic recovery will be hindered by weaker
global demand for exports, policy makers led by Governor  Mark
Carney  said in a statement July 17. The central bank left the
target overnight rate at 1 percent, where it’s been since
September 2010.  “The markets are playing the debasement trade,”  Stephen Gallo , senior foreign-exchange strategist at Credit Agricole SA
in  London , said in a telephone interview. “They’re buying the
currencies that have positive real interest rates and selling
the heck out of the ones with negative real interest rates. It’s
ongoing slippage away from the euro.”  Economic Output  The world’s 10th largest economy won’t reach full output
until the second half of next year, compared with an April
prediction for the first half of 2013, the Ottawa-based central
bank said. The Bank of Canada said in its monetary policy report
July 18 that consumers and business investment will lead modest
economic growth through 2014, while weaker global demand curbs
exports. Canada derives about half its export revenue from raw
materials.  “While global headwinds are restraining Canadian economic
activity, domestic factors are expected to support moderate
growth,” policy makers said in a statement. “Some modest
withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy stimulus
may become appropriate.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress this week the
U.S. central bank is ready to take more steps to boost the
economy, if necessary. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage
and Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
quantitative easing, seeking to cap borrowing costs.  Price Trends  Canada’s  consumer price index  climbed 1.5 percent in June
from a year ago,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa,
compared with a forecast for a 1.7 percent increase in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The core inflation rate,
which excludes eight volatile products, increased 2 percent
after a May gain of 1.8 percent. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast the June core rate would increase 2.3
percent.  On a monthly basis, both the total and core price indexes
fell 0.4 percent in June. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
predicted consumer prices would fall of 0.2 percent in the month
and the core index would decline 0.1 percent.  “Risk sentiment was already weak and this CPI data has put
a damper on the Canadian-dollar bulls,”  Steve Butler , managing
director in Toronto at Scotiabank, said by e-mail. “The market
was leaning on CPI coming in slightly higher than
expectations.”  Retail sales are forecast to have increased 0.5 percent in
May after a 0.5 percent drop in April, according to the median
estimate of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Statistics Canada report in Ottawa.  The loonie will end the year at C$1.02 per U.S. dollar,
according to median estimate of 44 forecasters surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  