-- Cemex Bolstered by U.S. as Sales Fall in Europe, Mexico
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-07-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/cemex-bolstered-by-u-s-as-sales-fall-in-europe-mexico.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) , the largest cement maker
in the Americas, boosted U.S. sales to the highest level in more
than three years, fueling share gains even as revenue fell in
 Mexico  and  Europe .  U.S. sales rose 15 percent in the second quarter to $795
million, the highest quarterly level since the end of  2008 , the
Monterrey, Mexico-based company said yesterday in a  statement .
Cemex also made money in the U.S. for the first time in eight
quarters, earning $27 million before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, a measure of  cash flow  known as
Ebitda.  “We are very positive on the evolution of the market in
the U.S. -- finally, after so many years,” said  Fernando Gonzalez , Cemex’s chief financial officer, on a conference call
with analysts and investors.  Cemex has reported 11 straight quarterly net losses, having
suffered during a U.S. construction recession after the $14.2
billion acquisition in 2007 of Rinker Group Ltd., which
generated more than 80 percent of its sales in the U.S. During
2010, 2011 and the first three months of this year, the U.S. was
the company’s only regional market that lost money in Ebitda
terms.  “There’s a long way to go in the U.S., but it finally
returned to positive territory,” said Esteban Polidura, an
analyst at Deutsche Bank in Mexico City, who has a buy rating on
Cemex shares. “If this trend is confirmed in the third quarter,
there could be an upside surprise.”  Cemex rose 5.9 percent to 9.47 pesos in Mexico City
yesterday, its highest close since April 4. The stock has gained
32 percent this year, the  10th-best performance  on the IPC index
of 35 Mexican stocks.  European Weakness  The cement maker’s second-quarter net loss narrowed to $187
million from a $209 million loss in the same period a year ago.
Sales of $3.86 billion fell 7.2 percent from a year earlier and
trailed the  $4.1 billion median estimate  of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue climbed 20 percent to $529 million in  South
America , Central America and the Caribbean, while falling 14
percent in Mexico, dragged down in part by lower-than-expected
infrastructure spending. Sales dropped 18 percent in Northern
Europe and 20 percent in the Mediterranean region.  While Cemex said more infrastructure spending later this
year or next year may fuel Mexican sales, a weaker outlook in
Europe makes the company’s near-term performance “a levered bet
on U.S. recovery,” said Andrew Casella, an analyst with
Imperial Capital LLC, who has an underperform rating on the
shares.  California, Texas  Casella said Cemex must boost sales in order to drive
additional gains in Ebitda, which rose 11 percent to $702
million in the second quarter. That was the highest level since
the third quarter of 2009, buoyed in part by job cuts over the
last year and lower energy prices.  “You need the U.S. to have a very robust recovery, you
need Colombia and  Panama  to continue to do what they’re doing,”
Casella said in a telephone interview from  New York . “The
weakness in Europe is pretty substantial.”  The sales declines in Europe came a year after a strong
performance there, said Maher Al-Haffar, Cemex’s chief of
communications and investor relations. The company’s Northern
European markets are likely to show “flat to muted growth” in
the second half of the year, he said, while the Spanish business
will probably show continued declines.  Driving Cemex’s U.S. rebound were sales in California and
 Texas , Gonzalez said. In a conference call with reporters, he
said he saw a “sustained recovery since July or August of last
year.”  Debt Load  Continued gains would help Cemex work off its debt, which
totaled $17.6 billion including perpetual notes as of June 30,
down 4.3 percent from its level a year earlier. U.S. sales
peaked at $1.7 billion in the third quarter of 2007, more than
twice the amount in the second quarter of this year.  Cemex’s credit rating was cut seven levels by  Standard &
Poor’s  over a 10-month span ended in August 2009 after the
company added debt to pay for the Rinker acquisition. Cemex
bonds have rallied since it said June 25 that it was negotiating
with banks to extend the maturity of $7.25 billion of loans. A
refinancing offer announced July 5 will expire on Aug. 20.  “We’re quite pleased with the support and response we’ve
been getting from all the financing participants,” Al-Haffar
said. “We’re optimistic that come Aug. 20, we’ll be able to
close on that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  