-- China Foreign Deals Must Obey Market Principles, Regulator Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/china-foreign-deals-must-obey-market-principles-regulator-says.html
Chinese companies making foreign
acquisitions must obey market principles, follow “international
rules of the game” and play down national interest, the
nation’s  foreign-exchange regulator  said.  With China facing a window of opportunity to venture
overseas, businesses must bear in mind return on investment,
costs and cash flow,  Yi Gang , head of the State Administration
of Foreign Exchange, said yesterday at a forum held at Peking
University’s China Center for  Economic Research .  “It would seem unnecessary to remind people about these
basics, but it needs to be done in China,” Yi said.  China, which holds $3.2 trillion of foreign-exchange
 reserves , has been encouraging companies to buy assets overseas
through a “going out” strategy to secure energy and commodity
resources, buy technology and build internationally competitive
businesses. Non-financial outbound investment rose 48 percent in
the first half of the year to $35.4 billion while inbound
investment fell 3 percent, commerce ministry data show.  “Chinese companies have a good chance to venture abroad as
many European and American companies are struggling,” market
valuations have “fallen significantly” and “overseas
regulators are becoming more friendly to Chinese capital,” Yi
said. At the same time, “everyone, whether they be a state
business manager or a private business owner, starts his story
with ’I want to do something for  China ’ or ’I want to buy
resources for the country’,” he said.  Energy Acquisitions  China’s cumulative non-financial outbound investment at the
end of 2011 was $322 billion, according to commerce ministry
data released in January. The country will invest $1 trillion to
$2 trillion overseas in the decade to 2020, the Rhodium Group, a
New York-based firm that researches trade with China, said in a
report last month.  Resources and energy made up 92 percent of China’s overseas
mergers and acquisitions in the first quarter, according to a
separate report from Hong Kong-based A Capital, a private-equity
fund. China Petrochemical Corp. accounted for the largest deal,
with the $4.8 billion purchase of a 30 percent stake in Galp
Energia SGPS SA’s Brazilian unit.  While China Development Bank Corp., a state-owned policy
bank, is at the forefront of providing financing for overseas
deals, the foreign-exchange regulator has an entrusted loans
office that makes foreign-currency loans to state banks and
companies to help their overseas development and acquisitions.  Low-Cost Financing  Some companies not only ask for money, they also want
“very low or even zero  interest rates ,” said Yi, who has a
doctorate in economics from the  University of Illinois . “Some
say ’I am using the money to buy oil for our country, and you
are investing the money in U.S. Treasuries, so you must provide
me very low-cost or even zero-cost financing’,” Yi said,
without naming any companies who have sought financial support.  China, the largest foreign U.S. creditor, boosted its
holdings of U.S. Treasury securities to $1.1696 trillion in May,
data released July 17 show. Yields on five-year Treasury notes
fell to a record low July 20, declining three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 0.57 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  China’s attempts to buy foreign assets have met with
resistance. Opposition from U.S. lawmakers has derailed deals
including a 2005 bid by Cnooc Ltd., the Hong Kong-listed unit of
China’s largest offshore energy explorer, to buy California’s
Unocal Corp. for $18.5 billion. Huawei Technologies Co.,
abandoned a joint bid with Bain Capital LLC for computer-
equipment maker 3Com Corp. in 2008.  Africa Boost  Iceland’s government last year denied Chinese billionaire
investor Huang Nubo permission to buy land in the island’s
north, saying such a transfer of property would be
“incompatible” with the country’s laws.  President  Hu Jintao  announced July 19 the country will
offer $20 billion in new loans to  Africa  for infrastructure and
manufacturing, underscoring China’s push to tap the continent’s
natural resources and deliver its goods to African markets.
China has invested more than $15 billion in Africa with projects
covering 50 countries, Hu said, according to a Xinhua News
Agency report detailing the pledge made at the Forum on China-
Africa Cooperation in Beijing.  Speaking at the same conference,  South Africa ’s President
 Jacob Zuma  warned that Africa’s past experience with  Europe 
“dictates a need to be cautious when entering into partnership
with other economies.”  Yi, who is also a deputy governor of the People’s Bank of
China, said companies need to play down the role of the
government in overseas acquisitions.  “In Africa,  Latin America , Central Asia or our neighboring
countries, the topic of resources is always a highly
politicalized issue, and if you want to buy resources in a high-
profile way, it will easily become a target for local
government, the public, the media and politicians,” Yi said.
“Imagine, if a foreign company wanted to buy a large amount of
land in China, what would be our response?”  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Nerys Avery,  Paul Jarvis   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  