-- China Central Bank Adviser Forecasts Growth Slowdown to 7.4%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/china-third-quarter-growth-may-slow-to-7-4-percent-adviser-says.html
A Chinese central bank adviser
predicted the nation’s expansion may cool to 7.4 percent this
quarter, adding to concern that the world’s second-biggest
economy has yet to bottom out.  Song Guoqing, an academic member of the People’s Bank of
 China  monetary policy committee, also warned that a decline in
producer prices in tandem with consumer inflation may hurt
investment returns of industrial companies, damping their desire
to expand.  China’s economic growth slowed to 7.6 percent in the three
months ended June, the sixth straight deceleration, as  Europe ’s
fiscal crisis sapped exports and a crackdown on property
speculation curbed domestic demand. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
momentum for a recovery isn’t yet in place, according to a July
15 Xinhua News Agency report, and warned two days later that the
labor situation will become more “severe.”  “The consensus is that China’s economic growth rate will
be close to 8 percent in coming months, but I personally am more
pessimistic because there are problems on the export side,”
Song said at a forum in Beijing on July 21. With Europe’s debt
crisis still unfolding, “there is a risk of insufficient
government measures if Chinese exports fall more sharply than
expected in coming months,” he said.  Song’s forecast of a seventh straight quarterly  slowdown  in
growth would match the streak during the global financial
crisis, albeit not as deep. He spoke at a forum held by Peking
University’s China Center for  Economic Research  where he is a
professor specializing in China’s economy and inflation.  Growth Target  A survey by the center of 22 domestic and foreign banks and
institutions had a median forecast for third-quarter expansion
of 7.8 percent, with Song’s estimate the second lowest.  Song, who studied economics at the  University of Chicago 
from 1991 to 1995, was appointed one of three academic advisers
to the central bank in March when the two-year term of his
predecessors ended. He was a “special consultant” to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s China venture, Gaohua Securities Co., from
2007 until he took up his position with the PBOC.  Premier Wen in March set a 2012 growth target of 7.5
percent, down from the 8 percent goal in place since 2005,
saying the nation needs to shift to a more sustainable and
efficient economic model.  China’s overseas sales in the first half of the year rose
9.2 percent, while imports gained 6.7 percent, putting the
government at risk of missing its goal of 10 percent expansion
in trade this year.  ‘Effective Stimulus’  Export growth may slow in coming months, surveys of
manufacturing purchasing managers indicate. A June survey
released July 2 by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed
new export orders fell at their steepest pace in more than three
years while a separate index released by the government a day
earlier showed  overseas demand  contracted for the first time
since January.  China’s economic slowdown “could worsen in the second half
if Beijing is not decisive in unwinding some outdated tightening
measures and carrying out effective stimulus,” Lu Ting, a China
economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong Kong , said in a July
19 note. The government should introduce measures equivalent to
1 percent of gross domestic product, about 470 billion  yuan  ($74
billion), “to fill the gap generated by slowing exports and
fixed-asset investment,” he wrote.  The government will be “prudent” with any stimulus, Song
said. “Prudence can be good as it can avoid big swings,” he
said. “But in an economic slowdown it may also lead to
insufficient measures.”  Willingness to Invest  Signs of weakening domestic demand include falling factory-
gate prices and softening inflation. The  producer price index 
dropped 2.1 percent in June from a year earlier, the fourth
straight decline, while consumer prices rose 2.2 percent, the
smallest increase since January 2010.  The combination has lowered investment returns for Chinese
industrial companies, Song said. “This is not only a problem
for monetary policy, but also the willingness of companies to
invest.”  If the situation persists for a “long period” of one to
two years, it will be “very tough” for companies, Song said.  Angang Steel Co. (347) , China’s largest Hong Kong-traded producer
of the alloy, said July 6 that it probably swung to a loss in
the first half after prices plunged. The cost of steel fell this
month to the lowest in two years.  Reduce Taxes  First-half profit declines at hundreds of Chinese companies
may increase pressure on the government to reduce corporate
taxes as part of efforts to stem the economy’s slowdown. Net
income fell from a year earlier for more than half of 760 listed
companies to report results, worse than in the first six months
of 2009, Societe Generale SA said in a July 19 note.  Moderating  inflation  has given the central bank more room
to ease monetary policy. It announced the second reduction in
 interest rates  in a month on July 5 and has lowered the
proportion of deposits banks must set aside as reserves three
times since it started cuts in November to boost lending.  The central bank is “very likely” to further lower banks’
reserve-requirement ratio, Song said, without saying when he
expects an announcement. It is “very difficult to make a
forecast” on interest rates as the PBOC needs to look at
“timing and conditions,” he said.  China’s borrowing costs are still “relatively high” in
the context of falling producer prices, Song said. The benchmark
one-year  lending rate  is 6 percent after the latest cut and
banks are allowed to offer discounts of as much as 30 percent.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Nerys Avery,  Paul Jarvis   To contact the reporter on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  