-- Colorado Theater Shooting Suspect to Be Arraigned July 23
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s ,   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-21T04:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/colorado-theater-shooting-suspect-to-be-arraigned-july-23.html
James Holmes, the suspect in a
shooting at a  Colorado  theater that left at least 12 people dead
and 58 injured, is scheduled to appear in court for the first
time next week, Aurora Police Chief Dan Oates said.  Holmes, 24, who is being held at the Arapahoe County jail,
is scheduled to be arraigned at 8:30 a.m. on Monday, July 23,
Oates said yesterday at a press conference. Holmes is suspected
of firing into a crowded theater during an early morning showing
of the new Batman movie.  The rampage was the deadliest shooting in Colorado since
the Columbine High School massacre in April 1999 and the worst
mass shooting in the U.S. since November 2009, when 13 people
were killed at Fort Hood in  Texas . If deemed competent to stand
trial and convicted, Holmes may face the death penalty.  Oates said earlier yesterday that the suspect’s apartment
was booby trapped with incendiary and chemical devices and
tripwires. At the press conference later, Oates said entering
the apartment safely was a “very vexing problem” and police
hoped to resolve the issue today.  The gunman bought a ticket for “The Dark Knight Rises,”
entered the theater in the Denver suburb and watched the movie 
for a while before leaving, according to a federal official. 
He went to a white Hyundai parked outside the building, donned 
a helmet and ballistic vest, armed himself and returned to the 
theater.  Four Weapons  Police apprehended Holmes behind the theater in a shopping 
mall after the first 911 call at 12:39 a.m. Three weapons were 
retrieved at the scene. A fourth, a 40-caliber Glock handgun, 
was found in Holmes’s car. Police aren’t sure if that was used 
and it’s unclear how many rounds the suspect fired.  Holmes, who had been a graduate student in neuroscience at
the  University of Colorado , Denver, doesn’t have a criminal
record and there is no indication of a terrorism link at this
point, officials said. Agents with the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  are conducting interviews and following leads
outside the state, said Jim Yacone, the agent in charge of the
FBI’s Denver division.  Capital cases are rare in Colorado, said Craig Silverman, a
former prosecutor in the Denver District Attorney’s Office who’s
now in private practice.  To seek the death penalty prosecutors would need to
establish one statutory aggravating factor, Silverman said. The
case would qualify because it involves multiple victims, some of
them children, he said.  Last Execution  Three men are on the state’s death row, according to the
Colorado Department of Corrections website. The last person
executed in the state was 53-year-old Gary Lee Davis in October
1997.  The case will be handled by the office of District Attorney
Carol Chambers. Chambers sought the death penalty against six
defendants in four cases during a time when only one other
capital case had been filed in the state, according to a 2010
profile by the Denver Post newspaper.  Holmes attended high school in  San Diego , where his parents
and other relatives still live, according to the U-T San Diego
newspaper.  If the reported facts are accurate, the “evidence of
premeditation would be overwhelming” against Holmes, said Sam
Kamin, a law professor at Denver University. In Colorado,
premeditation would be required to charge Holmes with multiple
counts of first-degree murder, Kamin said in yesterday in a
phone interview.  Aggravating Factor  The multiple weapons found,  body armor  and booby-trapping,
“all of this shows it was more than a spur of the moment
killing or series of killings,” Kamin said.  In Colorado, an “aggravating factor” that may lead to a
suspect facing the death penalty is if more than one person is
killed in the same incident, Kamin said. In the theater-shooting
case, another aggravating factor “is that the killings were
heinous and cruel,” Kamin said.  Holmes may present an insanity defense, requiring a
determination that he suffers from a mental disease or defect
rendering him unfit to stand trial, Kamin said.  Alternatively, Holmes’s lawyers will search his personal
history looking for “mitigating factors,” or “what in his
background or character mitigates the case in aggravation,”
Kamin said. Under such circumstances, the defendant would admit
guilt and would claim mitigating factors “not to spare him of
conviction but to save his life,” Kamin said.  Defendant’s History  Relying on that defense, the defendant’s lawyers would
immediately search for any history of abuse, neglect, drug use
or post-traumatic stress, Kamin said.  Oates, the Aurora police chief, said Holmes had a lawyer,
without identifying the attorney.  The rampage is among the deadliest mass shootings in the
U.S. in the past 15 years.  The toll approaches the 15 killed in the 1999 massacre at
Columbine High School in Littleton, about 20 miles (32
kilometers) from Aurora. The deadliest such incident in the U.S.
since then was the  Virginia  Tech rampage of April 2007 in
Blacksburg, Virginia, in which Seung-Hui Cho took 33 lives,
including his own.  Prosecuting such crimes raises the inevitable question of
the defendant’s sanity, according to Richard Kornfeld, who
represented the family of Columbine shooter Dylan Klebold. Any
defense of Holmes would have to initially determine his mental
state, Kornfeld, of Recht Kornfeld PC in Denver, said in a phone
interview.  “Most people think an insanity defense is a hyper-
technical cop-out, as if it existed in the law just to get
around things,” Kornfeld said. “The real analysis from the
lawyer’s perspective is: Can this person assist you in trying to
help them.”  Mass Shootings  In March 2009, 13 people died when Jiverly Wong, an
unemployed immigrant from  Vietnam , opened fire on a civic center
in Binghamton,  New York . He killed himself. That same month,
Michael McLendon fatally shot 10 relatives and bystanders in
what Alabama authorities called the single deadliest crime in
the state’s history. He also committed suicide.  Later that year, Nidal Hasan, a U.S. Army major, allegedly
shot and killed 13 people at Fort Hood in Texas. Hasan, who
survived and is awaiting trial, had been communicating by e-mail
with Anwar al-Awlaki, a U.S.-born radical cleric who was part of
al-Qaeda in Yemen. Al-Awlaki was killed in a U.S. drone strike
last year.  Giffords Shooting  Six people died in January 2011, when Jared Lee Loughner
allegedly went on a rampage in Tucson,  Arizona , at a community
meeting organized by U.S. Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , who
survived a head wound sustained in the incident. Loughner has
pleaded not guilty to murder and attempted murder.  Most recently, One Goh was charged with multiple counts of
murder for the lethal shooting of seven people at a college in
Oakland,  California , in April.  Outside the U.S., 77 people died a year ago this week in
 Norway  in twin attacks by Anders Behring Breivik.  Motivations behind the attacks can vary, when they are
discernible at all.  The Columbine shooters, Klebold and Eric Harris, who
committed suicide after the assault, were motivated by thoughts
of glorious suicide, revolution and vengeance for petty slights,
according to Dave Cullen’s book “Columbine.” Harris bragged in
his journal about “topping” Timothy McVeigh, who killed 168
people in the 1995 bombing of a federal building in  Oklahoma ,
Cullen said.  Norwegian Camp  Breivik, who’s fighting to be found sane, has said the
murders were “gruesome but necessary” to fight
multiculturalism and the spread of Islam. Most of his victims,
some as young as 14, were attending a Labor Party youth camp.  Wong, who allegedly fired 99 rounds at the upstate New York
civic center where he was studying English, sent a letter to a
local television station accusing police of harassing him for
two decades.  Loughner, the former college student accused of attacking
the Giffords gathering in Arizona, was diagnosed with
schizophrenia. He has been undergoing psychiatric treatment and
forced medication to render him competent to stand trial.  McLendon, the Alabama shooter, left behind a letter
describing “ill feelings” toward his family. A self-proclaimed
survivalist, he carried two assault rifles, a shotgun and a
handgun and fired at least 125 rounds during his rampage. He
shot his mother first, then her four dogs, before setting them
on fire.  The Virginia Tech shooter, Cho, in a videotaped manifesto,
cited grudges against the world and said he was inspired by past
U.S. school shootings, of which perhaps the most famous was
Columbine.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  