-- Euro at 12-Year Low Versus Yen on Crisis; Dollar Drops on Fed
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-21T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/euro-at-12-year-low-versus-yen-on-crisis-dollar-drops-on-fed.html
The euro fell for a fourth straight
week against the yen, touching the lowest level in almost 12
years, as signs the  European debt crisis  is worsening damped
demand for the shared currency.  The dollar dropped against most major peers as investors
added to bets the  Federal Reserve  will take new steps to
stimulate economic expansion that may debase the currency. Data
next week is forecast to show U.S. growth slowed. Australia’s
dollar climbed as implied  volatility  fell to an almost five-year
low and traders sought higher yields, while the euro slid even
as European officials approved an aid package for Spanish banks.  “Uncertainty has increased in the region, giving investors
another reason to shun the euro,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst
in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a telephone interview. “There’s an
underlying hope that we could see another round of global
stimulus, which is giving investors a reason to pile into
higher-yielding assets.”  The 17-nation currency fell 1.6 percent to 95.43 yen
yesterday in  New York , from 96.98 yen on July 13. It touched
95.35 yen, the weakest since November 2000. The euro declined
for a third week versus the dollar, losing 0.8 percent to
$1.2157 and reaching $1.2144 yesterday, its weakest since June
2010. The yen advanced for a fourth week against the dollar, its
longest winning stretch in a year, gaining 0.9 percent to 78.49.  Net Shorts  Futures traders added to bets the euro will fall against
the dollar, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data showed.
The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 167,249 on July 17,
compared with net shorts of 165,705 a week earlier. Net shorts
reached a record 214,418 June 8.  The euro sank to the lowest level since 2008 versus the
pound and the weakest on record against the Australian dollar as
Spanish borrowing costs approached a euro-era high, fueling
speculation Europe’s fiscal turmoil will broaden. The currency
remained above its lifetime average of $1.2087, calculated from
Jan. 1, 1999, when it began trading, through yesterday.  European finance ministers’ approval yesterday of as much
as 100 billion euros ($122 billion) of aid for Spanish banks
failed to keep yields on  Spain ’s 10-year government debt from
rising above 7 percent, the threshold level for global bailouts
of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
forecast a second year of recession and Valencia became the
first region to say it would seek a rescue from the nation.  Yield Gap  Ten-year Spanish  bond yields  climbed to 7.284 percent
yesterday, almost matching the euro-era record 7.285 percent
they touched a month ago. The difference between Spanish and
German 10-year yields widened to a record 613 basis points, or
6.13 percentage points.  Sterling appreciated 1 percent to 77.83 pence per euro. It
reached 77.71 pence yesterday, the strongest since October 2008.  “The market is more concerned about Spain going down the
same route as Greece, looking for a sovereign bailout,”  Dean Popplewell , an analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading
firm Oanda Corp., said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It
doesn’t paint a rosy picture for  capital markets .”  Greece, where Europe’s debt crisis began in 2009, was the
first euro member to get a rescue package.  Risk Adjusted  The euro’s risk-adjusted loss of 0.69 percent against the
dollar this year was the largest among major currencies, the
Bloomberg Riskless Ranking showed. The Aussie was the fourth-
worst performer, falling 0.16 percent.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Japan’s currency rose versus the greenback as the extra
yield investors receive for investing in U.S. two-year debt
versus  comparable  Japanese  government bonds  dropped, limiting
dollar-denominated assets’ appeal. The yield gap was 10 basis
points yesterday, compared with 28 basis points on March 20.  Demand for refuge from Europe’s financial turmoil drove
government-debt yields to record lows in the U.S., the U.K.,
 Canada ,  France ,  Germany  and the Netherlands this week.  The yen climbed 8.6 percent over the past three months
versus nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the best performance. The euro
slumped 5.2 percent, the worst. The U.S. and Australian dollars
each gained 4.1 percent.  Bernanke ‘Prepared’  The greenback fell against most major counterparts after
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reiterated to Congress this week
policy makers are “prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery.” The Fed
bought $2.3 trillion of securities from 2008 to 2011 in two
rounds of a tactic called quantitative easing.  Growth in U.S. gross domestic product slowed to 1.4 percent
from April through June, a Bloomberg News survey forecast before
the Commerce Department reports the data July 27. The figure
compares with 1.9 percent in the first quarter and 3 percent in
the last three months of 2011. Data this week showed unexpected
drops in retail sales and Philadelphia-region manufacturing.  “The markets are inching toward expectations that the Fed
will have to do something in terms of a policy initiative,
whether that’s QE3 or something else,” Robert Sinche, global
head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said on July 19.
“They’re moving in that direction, which is more broadly
dollar-negative.”  Aussie Climbs  Australia’s dollar was the best-performing major currency,
rallying 1.5 percent to $1.0378 and gaining 0.6 percent to 81.46
yen. The Aussie rose to A$1.1705 per euro yesterday, a record.  The  implied volatility  of three-month options on Group of
Seven currencies touched 8.32 percent yesterday, the least since
November 2007, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. measure showed. Lower
volatility makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates more attractive because the risk in such trades is
that market moves will erase profits. The average over the past
five years is 12.4 percent.  Australia’s cash target rate is 3.5 percent, while the U.S.
benchmark rate is zero to 0.25 percent.  South Africa’s rand weakened against the greenback after
the nation’s central bank unexpectedly cut its key  interest rate 
on July 19 to 5 percent, from 5.5 percent. The rand declined 0.3
percent to 8.2868 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  