-- IOC Group Will Go to Munich, Mark 1972 Israeli Athlete Slayings
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-21T21:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/ioc-group-will-go-to-munich-mark-1972-israeli-athlete-slayings.html
International Olympic Committee head
 Jacques Rogge  said he’ll lead a delegation to an airbase in
Munich to mark the day when 11 members of the Israeli team were
murdered by terrorists 40 years ago.  Speaking in  London  today, Rogge, said he didn’t think a
moment of silence at this summer’s games in London was
appropriate to mark the 1972 killings, probably the worst event
in Olympic history. The U.S. and Canadian governments were among
those to express support of  Israel ’s call for a period of
silence at the July 27 opening ceremony.  “The opening ceremony is an atmosphere that isn’t fit to
remember such tragic events,” Rogge said at a news conference
in the Olympic Village. He said IOC officials will travel in
September to Furstenfeldbruck airbase, where the majority of
hostages were killed.  A group of Israelis that included five athletes and six
coaches were kidnapped from the athletes’ village by the
Palestinian Black September group on Sept 5. Nine of them, along
with a German police officer, were killed during a failed rescue
attempt at the Munich airport. Two hostages were killed at the
village.  The fate of the hostages was beamed into the homes of
millions of television viewers around the world. The games
continued after being suspended for a few hours during the
crisis.  Rogge said the IOC would pay a “very strong homage and
remembrance” to the dead by traveling to  Germany  on exactly the
same date as the massacre.  The IOC president also was asked what he thought about the
potential of Egyptian athletes pulling out of events if they
were paired with Israeli opponents. Rogge said any snub wouldn’t
be tolerated.  He said athletes would be assessed by the IOC’s medical
team and if they were not deemed to be injured or ill they would
be punished, because refusing to compete against another country
is “forbidden by the Olympic Charter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Park in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  