-- Pfizer Loses Prempro Ruling, Must Pay $10.4 Million
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-07-21T18:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/pfizer-must-pay-10-4-million-in-prempro-lawsuit-court-rules.html
Pfizer (PFE)  Inc. must pay $10.4 million
in damages to a woman who blamed the company’s  Prempro  menopause
drug for her breast cancer, an appeals court said.  Jurors properly awarded Audrey Singleton, who sued Pfizer’s
Wyeth unit over Prempro, compensatory and punitive damages for
the company’s marketing of the drug, the  Pennsylvania Superior
Court  ruled yesterday. Singleton’s lawyers alleged that Wyeth
hid the drug’s health risks and a jury awarded her damages on
those claims in 2010.  “Wyeth’s concerted effort to misdirect physicians from the
dangers of Prempro illustrates the consciousness that its
conduct was not at all reasonable,” the three-judge panel said
in upholding the jury’s findings.  The ruling comes as Pfizer officials are working to settle
lawsuits over the menopause drugs. The drugmaker has settled
about 60 percent of cases over the medicines and paid out $896
million, executives said in a May filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The company has set aside an
additional $330 million to resolve the remaining cases.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms including hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer. At
one point, Pfizer and its units faced more than 10,000 lawsuits
over the medications.  Many Patients  Until 1995, many patients combined Premarin, Wyeth’s
estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden Provera, made by
Pfizer’s Pharmacia & Upjohn unit. Wyeth combined the two
hormones in  Prempro . The drugs are still on the market.  Chris Loder, a spokesman for the company, said “the
evidence in this case does not support the plaintiff’s claims,”
and that the company is “evaluating its next steps.”  Esther Berezofsky, one of Singleton’s lawyers, said she was
pleased the intermediate appellate court backed the jury’s
finding that Wyeth officials misled patients and doctors about
Prempro’s risks.  “The court affirmed that the evidence established Wyeth’s
conscious and deliberate disregard for the cancer risk
associated with Prempro,” Berezofsky said in an e-mailed
statement.  Singleton, a mother of three from  Alabama , began taking
Prempro in August 1997, according to court filings. The results
of a mammogram at that time were normal, her lawyers said during
the trial. She stopped taking the drug in January 2004 after her
 breast cancer  diagnosis.  2010 Verdict  She sued Wyeth, later acquired by Pfizer, in state court in
Pennsylvania where the company has extensive operations. A
Philadelphia jury awarded her $3.4 million in compensatory
damages and $6 million in punitive damages in February 2010. The
 judge  in the case later added almost $1 million in interest to
the verdict.  The appellate panel found Singleton’s lawyers presented
enough evidence that Wyeth officials downplayed or hid Prempro’s
health risks to justify the compensatory award.  Jurors also properly weighed whether Wyeth should be held
liable for punitive damages and reasonably concluded “Wyeth’s
actions were not justifiable,” the judges said in a 30-page
decision.  “There is nothing in the record that illustrates the $6
million punitive damages award was grossly excessively as to
shock our sense of justice,” the panel wrote.  The case is Singleton v. Wyeth Inc., 050102885, Court of
Common Pleas, Philadelphia County,  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Philadelphia at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  