-- Treasury 5-Year Yields Fall to Record on Europe Crisis
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-07-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/treasury-5-year-yields-fall-to-record-on-europe-crisis.html
Five-year Treasury note yields fell
to a record low as data showed the U.S. economic growth slowing
and investor concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening led to
increased demand for the safest assets.  U.S. government debt gained for a  fourth consecutive week 
as yields on Spain’s bonds climbed to record highs relative to
German bunds. The pace of economic expansion in the U.S.
probably cooled, data next week may show. The Treasury will sell
$99 billion of two-, five-and seven-year notes next week.  “Europe remains a big question,” said  Priya Misra , head
of U.S. rates strategy at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New
York , one of the 21 primary dealers required to bid on the
securities. “Flight-to-quality bids will remain. We’re pricing
in weak growth in the U.S.”  The  five-year note  yield fell this week five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 0.57 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It touched 0.5684 percent
yesterday, below the previous mark of 0.577 percent set July 16.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury  yield  fell three basis points to
1.46 percent after touching 1.4403 percent on July 16. It set a
record low of 1.4387 percent June 1.  The  two-year rate  fell four basis points 0.2015 percent,
the lowest level since Sept. 23.  Spain’s 10-year  benchmark  bond yields yesterday climbed
above the 7 percent threshold for the first time since Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  unveiled his fourth austerity package
last week. That’s the level that prompted bailouts for Greece,
Ireland and Portugal.  ‘Continued Deterioration’  While the U.S. two-year yield has declined 10 basis points
since July 3, it remains above rates on two-year German,
Austrian, Finnish and Dutch debt, which dropped below zero this
month after the  European Central Bank  said July 5 it would stop
paying interest on deposits. Investors also are paying
Switzerland, France,  Denmark  and the European Financial
Stability Facility for the right to lend to them by buying their
securities.  “We’re focused on the continued deterioration in Europe,”
said  Scott Graham , head of government-bond trading in  Chicago  at
 Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, a primary dealer.
“We continue to be the cheapest high-quality assets out there.
The auctions are going to come and go.”  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year notes, the same
amount of five-year securities and $29 billion of seven-year
debt over three days starting July 24, the Treasury said July
19.  Term Premium  The Commerce Department will likely say the pace of growth
for the economy slowed to a 1.4 percent annualized pace in the
period from April to June when it releases the data July 27,
according to the median forecast of 66 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. That would be the slowest growth rate since the 1.3
percent recorded from April to June last year.  The term premium, a model created by the  Federal Reserve 
that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth and
inflation, showed Treasuries are almost the most expensive ever.
The gauge closed yesterday at a negative 0.9612 percent, close
to the record negative 0.9617 set on July 10.  The  extra yield  investors get for buying 10-year Treasuries
instead of similar-maturity bunds widened seven basis points
this week to 29 basis points. The average over the past year is
14 basis points.  Treasuries returned 2.5 percent in the three months ended
July 19, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes. The
 MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors a 2.1
percent loss in the same period, including reinvested dividends.  ‘Worse Enough’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in July 18 testimony
before the  House of Representatives  that economic activity
decelerated during the first half of the year, adding that
policy makers are prepared to take further action as needed.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion in debt in two rounds
of so-called quantitative easing, beginning in November 2008, to
avert a prolonged decline in prices, or deflation, and to boost
the economy from the recession that ended in June 2009.  Bernanke “reiterated that if things got worse” the Fed
was ready to act, said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in
New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “I don’t think
it’s going to get worse enough in the next week to convince them
to do something.”  The central bank’s policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee  begins a two-day meeting on July 31. At its June 20
meeting, the Fed extended its efforts to lower borrowing costs
by increasing the average maturity of the  U.S. government debt 
it holds on its balance sheet by $267 billion to $667 billion
through the end of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  