-- Romney Aides Split on Olympics Trip Overruled by Romney
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-07-21T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/romney-aides-split-on-olympics-trip-overruled-by-romney.html
Mitt Romney ’s trip to  Europe  and
Israel next week gives the Republican presidential candidate the
opportunity to establish foreign policy credentials and get a
temporary respite from nagging questions about his finances.  His first stop will be  England , where Romney will meet with
foreign leaders, attend the  London  Olympic games, and hold
fundraisers with American bankers, some of whom are involved in
the Libor rate-fixing scandal.  Campaign advisers were divided on whether Romney should go
to London, according to one involved in the discussion. Some
aides argued that a visit to the Olympics, where his wife’s
horse is representing the U.S. in the dressage competition,
could draw more attention to his personal wealth, said the
adviser who requested anonymity.  Yet Romney, who’d been invited by the  International Olympic
Committee  to attend the opening games, was determined to go. He
urged aides to find another location in Europe that they could
add to the itinerary, the adviser said.  The result is a week-long voyage that will take Romney from
the heart of the Middle East conflict in  Jerusalem  to the
birthplace of Polish democracy in Gdansk.  Romney aides think the trip will give the former
Massachusetts governor, who has little foreign policy
experience, a chance to demonstrate statesmanship, showing U.S.
voters that he could be an effective global player.  Listening Tour  “This trip is an opportunity for the governor to listen
and learn, to visit countries that share common values, common
interests and in many cases share heritage with people in the
 United States ,” said Lanhee Chen, Romney’s policy director.  In an election dominated by domestic economic issues,
Romney has tried to build a foreign policy contrast with
President  Barack Obama  by striking a hawkish position. He’s
named Russia as the “number one geopolitical foe” of the U.S.
and vowed to take tougher action against a nuclear  Iran .  Romney is unlikely to use that kind of rhetoric during his
trip, according to aides, who say the candidate is aware that it
can be considered bad form to criticize a sitting president
while abroad.  “The contrast will be kept here in the states,” Romney
campaign spokeswoman Andrea Saul told reporters on a conference
call.  Obama Comparisons  Democrats are eager to compare Romney’s trip with the
dramatic scenes that unfolded when then-candidate Obama traveled
abroad in July 2008. A few weeks before officially claiming the
Democratic nomination at the party’s national convention, Obama
made stops in Israel,  Germany , France, England,  Iraq , Jordan,
and  Afghanistan . The trip drew wide attention and peaked when
more than 100,000 people gathered at Berlin’s Victory Column to
hear him speak.  Conscious of the optics, Romney aides ruled out a visit to
Germany, according to the adviser who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly.  Polls show Obama with a strong lead over Romney on
international affairs: In the most recent Bloomberg National
Poll, conducted June 15-18, the president led him 57 percent to
36 percent on being better in dealings with world leaders.  Obama campaign aides plan to cast Romney, co-founder of a
private equity firm before he entered politics, as unprepared to
handle international crisis, while pushing him to offer more
substantive foreign policy proposals.  “His policies are a little bit George W. Bush 2.0,” said
Charles Kuphchan, an informal foreign policy adviser to the
Obama campaign, referring to the former president. “The brand
of foreign policy that he has been articulating is not a brand
that’s welcome in Europe.”  Official Meetings  Instead of sweeping speeches, Romney is scheduled to meet
with foreign leaders, including British Prime Minister  David Cameron , Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad, and Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , a friend and colleague from
their work at  Boston Consulting Group  in the 1970s.  His itinerary should draw attention away from continuing
attacks by the Obama campaign over Romney’s refusal to release
more than the past two years of his tax returns -- a decision
some Republicans also have questioned.  Romney on his trip plans to tap into his network of global
business contacts to raise money at two fundraisers in London,
organized by executives from banks and other financial
institutions.  Co-hosts for the events include Patrick Durkin, a
Washington-based lobbyist for Barclays; Eric Varvel, the CEO of
Credit Suisse Group AG's investment bank; Dwight Poler, a 
managing director at Bain Capital Europe; Raj Bhattacharyya, a
managing director at Deutsche Bank AG; and Whitfield Hines, a
managing director at HSBC Holdings Plc.  Raising Money  The fundraisers were set to be co-hosted by former Barclays
CEO  Robert Diamond , who resigned on July 3 amid political
pressure the London-based bank faced after it admitted to
rigging global  interest rates . The top Romney bundler dropped
his fundraising role soon after.  Passports will be strictly checked at the door to ensure
that only Americans are writing checks, according to organizers,
who aren’t authorized to speak publicly about the event. Federal
law prohibits candidates from accepting money from anyone except
citizens and green card holders.  Top Jewish donors are invited to join Romney in Israel and
attend a July 29 fundraiser at a Jerusalem hotel. That event had
to be moved to 9:30 at night out of respect for Tisha B’av, a
Jewish fast day that ends at sundown.  Romney will arrive in Israel as it deals with the aftermath
of a July 18 suicide attack on an Israeli tour bus in  Bulgaria 
and the escalation of the civil war in  Syria  -- reminders of the
Middle East challenges that will confront the next president.  Friend of Israel  The Republican has attempted to paint himself as a closer
friend of Israel than the White House in an effort to woo Jewish
votes and donors, whose overwhelming support of Obama has
softened, according to some polls.  Exit polls on election day in 2008 showed Obama winning 78
percent of the Jewish vote. A Gallup poll released in June
showed his support among Jewish voters at 64 percent. The survey
of 576 Jewish voters was conducted from April 11-June 5 and had
an error margin was plus or minus 5 percentage points.  Romney has pledged to “do the opposite” of the White
House on issues affecting Israel, and vowed to make the country
his first foreign stop as president. Donors joining Romney in
Jerusalem said the visit will underscore that Obama hasn’t
visited Israel since taking office in January 2009.  Romney’s “taking the time to go to Israel” less than a
month before the  Republican National Convention  convenes in
Tampa, Florida, on Aug. 27, said Fred Zeidman, a Houston-based
fundraiser for the campaign who’s making a 30-hour trip to
attend the Jerusalem event. “It really speaks to his
commitment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  