-- 6-Year-Old Girl Among Dead in Shooting Spree at Colorado Theater
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m ,   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-22T05:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/sailor-6-year-old-among-dead-in-colorado-mass-shooting-at-movie.html
They included a 6-year-old who just
learned to swim, an  Ohio  native who saved his girlfriend’s life,
an  U.S. Air Force  staff sergeant, a sailor and an aspiring
sports journalist.  More details emerged yesterday about the 12 people who died
after police say James Eagan Holmes, 24, opened fire at a
midnight premiere in Aurora, Colorado, of “The Dark Knight
Rises.”  Fifty-eight were injured in the attack near Denver. The
Arapahoe County Coroner released a full list of the victims and
ages at 4:30 p.m. local time yesterday. The cause of death in
all cases is related to gunshot wounds, the Coroner’s office
said.  Annie Dalton confirmed that her great niece, Veronica
Moser-Sullivan, died at the Aurora Town Center, where all four
showings of the third in the Batman trilogy were sold out.  “She was a wonderful 6-year-old girl -- proud that she
learned how to swim this summer,” Dalton said in a telephone
interview. “She loved to go to school, loved her grandpa who
just passed away recently -- that was hard for her.”  Veronica’s mother, Ashley Moser, 25, is in critical
condition with bullets in the throat and abdomen, said Dalton,
who is Ashley’s aunt.  Protecting Girlfriend  One victim, Matthew McQuinn, 27, died after shielding his
girlfriend, Samantha Yowler, from the gunfire, said Rob Scott,
an attorney speaking for the two families.  McQuinn, a native of Springfield, Ohio, near Dayton, had
moved to Denver in September with Yowler, 27, of St. Paris,
Ohio, and both worked at a Target store, Scott said in a
telephone interview from Dayton. They were at the theater with
Samantha’s brother, Nick, who had moved to  Colorado  from Ohio
eight years ago, Scott said.  McQuinn was shot in the chest, leg and back, Scott said.
Samantha Yowler was shot in the leg and is recovering from
surgery, and her brother wasn’t hurt, he said.  The two families issued a statement through Scott thanking
well-wishers for their thoughts, prayers and concerns and asking
for privacy.  “As both families mourn the loss of Matt, they ask for
everyone to give them distance and time,” the statement said.  Relatives recalled McQuinn as kind and quiet, Scott said.
McQuinn and Yowler had been dating for three years, and the
Yowlers thought of McQuinn as part of their family, he said.  ‘A Hero’  “Samantha and her family consider Matt a hero for
protecting her,” Scott said.  Chris Jackson, who identified himself as McQuinn’s brother,
wrote on Facebook: “Thank you to all who showed concern and
prayed for my brother and Sam. Sadly it was confirmed that he
was still in the theater. He covered Sam with his body and died
a hero.”  Petty Officer Third Class John T. Larimer, 27, died from
his injuries, the  U.S. Navy  said. Larimer, who was from Crystal
Lake,  Illinois , was a cryptologic technician who joined on June
16, 2011, the Navy said.  Three Navy officers left the home of the Larimer family, a
white frame structure with an American flag flying from an
attached garage, about 12:20 p.m. local time. They didn’t
comment to reporters gathered outside the suburban northeast
Chicago home where Larimer grew up.  A neighbor, Chris Gates, said he recalls John Larimer
giving his daughter “a big tip when she set up a lemonade
stand.”  ‘Nice Kid’  “He just seemed like a really nice kid,” said Gates, a
speech therapist. “Here he was in the military, putting his
life on the line for his country, and he died during something
that shouldn’t have happened. The way he died is not fair to him
and not fair to our country.”  Navy Commander Jeffrey Jakuboski called Larimer an
“extremely dedicated sailor” who had a “charismatic, calming
personality.” “He truly did have a bright future in the
Navy,” Jakuboski said at a press conference yesterday at
 Buckley Air Force  Base.  Larimer was one of five sailors who went to the Aurora
cinema on July 20. Four of the sailors, including Larimer,
attended the Batman showing in Theater 9, where the shooting
occurred. The fifth sailor was in an adjacent theater, Jakuboski
said. Three of the five sailors were uninjured. A fourth was
treated and released on site, Jakuboski said.  “We all take this personally,” he said of the shooting.
“I’ve got a command of 300. Losing a sailor, whether it’s in
combat or a situation like this, it’s hard. We’re not bullet-
proof. I feel like I’m losing one of my sons.”  Final Tweet  Alex M. Sullivan, 27, who tweeted “oh man one hour till
the movie and it’s going to be the best BIRTHDAY ever” before
the movie began, was among the dead.  Tom Sullivan, his father, came to Gateway High School July
20, where moviegoers were taken to talk with police after the
shooting, holding a picture of Alex.  “Find my son,” he yelled from the parking lot at the high
school.  Aspiring sports journalist Jessica Ghawi, 24, who was among
the dead, had survived a shooting in the food court at the
Toronto,  Canada , Eaton Centre on June 2. She wrote a blog post
about her premonition that she should have left the area of that
shooting quickly.  Felt Funny  “My receipt shows my purchase was made at 6:20 p.m. After
that purchase I said I felt funny,” Ghawi wrote on her blog “A
Run On of Thoughts,” on June 5. “A feeling that was
overwhelming enough to lead me to head outside in the rain to
get fresh air instead of continuing back into the food court to
go shopping at SportChek. The gunshots rang out at 6:23. Had I
not gone outside, I would’ve been in the midst of gunfire.”  Also among the dead were Air Force Staff Sergeant Jesse E.
Childress, 29, who was assigned to Buckley Air Force Base in
Aurora, said Lieutenant Colonel Jack Miller, a Pentagon
spokesman.  “Jesse was an amazing guy,” said Captain  Andrew Williams ,
the operations officer for the support squadron in which
Childress served. “He was the kind of guy you want on your
team.”  Williams said at a press conference at the base yesterday
that Childress was well-known throughout the air wing at
Buckley, where he specialized in the collection and processing
of communications signals.  Enjoyed Sports  Childress, who was often on the road to upgrade
communications equipment, enjoyed sports and played in kickball
and volleyball tournaments, Williams said.  Micayla Medek, 23, who attended the Community College of
Aurora and worked at Subway, according to her Facebook page, was
also slain.  The coroner’s list also included Alexander J. Boik, 18,
Jonathan T. Blunk, 26, and Gordon Cowden, 51. More than 30
members of Boik’s family gathered at his grandparents’ home in
Aurora last night as hundreds participated in a vigil at his
former high school to remember the artistic young man who had
just graduated from high school and planned to attend the Rocky
Mountain College of Art and Design in the fall to be an art
teacher.  “He was a great kid,” Boik’s uncle John Hoover of
Lakewood said in a telephone interview from the Aurora home,
adding that his nephew had a wide range of interests, from
baseball to pottery to playing viola in the school orchestra.
“At 18 years old he had his own style. He was a wonderful,
wonderful, person.”  Navy Veteran  Blunk, formerly of Sparks,  Nevada , was a Navy veteran and a
“hero,” Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval said in a statement
Saturday.  Blunk was struck by gunfire while attempting to protect his
girlfriend, Jansen Young, in the theater, Young told NBC’s TODAY
show. “Jon just took a bullet for me,” Young said on the
program.  Cowden was a good neighbor who spent a lot of time with his
teenage children, said neighbor Laura Bay. She said she would
often see the divorced father, who worked as a real estate
appraiser, taking walks with his daughters and their dog.  “He was always that neighbor that would wave ’hi’ or say
’how are you doing?’,” said Bay, 26, who lives next to the
family on Blackhawk Way in Aurora. “He was a good guy.”  ‘Deepest Condolences’  Deceased victim Alexander Teves, 24, of Phoenix graduated
in June with a master’s degree in Counseling Psychology with the
Morgridge College of Education at the University of Denver.  “The University extends its deepest condolences to his
family and friends, including the many current students and
faculty who knew and worked with Alex,” said the statement on
the school’s web site.  Friends and family remembered Aurora resident Rebecca
Wingo, a 32-year-old mother of two, on Facebook.  A Facebook post from Marq Edward Shafer read, “We just
found out that our good friend and wonderful mother to two
beautiful girls, Rebecca Wingo, has passed away after she was
shot in the Aurora Movie Theatre Massacre. We love you and miss
you already.”  Steve Hernandez, who identified himself as Wingo’s father,
wrote on his Facebook page yesterday, “My grief right now is
inconsolable, I hear she died instantly, without pain, however
the pain is unbearable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Aurora at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Aurora at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net 
Gillian White in  New York  at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  