-- Scott Leads Els by One Shot in British Open as Woods Falters
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-22T17:02:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/snedeker-leads-scott-by-one-at-british-open-woods-five-behind.html
Adam Scott  leads Ernie Els by a shot
after bogeys on the 15th and 16th holes in their final round of
golf’s British Open.  Scott, of Australia, is 3 over par through 16 holes today
and 8 under for the tournament at Royal Lytham & St. Annes in
northwest England. Els used four birdies on the back nine,
including on the final hole, to close the gap on Scott. The
South African finished 2 under for the round.  American Brandt Snedeker is in third place at 4-under par
and  Graeme McDowell  of Northern Ireland is in fourth, one shot
further back.  Tiger Woods  faded into a tie for fourth place with four
bogeys and a triple bogey on the sixth hole. He’s tied with
England’s  Luke Donald .  Woods recorded his first triple-bogey at a major since 2003
after hitting his second shot at the par-3 sixth hole into a
bunker. His third shot hit the bunker wall, forcing him to jump
out of the way as the ball rebounded back toward him, and wound
up against another wall.  Unable to get a stance, Woods played his next shot from his
knees from outside the bunker, with the ball clipping the wall
before reaching the green. He then three-putted for triple bogey
to fall to 3 under.  Scott, 32, has never finished better than eighth in 12
previous visits to the British Open and his best performance in
a major was at the 2011 Masters, where he was runner-up to Charl Schwartzel of South Africa. He’d be the fifth Australian to win
the Open and the first since  Greg Norman , his idol, in 1993.  Nicolas Colsaerts has the low score among players out early
today with 5-under 65. The Belgian was tied for second place
after the first round, but played the past two days in 9 over
par.  England’s  Ian Poulter , Australia’s Geoff Ogilvy and Spain’s
Miguel Angel Jimenez all shot 67 to finish even-par. Northern
Ireland’s Rory McIlroy shot 73 to end up 8 over. The 2011 U.S.
Open champion failed to break par after opening with a 67.  Manchester City soccer player  Carlos Tevez  caddied today
for his friend and countryman Andres Romero, who shot 82 and is
last at 18 over. The striker was frequently photographed playing
golf in his native Argentina last season when he took an
unauthorized leave from City following a disagreement with
manager  Roberto Mancini .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Royal Lytham & St. Annes through the London sports
desk at   bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  