-- Syria Rebels Fight for Border Posts as Clashes Spread
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-21T21:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/syria-rebels-fight-for-border-posts-as-clashes-spread.html
Syrian rebels fought for control of
the country’s border crossings as clashes spread to the city of
Aleppo and the escalating conflict drove thousands to escape to
neighboring countries.  Rebels gained control of three major neighborhoods in
Aleppo and government forces intensified shelling of the city,
Al Jazeera television reported. The network said Aleppo
intelligence chief Major General Mohamed Muflih defected to
 Turkey , among 24 high-ranking Syrian military officers who have
left the country.  Syrian security forces killed 131 people yesterday
including 28 in the capital of Damascus, the Local Coordination
Committee, an opposition group, said in an e-mailed statement.  Farhan Iftekhan, the mayor of al-Qaim city in western  Iraq 
where Syrian rebels seized the Bukmal crossing, said in a
telephone interview yesterday, “The Bukmal crossing is still
under the Syrian rebels’ control for the third day. Clashes and
fights between rebels and state forces break out usually every
night but state forces have failed to retake it so far.”  “Iraqi troops have boosted their presence there and we
have closed the crossing with concrete walls” to stop anyone
from entering Iraq, Iftekhan said.  Muhaiman al-Taie, a spokesman for the Syrian free Army, the
main opposition group, told al-Arabiya in an interview late
yesterday that the rebels were close to gaining control of the
Syrian city of Qamishly near the Turkish border.  Surge of Refugees  Lebanon and Iraq struggled to cope with refugees fleeing
the violence. After a failed attempt at the United Nations to
sanction President Bashar al-Assad’s government, the  Security
Council  voted July 20 to remove in 30 days unarmed monitors who
have been confined for weeks to their Damascus hotel rooms
because of the danger.  Dr. Nabil Zughaib, head of the Syrian missile program, was
killed with two members of his family in Damascus yesterday by
Syrian rebels, Iranian state-run al-Alam television reported.  Zughaib died with his wife and son while driving in the
Christian neighborhood of Bab Toma, and his other son was
hospitalized in critical condition, al-Alam said.  Syrian rebels seized the al-Yarubiya crossing to Iraq,
Sumaria News reported, citing an unidentified Iraqi official.
Iraq closed the Rabeia crossing to  Syria  after rebels captured
the Syrian section,  Al Arabiya  television said.  Rebels seized the town of Rwehina, about 1,400 meters from
Israeli troops in the  Golan Heights , Al Arabiya reported, citing
activists. The Free Syrian Army rebels seized government forces’
weapons in Rwehina, the television station said. The Israelis
captured the Golan Heights from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war.
 Israel  this week limited all military leaves to guard against
growing instability in Syria.  Border Crossings  More than 30,000 Syrians fled to Lebanon via the Masnaa
border, with cars backed up for a kilometer (0.6 mile) and
Lebanese security officials waiving the usual paperwork
requirements, the Beirut-based Daily Star reported.  About 125,000 Syrians have left the country since the 18-
month conflict began, and as many as 500,000 people still in
Syria have been displaced from their homes, the U.S. State
Department said July 19.  Even with UN-led peace efforts in tatters, Western nations
said Assad’s days were numbered. Those numbers are getting
“smaller and smaller,”  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the
UN, said July 20.  The Assad government held state funerals July 20 in
Damascus for top security officials killed in a bomb attack two
days earlier. Among the four victims, Assad’s brother-in-law,
Assef Shawkat, Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah and the vice
president’s military adviser, Hasan Turkmani, were the most
senior officials to die since the uprising began.  Chemical Weapons  Syrian troops were moving chemical weapons across the
country in preparation for their use, Reuters reported
yesterday, citing General Mustafa Sheikh, who defected to
Turkey. The weapons are being moved from storage, possibly in
retaliation for the July 18 attack, the general told Reuters in
an interview, citing rebel intelligence obtained in recent days.  The International Committee of the  Red Cross  said in a
statement that continued fighting in Damascus forced thousands
of residents to seek refuge elsewhere in the country or in
neighboring nations. An estimated 11,800 Damascus residents have
sought shelter in about 60 schools in rural areas outside the
city, the Red Cross said.  Continuing violence in the city has isolated neighborhoods,
making it “progressively more difficult for people to move”
about the city, Marianne Gasser, head of the International Red
Cross Committee’s delegation in Syria.  Sectarian Lines  The civil war is splitting the country along increasingly
sectarian lines, with a Sunni Muslim-led opposition confronting
a government whose top officials are drawn from the Alawite
sect, affiliated to Shiite Islam.  Hopes for a peaceful outcome to the crisis have evaporated,
said Aram Nerguizian, a visiting fellow at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in  Washington .  “What was possible nine months ago, became difficult six
months ago and intractable three months ago,” he said. “Now
we’re heading straight toward chaos.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  