-- U.K. Shadow Minister Calls for Green’s Answers Over HSBC Scandal
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-07-21T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/u-k-shadow-minister-calls-for-green-s-answers-over-hsbc-scandal.html
Shadow Financial Secretary to the
U.K. Treasury,  Chris Leslie , called for U.K. Trade Minister
 Stephen Green  to publicly answer questions about his time as
chief executive officer and chairman of  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   The U.S. Senate’s Homeland Security Sub Committee on
Investigations released on July 16 a 335-page report describing
a decade of compliance failures by  Europe ’s biggest bank.
London-based HSBC enabled drug lords to launder money in  Mexico ,
did business with firms linked to terrorism and concealed
transactions that bypassed U.S. sanctions against Iran, Senate
investigators said in the report. Green, who sits as a
Conservative lawmaker in the upper House of Lords, served as
chairman of HSBC between 2006 and 2010.  Leslie, member of the U.K. Parliament, has called Green for
assurance that he took “every appropriate step” if and when he
became aware of the issues raised by the U.S. subcommittee
report. It is “a matter of significant public interest that you
also have the opportunity to explain what, if anything, you were
aware of during your time at the bank,” Leslie says in the
letter addressed to Green and dated today.  Green has been urged to explain if he knew about the
alleged circumvention of safeguards designed to block
transactions to those with potential links to drug cartels,
rogue regimes or terrorist organizations. He should explain what
steps he took to mitigate circumstances where HSBC may have been
disregarding terrorist financing links, Leslie said.  Leslie’s comments echo those of the Labour Party leader,  Ed Miliband , who said Green must answer questions about his role
while the head of HSBC. Green “must come to the House of Lords
and answer questions” about “what he knew and when he knew
it,” Miliband said July 19.  Leslie has also asked Green to say to what extent HSBC’s
Head of Compliance David Bagley shared his concerns with him
about the deficiencies in HSBC anti-money laundering controls.
Bagley told a U.S. hearing on July 17 he would step down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Harrison  at   mharrison5@bloomberg.net  