-- Rupert Murdoch Resigns From Newspaper Boards in U.K. Retreat
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-22T14:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-21/murdoch-resigns-as-director-of-news-international-other-boards.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , preparing to split his media
empire into entertainment and publishing businesses, resigned
from three of the company’s boards, including the News
International newspaper division in the U.K.  Murdoch, 81, also stepped down as a director of Newscorp
Investments and Times Newspapers Holdings, according to U.K.
regulatory filings. News International publishes the Times, the
Sunday Times and the Sun newspapers in the U.K.  The resignations were presaged by Murdoch’s son James, who
left the boards of News Corp.’s newspaper companies earlier this
year. The Murdochs’ retreat follows a costly yearlong scandal at
the U.K. newspaper operations, which is seen as  a drag  on the
rest of the business.  “It’s all part of a withdrawal from the U.K.,” said
Claire Enders, a media analyst at Enders Analysis. “It’s a
continued disassociation with the Murdochs as a family because,
after all, James and Rupert Murdoch are not all that different
in the playout of the scandal. They’ve both been heavily
implicated in different ways. So this is a response.”  The two men have been compelled to appear before the
British Parliament and explain how reporters and editors were
able to get away with illegally hacking into mobile phones and
paying public officials for stories without executives’ notice.  Tom Mockridge , head of the U.K. unit, told staff in a memo
that Murdoch “remains fully committed to our business as
chairman,” a person familiar with the e-mail said. The person
asked not to be named because the message was private.  Breakup Plan  News Corp., under pressure from shareholders, announced
plans last month to split into two publicly traded entities. The
publishing business will consist of newspapers in the U.S., U.K.
and Australia, as well as book, education and marketing assets.
The media-and-entertainment company will have film and TV
assets. Murdoch is slated to be chairman of both entities and
CEO of entertainment when the deal closes in about a year.  “Last week, Mr. Murdoch stepped down from a number of
boards, many of them small subsidiary boards, both in the U.K.
and U.S.,” New York-based News Corp. said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “This is nothing more than a corporate
housecleaning exercise prior to the company split.”  The  Guardian newspaper  reported on July 4 last year that
journalists at the now-closed News of the World tabloid hacked
into the voice-mail account of a murdered schoolgirl. The
revelation disrupted News Corp.’s plans to take to take full
control of British Sky Broadcasting Group, Britain’s biggest
pay-TV operator of which it owns 39 percent.  Ofcom Probe  Now media regulator Ofcom is examining whether the Murdochs
are “fit and proper” holders of a broadcast license.  James Murdoch , who is currently serving as deputy operating chief of
News Corp. in  New York , stepped down as chairman of BSkyB in
April after his involvement in News International attracted
unwanted attention to the stake. The regulator has the authority
to revoke a broadcaster’s license, threatening part of News
Corp.’s most profitable business.  Operating income at News Corp.’s publishing unit, which
includes the Wall Street Journal, New York Post and Times of
 London , dropped 32 percent from fiscal 2008 to 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A shift to the Web has cut
industry advertising and circulation revenue, while News Corp.’s
entertainment units, including Fox networks and the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio, increased profit by 13 percent.  ‘From the Top’  Murdoch built his empire on the newspaper business, first
acquiring the Adelaide News in  Australia  in 1953 and adding on
acquisitions of other newspapers and television stations. In
1969, he bought The Sun and The News of the World in the U.K. In
2007, Murdoch bought Dow Jones, publisher of the Wall Street
Journal, now the most popular newspaper by circulation.  Separately, a U.K. committee, after probing whether News
Corp. misled Parliament in the phone-hacking scandal, concluded
in May that Murdoch is “not a fit person to exercise the
stewardship of a major international company.” Murdoch
“exhibited wilful blindness to what was going on in his
companies and publications,” the House of Commons Culture
Committee said in a report. “This culture, we consider,
permeated from the top.”  Last week, a lawyer for phone hacking victims revealed that
an executive within News International was in possession of an
e-mail with instructions on hacking the mobile-phone voice mail
of a “well-known person.” The company had failed to disclose
the e-mail for months, David Sherborne said at a London hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  