-- A Tax Refund That Could Help Congress Over Cliff
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-10-30T22:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/a-tax-refund-that-could-help-congress-over-cliff.html
As the fiscal cliff, the federal
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in
January, looms ever closer, an informal consensus along the
Acela corridor is coalescing around a placeholder deal with
details to be filled in over, say, nine months. The deal would
come with some backstop enforcement mechanism in case those
details never materialize. (Sound familiar?)  Such a prospect raises a vital question: During the nine or
so months, what would happen to the tax cuts?  Let’s focus on the scenario in which President  Barack Obama 
is re-elected. The White House has insisted that it will not
agree to extend the expiring tax cuts for those with incomes of
more than $250,000. Yet House Republicans insist on
universality, ruling out an extension that excludes those income
classes.  If the White House were to agree, at Republicans’
insistence, to temporarily extend all the tax cuts for the
placeholder period, how many people would believe it was serious
about ending the high-income tax cuts thereafter? This impasse
is one reason I have been a bit skeptical that even a
placeholder deal will come together before Dec. 31.  (Such a deal is more likely if the economy weakens, because
then the administration would be more eager to avoid the
uncertainty associated with delaying a deal into January. Or, if
the House Republicans suffer a significant loss in the elections
next week, it might cause them to reconsider their tax stance.
Neither of these possibilities seems likely at this point,
however. And if Obama wins the Electoral College vote but  Mitt
Romney , his Republican challenger, wins the popular vote -- so
both sides feel they have a mandate -- or if legal disputes in
some states make the election outcome uncertain for some period,
it will only be more difficult to get a deal done before the end
of the year.)  Tax-Reform Refund  So here’s an idea for how to get out of this box, assuming
Obama wins: Agree soon after the election to allow all the tax
cuts to expire and replace them, while the negotiations are
ongoing, with a temporary “tax-reform refund” of $1,600 per
person. Anyone who works or receives Social Security benefits
would qualify for the refund. The total cost would be about $350
billion on an annualized basis, enough to protect the economy
from the bulk of the impact of a sudden end to the tax cuts. The
refund would remain in place until a deal was reached, or the
unemployment rate fell below 7 percent, whichever occurred
first.  More specifically, the tax-reform refund would be delivered
through reduced withholding for the roughly  160 million  workers
who pay payroll taxes and in the form of a supplemental benefit
payment for the  56 million  people who receive Social Security.
The reduction in employer withholding would boost take-home pay
for about  75 percent  of families, and the increase in Social
Security benefits would do the same for most of the rest. (Those
who fall through the cracks could apply to receive their tax-
reform refund through their annual tax return, which could also
be used to address problems such as potential double-dipping by
Social Security beneficiaries who continue to work.)  What would be the benefits of the tax-reform refund? First,
it wouldn’t prejudge what ultimately happens to the tax cuts
during the negotiating process, since all of them would have
expired. Negotiators could therefore start from a clean slate.  Compared with extending only the tax cuts below $250,000
during the negotiating period, this option would appeal more to
Republicans. And the White House should prefer it to extending
all the tax cuts.  Universal Benefit  Second, the refund would be universal, meeting another
criterion put forward by House Republicans, who are more likely
than other policy makers to be skeptical about it. (If
absolutely necessary to win Republican votes, the temporary
refund could be paired with a hold on current tax rates for
capital gains, dividends and estates during the negotiating
period -- though it would be better to avoid doing that.)  Third, a temporary refund would be far more progressive
than the expiring tax cuts, which should help the still-sluggish
recovery and please supporters of the administration. Married
couples would receive $3,200 regardless of income, as long as
they worked or received Social Security benefits.  Fourth, the tax-reform refund could be voted on in mid-
December -- assuming the parties can’t reach an agreement on the
tax cuts by that point -- facilitating a placeholder deal before
the end of the year and avoiding the turmoil that would occur if
no deal were reached. To accomplish that, the Obama White House
would have to hold firm to its objection to temporarily
extending all the tax cuts. That way, it could present the
Republicans with a simple choice: Since we can’t agree, all the
tax cuts will expire, and the only question is whether we put in
place a temporary refund.  Finally, the refund would explicitly be temporary, putting
additional pressure on the negotiators to reach an agreement
over tax reform -- which is always easier said than done. If a
deal were not reached, the refund would remain in place until
the economy recovered sufficiently, but then would be gradually
phased out as the unemployment rate fell below 7 percent.  The tax-reform refund wouldn’t be perfect, and we might
well end up being disappointed with whatever deal followed the
refund’s enactment. But in the absence of other ideas about how
to resolve the impasse before Dec. 31, it may be our best hope.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax initiatives on
 California ’s ballot and on why  you shouldn’t read too much into
the jobs report ; Clive Crook on why  Obama is the least bad
choice for the U.S. ; Part three of A. Gary Shilling’s series on
who loses when the  Fed keeps interest rates low ; Part one of
Virginia Postrel’s series on  missteps by breast-cancer
charities ; Tim Judah on the  rise of the far-right party Svoboda
in Ukraine .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  