-- Labor Department Plans to Publish U.S. Jobs Report on Time
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-10-30T22:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/labor-department-aims-to-publish-u-s-jobs-report-on-time.html
The Labor Department is striving to
issue its monthly report on employment in the U.S. in three days
as scheduled, a spokesman said today.  “The employees at the Bureau of Labor Statistics are
working hard to ensure the timely release of employment data on
Friday, November 2,” Carl A. Fillichio, the department’s senior
adviser for communications and public affairs, said in an e-
mailed response to a Bloomberg inquiry. The report on October
employment is due at 8:30 a.m. in Washington on Nov. 2.  The jobs report, the last before the election, may help
sway voters trying to decide between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years in office or to change course with
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney . The Obama administration has
pointed to 24 straight months of job growth as evidence the
economy is improving, while the Romney campaign has said
progress is too slow.  Payrolls probably rose by 125,000 workers in October, and
the jobless rate increased to 7.9 percent from a three-year low
of 7.8 percent reached in September, according to the median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The data won’t be affected by  Hurricane Sandy  because the
surveys of employers and households were conducted in the middle
of the month, before the storm struck.  Federal government agencies in Washington were closed for a
second day today in the wake of Sandy, the Atlantic’s largest-
ever tropical storm. Federal agencies will reopen tomorrow,
according to a statement on the website of the U.S. Office of
Personnel Management.  Satellite Offices  If the Washington office remained closed, “I think the BLS
is going to try to do it anyways using some of their satellite
offices,” Austan Goolsbee, a former chairman of President
Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers and a professor at
the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, said on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu .  Sandy prompted the Conference Board yesterday to postpone
its  consumer confidence  data until Nov. 1. The New York-based
group’s report on October sentiment was initially slated for
release today.  Jack Welch, the former chief executive officer of General
Electric Co., suggested the Obama administration had manipulated
the jobs data for political advantage after the September
unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped to the lowest level since
the president took office in January 2009. Alan Krueger,
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, called
Welch’s comments “irresponsible.”  Prior to September, joblessness had exceeded 8 percent for
43 straight months, the longest such stretch since at least
1948.  Ronald Reagan is the only president to have been re-elected
since World War II with unemployment above 6 percent. On
Election Day 1984, the rate was at 7.2 percent, having dropped
almost three percentage points in the previous 18 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  