-- Acer Plans Windows RT Device in First Half of 2013
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-10-30T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/acer-plans-windows-rt-device-in-first-half-of-2013.html
Acer Inc. (2353) , Asia’s second-largest
computer maker, still plans devices running on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Windows RT system even after it was not selected by the software
maker to collaborate in the production development.  “We have a development team in-house and in the first or
second quarter of next year we may announce a Windows RT
product,”  Jim Wong , president of the Taipei-based computer
maker that shipped 37 million PC units globally last year, said
in an interview in London yesterday.  Microsoft last week introduced its Windows 8 operating
system, including the RT version that runs on less power-hungry
computer chips to appeal to consumers increasingly shunning
personal computers in favor of tablets and smartphone devices.
The release of Windows 8 operating system this month may not be
enough to spur Acer’s initial sales of devices running that new
software, Wong said yesterday.  “Windows 8 needs to prove itself first,” he said, saying
initially sales of devices running the operating system may be
slow. “If it proves user-friendly then we expect sales growth
to accelerate over the longer term.”  Historically, Microsoft has has worked hand-in-hand with
partners such as  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Acer to
bring new PCs to market for a Windows debut. This time,
Microsoft had its own engineers working in secret on a tablet
meant to look and perform better than devices made by other
hardware makers.  Microsoft Rivalry   Acer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J.T. Wang last
week said the the company was awaiting investors’ “vote” on
Microsoft’s new operating system and that uncertainty in the
strategy of Windows 8 and the retail price of Microsoft’s
planned tablet, “Surface,” had negatively impacted the PC
industry in 2012.  Wong yesterday didn’t specify what sort of Acer device will
potentially run on Windows RT.  The PC market will contract by 1.2 percent to 348.7 million
units this year, according to IHS ISuppli as tablets and mobile
devices become increasingly popular. That would be the first
annual decline since 2001.  Acer has declined 35 percent this year through yesterday,
lagging behind a 1.6 percent advance of Taiwan’s benchmark  Taiex (TWSE) 
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  