-- ADM Profit Tops Estimates on Soybean-Processing Gains
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-10-30T17:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/adm-profit-tops-estimates-on-soybean-processing-gains.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest corn processor, reported fiscal first-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates because of improvements in
its soybean-processing business.  Net income  fell 60 percent to $182 million, or 28 cents a
share, in the three months through September from $460 million,
or 68 cents, a year earlier, the Decatur, Illinois-based company
said today in a statement. Profit excluding a charge for a
planned divestment of Mexican tortilla-maker Gruma SAB and other
one-time items was 50 cents a share, exceeding the 44-cent
average of eight  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The biggest driver is the more balanced oilseed
environment,” Ann Gurkin, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst
for Davenport & Co. who rates the shares a buy, said today in a
telephone interview.  Operating profit at the unit that processes soybeans and
other oilseeds almost tripled to $336 million.  The company’s domestic soybean operations “delivered very
strong results” on U.S. demand and meal exports in the first
quarter and European soybean and rapeseed crushing earnings
improved, Patricia Woertz, ADM’S chairman and chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  While the oilseed unit is ADM’s  second-biggest  business by
revenue, it was the largest contributor to profit in the fiscal
year through June.  U.S. Drought  Sales declined 0.4 percent to $21.8 billion, still topping
the $21.4 billion average estimate. Net income dropped from a
year earlier on losses in ethanol and smaller crops as the worst
U.S. drought in five decades reduced merchandising and handling
volume. The drought cut the corn crop to a six-year low and
increased average prices in the calendar third quarter by 12
percent from a year earlier.  Operating profit in the corn-processing segment fell 63
percent to $68 million, and declined 76 percent in the
agricultural-services segment to $78 million, the company said
today.  “Our first-quarter segment results were mixed,” Woertz
said. “Oilseeds performance was strong, the ethanol industry
experienced sustained negative margins, and agricultural
services managed well through a complicated quarter, challenged
by the drought.”  The company, which got 52 percent of  sales  from the U.S. in
fiscal 2012, is trying to expand overseas to tap new sources of
grain to meet rising demand in Asia.  Asian Demand  ADM, which has 74 percent of its long-term assets in the
U.S., increased its stake in  GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) , the biggest grain
handler in eastern  Australia , to 15 percent this month and said
it was seeking talks with the company to reach an acquisition
agreement.  ADM said last week it reached a preliminary agreement with
Mexican businessman Fernando Chico Pardo to sell its 23 percent
stake in Gruma.  The company is “doing the right things” for the long term
by increasing its footprint overseas to rely less on North
America and selling assets such as Gruma that aren’t core to its
business, said Bryan Agbabian, a San Francisco-based portfolio
manager and sector head of agricultural equities for RCM Capital
Management LLC, which owns 4.33 million ADM shares. RCM is a
unit of  Germany ’s  Allianz SE. (ALV)   Allocating Capital  Still, ADM needs to be disciplined in allocating capital
and focus on shareholder returns, Agbabian said today in a
telephone interview.  ADM is reviewing the timing of its share repurchases given
the potential GrainCorp acquisition, ADM Chief Financial Officer
Ray Young said today on a conference call with analysts.  “As a shareholder, you’d like them to continue
repurchasing shares,” Agbabian said. It’s too early to know
what returns ADM may see on GrainCorp, he said.  ADM rose 0.2 percent to $27.05 in New York on Oct. 26, the
last day of regular trading since U.S. equity markets were
closed because of the approach and impact of  Hurricane Sandy .
 The shares  have declined 5.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  