-- Adoboli’s Girlfriend Said Confess, Co-Worker Said to Run
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-31T10:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/adoboli-s-girlfriend-told-him-to-confess-ubs-trading-loss.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader on trial over a $2.3 billion trading loss, said his
girlfriend encouraged him to confess his losses to managers
while another trader on his desk told him to flee the country.  Adoboli, 32, “lost control” over his trading decisions in
July of last year after pressure from senior managers prompted
him to change his strategy and bet the markets would improve, he
said yesterday during his third day on the stand. He and his
girlfriend broke up for two weeks, he said, with stress mounting
and his losses accelerating. After they reunited, she told him
he must ask for help.  “In the end, she was the strength, she was the person who
said to me, ‘Look Kwek, if you can’t fix this, you need to tell
someone,’” Adoboli said. “She said ‘Look, this is going to
kill you, you can’t keep fighting this battle, you’re clearly
not winning.’”  Adoboli, on trial in London accused of fraud and false
accounting, was arrested last year for allegedly hiding the risk
of his trades by booking fake hedges. He said he was trying to
recoup the losses on his own while waiting for the senior trader
on the desk,  John Hughes , to return from vacation.  When they realized the extent of the losses on Aug. 11,
Adoboli said Hughes advised him to fly to  Ghana , where he is
from, and send an e-mail from there explaining the trades to
managers at the Swiss bank.  “Of course, I could’ve run away,” he said. “It’s not the
way I’m built.”  ‘Accomplished Liar’  Sasha Wass, the prosecutor in the case, told Adoboli he was
an “accomplished liar” regarding the explanations he gave in a
phone call with the UBS accountant to whom he later sent an e-
mail on Sept. 14, 2011, explaining his off-book trading. Adoboli
said his e-mail was entirely correct except for the claim other
people weren’t involved in hiding trades.  Adoboli said the explanation he gave in the call to the
accountant, Will Steward, was mostly correct, except he lied and
said the trades were for clients. Wass said Adoboli also lied
about the risk exposure to the bank.  Adoboli also testified the losses wouldn’t have happened if
he hadn’t bowed to pressure from Hughes and other senior traders
to take a bullish position and hadn’t been repeatedly told by
management to take on more risk. He said previously top
managers, including investment-bank co-head Carsten Kengeter,
pressured him to change trading positions.  Passing Boundaries  “We pushed the boundaries,” Adoboli said. “We found that
boundary. We found the edge. We fell off. I got arrested.”  The profit and loss rate generated by the exchange-traded
funds desk in  London  on which he worked couldn’t have the risk
profile it reported, Adoboli said. In messages from two managers
in late June, he said the desk was told it didn’t need to make
clear the amount of risk it was taking.  “In the end, the reason I’m most sad is because these
losses weren’t the result of dishonest or fraudulent behavior,”
he said. “These losses were the result of a group of traders
who were asked to do too much with too little resources in a
market that was too volatile.”  The jury, through a note passed to the judge, asked for
Adoboli to explain why the desk didn’t tell managers what they
were doing. Adoboli said his bosses didn’t care what they did,
as long as they made money.  The desk’s manager until April 2011, Ron Greenidge,
“really didn’t understand the complexity of our products,” so
the importance of Hughes was heightened, Adoboli said. His next
supervisor, John DiBacco, was based in  New York  “so unable to
manage us real-time.”  ‘Aspirational’ Rules  The Swiss bank’s rules and oversight were “aspirational,”
Adoboli said. “They say they have these policies, but at the
same time, they’re engaged in Libor, they’re engaged in  tax
evasion , they’re engaged in massive losses in subprime.”  Adoboli said he lied to his manager and people in trade
support in August and September of last year about the nature of
the transactions and the losses. He told them the trades were
for clients so he could “buy time” to fix his mistakes.  Adoboli said he met with the others on his desk -- Hughes,
Simon Taylor and Christophe Bertrand -- at a bar near their
office on Sept. 12, 2011, to discuss what to do about the
losses. The others decided he should take the blame, he said.  “They decided that I should go forward on my own because
that was the best way to make sure the desk could continue in
its form,” Adoboli said. “I knew I was going to lose my job
anyway, I had already resigned myself to that, so fair enough.”  Surveillance Footage  His coworkers denied the meeting when they testified.  Exit logs from the bank show the four left within minutes
of each other that day. Adoboli said his lawyers asked for
surveillance camera footage from the entrance of UBS, and were
told by the bank that it was no longer available.  In  text messages  with his girlfriend that evening, he told
her that he was “upset because the boys have sold me down the
river.”  On the morning of Sept. 14, the day he confessed to the
losses, Adoboli went to St. Mary’s church near the UBS office to
pray, he said. Around midday Adoboli went outside with Hughes
and told him he was going to confess and would say no one else
on the desk knew what he was doing.  “He said, ‘I’m really sorry Kwek, but tomorrow we’re going
to disown you,’” Adoboli said.  In the U.K., fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail, and seven years for false accounting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  