-- Hague Urges U.S. to Help Revive Israeli-Palestinian Peace Talks
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-30T13:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hague-urges-u-s-to-help-revive-israeli-palestinian-peace-talks.html
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
said a two-state solution between Israelis and Palestinians is
“slipping away” and urged the winner of the  U.S. presidential
election  to put their weight behind a renewed bid for peace.  “In our view the priority is for the  United States  --
obviously after their election and whoever is successful -- to
lead a major push to restart negotiations to arrive at a two-
state solution,” Hague told lawmakers in Parliament in London
today. “The opportunity to do so is slipping away and may have
slipped away in another year or two.”  Hague condemned Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s plan to proceed with a  United Nations  statehood bid next
month. The move to upgrade the Palestine Liberation
Organization’s status to that of a “non-member state” in the
UN General Assembly comes a year after the failed effort to
obtain full membership through the  Security Council .  “We are advising President Abbas not to go down this
path,” Hague said, calling it a “divisive” and “symbolic
gesture.”  By forcing the statehood issue Palestinians risk
jeopardizing international aid that accounts for about 14
percent of gross domestic product and inviting retaliatory
measures from Israel, which captured the West Bank, east
Jerusalem and Gaza in the 1967 Middle East war.  Separately, Hague said the crisis in Syria is not
“containable” and he again blamed Russia and China for
refusing to back a resolution at the United Nations in July
aimed at increasing pressure on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
to go.  “There is no change in the position of  Russia  as things
stand and this is a tragedy for Syrians and the world,” Hague
said, adding that about 14,000 Syrians had died since the UN
move was blocked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  