-- Airbus Triples Chinese Corporate Jet Sales as Local Market Booms
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-10-30T11:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/airbus-triples-chinese-corporate-jet-sales-as-local-market-booms.html
Airbus SAS predicted it will more
than triple the fleet of corporate jets operating in  China  by
the end of this year and plans to expand sales points in the
country as it seeks to win business from government.  The company will have delivered 17 aircraft to China by the
end of 2012, compared with five operating in the country at the
end of last year said Francois Chazelle, vice president at
Airbus’s corporate jets division. The company has teamed up with
a local interior aircraft outfitter, he said.  “It’s growing fast and we’re doing very well in China,”
Chazelle said in an interview ahead of the National Business
Aviation Association’s annual conference in  Florida . “We’re
investing in China. We have offices in  Hong Kong  and Beijing,
and we’re growing our offices here.”  China has become one of Airbus’s biggest markets for its
commercial airliners configured as VIP jets. While the dozen or
so business planes that Airbus typically sells a year represents
but a fraction of those sold for commercial passenger service,
margins are higher on private jets, which often feature meeting
rooms, VIP suites and showers.  Airbus has delivered a total of 170 corporate jets so far,
of which 110 were narrow-bodies of the A320 family. Airbus won a
contract in 2007 from Saudi billionaire  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal  for an A380 double decker. The plane has been built and is
awaiting delivery.  Airbus normally offers business-jet customers the choice of
eight preferred cabin suppliers, including Lufthansa Technik and
Jet Aviation AG in Europe and Associated Air Center LP and
Comlux Aviation Services LLC in the U.S. To sell to the Chinese
government, Airbus teamed up with Taeco, an aircraft maintenance
company in Xiamen, eastern China to outfit cabin interiors,
Chazelle said.  Selling to the government has become a delicate task after
authorities discovered listening devices in 2001 on board a
 Boeing Co. (BA)  767 destined for then-President  Jiang Zemin . Boeing
said the bugging didn’t happen at the company. Chinese
authorities subsequently ripped out the interior and gave the
plane to a commercial airline for regular passenger service.  Airbus has sold  business jets  to more than a dozen
governments including France, Germany, Brazil, Qatar and  Italy .
Some governments choose not to be identified as customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  