-- Lakers Are Ready for NBA Spotlight With Nash, $3 Billion TV Deal
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/lakers-are-ready-for-nba-spotlight-with-nash-3-billion-tv-deal.html
The  Los Angeles Lakers , pushed out
of the National Basketball Association spotlight by  LeBron James 
and the  Miami Heat  the past few seasons, are poised to return
with a revamped roster and a television deal worth $3 billion.  The team that has won the most NBA games in history added
point guard  Steve Nash , a two-time league Most Valuable Player,
and center  Dwight Howard , a six-time All-Star. They join five-
time champion  Kobe Bryant , 34, who has scored more points than
any other active player.  At the same time, a $3 billion deal with Time Warner Cable
made the Lakers the centerpiece of two new sports networks. Nash
and Howard fortified a brand that is as glamorous as its star-
driven city. Team merchandise and ticket re-sales are among the
league leaders.  “They’ve had a tremendous history of success on the court,
and they’ve always been leaders in terms of innovations from a
branding standpoint, positioning their product to be exciting
while taking advantage of everything Hollywood has to offer,”
 Steve Mills , a former president at New York’s Madison Square
Garden, said in a telephone interview.  The team starts the 2012-13 season today against the  Dallas
Mavericks  as part of the NBA three-game opening night.  The Lakers’ 3,125 wins and 0.620 winning percentage are
both best in NBA history. They’ve been to the league finals 31
times, 10 more than the next closest team, and have won 16
championships, one fewer than the  Boston Celtics ’ NBA-leading
17.  “Money-making  gold mines ,” former MVP Charles Barkley
said of the Lakers and Celtics. Boston plays on the road tonight
against the defending-champion Heat; the Cleveland Cavaliers
host the  Washington Wizards .  Same Model  Lakers Executive Vice President of Business Operations
Jeanie Buss said the business model has remained the same since
her father, Jerry Buss, bought the team in 1979.  “Our goal is to stay consistent and look at every
opportunity to broaden our appeal to the rest of the world,”
she said in an interview last week. “That starts with putting
an exciting team on the floor.”  The Lakers traded for Nash, 38, and Howard, 26, one month
apart this offseason, while keeping 7-foot forward Pau Gasol.
The team has 11-4 odds to win its 17th title this season, second
only to the Heat at 9-4, according to online sports book
Bovada.lv.  A six-time NBA total assists leader, Nash will help run the
team’s new offense, which emphasizes a balanced attack through
ball movement. Howard, who becomes a free agent after this
season, could be the face of the team after Bryant’s retirement,
which the 14-time All-Star has indicated may come in two years.  Lakers Gear  The buzz around Nash and Howard, who are featured on  Sports
Illustrated ’s cover this week, has translated off the court. The
Lakers are the second highest-selling team this offseason behind
the Heat, and the best-seller in October, according to online
merchandise retailer  Fanatics.com , which doesn’t release
specific figures.  Seats at Lakers home games are listed for an NBA-high
average of $361.97 this season, according to the ticket-price
aggregator  TiqIQ , $74 more than the next closest team, the  New
York Knicks . Last year their $246.08 average road price was also
second, 21 cents behind the Heat.  The team’s reach extends even beyond opposing cities,
according to  Magic Johnson , who won five NBA titles in Los
Angeles and was part of the group that bought baseball’s  Los
Angeles Dodgers  for a record $2.15 billion.  “It’s around the world,” Johnson said in a conference
call. “Everybody really is waiting to see what this team is
going to do.”  TV Deal  Los Angeles residents will satisfy that curiosity on Time
Warner Cable SportsNet and Spanish-language Deportes, launched
this year. Time Warner paid $3 billion over 20 years for the
team’s rights, according to the Los Angeles Times, and will
carry 70 Lakers games this season.  David Rone, president of Time Warner Cable Sports, said the
company’s goal was to build networks around the Lakers, the
“crown jewel” of the Southern California sports television
marketplace.  “They have this unbelievable heritage of 16 championships
and always stepping up and making sure that team on the court
befits their brand and their essence as a championship
organization,” Rone said.  Time Warner Cable (TWC)  Sports has ensured that anyone driving
by, or walking into, its El Segundo, California, headquarters
knows of its ties to the team, whose practice facility is on
North Nash Street. A 16-foot satellite dish with the Lakers logo
sits outside the TV office and the gold midcourt logo from
Staples Center’s first 13 years is the office’s lobby floor.  TV Winner  The long-term contract and new networks benefit both sides,
said Chris Bevilacqua, founder of Bevilacqua Media Co.  “Recognizable sports brands still generate incredible
value in the fragmented television business,” he said in a
telephone interview. “Here you have one of the most valuable
live sports brands in the world in the second largest market in
the country.”  Los Angeles , which trails only New York in television
homes, welcomed the Pac-12 Network’s new local channel this year
and the Dodgers are looking to negotiate a television deal that
could be worth $225 million a year. Los Angeles-based Anschutz
Entertainment Group, which owns, among other assets, Staples
Center, hockey’s Los Angeles Kings and a minority share of the
Lakers, is also for sale.  Star Power  Mills said the team’s brand is boosted by the star-studded
city, where Lakers seats, frequented by celebrities such as
actor  Jack Nicholson  and billionaire Patrick Soon-Shiong, have
become a status symbol. The cheapest seats in Staples Center
sell for $10 a game, while the priciest courtside tickets are
$2,850, according to the team.  Shaquille O’Neal , who won titles alongside Bryant from 2000
to 2002, and Johnson each said the buzz and star power around
this year’s Lakers rivals his time wearing purple and gold.  In O’Neal’s words: “L.A. is the basketball Mecca of the
world.”  -- With assistance from  Scott Soshnick  and Mason Levinson in New
York. Editors: Michael Sillup, Larry Siddons.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  