-- Lakers’ Kobe Bryant Says He Will Play in Opener Against Dallas
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-10-30T19:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/lakers-kobe-bryant-says-he-will-play-in-opener-against-dallas.html
Los Angeles Lakers guard Kobe Bryant
said he will play tonight against the Dallas Mavericks after a
foot injury kept him sidelined for the past nine days, according
to the team’s Twitter page.  Bryant, 34, participated fully in a shoot-around today
before the National Basketball Association team’s first game of
the season, the Lakers said on Twitter. It was the first
basketball activity in more than a week for Bryant, who strained
his right foot in an Oct. 21 preseason game against the
Sacramento Kings.  Bryant said yesterday on his Facebook page that he was
“getting stronger.”  “I will know more after shoot-around tomorrow,” Bryant
said. “It’s still painful to raise up on my toes but it’s
strong. The decision to be made is whether the injury can heal
while playing on it, or if it will make it worse.”  A 14-time All-Star and five-time NBA champion, Bryant has
scored 29,484 points in his career, 5,000 more than the next
closest active player,  Boston  Celtics forward Kevin Garnett. He
has missed 24 regular-season games in the past seven seasons,
according to  CBS Sports , with 17 coming in the past three years.  The Lakers during the offseason traded for 38-year-old
point guard Steve Nash, a two-time league Most Valuable Player,
and 26-year-old center Dwight Howard, a six-time All-Star.  The team has battled injuries and went 0-8 in the
preseason, the only one of the NBA’s 30 teams to go winless
during its exhibition schedule.  The other NBA openers tonight are  Washington  at Cleveland
and Boston at Miami.  -- Editors: Michael Sillup, Rob Gloster  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  