-- Talisman Reports Loss in Third Quarter
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-30T20:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/talisman-reports-loss-in-third-quarter.html
Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) , the oil and
natural gas producer that replaced its chief executive officer
last month, reported a loss in the third quarter following asset
impairments. Shares fell 1.7 percent.  The  net loss  was $731 million, or 71 cents a share,
compared with profit of $521 million, or 24 cents, a year
earlier, the Calgary-based company said today in a statement on
its website. Earnings excluding a trading loss, share-based
payments, a fee tied to Pennsylvania drilling rules and foreign-
exchange taxes represented a loss of 4 cents a share, compared
with the 6-cent profit analysts had expected, according to the
average of 18  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Hal Kvisle, the former  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  head who replaced
John Manzoni as CEO on Sept. 10, pledged a “rationalizing” of
assets when he took over and subsequently announced Talisman’s
exit from Peru. Leaving that country, as well as “uncertainty”
surrounding the Yme project in  Norway , a ban on shale gas
development in Quebec and declining reservoir performance at Rev
in Norway resulted in an after-tax impairment charge of $443
million, the company said today.  The company’s financial results were “slightly below
market expectations,”  Randy Ollenberger , an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets Ltd. in Calgary, said in a note today. Output
was “strong” and Talisman’s reduced spending for the year will
target “its most promising and economic assets,” he said.  Spending Forecast  Talisman updated its forecast for 2013  capital spending  to
about $3 billion. Chief Financial Officer L. Scott Thomson said
in September that spending would reach as much as $3.8 billion
this year, down 18 percent from last year.  Production from operations increased 6 percent to the
equivalent of 415,000 barrels of oil a day in the third quarter,
driven by gas volumes in North America and liquids growth in
Southeast Asia,  Colombia  and the Eagle Ford formation, Talisman
said, keeping its full-year output guidance unchanged. Revenue
declined 12 percent to $1.72 billion.  The benefit of production gains was curbed by lower  gas
prices  in  North America  and a decline in North Sea output. Gas
prices averaged $2.893 per million British thermal units in New
York in the quarter, down 29 percent from a year earlier.  The company fell 4.6 percent to C$11.50 at the close in
Toronto, extending its decline this year to 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  