-- Allergan Considers Lap-Band Unit Sale as Demand Declines
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-31T20:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/allergan-obesity-unit-sale.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN) , the maker of the
Botox wrinkle treatment, may sell its obesity business,
including the Lap-Band weight loss device, as revenue declines
and questions mount about the risk of the procedure.  Revenue for the obesity intervention unit will be about
$160 million in 2012, the  Irvine , California-based company said
in a statement yesterday. Sales fell from $203.1 million last
year and a peak of $296 million in 2008, the company reported.  Allergan’s goal is to generate about 15 percent earnings
growth for the next three to five years, Chief Executive Officer
David Pyott said yesterday in a conference call after the
company released its third-quarter earnings. The obesity market,
which once generated about a third of U.S. sales, has
“shriveled down to a very negligible part,” he said.  “As a company we are very committed to high growth,”
Pyott said. “A business like this, which is going the wrong
direction, is a drag on that overall growth rate.”  Allergan fell 1.9 percent to $89.92 at 4:06 p.m. in New
York. The shares have  risen  2.5 percent this year.  The decision to pursue a sale makes sense, said Christopher Schott, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  “Following several years of sales declines, Allergan is
exploring options for its obesity franchise, including a
divestiture of the business,” Schott wrote yesterday in a note
to investors. He said he views a sale positively “given the
growth challenges the company has experienced in this
business.”  Durability Issues  Questions about the durability of weight loss with the Lap-
Band device and the risks that accompany it may have hampered
sales. Almost half of patients getting gastric banding had the
device subsequently removed, often because of erosion, according
to a Belgian study published in 2011. The company dropped its
plans to market the Lap-Band for teenagers at the beginning of
the year amid congressional criticism and lawsuits.  Allergan has struggled to find efficient ways to sell the
Lap-Band, essentially its only product in the general surgery
market. While the company considered going deeper into the
surgical mix with new offerings, those have even lower gross
margins, Pyott said on the conference call.  Ultimately, it may make better sense for another company to
add the Lap-Band and company’s gastric balloon weight-loss
technology to its product portfolio, he said. A private equity
firm may also be interested, since the business is profitable
and has a “great” brand name, he said.  Bottom Line  “We are assessing the sale because everything comes down
to numbers at the end of the day,” Pyott said. “We could
always, if we don’t get the number we like, choose to keep this
business and run it in a different way.”  About one-third of 200,000 weight-loss surgeries in the
U.S. annually use gastric banding, wrapping the small rubber
devices around the upper stomach to limit capacity. It costs
less than surgery that alters or staples parts of the stomach,
and is adjustable and reversible.  Allergan plans to offset any potential earnings dilution
that stems from losing the obesity business, perhaps in part
with share repurchases, Pyott said.  The company, which has $2.9 billion in  cash  and may get
more with the sales of the obesity business, is looking to add
to the “depth and breadth” of its portfolio, Pyott said.  “We continually look at whether there are products we
could buy or even companies that we could buy,” he said.
“Investors would prefer that we find good return assets like
that versus the very modest levels of return we can get by
investing in the capital markets, where, as you know, obviously
right now the returns are very, very low indeed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  