-- Allianz Raises Operating Profit Target on Asset-Management Gain
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 2012-10-30T07:55:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/allianz-raises-operating-profit-target-on-asset-management-gain.html
Allianz SE (ALV) , Europe’s biggest
insurer, raised its full-year operating profit target after
third-quarter net income was boosted by higher earnings from
asset-management.  Allianz expects operating profit to exceed 9 billion euros
($11.6 billion), assuming “normal business development” during
the remainder of the year, the Munich-based company said in a
statement late yesterday. That compares with the 8.57 billion-
euro average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The insurer, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Diekmann, in August confirmed its full-year operating profit
target “despite the challenging environment.” Third-quarter
net income rose to 1.4 billion euros from 196 million euros
reported a year ago, while operating profit climbed 31 percent
to 2.5 billion euros, according to preliminary results.  While Allianz cited a “better-than-expected performance
across all segments,” the asset management unit, which includes
Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., contributed “especially” to third-quarter earnings, the
company said.  Allianz plans to publish full figures for the third quarter
on Nov. 9.  Allianz said earlier this month that asset management
inflows remain “strong.” The insurer plans to expand the
unit’s operating profit, excluding currency movements, by 5
percent to 10 percent “over a full cycle.”  Full-year net income will be “comparatively lower because
of further balance sheet strengthening, including investment de-
risking and restructuring activities,” as already seen in the
first nine months of 2012, the insurer said.  Allianz climbed 26 percent in Frankfurt trading this year,
valuing the insurer at 42 billion euros. The Bloomberg  Europe 
500 Insurance Index rose 21 percent over the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  