-- AMD Plans to Use ARM Designs in Chips for Servers in 2014
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-30T16:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/amd-plans-to-use-arm-designs-in-chips-for-servers-in-2014.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , designer of the
most popular chips for smartphones, introduced a new line of
faster, more energy-efficient processors for handsets and to
expand in the server market dominated by competitor  Intel (INTC)  Corp.  “We don’t expect this to be like a switch going on over
night and suddenly every server in the world is ARM,” Chief
Executive Officer Warren East said in San Francisco today. A
reasonable target would be a 20 percent share of the market by
2020, he said.  Partners for the Cortex A50 chip designs, which will appear
in devices as soon as 2014, include  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ,
seeking to regain server-processor sales lost to Intel,  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , the Cambridge, England-based
company said today. ARM is adding an ability to process data in
64-bit chunks, which is crucial for servers. Intel server chips
made this transition more than five years ago.  The new design will offer processing power three times
faster than currently available technology and will help data
centers use less energy, ARM said today. The company, whose chip
designs can be found in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices that run
on Google Inc.’s Android operating system, is now trying to
provide options for the powerful computers used by companies
such as Google and  Facebook Inc. (FB)   Power Demand  “We’re finding people building these huge data centers
with lots of racks empty because they can’t get the power,”
East said. “If we don’t change the way in which we process the
data here, then a 10 times increase in the amount of data means
a 10 times increase in the amount of power used.”  AMD will begin offering 64-bit processors based on ARM’s
designs in 2014, CEO Rory Read said at a company event in  San
Francisco  yesterday. Makers of servers are seeking a greater
variety of chip choices, Read said in an interview.  AMD, whose market share in servers has slipped to less than
5 percent, is turning to ARM designs to differentiate itself
from larger rival Intel and win customers for data center chips.
After Intel, AMD is the biggest maker of PC chips on Intel’s x86
technology. A partial defection by AMD to ARM adds to backers of
that technology.  “The status quo isn’t good for anyone, apart from one
company,” said Read.  Intel now accounts for about 95.5 percent of the market for
server chips, according to Mercury Research, with AMD holding
the remainder.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and Nvidia are already using tablet
processors to try to break into the personal-computer market,
bolstered by an update of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating
system that is compatible with ARM designs for the first time.
That version went on sale last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  