-- Tan’s Philippine Cigarette Venture Calls for Gradual Sin Taxes
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-10-30T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/tan-s-philippine-cigarette-venture-calls-for-gradual-sin-taxes.html
Philippine billionaire Lucio Tan’s
venture with  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  said taxes on
cigarettes should be gradually  increased  to avoid hurting the
nation’s $2.1 billion tobacco industry.  A drastic increase in the so-called sin taxes will force an
``abrupt” price rise and this will lead to smuggling, a drop in
demand and job losses, Michael Tan, the tycoon’s son, said in an
Oct. 25 interview in Manila.  “We would like a moderate, predictable increase that will 
give realistic revenues” for the government, said Tan, 
director of the PMFTC Inc. venture, the nation’s largest 
cigarette maker with a 90 percent market share. “The tobacco 
industry should be treated in a more fair fashion, with a more 
equitable sharing of the tax burden.”  President Benigno Aquino wants Congress to pass a bill to
boost annual collections by at least 60.6 billion pesos ($1.47
billion) by increasing the levy on tobacco and liquor. The
additional revenue will help fund health-related expenses, while
Aquino increases spending on infrastructure to boost economic
growth. Tax Commissioner  Kim Henares  said Oct. 24 the bill will
help the $225 billion economy achieve investment-grade rating
status.  The government collected about 26 billion pesos in excise
taxes from tobacco last year. It wants to boost revenue from
smokers by 30 billion pesos in the first year, intending to
collect the rest from alcohol drinkers.  ‘Impossible Mission’  To hit the revenue target, the cigarette industry must
generate 75 billion pesos in additional sales which will be an
“impossible mission,” said Raul Academia, trade and regulatory
affairs director at PMFTC, formed by Philip Morris Philippines
Manufacturing Inc. and Lucio Tan-controlled Fortune Tobacco
Corp. The industry had 87 billion pesos in sales in 2011, he
said.  Industry growth averaged only 1.97 percent from 1997 to
2011, Academia said. Industry sales volume may drop 51 percent
to 49.1 billion sticks next year from an estimated 100.5 billion
this year, according to data from the Philippine Tobacco
Institute.  “It has been shown that we can raise 30 billion pesos
based on our proposal because the drop in consumption is not
large enough,” Bureau of Internal Revenue Commissioner Henares
said. “If the target is unreasonable and unrealistic, we would
be the first to say so.”  The government plan will effectively raise the levy for
low-priced brands by between 350 percent and 700 percent, and
increase the tax for higher-priced brands by 150 percent to 300
percent in the first two years of implementation. In the third
year, a single tax rate will be applied for both low- and high-
priced brands.  Illicit Trade  An “abrupt” price increase may encourage smuggling which
will replace about half the volume decline in legal tobacco
sales in the country, Academia said. Illicit trade now accounts
for about 80.4 percent of the market in Brunei, which imposed a
360 percent tax increase in November 2010, he said.  “When you have an abrupt and a significant tax increase,
people merely shift to other products, which could either be
contraband or smuggled,” Academia said.  Tobacco leaf production in 2013 will decrease 51 percent
from this year to 17,700 metric tons because of the higher tax,
which will translate to a loss of 1.2 billion pesos in income
for farmers, Tan said. About 2.9 million Filipinos are dependent
on the tobacco industry for income, he said.  Low Prices  The  Philippines  has the fourth-lowest price per pack of
cigarettes worldwide, according to the World Health
Organization, and has one of the lowest excise tax rates,
Henares said. A Marlboro pack of 20 cigarettes sells for 40
pesos, about a 10th of its cost in  Singapore .  The low price has encouraged usage, placing the nation at
the top in the region for per-capita consumption, based on
government data.  Even with the increase in prices of cigarettes, the
Philippines will still have the lowest prices relative to its
neighbors, said Filomeno Sta. Ana, coordinator of Action for
Economic Reforms, a research and advocacy group based in Manila.  “There will be drop in demand but that will not kill the
industry,” he said.  Henares said the government focuses on tobacco because of
the worse health risk linked to smoking than drinking in a
country where seven of the 10 leading causes of death are
diseases related to tobacco consumption, according to data from
the  Department of Health .  Health Spending  Smoking costs the economy about 188 billion pesos,
including expenses related to health care, productivity losses
and premature death, government estimates show.  The Senate’s deliberation over a version of the bill that
cuts the revenue goal to between 15 billion pesos and 20 billion
pesos, with tobacco contributing 9.79 billion pesos to 15
billion pesos of the target, got stalled after Senator Ralph Recto quit on Oct. 15 as head of the chamber’s ways and means
committee and withdrew the measure on allegations he caved in to
tobacco companies.  The Senate will resume discussions on the bill in early
November and the country has enough time to pass the law by
December, Henares said Oct. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  