-- Argentina’s Rating Cut to B- by S&P on U.S. Court Ruling
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-10-31T00:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/argentina-s-credit-rating-cut-to-b-from-b-by-standard-poor-s.html
Argentina ’s credit rating was cut
one level by Standard & Poor’s, which cited a U.S. court ruling
that prevents the country from honoring its debt without also
paying holders of its defaulted bonds.  S&P lowered the country’s rating to B-, six levels below
investment grade and in line with that of Jamaica, Pakistan and
Belarus, from B, according to an e-mailed statement today.  “The downgrade of Argentina’s unsolicited rating reflects
our opinion that the government may face increasing risks in the
management of its debt after the U.S. appeals court ruling,”
S&P said in the statement. “The decision may effectively
increase Argentina’s liabilities and the government’s debt
service.”  The U.S. Court of Appeals said Oct. 26 that Argentina can’t
make payments on restructured sovereign debt while refusing to
pay holders of its defaulted notes because doing so would
discriminate against bondholders. The decision may help
creditors including hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. collect
$1.4 billion on defaulted debt. The perceived risk Argentina
will renege on creditors is now the highest of any government in
the world on speculation the nation will opt to cease all dollar
debt payments rather than settle with the holdouts.  The cost to insure Argentine debt against default soared as
much as 576 basis points, or 5.76 percentage points, to 1,534
basis points after the ruling. It fell 37 basis points today to
1,496. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Yield Spread  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Argentine
government dollar debt instead of U.S. Treasuries surged 173
basis points to 1,024 basis points since the decision, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  About half the time, government bond yields move in the
opposite direction suggested by new ratings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook
changes going back to 1974.  Elliott, with $1.6 billion in claims stemming from
Argentina’s record $95 billion default in 2001, rejected offers
to swap the notes for 30 cents on the dollar and wants the
nation to pay in full.  Fitch Ratings also cut Argentina’s credit outlook to
negative today. Argentina’s B rating on its long- and short-term
foreign currency debt was placed on credit-watch negative,
according to a statement.  The action “reflects increased uncertainty about
Argentina’s ability to service its international securities
issued under  New York  Law on a timely basis using the U.S.
financial system following the recent U.S. Appeals court
ruling,” Fitch analysts Lucila Broide and Santiago Mosquera
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  