-- Arsenal Recovers Four-Goal Deficit to Beat Reading in League Cup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-31T00:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/arsenal-comes-from-behind-to-defeat-reading-7-5-in-league-cup.html
Arsenal rallied from a 4-0 first-
half deficit to beat Reading 7-5 after extra time on a night of
upsets in the fourth round of English soccer’s League Cup.  Theo Walcott scored in the 120th minute to put Arsenal 6-5
up at Reading’s Madejski Stadium before Marouane Chamakh added
the seventh goal as the Gunners advanced to the quarterfinals of
 England ’s second-tier cup competition.  “You always see new things in our game, that’s why it’s
never boring,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  said in an
interview with  Sky Sports . “It was a tennis match.”  Premier League teams Wigan, Southampton and Sunderland were
all eliminated by lower-division teams last night, while Aston
Villa defeated Swindon Town 3-2.  Arsenal found itself down 3-0 after just 20 minutes as
scores from Jason Roberts and Mikele Leigertwood sandwiched
Laurent Koscielny’s own goal.  Noel Hunt’s header in the 37th minute increased Reading’s
lead before Walcott got Arsenal on the scoreboard in first-half
injury time.  Arsenal substitute Olivier Giroud scored in the 64th minute
and Koscielny headed in a corner kick in the 89th to pull the
Gunners within a goal. Arsenal then tied it in stoppage time as
Walcott’s shot appeared to cross the line before being cleared
away to  Carl Jenkinson , who fired home a shot to send the game
to an extra 30 minutes.  After Chamakh put Arsenal in front in the 103rd minute,
Pavel Pogrebnyak tied the game for Reading with five minutes
left in the extra session. Walcott then put the Gunners back in
front in the closing seconds and Chamakh sealed the win by
lobbing a shot over goalkeeper Adam Federici.  Disaster, Pride  “We went from disaster to, I must say at least at some
stage, pride,” Wenger said. “I’m very happy that we responded
the way we did in the second.”  Reading manager Brian McDermott said Walcott’s first goal
just before halftime was the crucial score of the match.  “It wasn’t comfortable at 4-1, I don’t know why but I just
had that feeling,” he told Sky Sports. “They have got good
players and they hurt us.”  It was the highest-scoring performance by an away team in
the League Cup since  Aston Villa ’s 8-3 win at Wycombe in 2005,
according to Opta Sports. Reading became the first team in
England’s League Cup or F.A. Cup to score five goals and lose
the game.  Bradford, which plays in fourth-tier League Two, secured
the biggest upset last night by knocking out Wigan 4-2 in a
penalty shootout after the teams finished scoreless.  Bradford scored on all four of its spot-kicks, while
Wigan’s Shaun Maloney fired over the goal and Jordi Gomez’s
attempt was saved by Matt Duke.  More Upsets  Michael Tonge, El-Hadji Diouf and Luciano Becchio scored as
Leeds, from the second-tier Championship, beat Southampton 3-0.
It was the second straight win over a Premier League club for
Leeds, which knocked Everton out in the third round.  Championship club Middlesbrough also eliminated a top-
flight team as Scott McDonald scored the only goal in a 1-0 win
at Sunderland.  Christian Benteke’s second goal of the game in the 90th
minute gave Aston Villa the win over League One’s Swindon.
Gabriel Abgonlahor also scored for Villa, while Swindon’s Miles
Storey scored twice in a three-minute span of the second half.  The fourth round concludes tonight as Chelsea hosts
 Manchester United , Tottenham is at Norwich and Swansea visits
defending champion Liverpool and former manager  Brendan Rodgers .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 