-- Maruti Says Increase in Diesel Car Sales to Cut Discounts
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-10-30T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/maruti-says-increase-in-diesel-car-sales-to-cut-discounts.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
nation’s biggest carmaker by volume, expects an increase in
sales of diesel cars and a new version of its Alto hatchback to
cut discounts that surged to a record in the second quarter.  The  carmaker  aims to lower discounts it offers over the
next two quarters from an average of 14,750 rupees ($273) a
vehicle in the quarter ended Sept. 30, Chief Financial Officer
Ajay Seth said at a briefing in New Delhi yesterday. The
discount in the first quarter was 11,646 rupees, he said.  Industrywide sales of cars locally have declined, prompting
the nation’s automakers’ group to cut its forecast twice and
forcing companies including  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s Indian unit to
offer discounts to win buyers. Maruti, which yesterday reported
profit that beat analyst estimates on lower taxes and some
costs, is counting on sales to pick up in the second half,
spurred by Alto and festival season demand.  “Discounts will be less going forward as the new Alto has
got a good response and will become one of their best-selling
models along with demand for diesel models,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune Equity Brokers  India  Ltd. in
Mumbai. “It does seem to be a slow growing year, especially
post the festival season, and will be a challenging year for all
carmakers.”  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  cut its car
sales growth forecast on Oct. 10 to as low as 1 percent. The
annual forecast for growth in local car sales was reduced to as
low as 9 percent in July, from an estimate of 10 percent-12
percent pace given in April.  Diesel Bookings  Maruti, based in New Delhi, has bookings for 125,000
vehicles, with diesel cars accounting for as much as 90 percent
of them, Mayank Pareek, head of sales, said yesterday. Sales of
diesel vehicles rose to 72,462 units in the second quarter from
50,920 a year earlier, he said. The carmaker has an annual
capacity to make 400,000 diesel cars.  India increased diesel prices in September as part of
measures to pare its subsidy bill and trim the  budget deficit .
Still, a price gap between gasoline and subsidized diesel has
spurred demand for vehicles that run on the cheaper fuel.  “Discounts won’t vanish, but discounts on petrol cars will
average out as diesel car sales increase,” said Seth.  Maruti’s  net income  fell 5.4 percent to 2.27 billion rupees
in the three months ended Sept. 30, from 2.4 billion rupees a
year earlier, it said in a statement. That beat the 1.97
billion-rupee median of 38  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  ‘Mixed Outlook’  Sales rose to 80.7 billion rupees from a year earlier,
Maruti said. The median of 39 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was for revenue of 81.2 billion rupees.  “The outlook for Maruti remains mixed as models like the
Ertiga and the new Alto are seeing good demand but other models,
especially on the petrol side, aren’t doing as well,” said
Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst at Quant Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.  Maruti started selling its new Alto hatchback from this
month and the Ertiga van was introduced in April.  Shares of Maruti, 54 percent  owned  by Suzuki, rose 2.1
percent to 1,390.80 rupees at the close in Mumbai yesterday.
They have climbed 51 percent this year, compared with a 19
percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The  carmaker  resumed production at its Manesar factory on
Aug. 21 after a monthlong shutdown.  A general manager was killed and dozens of executives
injured on July 18 at Maruti’s plant in Manesar in northern
Haryana state. The stoppage in July was the carmaker’s fourth in
the past year at the factory.  The dispute began after a worker beat up a supervisor on
the shop floor. The union then prevented the management from
taking disciplinary action, blocking managers from leaving the
factory after work, Maruti Suzuki said then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  