-- Most Asian Stocks Drop as Bank of Japan Disappoints
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-10-30T10:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/asian-stocks-rise-before-boj-decision-sandy-shuts-u-s-markets.html
Most Asian  stocks  fell after the
 Bank of Japan ’s expansion of its asset-purchase program failed
to allay concern economic growth in the world’s third-largest
economy is waning.  Hurricane Sandy  forced U.S. markets to shut
for a second day.  Toyota Motor Corp. lost 0.5 percent, reversing earlier
gains, after the central bank’s announcement. BYD Co., the
Chinese automaker partially owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., tumbled 4.1 percent after saying profit may fall
as much as 98 percent this year.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  surged 6.2 percent
in Tokyo on a report the maker of liquid-crystal displays is in
partnership talks with Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose less than 0.1 percent to
121.22 as of 7:46 p.m. in Tokyo after earlier gaining as much as
0.4 percent and dropping 0.2 percent. The measure climbed 4.4
percent since Sept 6. after the  European Central Bank  started
the latest wave of economic stimulus to boost growth, with the
U.S. Federal Reserve and the Bank of Japan following suit.  “Most people had forecast and priced in further easing
this time,” said  Soichiro Monji , chief strategist at Tokyo-
based Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., which manages the equivalent of
about 5 trillion yen ($63 billion). “They are selling to lock
in profit upon the announcement.”  Industrial companies led  declines  today among the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups. Shares on the region’s
benchmark equity gauge trade for an average of 12.9 times
estimated earnings, compared with 13.5 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and 12 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  ‘Minimum Expansion’  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 1 percent after the
central bank expanded its asset-purchase fund by 11 trillion yen
to 66 trillion yen. All but one of 27 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  expected the central bank to add to its asset-
purchase program.  “The 10 trillion-yen increase was seen as a minimum
expansion, and the failure to reach 15 trillion yen is very
disappointing for markets,” said Yunosuke Ikeda, head of Japan
foreign-exchange research at Nomura Securities Co., the nation’s
biggest brokerage.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1
percent today. Equity markets in the U.S. were shut for a second
day as Hurricane Sandy, the Atlantic’s Ocean’s biggest tropical
storm on record, slammed into the East Coast and threatened
economic damage of as much as $20 billion.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, known as the Sensex, fell
1.1 percent. The country’s central bank cut lenders’ reserve
requirements, while leaving  interest rates  unchanged amid
inflation of almost 8 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 0.4 percent, while the
Shanghai Composite Index increased 0.2 percent and Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index dropped 0.4 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index gained 0.2 percent.  Exporters Suffer  Japanese exporters dropped after the yen strengthened
against all of its major peers following the BOJ’s policy
decision. Toyota Motor retreated 0.5 percent to 3,015 yen, while
Sony Corp. slid 1.3 percent to 928 yen.  In Hong Kong, BYD slid 4.1 percent to HK$15.06 after the
maker of cars and batteries said net income may drop to as
little as 27.7 million  yuan  ($4.4 million) in the year through
December. A slowing economy damped demand for its solar-energy
products and customers, including Nokia Oyj, ordered fewer
 lithium-ion batteries  to power mobile devices, the company said.  Sharp advanced 6.2 percent to 172 yen. Japan’s largest
maker of LCDs is in talks with Apple, Google and Microsoft Corp.
to jointly develop tablet computers and supply panels to the
U.S. companies,  Kyodo News  reported yesterday, without saying
where it got the information. The 100-year-old company  is
struggling for survival after a record loss last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  