-- Asia Leveraged Loans Set to Stall as Global Gloom Spurs Caution
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-10-30T02:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/asia-leveraged-loans-set-to-stall-as-global-gloom-spurs-caution.html
Leveraged loan volumes in  Asia  may
decline in 2013 as  Europe ’s debt crisis and  China ’s slowdown
limits mergers and acquisitions while private equity firms shy
away from selling businesses at discounted prices, lenders say.  Companies are disagreeing on the value of assets amid
increased global economic uncertainty, making them cautious
about large transactions, according to HSBC Holdings Plc, Credit
Agricole SA and Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. Public-to-private M&A
deals in the Asia-Pacific region are down 30 percent this half
to date versus the first six months of the year while private-
to-public deals slumped 34 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “M&A volumes this year have been lamentable but it’s not
because of any lack of buyside equity and debt capital to get
deals done,” said Lyndon Hsu, the head of leveraged and
acquisition finance, Asia-Pacific, at HSBC in  Hong Kong . “Banks
in the region have plenty of money to deploy and there’s a lot
of equity capital floating around, but as Europe chokes on its
own economic and financial problems and growth in China slows,
transaction flows are drying up.”  Global dealmaking plunged 27 percent since June 30 to $743
billion from the first six months of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as confidence among chief executive
officers in Europe declined to the lowest level since the
financial crisis and the  International Monetary Fund  cut growth
forecasts. The sluggish economic outlook is also constraining
demand for initial public offerings with investors less willing
to bet on first-time share sales against such a backdrop,
according Citigroup Inc.  Lending Appetite  “Financial sponsors are going through a philosophical and
practical adjustment in terms of lower deal ticket size and
returns they’d like to generate from transactions,” Hsu said
ahead of an  Asia Pacific Loan Market Association  Leveraged
Finance seminar in Hong Kong today. “At the same time, a lot of
companies are building up huge amounts of cash but not being
able to find appropriate investments, and certainly not willing
to sell, either to competitors or private equity sponsors.”  Leveraged finance and acquisition bankers expect corporate-
to-corporate deals to provide some respite from the slump in
activity, and banks in the region have demonstrated a huge
appetite to lend.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  received more than $15 billion of commitments
from banks in the space of a month, people familiar with the
matter said last week, as it works to acquire Calgary-based
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  That deal is awaiting approval from Canada’s
government which earlier this month rejected  Malaysia ’s
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s offer for Progress Energy Resources
Corp. on national interest grounds.  ‘Being Cautious’  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  attracted some $8 billion for a one-year
bridge loan to back its potential purchase of ING Groep NV’s
Asian insurance operations, people familiar with the matter said
in July. Lenders had their pledges scaled back to $1.73 billion
in total after AIA decided to only buy the assets in Malaysia.  “It’s been very patchy in 2012 for leveraged financings,
the real story has been the prevalence of corporate acquisition
financing rather than the traditional private equity sponsor-
backed leveraged buyouts,” said David Irvine, a Hong Kong-based
partner at  Linklaters LLP , which advised on Bright Food Group
Co.’s acquisition of a majority stake in Weetabix Ltd. and CVC
Asia Pacific Ltd.’s HK$2.95 billion ($381 million) deal to
acquire broadband assets from  City Telecom HK Ltd. (1137)   “Banks are open for business but faced with the so-called
U.S. fiscal cliff, the Eurozone crisis and a slowdown in China,
buyers and sellers are just being cautious right now,” he said.  Softbank, Cnooc  The  U.S. economy  grew 2 percent in the third quarter,
according to Commerce Department data released Oct. 26, as
companies cut forecasts on slowing growth in Europe and Asia.
Economic expansion may be stunted if the expiration of tax
breaks and implementation of spending cuts, due to come into
effect at midnight in the U.S. on Dec. 31, results in a large
reduction in the  budget deficit .  The biggest M&A transaction involving an Asian company this
year is  Softbank Corp.’s (9984)  acquisition of a 70 percent stake in
Sprint Nextel Corp., followed by Cnooc’s proposed purchase of
Nexen, Bloomberg data show.  Overseas Union Enterprise Ltd. (OUE) , part
of Lippo Group, said earlier this month it’s considering options
that include a bid for Fraser & Neave Ltd. shares, posing a
threat to Thai billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi ’s offer for
the company. F&N has a market value of S$13.2 billion ($10.8
billion).  “In terms of LBOs, there were a few in  Japan  and  Australia 
in the first half but outside of that, the market was pretty
quiet,” Linklaters’ Irvine said.  Ironbridge Capital  Inghams Enterprises Pty, Australia’s largest poultry
processor, was put up for sale in July and has attracted
interest from global buyout firms Blackstone Group LP and
Affinity Equity Partners Ltd., Reuters reported earlier this
month. Ironbridge Capital, a Sydney-based private equity firm,
has appointed Macquarie Group Ltd. to advise on a possible sale
of EnviroWaste Services Ltd., a New Zealand waste management
business that may be worth more than NZ$500 million ($411
million), a person familiar with the matter said in May.  Other leveraged finance transactions requiring large
amounts of bank debt this year have been sparked by strategic
motives,  Irvine  said.  U.S. Leveraged Loans  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) , Thailand’s biggest
publicly traded oil and gas explorer, bought Cove Energy Plc to
secure assets in East Africa while Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd.’s purchase of the London Metal Exchange “was
about China wanting access to the world’s largest commodities
exchange,” he said. “So for some corporate transactions there
are strategic reasons which wouldn’t necessarily apply to
private equity deals.”  U.S. leveraged loan volumes total $456.5 billion since Dec.
31 versus $536.3 billion the same period of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Deposits into U.S. loan funds are
gaining momentum, recording positive net inflows every week for
more than four straight months, Bank of America Corp. said in an
Oct. 25 report.  Syndicated loan volumes in the Asia-Pacific region outside
of Japan for all types of financing have dropped 30 percent to
$261.8 billion this year compared with the same period of 2011,
the data show.  “I think we’ll see a slow start to 2013 in Asia which
isn’t necessarily a bad thing as some uncertainty in Europe is
ironed out and we get the U.S. and China elections out of the
way,” said Rupert Manduke-Curtis, the Hong Kong-based head of
origination for Asia ex-Japan at Mizuho. “After that we may see
more outbound M&A emanating from Asia but in this macroeconomic
environment it can be hard to accurately value companies and
come to an agreement on price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  