-- TauRx Begins Late-Stage Trials on Alzheimer’s Drug
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-10-30T17:34:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/taurx-begins-late-stage-trials-on-alzheimer-s-drug.html
TauRx Therapeutics Ltd.  started
enrolling patients in the U.S. for two late-stage clinical
trials to test an experimental treatment for mild to moderate
Alzheimer’s disease.  The drug, LMTX, targets tangles of tau protein in the
brain, dissolving them to halt their harmful effects on memory,
closely held TauRx said in a statement today. LMTX also works on
precursors to fully formed tau tangles, the Singapore-based
company said. The trials, part of the last of three phases of
human testing usually needed for regulatory approval, will
involve more than 1,300 people in more than a dozen countries.  The tangles in the brain were first reported by Dr. Alois
Alzheimer in 1907. It wasn’t until the 1990s that evidence began
to accumulate that tau deposits more closely reflected a
patient’s mental state than beta amyloid plaques, proteins that
are targeted by drugs such as bapineuzumab developed by  Johnson
& Johnson (JNJ)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  TauRx Chairman  Claude Wischik  has been
studying the tau approach for three decades as professor of old
age psychiatry at the University of Aberdeen in  Scotland , where
the company has its main research facilities.  “The field has been dominated by the amyloid hypothesis,”
Wischik said in a webcast presentation today. “But I expect
that to change over time. It really is time to test the role of
tau.”  Earlier Trials  LMTX is an altered version of an earlier experimental
product called Rember, a form of the dye methylene blue. Data
from mid-stage clinical trials of Rember, announced in 2008,
showed about a 90 percent reduction in the rate of disease
progression over two years. Detailed results from the studies
will be published next year, Wischik said.  New research is showing that while beta amyloid is part of
the disease process, it may not be the root cause of Alzheimer’s
or the only target for treatment, said  Maria Carrillo , vice
president of medical and scientific affairs at the Chicago-based
 Alzheimer’s Association .  “We need multiple approaches to Alzheimer’s,” Carrillo
said in a phone interview. “The field has been shifting to look
at alternative strategies, and it’s very encouraging that TauRx
is confident enough to move into phase 3 trials.”  While the Alzheimer’s Association isn’t funding TauRx, it
supports research at non-profit institutions studying amyloid-,
tau- and inflammation-based approaches, among others, Carrillo
said.  Patients interested in participating in TauRx’s clinical
trials may find information on the closest hospital to contact
on the company’s  website , Wischik said.  Investors in TauRx include Temasek Holdings Pte,
Singapore’s state-owned investment company; the  Development Bank 
of Singapore; and Canada’s  Dundee Corp. (DC/A)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  