-- Australian Wheat Exports Plunging Most in Six Years: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-10-31T20:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/australian-wheat-exports-plunging-most-in-six-years-commodities.html
The deepest slump in Australian
wheat shipments in six years will exacerbate the biggest
contraction in global exports in a generation after droughts
withered crops around the world.  Sales by Australia, last year’s second-largest supplier,
will tumble 31 percent to 17 million metric tons in the 12
months through Sept. 30, based on the median of seven analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The prediction is 1 million
tons lower than forecast by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
The most widely held option on the Chicago Board of Trade gives
holders the right to buy the grain for delivery in December at
$10 a bushel, or 16 percent more than now, bourse data show.  A lack of rain is also curbing corn and soybean harvests,
driving futures to records and contributing to the highest
global  food costs  in six months, United Nations data show.
Countries will spend more than $1 trillion on food imports for a
third year in 2012, the UN estimates. Wheat surged 32 percent
this year, the most since 2007, after dry weather in the U.S.,
Europe and Australia. The USDA expects worldwide exports to drop
16 percent, the biggest decline since 1986.  “The rain didn’t come until late,” said Maitland Davey, a
69-year-old who farms 3,700 acres northeast of Perth, the
capital of Australia’s biggest exporting state. “I hate ripping
that ground up dry, dust just flying everywhere,” he said,
predicting a 30 percent decline in his harvest this year.  Food Grain  Wheat traded at $8.645 on the Chicago Board of Trade today
and averaged about $7.41 this year. Futures may climb 7.6
percent to $9.30 by the end of 2012, the median of 16 trader and
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Agriculture  index  of eight commodities rose 12
percent this year, and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities gained 9.9 percent. Treasuries returned 1.9 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Global wheat production will drop 6.1 percent to 653.1
million tons this marketing year, steeper than the 2.5 percent
decline in demand to 678.2 million tons, the USDA estimates.
That will reduce stockpiles by 13 percent to 173 million tons,
the smallest since 2009, the agency says. The London-based
International Grains Council said Oct. 25 that combined grain
stockpiles in the largest exporters will drop to a  17-year low .  Livestock Farmers  The USDA’s estimates may still be too optimistic. While the
Washington-based agency expects Australian output to be 23
million tons, the median in a Bloomberg survey of six analysts
and traders was 20.8 million tons, implying a decline of 30
percent on a year earlier and the lowest since 2008.  Surging prices may curb consumption more than the USDA
anticipates. Demand contracted 3.5 percent in 2004 after futures
advanced for four consecutive years. Livestock farmers, who use
wheat in feed, are accelerating slaughter rates because the jump
in grain prices eroded margins. U.S. pork inventories on Sept.
30 were the highest for the period since the USDA started
compiling the data in 1915.  Farmers historically have responded to rallies by planting
more crops the following season. Wheat production expanded
almost 12 percent in 2009 after prices reached a record $13.495
the previous year, USDA data show. Sowing in the U.S., the
world’s biggest exporter, is set to increase 1.9 percent to
56.81 million acres, Memphis, Tennessee-based Informa Economics
Inc. said in a report Oct. 19.  Grain Stockpiles  Global food prices are still 9.3 percent below the record
set in February 2011, UN data show. Prices have been curbed in
part by a glut of sugar and by abundant rice supplies, a staple
for half the world. Stockpiles of the grain will rise 6 percent
to a  record , the UN estimates. That’s preventing another global
food crisis and keeping wheat below $10, said Wayne Gordon, an
agricultural strategist at UBS AG in New York.  While rising corn and wheat prices “will affect our pet
care business,” overall increases in  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s agricultural
raw-material costs should be in the “low to mid-single digit”
this year, Chief Financial Officer Wan Ling Martello told
investors at a Shanghai conference Oct. 18. The world’s biggest
food  company  made 12 percent of its sales in pet care last year.  Hedge funds and other large speculators are holding a net-
long position, or  bets  on higher prices of 55,269 futures and
options, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
That’s more than eight times the average over the past five
years. Futures traders are also anticipating higher prices, with
grain for delivery in May now trading at a 2.5 percent premium
to the December contract, from a discount of 5.8 percent in
July.  Biggest Exporter  That reflects mounting concern about crops in Australia,
where the harvest began this month, and in Argentina, where
farmers usually start cutting grain next month. The South
American nation, the sixth-biggest exporter, will produce 16
percent less this season, the government said Oct. 18.  Declining supply in Australia is driving domestic prices
higher, with a 47 percent gain this year to A$330 ($343) a ton
in Western Australia. That makes it one of the world’s most
expensive varieties, according to Luke Mathews, a commodity
strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  in Sydney.  Shipments from the former Soviet Union may drop 48 percent
this season as drought damaged crops, the USDA predicts. Exports
from Russia may “practically halt” in the second half of the
marketing year, the USDA’s Economic Research Service said in its
monthly  outlook . Ukraine will soon exhaust its exportable
supplies, making a formal ban “irrelevant,” said Mathews. Both
nations limited sales in 2010 after droughts.  Winter Dormancy  The effects of the worst U.S. drought since 1956 are still
being felt in the winter wheat crop, which is usually planted in
September and October. About 49 percent of plants had emerged by
Oct. 21, compared with a five-year average of 56 percent, the
government estimates. That may make the shoots vulnerable to
damage going into winter dormancy, said Mathews.  Inventories of wheat in North America, the 27-nation
European Union, the Black Sea region, Australia and Argentina
will drop to 36 percent of global trade, from 53 percent a year
earlier, according to Paul Deane, an agricultural economist at
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Melbourne.  “The Australian situation could exacerbate the
tightness,” said Deane. “Half way through the marketing year
both East Coast and South Australia could have pretty much
exhausted what they had available to export.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  