-- Barclays May Post Rise in Pretax Profit on Fixed-Income Division
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-10-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/barclays-may-post-rise-in-pretax-profit-on-fixed-income-division.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  may say third-quarter
pretax profit rose as revenue from the fixed-income arm of its
securities unit jumped, mirroring gains at its U.S. competitors.  Pretax profit, excluding provisions and accounting losses
from revaluing the bank’s own debt, probably rose 25 percent to
1.67 billion pounds ($2.7 billion), according to the median
estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The London-
based lender is scheduled to report earnings at 7 a.m. tomorrow.  The results will be the first for  Antony Jenkins , who took
over as chief executive officer in August after Barclays was
fined a record 290 million pounds for manipulating Libor. He’s
benefited from a rebound in fixed-income markets triggered by
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s July pledge to
defend the euro with “whatever it takes.” The spread between
Spanish and German 10-year bond yields has since narrowed by
more than a percentage point.  “Fixed income, currency and commodities was the strong
component of the third quarter so far for other banks, so all
eyes will be on the strength of that line for Barclays,” said
Vivek Raja, an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London. He
rates Barclays a hold.  A Barclays spokesman declined to comment. The  shares  have
risen 42 percent in London trading in the second half, for the
second-best performance in the  Bloomberg European Banks Index (BEBANKS) ,
which has gained 15 percent.  FICC Revenue  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s so-called FICC revenue climbed
28 percent from a year earlier and was up 1 percent from the
second quarter, according to figures released two weeks ago.
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s fixed-income trading revenue excluding
accounting adjustments rose 33 percent in the third quarter,
while Citigroup Inc.’s increased 63 percent.  Barclays’s FICC revenue may rise 20 percent to 1.99 billion
pounds from 1.66 billion pounds for the third quarter, Credit
Suisse Group AG analysts led by Amit Goel said in a note to
clients on Oct. 23. That could push investment-banking revenue
23 percent higher to 2.9 billion pounds, Goel wrote. In the
first six months of 2012, FICC accounted for more than half of
revenue at Barclays’s corporate and investment banking unit,
which in turn generates about half the lender’s total revenue.  Those gains will be eroded by provisions for compensation
to clients who were wrongly sold insurance on loan repayments as
well as an accounting adjustment on the fair value of Barclays’s
debt. So-called credit valuation adjustments require banks to
book losses when the value of their debt rises, and gains when
it declines, on the theory that a loss, or profit, would be
realized were the bank to repurchase that debt.  Net Loss  Barclays will probably post a net loss of 229 million
pounds for the quarter, according to Christopher Wheeler, a
banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA in  London , compared with net
income of 1.15 billion pounds a year earlier.  Barclays said on Oct. 18 that it will set aside an extra
700 million pounds to compensate clients wrongly sold payment-
protection insurance, weeks after Jenkins, the bank’s former
consumer-banking head, became CEO. That provision is on top of
the 300 million-pound charge in the first quarter. The charge
brings the total Barclays has set aside to compensate customers
who were sold the insurance on loans unnecessarily or without
their knowledge to 2 billion pounds.  Pretax third-quarter profit, excluding the PPI provision
and a charge of 1.1 billion pounds of swings in the value of its
own debt, would still be in line with analysts’ estimates of
about 1.7 billion pounds, Barclays said on Oct. 18.  Rich Ricci  Rich Ricci, who became the sole leader of the securities
unit in June, this month combined part of the fixed-income and
equities operations in his first reorganization since taking
sole control of investment banking in June. Ricci helped build
the investment bank as the lieutenant of former CEO Robert
Diamond, who left in July in the wake of the Libor fine.  The lender is cutting just under 10 percent of staff in its
equities division in  Europe , Middle East and  Africa  to reduce
costs amid a slump in trading volumes, people with knowledge of
the matter said on Oct. 19. Securities firms from Milan-based
UniCredit SpA to Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc. are also
shrinking equity businesses in Europe as trading volumes fall
and profitability decreases.  Oriel’s Raja said Barclays is likely to see less of a
bounce from fixed income than some of its U.S. peers, such as
Citigroup and JPMorgan, given its asset holdings are less risky.  “The market is probably aware enough by now that
Barclays’s investment bank’s low inventory risk probably means
they’ll underperform slightly this quarter, but that’s no bad
thing as the income is less volatile,” Raja said.  Corporate Bonds  September was the busiest month for sales of corporate
bonds since the euro crisis began, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Barclays ranked seventh for corporate bond
underwriting in the third quarter, with 3.8 percent market share
and $37.6 billion of sales, according to Bloomberg data.  “The upside will be in strong FICC and the steady-as-she
goes will be in retail and commercial banking,” said Sandy Chen, an analyst at Cenkos Securities in London. “The question
mark is whether there are other provisions, perhaps for Libor
litigation.”  The lender face class-action lawsuits after regulators
found it manipulated the London interbank offered rate, the
benchmark for more than $300 trillion of securities worldwide.  Jenkins will still also have to deal with a criminal probe
by the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, which prosecutes bribery and
white-collar crime, into fees the bank paid in 2008 to Qatar’s
sovereign wealth fund as the lender sought to raise money to
avoid a government bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  