-- Bayer to Buy U.S. Vitamin Maker Schiff for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-11-02T17:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/bayer-to-buy-u-s-vitamin-maker-schiff-for-1-2-billion.html
(Corrects size of TPG’s Schiff stake in 10th paragraph of
article published Oct. 30.)  Bayer AG (BAYN)  agreed to buy  Schiff
Nutrition International Inc. (SHF)  for $1.1 billion to add a faster-
growing vitamins and nutritional supplements business to the
German drugmaker’s consumer-health unit.  Investors will receive $34 a share in cash, Leverkusen-
based Bayer said in a statement today. The price is 47 percent
above Schiff’s closing level Oct. 26, the most recent day of
 stock trading  in the U.S. Bayer also said its third-quarter
profit rose 2.2 percent.  Bayer will strengthen its U.S. consumer-health unit with
the  Salt Lake City , Utah-based business. Signed about six weeks
after Bayer agreed to buy  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s
animal-health business, the deal fits Bayer’s strategy of
building its life sciences unit with small- and mid-sized
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said.  “These are two of the areas that we are very committed to
growing, both organically and with these bolt-on acquisitions,”
Dekkers said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  Schiff sales in the year ended May 31 totaled $259 million.
The company said last month that sales this fiscal year would
increase by 43 percent to 46 percent after its acquisition of
Airborne, the cult cold-prevention remedy featured by  Oprah Winfrey .  Tiger’s Milk  Schiff also makes Tiger’s Milk nutrition bars, Omega-3
product MegaRed and Move Free, a pill for joints.  The U.S. company won’t seek a competing offer, though it
has the option to review unsolicited bids until Nov. 28, Schiff
said in a regulatory filing today. Chairman Eric Weider’s
company Weider Health and Fitness, which owns a controlling
stake in Schiff, agreed to the deal, according to the filing.  “Nutritionals are a reasonably fast-growing area,” said
 Alistair Campbell , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London  who
 recommends  buying Bayer stock. “It broadens their product
line.”  The deal is expected to close by the end of 2012. Bayer was
advised by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Rothschild and
 Houlihan Lokey  advised Schiff.  Schiff declined 0.4 percent to close at $23.19 on the  New
York  Stock Exchange Oct. 26. Trading was closed yesterday in the
U.S. because of  Hurricane Sandy , and markets will remain closed
today.  TPG , the Fort Worth, Texas-based buyout firm, owns 25
percent of  Schiff’s shares , according to Schiff.  Vitamin Companies  The purchase including net debt values Schiff at about 17.8
times this year’s estimated earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization. Buyers have paid a median 16.9
times profit for acquisitions of vitamin companies over the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bayer has no upper limit for deals, though it’s primarily
seeking smaller acquisitions, Dekkers said in a conference call
with reporters.  The purchase price is based on about 31.1 million shares
outstanding, including shares underlying  stock options . Bayer
also is assuming $122 million in net debt.  Growth in the health and crop-chemical business helped push
earnings up in the third quarter, Bayer said in a separate
 statement  today. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
amortization and special items increased to 1.85 billion euros
($2.39 billion) from 1.81 billion euros a year earlier, Bayer
said. That beat the 1.83 billion-euro  estimate  of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Plastics Forecast  Sales rose 12 percent to 9.67 billion euros. Bayer raised
its forecast for the plastics unit, saying it now expects a
small increase in sales. The company had previously said sales
and profit from plastics wouldn’t rise this year.  Bayer,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s partner on the blood thinner
Xarelto, has been leaning on its health-care and agriculture
units for growth. The company reiterated today that sales will
increase 4 percent to 5 percent this year, with a “high single-
digit” percentage boost to adjusted Ebitda.  Sales in the crop-science unit increased 19 percent to 1.64
billion euros in the third quarter. Consumer-health sales
climbed 12 percent to 1.99 billion euros.  Growing Conditions  “It continues an excellent year for crop,” said
Berenberg’s Campbell. “The big question is going to be whether
this is because of growing conditions” and whether they’ll be
able to continue the growth next year with this year’s strong
basis for comparison.  Bayer rose 1.7 percent to 67.65 euros in  Frankfurt .  The company said yesterday that Liam Condon, 44, has been
named chairman of the executive committee of the crop-science
unit. He replaces Sandra Peterson, who’s leaving Bayer Nov. 30
to join Johnson & Johnson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  