-- BBVA May Report Profit Slump on Spanish Property Cleanup Costs
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-30T09:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/bbva-may-report-profit-slump-on-spanish-property-cleanup-costs.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,
 Spain ’s second-biggest bank, may say third-quarter profit
slumped on the cost of cleaning up its real estate holdings.  BBVA may say  net income  dropped to 331.8 million euros
($430 million) from 804 million euros a year earlier, according
to the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey of eight analysts.
The Bilbao, Spain-based lender is due to report earnings
tomorrow before the market opens in  Madrid .  BBVA, with about 60 percent of its  lending  in Spain, is
still booking costs to comply with government orders to banks to
purge real estate that built up on their balance sheets as the
country’s property boom turned to bust. Higher earnings from
Mexico and  South America  will help offset losses in its domestic
market, according to estimates from Banco BPI SA.  “They still have a big chunk of the real estate cleanup
that needs to go through the earnings statement,” Andrea Filtri, an  analyst  at Mediobanca SpA in  London , said in a phone
interview.  BBVA has dropped 5.9 percent this year in Madrid trading
compared with a 16 percent gain for the 38-member Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index and a 3.1 percent drop
for Banco Santander SA. Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, on Oct.
25 reported a 94 percent decline in third-quarter profit on
charges for cleaning up its real estate and a slump in U.K.
profit.  BBVA’s Spanish unit may have posted a third-quarter loss of
227 million euros compared with a profit of 265 million euros a
year earlier, according to Nomura International estimates. The
lender said in July it had booked 1.43 billion euros of the 4.6
billion euros ordered by the government to purge real estate.  Earnings from  Mexico , where BBVA runs the biggest bank, may
have climbed 20 percent to 468 million euros on surging loan
revenue, according to estimates from BPI. Profit from South
America may have jumped 59 percent to 358 million euros, BPI
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  