-- Bernanke’s Cash Fueling Record Corporate Rally: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-10-30T15:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/bernanke-s-cash-fueling-record-corporate-rally-credit-markets.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke is fueling a record-long winning streak in corporate
debt as the money he pumps into the economy spurs investors to
seek riskier assets to generate returns.  Bonds sold by companies around the world, from the neediest
to the most creditworthy, are on pace to generate 11 straight
months of positive returns, bringing gains over the period to
12.9 percent through Oct. 26, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Investor demand has narrowed the yield
premium over benchmark government securities to 225 basis
points, or 2.25 percentage points, from 356 on Nov. 30, 2011.  After four years of holding its main interest rate at about
zero, Bernanke said in September he expects no change in policy
through mid-2015 to complement $40 billion of monthly mortgage-
bond purchases in an effort to boost growth. With central banks
across the world using similar strategies, investors have turned
to corporate debt, whose default rates are running below
historical averages, as alternatives to government securities.  “The actions by the Federal Reserve have left no choice,”
said Scott Colyer, the chief executive officer of Advisors Asset
Management Inc., which oversees about $9.5 billion in Monument,
 Colorado . “If they keep the pedal down” we may “have another
year next year that rivals this one in corporate debt,” he
said.  Next Year  Corporate debt has strengthened even as the International
Monetary Fund lowered its global growth forecast to the slowest
pace since the 2009 recession. Concern that Europe will cause an
international financial contagion is mounting as Spain’s economy
contracts for a fifth quarter and  Greece  struggles to obtain
international aid.  That scenario, combined with record-low yields, may
diminish prospects for further gains.  “You’ve seen a goldilocks environment for credit issuers,
but for investors the outlook is less favorable,” said Sam Diedrich, a money manager at Pacific Alternative Asset
Management Co., which oversees $8.5 billion. “We’ve been in a
market that’s very conducive to credit because you have low
interest rates, low default rates, and high investor demand for
yield. However going forward, we see value in other areas
outside” high-yield markets, such as structured products, he
said.  Telefonica Leads  Telefonica Emisiones SAU, a financing unit of Spain’s
biggest phone-services company, led returns of 3.51 percent this
month on Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate & High Yield Index. The company’s bonds were followed
by Italian rival  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , which gained 2.79 percent.
Overall, returns total 0.9 percent this month, the same as in
September.  Elsewhere in credit markets, trading of fixed-income
securities in the U.S. is closed today after the Atlantic
superstorm Sandy paralyzed Wall Street. A gauge of credit risk
tied to junk-rated companies in Europe fell for the first time
in almost two weeks. Fresenius Medical Care AG, the world’s
biggest provider of kidney dialysis, is said to be signing about
$3.85 billion in loans today to refinance its outstanding debt.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index, a credit-default swaps
benchmark that investors use to speculate on the
creditworthiness of 50 mostly junk-rated European companies,
dropped 18.1 basis points to 526.5 basis points at 3:41 p.m. in
 London . The decline snapped eight days of increases.  Fresenius Loans  Credit-default swaps typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Fresenius’s five-year deal comprises a $2.6 billion term
loan A and a revolving credit facility of about $1.25 billion,
according to two people with knowledge of the situation, who
asked not to be identified because the transaction is private.
The Bad Homburg, Germany-based company canceled a planned term
loan B because of demand for the term loan A, which was
increased from $1.8 billion, the people said.  Term loan A facilities are sold mainly to banks while B and
C portions are usually taken by non-bank investors such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds and
hedge funds.  Leading Gains  Europe  leads gains in corporate bonds this year, as policy
makers’ efforts to ease the sovereign crisis lured investors
seeking alternatives to benchmark government securities with
often negative yields.  European corporate debt returned 14.8 percent, compared
with 0.6 percent in the same period of 2011, according to Bank
of America Merrill Index data. U.S. company notes earned 10.6
percent, up from 5.7 percent, the data show. Globally, returns
climbed from the 4 percent achieved in the year to Oct. 26,
2011.  Global sales totaled $3.3 trillion year-to-date, up from
$2.8 trillion in the same period of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The amount investors earn from corporate debt will decline
in 2013 because of the effect of western governments’ spending
cuts on economic growth, according to analysts at Societe
Generale SA and National Australia Bank Ltd.  Predicting Growth  The IMF is predicting the world economy will grow 3.3
percent this year and 3.6 percent next year, it said on Oct. 9.
That compares with July predictions of 3.5 percent in 2012 and
3.9 percent in 2013. The Washington-based lender now sees
“alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown, with a one-in-
six chance of growth slipping below 2 percent.  “Returns this year have been superb, however we can’t
expect these to be replicated in 2013,” said Simon Ballard,
senior credit strategist at NAB in London. “Given the on-going
macroeconomic challenges from austerity, we would anticipate a
drop in returns for investment-grade issuance from current
levels back toward the low- to mid-single digits next year, and
on high yield, back to the high-single digits area at best.”  Growth in U.S. gross domestic product will slow to 2
percent next year, from 2.1 percent in 2012, according to the
median estimate of 89 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Governments across Europe are also implementing austerity as an
economic policy to cut unsustainable debt levels and meet
requirements for staying in the euro.  ‘Substantially Lower’  “Our forecast for 2013 is not ready yet, but we expect
returns to be substantially lower -- 3 percent would be a good
starting point,” said  Suki Mann , SocGen’s London-based head of
credit strategy. He maintained his forecast of 12 percent
returns for this year.  Corporate bonds appeal because of their relative yield and
safety. The global speculative-grade default rate of 3 percent
as of the end of the third quarter was lower than the 4.8
percent historical average since 1983, according to an Oct. 8
report by Moody’s Investors Service. That’s still almost double
the 1.8 percent rate of a year ago as the euro-region crisis in
particular hurts company earnings.  “The corporate default rate has remained low and stable
for some time now, despite some very weak economic
fundamentals,” Albert Metz, a Moody’s analyst, wrote in the
report. “With ample liquidity available, we are not expecting
that to change over the coming months.”  ECB Rate  The European Central Bank cut its main  refinancing rate  a
quarter-percentage point to a record-low 0.75 percent in July,
after starting to reduce it at the end of 2008. This pushed
yields on the safest European government bonds including
 Germany ’s and  Austria ’s, below zero. Only after ECB President
Mario Draghi reassured markets by announcing an unlimited bond-
buying program on Sept. 6 did they start rising again.  The yield on  Germany’s two-year  note dropped to an all-time
low of minus 0.097 percent on Aug. 2, and was 0.04 percent
today, while the Netherlands’ similar-maturity bond fell to
minus 0.035 percent on the same day, before recovering to 0.084
percent.  U.S. two-year  Treasury rates declined to 0.143 percent
in September 2011 and hovered above 0.2 percent for much of this
year, reaching 0.285 percent yesterday.  “Demand for credit is still strong,” said NAB’s Ballard.
“There’s still a lot of cash out there looking to get invested
and seeking yield.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in  New York  at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  