-- Blackburn Approaches Maradona Over Manager’s Job: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-10-30T06:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/blackburn-approaches-maradona-over-manager-s-job-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Maradona Courted  Shebby Singh, who was put in charge of recruiting a new
manager by Blackburn Rovers owner Venky’s, has made an approach
to former Argentina captain and coach  Diego Maradona , the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Singh has opened discussions with Maradona, who is
available and said to be “keen” after leaving Dubai-based club
Al Wasl in July, the Mirror added.  Redknapp to Rovers?  Former Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  is set for talks to
become the new Blackburn manager, the  Daily Mail reported .  Redknapp faces competition from former Rovers defender
Henning Berg, who was interviewed for the job yesterday, while
Blackpool manager  Ian Holloway  remains in contention, the Mail
added.  Defender Tracked  Manchester United is tracking 4 million-pound ($6.4
million) rated Molde defender Vegard Fooren, 24, who plays for
the Norwegian team managed by former Red Devils striker Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, the  Sun reported .  “He could play for United, but I don’t need to tell him
that,” the Sun cited Solskjaer as saying.  German Network  Arsenal is expanding its scouting network in Germany in an
attempt to identify and secure the country’s best emerging
talent, the  Daily Mail reported .  Gunners chief scout Steve Rowley is said to have spent an
increasing amount of time in Germany as the club focuses more
attention on a country that produced Arsenal first-team regulars
Per Mertesacker and  Lukas Podolski , the Mail added.  Vote of Confidence  Queens Park Rangers manager  Mark Hughes , whose team is
winless after nine Premier League games this season, was given a
vote of confidence by club chairman  Tony Fernandes  yesterday,
the  Daily Express reported .  “I honestly believe we have one of the best managers in
the league,” the Express cited Fernandes as saying in a Twitter
posting. “Stability is the key.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  