-- Pimco Sees Risk of Complacency for Spain as BlueBay Sells Bonds
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-10-30T14:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/bluebay-s-dowding-says-it-is-time-to-sell-eu-periphery-bonds.html
Policy makers are “complacent” and
risking investment in  Spain  by failing to take enough action to
stabilize the nation, according to money managers at Pacific
Investment Management Co. and BlueBay Asset Management Ltd.  Pimco, which manages the world’s biggest bond fund, is
holding back from going “maximum overweight” on Spanish and
Italian debt until the situation is clearer, according to  Andrew Balls , head of European  portfolio management  in  London . BlueBay
said it is selling the securities.  Spanish and Italian bonds rose after the  European Central
Bank  said on Sept. 6 it was ready to buy the bonds of the most
indebted nations, before giving back some gains last week as
Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  resisted asking for a
bailout that would trigger the purchases.  “There’s a lot of execution risk so this is not something
where we would go to maximum overweight,” Balls said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua . Pimco will reconsider the amount of the bonds it holds
relative to its benchmark when it sees “a lot more evidence”
that the ECB and euro-area nations “will be able to deliver
greater stability,” he said.  Spain’s  10-year bond yield  was little changed at 5.65
percent at 2:19 p.m. in London. The yield climbed to a euro-era
record of 7.75 percent on July 25 before falling to a six-month
low of 5.26 percent on Oct. 19. Italian  10-year bonds  yielded 5
percent, down from as high as 7.48 percent on Nov. 9.  ‘More Positive’  Investors who bought Spanish securities on Sept. 6, when
ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced the central bank’s
willingness to buy the securities of nations that request aid,
have made a return of 2.7 percent, according to indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bonds gained 0.6 percent in the same period.  “A month ago, we were more positive on the periphery in
the wake of the ECB action,” said Mark Dowding, a senior fixed-
income portfolio manager at BlueBay in London, which oversees
$47 billion. “Since that time, we’ve seen complacency on the
part of policy makers, complacency in Spain, no progress has
been made in terms of an aid request. Now is the time to
reduce.”  Rajoy told reporters at a press conference in  Madrid 
yesterday that he will only ask for a bailout when he judges
it’s in his country’s best interest. European officials haven’t
specified what conditions would be attached to such aid.  “It is a difficult situation for Spain,” Pimco’s Balls
said. “Spain wants to make sure that it has a clear idea of the
terms and a clear idea of what the ECB will do. It is likely
that they will apply relatively shortly.”  Pimco purchased Spanish bonds “earlier in the summer,”
Balls said, ending the company’s three-year policy of holding a
smaller proportion of the securities than appear in its
benchmark index.  “The markets have shown some patience,” he said. There’s
“complacency on the side of the creditor countries and on the
debtor countries. If they can have a reasonable plan and a
reasonable commitment to implement it, then I think they can
build upon the progress of the past few months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  