-- BOE’s Haldane Tells Occupy Libor Furor Prompted Change
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-10-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/boe-s-haldane-tells-occupy-libor-furor-prompted-change.html
Bank of England official  Andrew Haldane  told the Occupy group that the Libor scandal has
prompted real change by stoking an impetus for banking reform.  “I think things then just changed,” he said at an event
organized by the group in London yesterday. “That for me was the 
straw that delivered real change.”  Haldane, executive director for financial stability and a
member of the central bank’s Financial Policy Committee, spoke
after telling Occupy that its protests centered on St. Paul’s
Cathedral in London’s financial district had not been in vain.
They helped prompt a “reformation of finance” that is in its
early stages, and proposals to change banking may amount to the
biggest change since the 1930s, he said.  “This crisis will scar a generation,” he said. “It will
keep on coming back. That will provide a durability to the
reforms I just mentioned.”  Haldane spoke at an event organized by Occupy Economics
called “Socially Useful Banking.” He introduced his speech by
noting that the chief executive officers of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  have recently said banks need to
“rediscover their social usefulness.”  Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds ($465
million) in June for attempting to manipulate Libor. The fine,
coupled with criticism from regulators, triggered the
resignations of Diamond, Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief
Operating Officer Jerry del Missier. Other firms are still being
probed over alleged rate-rigging.  Occupy’s Success  “Occupy has been successful in its efforts to popularize
the problems of the global financial system for one very simple
reason: they are right,” Haldane said.  Police evicted the last Occupy London campaigners from
Finsbury Square in June, eight months after the income
inequality demonstrations began in the U.K. capital at St.
Paul’s, where protesters had already been removed.  In his speech, Haldane said that financial institutions
might need to split in two if ring-fencing of retail and
investment bank operations as proposed by John Vickers fails to
change their culture. The plan by Vickers, a potential candidate
for Bank of  England  governor, has similar aims to those of the
U.S.’s Volcker rule and a European blueprint suggested by Bank
of Finland Governor Erkki Liikanen.  “Can two separate sub-cultures really operate underneath a
single roof? Time will tell,” he said. “If it is not possible,
then full separation would be the logical next step.
Alternatively, banks themselves might of course voluntarily
choose to divest and separate, as some are already doing.”  Acid Test  He said that cultural separation should be an “acid test”
of success of any plans to change the banking industry.  “The culture and practices of investment banking
infiltrated retail banking -- a sales culture which culminated
in harmful cross-selling and unlawful mis-selling,” he said.
“If they are successful, these structural reform efforts will
reverse this pattern.”  Haldane listed culture among five areas beginning with
“C” where banking needs to change. The others are capital,
compensation, credit and competition. On the latter, he said
that everyone can play their part.  “If as bank customers we want to change the culture of
banking, then we should start by supporting those banks who are
delivering that change,” he said. “Putting your money where
your mouth is would deliver far greater and more durable change
than any amount of banker bashing.”  Swedish Model  Lenders such as Svenska Handelsbanken AB, whose expansion
in the U.K. may make it one of the country’s fastest-growing
banks, is gaining customers by making credit decisions locally
and eschewing bonuses in favor of a shared fund pooled annually,
Haldane said. A preference for banks with a culture of focus on
basic banking services can help address the problem of a lack of
competition in lending, which fed the financial crisis.  “We need to raise our levels of ambition when breaking
down barriers to entry into banking, to ensure bank customers
get a fair and efficient deal,” he said. Proposals that store
customer account details in a shared utility could facilitate
transfer between banks, as it may with gas and mobile phone
providers, he said.  On compensation, Haldane noted a “deeply-rooted problem of
short-termism,” in capital markets.  “Altering the time horizon for pay would be a good
starting point,” he said. “For example, some banks now use a
remuneration model based on ‘deferral until retirement.’ It
would be fantastic if that caught on.”  Haldane said that there is now a particular impetus to
prove to investors that financial centers are secure.  “What you see these days with people very nervous, very
panicky, very uncertain,” he said. “What they want first and
foremost is a safe financial system. Financial centers are going
out of their way to show that they are safe and sound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  