-- BOJ Claims Front-Runner Rank in Innovation as Stocks Decline
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-10-31T01:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/boj-claims-front-runner-rank-in-policy-innovation-as-stocks-drop.html
The Bank of  Japan ’s first back-to-
back monthly stimulus expansion since 2003, and the unveiling of
an unlimited program to support bank loans, proved insufficient
to reverse the yen’s strength and stoke the stock market.  The skepticism that met the BOJ’s announcement yesterday
underscores Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s struggle to lift the
world’s third-largest economy out of two decades of deflation.
While he touted the bank as a front-runner in innovation, the
central bank’s challenge is that corporate demand for credit is
limited, said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities
Japan Ltd. and a former BOJ official.  Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1 percent
after the BOJ boosted its asset-purchase program by 11 trillion
yen ($138 billion) and announced the facility to underwrite
banks’ loans. The yen closed in Tokyo about 5 percent from a
postwar high against the dollar and 26 percent stronger than
what Nissan Motor Co. Chairman Carlos Ghosn said was a
“neutral” value.  “Japanese companies are cutting capital spending as
exports are weakening and domestic demand is shrinking -- in
this environment, it’s hard to think lending will increase,”
said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset
Management in Tokyo. “They wanted to show that they were doing
something” with yesterday’s decision, he said.  The Nikkei was 1.1 percent higher at 10:22 a.m. in Tokyo
after U.S house prices rose the most in two years, paring the
decline from this year’s March high to around 13 percent. The
yen was little changed against the dollar at 79.61.  Political Pressure  Economy Minister Seiji Maehara attended his second BOJ
meeting yesterday, highlighting political pressure for action
from the central bank. The joint statement he issued with
Shirakawa and Finance Minister Koriki Jojima after the meeting
was the first of its type, Maehara said. It said that the
government “strongly expects” powerful easing until deflation
is overcome.  The central bank moved hours after September data showed
the biggest decline in  industrial output  since last year’s
earthquake. Nomura Securities Co. yesterday estimated that the
economy contracted an annualized 5.1 percent in the third
quarter from the second as the global economy cooled and
subsidies for car purchases wound down. Strength in the yen is
crimping exports.  Tensions in the BOJ board emerged yesterday as Shirakawa
said new members Takehiro Sato and Takahide Kiuchi objected to
the wording of a policy statement.  Board Tensions  Kiuchi, formerly an economist at Nomura Securities, and
Sato, formerly an economist at Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities
Co., opposed saying the bank will pursue powerful monetary
easing until it judges a 1 percent inflation goal to be in
sight, Shirakawa said at a press conference. “They were of the
opinion that the wording of the commitment should be changed,”
he said.  Some analysts were skeptical yesterday of the likely impact
of the loan support program, which echoes efforts by the Bank of
England to revive credit growth.  The measure confronts a relative lack of appetite for
borrowing among Japanese companies, with a gauge of  loan demand 
published by the BOJ this month at about one-third the level of
2006, the year before the global credit crunch began. Bank
lending remains below its  recent peak  in 2009, at 397.7 trillion
yen outstanding in September.  Loan Demand  The program is unlikely to stimulate borrowing and banks
already have ample deposits to use for loans, said Shinichiro Nakamura, a senior banking analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
in Tokyo. The facility may squeeze their interest margins,
reducing profitability, he said.  Japanese banks are already earning the least profit on
loans in more than a decade. Average net interest margin, a
measure of profit on loans, at 84 Japanese lenders on the Topix
Banks Index has dropped to 1.4 percent, from 1.6 percent three
years earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on
the latest filings. That’s the lowest since at least 2001 and
trails 3.25 percent for 24 U.S. banks on the KBW Bank Index.  The near-collapse of the financial system in 2008, the
world recession of 2009 and the global economic slowdown this
year have driven central banks to craft new tools to revive
growth. Policy makers have set up asset-purchase programs,
embraced negative interest rates and, in Switzerland, adopted an
exchange-rate cap.  Japan’s lending facility parallels efforts by the Bank of
 England  to stoke lending and growth. The BOE’s Funding for
Lending Scheme began in August, and the bank said yesterday that
30 lenders had signed up so far, with the potential to borrow an
initial 66.3 billion pounds ($107 billion) under the plan.  Britain’s Example  Britain’s example has shown some promise. U.K. mortgage
approvals rose to a four-month high in September, the Bank of
England said Oct. 29. BOE Governor Mervyn King said this month
that measures including the FLS had helped lower banks’ funding
costs by about 100 basis points since June.  The BOJ’s facility builds on a venture-capital style fund
it set up in 2010 that expanded to 5.5 trillion yen and was
aimed at industries from environmental technology to tourism and
disaster prevention.  Shirakawa yesterday said that his central bank has been a
front-runner for monetary policy, and that he was disappointed
at any comparison with other central banks. Lawmakers have
criticized the BOJ this year for coming up short compared with
the Federal Reserve in taking measures to aid the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  