-- Bank of Japan Expands Stimulus as GDP Poised to Decline: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-10-30T11:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/boj-eases-for-second-time-in-two-months-as-contraction-looms.html
The  Bank of Japan  expanded its
asset-purchase program for the second time in two months, a move
that failed to cheer investors as stocks slumped amid mounting
evidence that the economy contracted last quarter.  The fund will increase by 11 trillion yen ($138 billion) to
66 trillion yen while a separate credit loan program will stay
at 25 trillion yen, the bank said in  Tokyo , acting hours after
data showed the biggest decline in industrial output since last
year’s earthquake. The BOJ will also offer unlimited loans to
banks to boost credit demand.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average closed 1 percent lower and the
yen strengthened after the policy decision. BOJ forecasts
showing that the central bank will miss its inflation target for
the next two fiscal years added to signs that more loosening 
may be needed. Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara  attended his 
second BOJ meeting today and, in a joint statement with Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa, said that the government “strongly expects” 
powerful easing until deflation is overcome.  “The easing hasn’t ended,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management. “It’s possible
that the BOJ will next ease around January,” when it reviews
its price and growth forecasts released today, he said.  All but one of 27 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  had
predicted loosening today, with the majority expecting a 10
trillion yen expansion. It was the first time since May 2003
that it has eased twice in two months.  The yen gained 0.4 percent to 79.50 per dollar at 4:52 p.m.
in Tokyo after declining more than 2 percent this month.  Target Missed  The central bank said today that it expects prices
excluding fresh food to rise by 0.8 percent in the fiscal year
that begins in April 2014, compared with a 1 percent target
announced in February.  Tensions in the BOJ board emerged as Shirakawa said new
members Takehiro Sato and Takahide Kiuchi objected to the
wording of a statement on inflation. The pair opposed the bank
saying it will pursue powerful monetary easing until it judges
the 1 percent price goal to be in sight, Shirakawa said at a
press conference. “They were of the opinion that the wording of
the commitment should be changed,” he said.  The central bank also said today it will offer unlimited
loans at low interest rates to lenders to try to boost credit
demand among companies and households. The loans will be based
on the overnight call rate, currently 0.1 percent, it said.  ‘Never Effective’  “The BOJ has unveiled similar lending facilities in the
past, but they have never been effective in stimulating
borrowing demand,” said  Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Dai-
ichi Life Research Institute and a former BOJ official. “The
new loan program will probably have little impact.”  The BOJ maintained its benchmark  interest rate  between zero
and 0.1 percent and the amount of monthly bond purchases at 1.8
trillion yen. The asset purchase fund has been its main policy
tool since its introduction in October 2010.  Japan ’s industrial production fell a more-than-expected 4.1
percent in September from the previous month, the steepest since
last year’s earthquake and tsunami, data showed today before the
bank’s meeting. Exports dropped 10.3 percent from a year earlier
and retail sales rose less than forecast in September, data
showed this month.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Japan’s third-largest carmaker, yesterday
cut its full-year profit forecast after Chinese consumers
shunned Japanese brands amid a territorial dispute between
Asia’s two-biggest economies.  Canon Inc. (7751) , Nintendo Co. and
Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. revised down their forecasts last
week.  Fiscal Stimulus  Japan announced 750 billion yen of fiscal stimulus on Oct.
26 amid concerns over financing more spending, as opposition
lawmakers block a bill allowing the government to borrow 38.3
trillion yen for this year’s deficit amid a dispute over the
timing of an election.  Central banks from  Australia  to  South Korea  have reduced
their key rates this month. Earlier today,  India ’s central bank
cut lenders’ reserve requirements while leaving interest rates
unchanged. The  International Monetary Fund  trimmed its global
growth forecast to 3.3 percent this year as the euro area’s debt
crisis threatens the world economy.  In the U.S., stock markets were prevented from opening by
Sandy, the Atlantic Ocean’s biggest-ever tropical storm. Strong
winds and rain roared ashore late yesterday and disrupted
commerce, transportation, utilities and government services from
 Boston  to  Washington .  The S&P/Case-Shiller index scheduled for release today may
show property values in 20 U.S. cities increased 1.9 percent in
August from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  In  Europe , Spain’s gross domestic product contracted 1.6
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, Germany’s
unemployment rate probably rose to an 11-month high of 6.9
percent in October and euro-area  consumer confidence  hovered
near the lowest level since 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  