-- BP Raises Dividend as Third-Quarter Profit Beats Estimate
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-10-30T08:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/bp-raises-dividend-as-third-quarter-profit-beats-estimate.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
company, raised the dividend as third-quarter profit beat
analysts’ estimates.  Net income climbed to $5.4 billion from $5 billion in the
same period of 2011 as underlying earnings in the refining and
marketing unit rose to a record, the London-based company said
today in a statement. It raised the dividend by 12.5 percent to
9 cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley is rebuilding the
company after the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill erased a third
of its market value. He agreed to sell BP’s half of TNK-BP to
 OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  for about $27 billion in cash and shares this month,
adding to $35 billion of disposals in the past three years.  “BP’s performance and the strong progress we are making in
transforming the company give us the confidence to increase
distributions to our shareholders,” Dudley said in a statement.
“We are on track with our strategy to 2014 and are laying the
right foundations for sustainable growth during the coming
decade.”  Profit adjusted for one-time items and changes in inventory
of $5.2 billion compared with earnings of $5.5 billion a year
earlier. The average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for profit of $4 billion on this basis.  BP added 3.2 percent to 438.50 pence as of 8:01 a.m. in
 London .  Production Outlook  BP said third-quarter production, excluding the Russian
TNK-BP venture, fell 3 percent to 2.26 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day from a year ago. It forecast output to rise in
the fourth quarter after ending maintenance at fields. BP’s
share of TNK-BP output was about 1 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day in the quarter, it said.  BP this month agreed to sell its half of TNK-BP to Rosneft,
which plans to buy the entire venture for about $55 billion in
the biggest oil industry deal in more than a decade. BP will
reinvest some of the cash from the deal in Rosneft shares,
leaving it with almost 20 percent of  Russia ’s biggest producer.  Dudley is focusing on BP’s most profitable oil production
as he targets $38 billion in asset sales by the end of next
year. In the third quarter, BP agreed to sell its Carson,
 California , and  Texas City ,  Texas , refineries in the U.S. for
about $5 billion including inventories. In September, BP agreed
to sell a group of fields in the Gulf of Mexico for about $5.6
billion.  U.S. Trial  BP came closer to putting the April 2010 Macondo oil spill
behind it in March with a $7.8 billion settlement with victims.
BP still faces a trial over fines and liabilities with the  U.S.
Department of Justice  in a trial due to start in February. BP
has provisioned about $38.1 billion for spill costs after adding
$59 million to its pretax charge in the third quarter.  BP reiterated today that it’s willing to settle with the
U.S. “on reasonable terms, though a number of unresolved issues
remain and there is significant uncertainty as to whether an
agreement will ultimately be reached.”  Refining and marketing “delivered record quarterly
underlying earnings,” BP said. “Refining margins are expected
to decline in the fourth quarter in line with seasonal trends.”  Profit in the downstream unit was $3.4 billion, compared
with $1.1 billion a year earlier and a loss in the second
quarter. It expects to process less crude in the fourth quarter
because of the planned upgrade works at Whiting refinery.  Refining margins improved in the third quarter. BP’s
refining marker margin, a generic measure of global
profitability, rose to $19.50 a barrel in the period from $15.84
in the three months through June. BP estimates its pretax
operating profit increases about $650 million a year for every
dollar gain in the refining margin, according to its website.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is Europe’s biggest oil company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  