-- BP Raises Dividend as Third-Quarter Profit Beats Estimate
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-10-30T16:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/bp-third-quarter-profit-gains-dividend-raised.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
company, raised its dividend as third-quarter profit beat
analysts’ estimates.  Net income climbed to $5.4 billion from $5 billion a year
earlier as underlying earnings from refining and marketing
jumped to a record, London-based BP said today in a statement.
It raised the dividend by 12.5 percent to 9 cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley is rebuilding the
company after the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill erased a third
of its market value. He agreed to sell BP’s half of Russian
venture TNK-BP to  OAO Rosneft (ROSN)  for about $27 billion in cash and
shares this month, adding to $35 billion of disposals in the
past three years.  “The confidence in the dividend is something the market is
very pleased with,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in  London . “You can still see potential for
progress in the dividend.”  Profit adjusted for one-time items and changes in inventory
totaled $5.2 billion, compared with $5.5 billion a year earlier.
That beat the $4 billion average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  BP rose 4.2 percent in London, the biggest gain since Nov.
30, to 442.85 pence.  The dividend increase reflects “our confidence moving
forward,” Dudley said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
 Ryan Chilcote  today. “The board’s policy is a progressive
policy for shareholders.”  Production Outlook  BP said third-quarter production, excluding the Russian
TNK-BP venture, fell 3 percent to 2.26 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day. BP’s share of TNK-BP output gave it about 1
million barrels a day. The U.K. company expects output to rise
in the fourth quarter after completing field maintenance.  BP this month agreed to sell its half of TNK-BP to Rosneft,
which plans to buy the entire venture for about $55 billion in
the biggest oil-industry deal in more than a decade. BP will
reinvest some of the cash from the transaction in Rosneft
shares, boosting its stake in  Russia ’s biggest producer to
almost 20 percent.  Today’s announcement on the dividend is unrelated to the
$12.3 billion in cash BP will have on its books after the TNK-BP
transaction, Chief Financial Officer Brian Gilvary told analysts
on a conference call. He said BP may buy back at least $4
billion of BP stock to offset the dilution in earnings per share
from the sale, though a final decision hasn’t yet been made.  Asset Sales  Dudley is focusing on BP’s most profitable oil production
as he targets $38 billion in asset sales by the end of next
year. In the third quarter, BP agreed to sell its Carson,
 California , and Texas City refineries in the U.S. for about $5
billion including inventories. In September, BP agreed to sell a
group of fields in the Gulf of Mexico for about $5.6 billion.  BP came closer to putting the April 2010 Macondo oil spill
behind it in March with a $7.8 billion settlement with victims.
The company still faces a trial over fines and liabilities with
the  U.S. Department of Justice  that’s due to start in February.
BP has provisioned about $38.1 billion for spill costs after
adding $59 million to its pretax charge in the third quarter.  BP said for the first time that it’s in talks with the DOJ
and reiterated that it’s willing to settle with the U.S. “on
reasonable terms, though a number of unresolved issues remain
and there is significant uncertainty as to whether an agreement
will ultimately be reached.”  Gulf of Mexico  More than two years after the spill, BP now has seven rigs
operating in the Gulf of Mexico, more than ever before, Dudley
told journalists on a conference call. The company has plans for
as many as 10 rigs in the region, he said.  Refining and marketing “delivered record quarterly
underlying earnings,” BP said. “Refining margins are expected
to decline in the fourth quarter in line with seasonal trends.”  Profit in the downstream unit was $3.4 billion, compared
with $1.1 billion a year earlier and a loss in the second
quarter. It expects to process less crude in the fourth quarter
because of the planned upgrades at the Whiting refinery.  Refining margins improved in the third quarter. BP’s
refining marker margin, a generic measure of global
profitability, rose to $19.50 a barrel in the period from $15.84
in the three months through June. BP estimates its pretax
operating profit increases about $650 million a year for every
dollar gain in the refining margin, according to its website.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is Europe’s biggest oil company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  