-- British Airways Reviews Makeup of London Gatwick Fleet
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-10-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/british-airways-reviews-makeup-of-london-gatwick-fleet.html
British Airways (IAG)  could add more wide-
body planes at  London ’s Gatwick airport in a review of capacity
at a base dominated by aging single-aisle jets that generate
lower profit margins than operations at its main Heathrow hub.  BA is turning to Gatwick’s fleet makeup after reducing its
cost base there through an outsourcing strategy, said Silla Maizey, the carrier’s managing director for the airport.  “Gatwick can accommodate all plane types so it just depends
on meeting needs of our customers and where demand is,” Maizey
said in an interview. “That’s a long time ahead and we are still
in the process of planning out which planes go where and when.”  BA’s Gatwick fleet features 19  Boeing Co. (BA)  737-400 single-
aisle planes dating from 1990 and deployed mainly within  Europe ,
aided by  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A320-series jets drafted from Heathrow for
the summer peak, plus nine Boeing 777 wide-bodies used on long-
haul leisure routes. Upgrades mean that from 2013 Gatwick will
be able to handle Airbus’s A380, the world’s largest passenger
plane, due to enter the BA fleet at Heathrow from July.  The U.K. unit of International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA has recently implemented cuts at Gatwick that involved the
outsourcing of 400 ground-service posts in areas such as baggage
handling and de-icing. The carrier has also eliminated about 120
jobs in customer services and 50 in management and support and
employs around 1,500 people at Gatwick out of 36,000 in total.  EasyJet Pressure  “We’ve been able to reduce down manpower and our cost base
is now very competitive,” Maizey said, adding that BA is wedded
to retaining short-haul flying at Gatwick, where it has faced a
squeeze from companies including  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , the U.K.’s biggest
discount airline and the airport’s No. 1 operator.  BA’s Gatwick services offer lower margins than those at
Heathrow because of the shorter distances involved and the focus
on leisure routes that don’t require the connections available
for business travelers at its main base.  An advertising campaign begun this month highlights service
improvements at Gatwick since Global Infrastructure Partners
Ltd. bought the airport in 2009, Maizey said. Four TV ads also
stress BA’s baggage allowance, free seat bookings and in-flight
refreshments to cities such as Amsterdam and Bordeaux, seeking
to differentiate it from EasyJet and  Ryanair Holdings Plc. (RYA)   Wide-Body Plans  Still, the carrier has added inter-continental trips where
viable, and Maizey spoke before the departure of BA’s first
flight from Gatwick to  Las Vegas , the only long-haul destination
served from its two main London bases. BA becomes top carrier to
the U.S. city from the U.K. with 10 weekly return trips, passing
 Richard Branson ’s Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd., which has nine.  BA could have wide-bodies available for transfer to Gatwick
from Heathrow following an over-haul of its long-haul fleet that
includes the arrival of 12 A380s and 24 Boeing 787-8s due for
delivery starting in May.  The company will also assess the A350-1000, the biggest
version of Airbus’s latest wide-body plane, and Boeing’s
stretched 787-10 and re-winged 777-X, fleet manager Alexander
Grant said last year. Those models are candidates for the
replacement of 52 Boeing 747s -- comprising the largest jumbo
fleet -- BA chief executive officer Keith Williams said Oct. 15.  IAG could spend 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) a year
through 2020 to trim the average age of BA’s fleet to eight
years by 2016 from 11 now, HSBC analysts said this month.
Spending could be lower if the company retires aircraft later or
buys used Boeing 777s or Airbus A330s, they said in a note.  Gatwick, the world’s busiest single-runway airport, also
plans to enhance its appeal to airlines by exploring the
possibility of adding a second landing strip after 2019, CEO
Stewart Wingate said in a statement on Oct. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  