-- Broadway Lights Up As Carnegie, Public Theater Stay Dark
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-10-31T20:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/broadway-shows-to-resume-as-downtown-theaters-struggle.html
Most Broadway shows are resuming
performances today as downtown theaters remain dark amid a
crippling power outage.  All Broadway productions are playing except 
“The Lion King,” “Mary Poppins,” “Scandalous” and “Jersey
Boys,” according to the Broadway League, a trade association of
producers and theater owners. Shows have been closed since
Sunday evening because of superstorm Sandy.  At the  Public Theater  in the East Village, previews are
suspended for “Giant,” Michael John LaChiusa’s highly
anticipated musical adaptation of the 1952 Edna Ferber novel. As
of noon today, the Public was still without power and its online
ticketing, e-mail and phone systems were down, according to a
spokeswoman, Candi Adams.  Previews of Chekhov’s “ Ivanov,”  starring Ethan Hawke, at
 Classic Stage Company  were cancelled through Thursday. And staff
members at  MCC Theater  don’t know when or even if their show
will continue at the Lucille Lortel Theatre in Greenwich
Village.  The Lortel, which MCC rents for the Stephen Belber drama
“Don’t Go Gentle,” is without power and another, non-MCC show
has rented the venue after the scheduled Nov. 4 close.  Killer Closing  “For a not-for-profit theater, losing a week of box-office
is a killer,” Bernard Telsey, an MCC co-founder and co-artistic
director, said yesterday in an interview. “When you only do a
six-week run, that’s a sixth of box office.”  Telsey, who also runs an eponymous casting agency, said
seeing a show isn’t an immediate priority for New Yorkers
grappling with a flooded subway system and spotty electricity.  “Who’s planning to go to the theater?” he said.  “ The Performers ,” a new Broadway comedy in previews with
Henry Winkler, announced a “Sandy Special” at the box office:
$29.50 for the best tickets through tomorrow. They normally top
out at $137.  “People have no subways, people in New Jersey can’t
move,” said Robyn Goodman, a lead producer. “We’re definitely
hurting. It’s making our preview life very difficult.”  Free Rides  Goodman said her production arranged for cars to pick up
actors and some crew members for rehearsals today. Most shows
off-Broadway don’t have that luxury.  “Even if you get the audience to the theater, you might
not get the performers,” said George Forbes, executive director
of the Lucille Lortel Theatre Foundation, which owns the 299-
seat house.  Transportation snafus also affect babysitters, said Randy
Weiner, a partner in Emursive, which produces the suspended
site-specific “ Sleep No More ” on W. 27th Street.  “It’s a whole community of people, and we’re all at each
other’s mercy,” he said.  Weiner said that  The Box , a downtown cabaret nightclub of
which he’s a partner, will be closed tonight, normally one of
its busiest nights.  “Halloween is like our Black Friday,” he said, referring
to the busy shopping day after Thanksgiving.  Carnegie Hall  said the Orchestra of St. Luke’s performance
tomorrow night was rescheduled to June 1. Pianist Wael Farouk in
Weill Recital hall was also rescheduled to June 1. The streets
around the hall remain closed to the public due to the collapse
of a nearby construction crane, said Synneve Carlino, a Carnegie
Hall spokesman.  No ‘Checkers’  The blackout forced the  Vineyard Theatre  near Union Square
to postpone performances of “Checkers,” Douglas McGrath’s play
about Pat and Richard Nixon. It was to open on Wednesday. A new
opening will be announced.  “A Christmas Story, The Musical” said it has postponed
its first preview by a day to Nov. 7. The $9.25 million
production has a scheduled run of just 7 1/2 weeks.  Disney Theatrical Productions said “Mary Poppins,” “The
Lion King” and “Newsies” will resume performances tomorrow.
The same goes for “ Chicago ,” which like “Newsies” is
normally dark on Wednesdays.  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 