-- California Vote Won’t Be a Quick Tax Fix
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-30T22:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/california-vote-won-t-be-a-quick-tax-fix.html
On Nov. 6, Californians will vote on
two ballot measures to raise sales and income taxes in their
strapped state. They should instead be working to amend
Proposition 13, the notorious 1978 measure that put stringent
limits on property tax.  Proposition 30 , the new measure backed by Governor  Jerry Brown , would raise the sales tax and income taxes on couples
earning more than $500,000 to help close the state’s $8 billion
annual structural deficit. Proposition 38 would raise income
taxes more broadly, with the increase principally on high
earners; the proceeds would be dedicated to schools.  The state needs higher revenue to deal with its persistent
shortfalls and to reverse a dangerous trend of underfunding
 public education . Unfortunately, these proposals would raise
revenue the wrong way, increasing California’s excessive
reliance on progressive, statewide taxes. Neither ballot
initiative resolves the fundamental problems that have plagued
state and local budgets for decades.  For more than three decades, Proposition 13 has caused a
damaging fiscal shift, depriving municipalities of needed
revenue. With property taxes off the table, the state sharply
raised income taxes to assist local governments.  California ’s
income tax increased from 2.1 percent of personal income in 1978
to 3.5 percent in 2008. Personal income taxes amount to 30
percent of all state and local taxes collected in California,
compared with an average of 23 percent nationally.  Greater Drag  Income taxes appear to be a  greater drag  on the economy,
per dollar raised, than sales or property taxes. And in
California, such taxes are levied exclusively by the state
government, so greater reliance on income tax means centralizing
more power in the capital,  Sacramento .  Because income taxes are highly volatile, they lead to
revenue booms and busts, encouraging the state to make ambitious
spending commitments in boom times that it is unable to keep
when the economy sours. California already has one of the
country’s most progressive state income tax systems; both
propositions would make it even more progressive. In fact,
Proposition 30 would give California the nation’s highest top
income tax rate at 13.3 percent. This is too much of a good
thing.  Instead of raising income taxes, California should address
the root of the problem: Proposition 13. It’s possible to cap
property taxes in a way that doesn’t undermine state and local
government.  Massachusetts , which capped property taxes in 1980
and still maintains the best K-12 schools in the country,
 provides a good road map .  Proposition 13 should be reformed to empower local voters
to raise their property rates by referendum. In addition, any
cap should apply to a municipality’s total property tax
collections, not to any individual tax bill. The state should
also consider making it easier for municipalities to collect
their own non-property taxes instead of forcing them to appeal
to Sacramento for aid.  Reforming Proposition 13 won’t solve all of California’s
myriad fiscal problems. The state also faces excessive pension
liabilities. (This year’s pension reform was a step in the right
direction, but it  did not go nearly far enough .) And the
legislature is bound by many unwise ballot initiatives that
force it to spend money on specific programs. But 30 years of
experience show that another statewide income-tax increase is
the wrong approach.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  you shouldn’t read too
much into the jobs report ; Clive Crook on why  Obama is the least
bad choice for the U.S. ;  Peter Orszag  on a  tax refund  that could
 solve the fiscal-cliff impasse;  Part three of A. Gary Shilling’s
series on who loses when the  Fed keeps interest rates low ; Part
one of  Virginia Postrel ’s series on  missteps by breast-cancer
charities ; Tim Judah on the  rise of the far-right party Svoboda
in Ukraine .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 