-- Canada Gas Falls After Hurricane Sandy Knocks Out Power in U.S.
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-10-30T16:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/canada-gas-falls-after-hurricane-sandy-knocks-out-power-in-u-s-.html
Canadian natural gas declined after
 Hurricane Sandy  knocked out power stations in the U.S.
Northeast, reducing demand for gas used to generate electricity.  Prices fell as much as 2.9 percent. The hurricane knocked
out power to 8.1 million people in the Northeast and a state of
emergency was declared for 13 states in the storm’s wake, from
Maine to West Virgina, according to the Energy Department.  “There are approximately 8 million people immediately
without power due to Hurricane Sandy -- a huge damper on
demand,”  Matt Smith , a commodity analyst at Summit Energy
Services Inc. in Louisville,  Kentucky , wrote in a note to
clients.  November gas in Alberta  declined 4 cents to C$3.1325 per
gigajoule ($2.97 per million British thermal units) at 12:05
p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian electronic exchange.  Natural gas for December delivery on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  declined 21.8 cents, or 6.3 percent, to
$3.689 per million Btu at 12:22 p.m.  Pit trading in New York was canceled for a second day
because of the storm.  Weather will be warmer than normal in the western half of
the U.S. over the next ten days, while low temperatures in the
northeast will dissipate over this week, said MDA EarthSat
Weather of Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Heating demand will be 4
percent above normal over the next seven days, according to
Weather Derivatives of Belton,  Missouri .  TransCanada Volume  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 15.8 billion cubic
feet at 11 a.m. New York time, 97 percent its target rate  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.05 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
rate was 1.97 billion cubic feet.  TransCanada’s  British Columbia system  at Kingsgate had 1.22
million cubic feet per day of available capacity. The system was
forecast to carry 1.51 billion cubic feet today, 55 percent of
estimated capacity.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
3.13 billion cubic feet at 10:50 a.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  