-- Canada Sept. Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-30T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/canada-sept-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of the
industrial product and raw material prices report as reported
by  Statistics Canada .  The Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI) was up 0.5% in
September compared with August, largely the result of higher
prices for primary metal products and petroleum and coal
products. The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) rose 1.3% in
September, mainly because of higher prices for non-ferrous
metals.  Industrial Product Price Index, monthly change  After posting declines for four months, the IPPI increased
0.5% in September, its largest gain since September 2011.  The main contributor to the IPPI increase in September was
primary metal products (+5.1%), mainly a result of higher prices
for other non-ferrous metal products (+10.4%), copper and copper
alloy products (+9.5%) and aluminum products (+5.3%). The rise
in metals was partly a result of higher demand.  Petroleum and coal products (+2.7%) also made an important
contribution to the IPPI increase in September. Higher prices
for fuel oils and other fuels as well as gasoline were the main
reasons for this increase. The IPPI excluding petroleum and coal
products rose 0.2% in September.  The IPPI advance was moderated primarily by motor vehicles
and other transportation equipment (-0.8%). The increase in the
value of the Canadian dollar against the US dollar in September
was largely responsible for this decline.  Most Canadian producers who export their products are paid
in US dollars. Consequently, the 1.4% increase in the value of
the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar in September had
the effect of reducing the corresponding prices in Canadian
dollars.  Chemical products, lumber and other wood products as well
as pulp and paper products further moderated the increase of the
IPPI.  Industrial Product Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with September 2011, the IPPI was down 0.3%, the
second consecutive year-over-year decrease.  The IPPI was mainly driven down by primary metal products
(-6.5%), particularly by lower prices for other non-ferrous
metal products (-9.2%), aluminum products (-10.7%) and nickel
products (-18.2%).  Chemical products (-3.6%), motor vehicles and other
transportation equipment (-1.2%) and pulp and paper products (-
2.1%) also contributed to the year-over-year decline of the IPPI.  The 2.5% year-over-year increase in the value of the
Canadian dollar against the US dollar was mainly responsible for
lower prices of motor vehicles and other transportation
equipment.  Compared with September 2011, the IPPI decline was
moderated by petroleum and coal products (+2.7%), mainly as a
result of higher prices for gasoline (+5.1%). Among the other
commodity groups that posted gains were lumber and other wood
products and fruit, vegetable, feeds and other food products.  The IPPI excluding petroleum and coal products was down
0.7%, year over year.  Raw Materials Price Index, monthly change  The RMPI rose 1.3% in September, the third consecutive
monthly increase.  The advance of the RMPI was largely attributable to non-
ferrous metals (+8.8%), specifically copper concentrates
(+14.2%), non-ferrous metal scrap (+8.5%) and precious metals
(+8.4%).  After declining for six months, non-ferrous metals posted
its largest gain since April 2009.  Compared with previous months, mineral fuels (+0.9%) made a
modest contribution to the increase of the RMPI in September.
Higher prices for crude oil were entirely responsible for the
increase, which was nevertheless moderate as supply was
sufficient to satisfy demand.  The advance of the RMPI in September was slightly moderated
by lower prices for animals and animal products, vegetable
products and wood products.  The RMPI excluding mineral fuels rose 1.7% in September.  Raw Materials Price Index, 12-month change  Compared with September 2011, the RMPI was down 3.9%, the
seventh consecutive year-over-year decrease.  The decline of the RMPI was mostly the result of mineral
fuels (-5.5%), specifically crude oil. Compared with September
2011, the RMPI excluding mineral fuels decreased 2.5%.  Non-ferrous metals (-6.2%) also contributed significantly
to the year-over-year decline of the RMPI, as prices were down
for copper and nickel concentrates, other non-ferrous base
metals and radioactive concentrates.  Compared with September 2011, the decline of the RMPI was
slightly moderated by wood products (+6.7%), largely as a result
of higher prices for logs and bolts.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
usually subject to revision for a period of six months (for
example, when the July index is released, the index for the
previous January becomes final).  The Industrial Product  Price Index  (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in  Canada  receive as the goods leave the
plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer pays. Unlike
the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes indirect taxes and
all the costs that occur between the time a good leaves the
plant and the time the final user takes possession of it,
including transportation, wholesale and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often indicate
their prices in foreign currencies, especially US dollars, which
are then converted into Canadian dollars. In particular, this is
the case for motor vehicles, pulp, paper and wood products.
Therefore, a rise or fall in the value of the Canadian dollar
against its US counterpart affects the IPPI. But the conversion
into Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents provide
their prices. Moreover, this is not a measure that takes into
account the full effect of exchange rates, since that is a more
difficult analytical task.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is based on
the average monthly  exchange rate  (noon spot rate) established
by the  Bank of Canada  and is available on CANSIM in table 176-
0064 (series v37426). Monthly and annual variations in the
exchange rate, as described in the release, are calculated
according to the indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for
example, CAN$1 = US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the prices
paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw materials. Many of
those prices are set on the world market. However, as few prices
are denominated in foreign currencies, their conversion into
Canadian dollars has only a minor effect on the calculation of
the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  