-- Canadian Dollar Snaps Five-Day Losing Skid as Hurricane Lands
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-30T21:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/canadian-dollar-snaps-five-day-losing-skid-as-hurricane-lands.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened against
its U.S. peer, ending a five-day losing streak, after
manufacturers’ prices rose for the first time since April as
 Hurricane Sandy  slammed into the Eastern U.S.  The currency, which traded below parity yesterday for the
first time in more than two months, strengthened as U.S. stock
and bond markets remained closed for a second day due to the
storm’s arrival. Trading is scheduled to reopen tomorrow.
Canada’s dollar gained along with global stocks and oil on
increased appetite for risk.  “With the U.S. market closed, attention shifts back to
 Europe , global growth and headline risk,” Mazen Issa, Canada
macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities, said
in a phone interview from Toronto. “Looking at markets overseas
will have a moderate effect on the Canadian dollar, which is why
we’re up slightly.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the waterfowl
on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to 99.92 per U.S. dollar cents
at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It closed weaker than that level yesterday
for the first time since Aug. 6. The currency is down 1.6
percent this month. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0008.  The Stoxx Europe 600  Index (SXXP)  advanced 0.9 percent while crude
oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.2 percent to $85.69 per
barrel in New York.  The industrial product price index of finished-goods prices
rose 0.5 percent in September, the fastest in a year, Statistics
Canada said today from Ottawa. Economists predicted a 0.2
percent increase, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey with 12 responses.  Prices Rise  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney, testifying to the
House of Commons Finance Committee in Ottawa, said the country’s
labor market still has slack and there are mixed signals in
housing. He reiterated that the greatest threats to the national
economy are external.  The central bank last week whipped markets between positive
and negative growth sentiment as Carney said the need for higher
interest rates has become “less imminent” a day after
strengthening the case for tightening monetary policy.  The Canadian dollar may weaken further in the short-term,
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) 
in Toronto, said in a note to clients. It’s caused by a downward
shift in near-term drivers of the currency, including weaker-
than-forecast global earnings weighing on growth sentiment,
Canada’s decision yesterday to cut the 2013 growth outlook to 2
percent, and the negative economic impact of Hurricane Sandy in
the U.S.  ‘Bullish’ View  After closing past both the 100-day and 200-day moving
averages this week, the loonie may test C$1.0232, its July 25
low, Sutton said. The Canadian dollar should strengthen once the
early November risk of elections have passed.  “We have made no change to our medium-term bullish
Canadian dollar view,” she said.  Canadian bonds were little changed, with the yield on the
10-year benchmark note at 1.81 percent. The 2.75 percent note
fell 2 cents to C$108.24.  Investors should reduce holdings of fixed-income securities
with yields probably having reached bottom and equities set to
rally as growth in North America recovers, according to
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The largest money manager in the world foresees a shift
back to a 40 percent fixed-income and 60 percent equity
allocation by individual investors, in line with historical
averages, reversing record bond inflows this year as a recovery
in North America triggers a revival in stock markets.  The loonie has gained 0.3 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 2.1 percent, among
the top three decliners with the yen and euro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  