-- Langone Was Patient at Namesake Hospital Amid Evacuation
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-10-31T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/chairman-langone-was-nyu-hospital-patient-in-storm-evacuation.html
Kenneth Langone, the billionaire
chairman of  New York  University Hospital, said he was recovering
from pneumonia at NYU Langone Medical Center and had to be
evacuated after  Hurricane Sandy  knocked out power.  “The backup generators failed, it’s that simple, but the
story here is the magnificence of the effort of all of our
people and what they did,” Langone, 77, said yesterday in a
phone interview from his Fifth Avenue apartment. “Just think of
the effort to bring down 200 and some patients and they did it,
and they did it all night long.”  Langone, who co-founded Atlanta-based  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , said
hospital officials expected backup generators to work and were
surprised by the severity of the storm. New York City Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said at a press conference late on Oct. 29
that the city hadn’t counted on the hospital’s backup power
failing “in spite of them ensuring us that it’s been tested.”
The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the
parent company of  Bloomberg News .  “We believed the machines would work, and we believed
everything we were told about the scope and size of the storm,”
Langone said. “Do you think they’d have kept me in there if
they thought I was going to be unsafe?”  While “there’s always investigations” after such
occurrences, the hospital will do “everything we can” to
improve its facilities, Langone said.  ‘Machines Failed’  NYU Langone Medical Center, named for Langone and his wife
Elaine in 2008 after their $200 million donation, announced in
 2011  that it had raised $1 billion in less than four years.
Among the plans outlined at the time by the center, run by Chief
Executive Officer and Dean Robert I. Grossman, were a pediatric
emergency care center, four new patient elevators, a women’s
pavilion and a critical-care unit.  “What this dean has done is nothing short of spectacular,
in every respect,” Langone said of Grossman. “So last night
God decides to give us a test and our machines failed.”  The medical center’s infrastructure is “somewhat old” and
its backup generators “are not state-of-the-art and not in the
most state-of-the-art location,”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
President Gary D. Cohn, a member of NYU Hospital’s board, said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview.  “That is all very well known by the board of directors at
NYU, and in fact we are undergoing a $3 billion renovation of
the entire hospital facility to completely modernize it to
ensure that we would have backup power forever,” he said. “We
are in a very large philanthropic campaign to try to raise about
$3 billion to renovate the hospital.”  Backup Power  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets and
the largest by equity-trading revenue, maintained backup power
at its lower Manhattan headquarters, which was surrounded by
sandbags and sustained some flooding, according to Cohn.  NYU Hospital is in a “massive building program” and will
try to ensure “we do as much as we can to be bulletproof,”
Langone said. “These facilities are decades, many decades old
and one thing about  New York City  is you don’t have the luxury
of flexibility, you’re stuck with the space you have.”  “Machines fail, airplanes take off in great shape and they
have malfunctions,” Langone said. “Why do we always need to
blame somebody for something that could just have happened? Why
not write a story about what people did because things happened?
Let’s be a little positive once in a while.”  Langone said he was staying on the 11th floor of the
hospital when the evacuation began. He found transportation and
returned home before dawn yesterday, he said.  “I’m not feeling up to par but I’m feeling much better,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 