-- Chile Inflation Forwards Drop on Fuel Price Decline; Peso Rises
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-10-30T19:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/chile-inflation-forwards-drop-on-fuel-price-decline-peso-rises.html
Chilean inflation expectations
plunged after Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said fuel prices
will drop this week.  Traders in the forwards market for unidades de fomento,
 Chile ’s inflation-linked  currency unit , expect prices to
increase 1.44 percent in the 12 months through February, less
than half the central bank’s target rate. One-year break-even
inflation fell 10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to
2.14 percent, the lowest level since July. The measure has
fallen 1 percentage point in the past two months.  Chile’s state-owned oil refiner, Empresa Nacional del
Petroleo, will announce tomorrow that wholesale gasoline and
diesel prices will fall by “double digits,” Larrain told
reporters today in Santiago.  Wholesale gasoline prices dropped 1.7 to 2 percent this
week, reflecting cheaper international crude prices. Chile
imports almost all its oil and gas and motor fuel makes up 3.2
percent of the national statistics institute’s inflation basket.  “For this week, we’re expecting a significant fall in the
price of gasoline and also diesel,” Larrain said. “The fall in
the price of gasoline will be significant and in double digits,
which will be good news for people who have plans to do
something over the long weekend.”  Chilean markets are closed on Nov. 1 and Nov. 2 for
national holidays. The price of West Texas Intermediate crude
oil has fallen 7.5 percent in October to $85.59 a barrel.  The forwards market  is pricing  in 0.26 percent inflation in
October from September and  deflation  of 0.03 percent in
November. Annual inflation will end this year at 1.79 percent,
according to traders, down from the 1.89 percent they were
predicting on Oct. 25.  Fuel Outlook  “Tomorrow we’re expecting a 25-peso drop in fuel prices
that will push inflation down in November,” said Enzo Sepulveda, who trades unidad de fomento forwards at Banco
Santander Chile in Santiago.  Two-year break-even inflation fell eight basis points to
2.6 percent.  Chile’s peso rose for the first time in three days as a
rally in European stocks spurred demand for emerging-market
assets and copper advanced.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 479.66 per U.S.
dollar at 4:12 p.m. in Santiago, according to the Electronic
Stock Exchange’s Datatec system, which resisters trades between
banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  