-- China Shipping Rises After Return to Profit: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-31T10:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/china-cosco-narrows-loss-on-container-rates-cscl-makes-profit.html
China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) ,
the nation’s second cargo-box carrier, rose the most in more
than four months in  Hong Kong  trading after returning to profit
in the third quarter.  China  Shipping surged 9 percent to close at HK$2.07, the
most since June 11. The  Hang Seng Index  gained 1 percent.  CSCL posted net income of 991 million  yuan  ($159 million)
in the three months ended Sept. 30, compared with a loss of 951
million yuan a year earlier, the Shanghai-based company said in
a statement yesterday. Container lines worked together to
maintain rates above break-even levels in the period even as
demand for goods from China falls amid Europe’s debt crisis.  “We remain positive on CSCL’s future earning thanks to the
industry’s self-discipline,” Lawrence Li, an analyst at UOB Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd., wrote in a report. “Cost pressure eased on
lower bunker fuel prices” during the period, he said.  CSCL has improved freight rates, boosting Asia-Europe and
Transpacific average rates by 85 percent year-on-year and 58
percent year-on-year respectively, according to Li.  Larger rival  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , which also operates
dry-bulk ships, narrowed its third-quarter loss to 1.53 billion
yuan from 2.07 billion yuan.  The Tianjin, China-based shipping company said it may post
a full-year net loss on “imbalances between supply and demand,
low dry bulk freight rates” and higher costs.  China Cosco  shares  rose 4.9 percent to close at HK$3.85.  Container lines, including CSCL and China Cosco, have also
agreed to raise rates on Asia-U.S. west coast routes by $400 per
forty-foot box starting Dec. 1, according to a statement
yesterday from the Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, a
shipping group.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  