-- China’s Ex-Envoy to Japan Says U.S. at Fault in Island Dispute
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-10-30T08:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/china-s-ex-envoy-to-japan-says-u-s-at-fault-in-island-dispute.html
China ’s former ambassador to Japan
said the U.S. was fomenting a territorial dispute between the
two Asian nations as the Obama administration carries out a
strategic shift to focus more on the region.  The dispute over islands in the  East China Sea  is “a time
bomb planted by the U.S.,”  Chen Jian , who was ambassador to
Japan from 1998-2001, said today at the Foreign Correspondents’
Club of  Hong Kong . He said it’s in the U.S. interest for
countries in the region to quarrel.  Japan bought the islands, called Diaoyu in Chinese and
Senkaku in Japanese, last month, touching off anti-Japan
protests across China that strained the two countries’ $340
billion trade relationship. In a visit to the region the same
month, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said the U.S. pivot
toward Asia isn’t meant to provoke a confrontation with China.  Chen is visiting Hong Kong on a trip arranged by China’s
foreign ministry, according to a statement on the
correspondents’ club website. A former United Nations
undersecretary general, he is dean of the school of
international studies at Renmin University in Beijing.  The U.S. should push Japan to negotiate with China over the
islands, Chen said, adding that leaders in Tokyo and Beijing
should come up with a mechanism to avoid an accidental clash. In
September, Panetta and U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
both urged China and other countries to resolve their
territorial issues peacefully.  Japan’s Vice Foreign Minister Chikao Kawai met with Chinese
officials in  Shanghai  earlier this month, Chief Cabinet
Secretary Osamu Fujimura said Oct. 24. The two sides have yet to
hold formal negotiations over the dispute.  Chen said nationalist politicians in Japan have taken
advantage of their country losing its “confidence and
direction” in recent years and the island dispute played into
their hands.  Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s administration
bought the islands after Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara, a
China critic, proposed purchasing and developing them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  