-- China Luxury Sales to Get Boost After Leadership Change
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-10-31T11:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/china-luxury-sales-to-get-boost-after-leadership-change.html
Luxury companies are betting that
Chinese shoppers who are buying fewer gold bars and lavish gifts
for their business dealings will loosen the purse strings after
a once-a-decade government change in Beijing.  The leadership transition beginning Nov. 8 will clear
uncertainty on political appointees and economic policy,
encourage business gifting and boost luxury sales next year,
said Kent Wong, managing director at the world’s largest
jeweler,  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929)   After a year of slower  consumer spending , any increase
would be a windfall for  Greater China ’s 27-billion euro ($35
billion) luxury market. It is the world’s second largest,
according to Bain & Co., and benefits from purchases of
ostentatious presents for business associates and bureaucrats.
More-generous gifting would also aid next year’s sales at
companies, including Chow Tai Fook, Cartier watch seller
 Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389)  and  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)   “We expect industry sales to grow more than 10 percent in
the second half of next year, driven by pent-up demand for
luxury,” said Wong. “When new government officials take
office, they will lay out policies and strategies that would
clear investment uncertainties.”  Next Year’s Demand  A rebound won’t be immediate. China’s economy expanded at
its slowest pace in three years in the third quarter and
consumers are still slow to spend. Chow Tai Fook and smaller
jeweler  Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd. (590)  may report earnings
declines from a year earlier in their six-month updates in
November, according to Citigroup Global Markets Inc.  Sales may be better in the coming year as the political
changes help unleash demand, said Luk Fook Executive Director
Nancy Wong, who forecasts an increase in gifting in the first
quarter of the calendar year.  Hengdeli gained 1.7 percent to HK$2.44 in  Hong Kong 
trading, Chow Tai Fook lost 0.4 percent to HK$9.56 and Luk Fook
lost 1.3 percent to HK$19.48.  Gifts are important in Chinese personal and professional
life and center around the idea of reciprocity. CLSA Ltd.
estimates that about 30 percent of sales in China’s luxury
industry come from purchases of gifts bought for business
reasons, weddings and other personal celebrations.  Gold bars carved with lucky characters and Swiss watches
are popular with business shoppers at Chow Tai Fook and Luk Fook
stores. Gifting, which will take until the second half of next
year to pick up, will also aid companies such as  Swatch Group
AG (UHR) ’s China partner Hengdeli as well as LVMH, said HSBC analyst
Erwan Rambourg.  Optimism for next year is encouraging chains to keep their
expansion plans. Chow Tai Fook expects to add about 200 stores
in Greater China next year. Luk Fook will open 50 to 60 stores
by the end of March, and introduce a line of gold bars engraved
with characters symbolizing the coming lunar Year of the Snake.  Leadership Change  The Communist Party begins the leadership transition with a
congress that starts Nov. 8, with Vice President  Xi Jinping 
probably becoming party head. At a March session of the
legislature, Xi will probably succeed  Hu Jintao  as president.
Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  is set to replace Premier  Wen Jiabao .  While the succession plans for those top jobs have already
been telegraphed, the transition also involves changes of
officials and bureaucrats across the country at state-owned
enterprises, government departments and local agencies.  Chow Tai Fook’s Wong expects corporate gift giving will
pick up next year after China’s leadership change.  As incomes have risen, China’s shoppers have spent more on
high-end brands at home and overseas. One in every four luxury
shoppers globally is Chinese, consultancy Bain estimates.
Greater China, which includes the mainland, Hong Kong and Macau,
is the world’s second biggest luxury market after the U.S., Bain
said.  Public Scandals  Even as the middle class has grown more affluent, high-
profile corruption cases among business and government leaders
have exacerbated social tensions ahead of the leadership change.
The most public scandal, the March ouster of Chongqing party
chief  Bo Xilai  in an alleged graft and murder scandal, put the
spotlight on influence and corruption in public life.  To bolster its image, the government earlier this year
restricted its agencies from spending public money on  luxury
goods  and lavish receptions.  According to Bain, China saw the first signs of slowing
luxury spending in 2012 amid reduced gift-giving ahead of the
government transition and curbs on civil servants spending
government funds.  That, coupled with a broad consumer pullback in a weakening
economy, curbed demand for pricey brands. Chow Tai Fook said it
saw a decline in spending per customer. The U.K.’s largest
luxury-goods maker,  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , in September said a
slowdown ahead of the leadership transition and a drop in
gifting hurt its  China  business.  Better Economy  Luk Fook, which gets about a fifth of its  annual sales  from
purchases of gifts, has seen that side of the business hurt,
said Nancy Wong. That will ease after the transition because
“customers will know whom they should be sending their gifts to
when things are settled,” she said. Also, the new government
may take measures to stimulate economic growth and boost
domestic demand, she said.  “Maybe the government-related gifting can start again in
the second half of next year, when the officials will have been
in their new jobs for a bit longer,” said HSBC’s Rambourg.  The latter part of 2013 will be better for the luxury
industry because, as the economy improves “you may have
confidence building back,” he said.  China’s economy  is already showing some signs of a pickup.
Industrial production, retail sales and fixed-asset investment
accelerated in September. Economic growth in Asia largest
economy will rise to 8.2 percent in 2013 from 7.8 percent this
year, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  