-- Christie Says Those Stranded in Atlantic City on Own
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-10-30T00:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/christie-says-those-stranded-in-atlantic-city-on-own.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 
faulted Atlantic City Mayor Lorenzo Langford for advising
residents to stay put as  Hurricane Sandy  barreled in, leaving a
large number stranded as water levels rise.  “There is no way for us to go get them,” Christie said.  Rescuers can’t reach shelters and homes in the city until
at least daybreak, the first-term Republican governor said at a
5:35 p.m. news briefing. One shelter, a public school, is
“literally a block away from the bay,” he said.  The hurricane bore down on the Garden State packing
sustained winds of as much as 85 miles (137 kilometers) per hour
at 7 p.m., and came ashore along the state’s southern coast. The
deadly storm, measuring 900 miles across, may leave as much as
$20 billion of property damage in its wake. By the time the
storm made landfall, the city’s fabled boardwalk was awash in
the surf.  “This has become particularly problematic in Atlantic
City, where for whatever reason Mayor Langford urged people to
stay in shelters in the city,” the governor said. A man who
answered the telephone in the Democratic mayor’s office said he
was unavailable to comment in response, as he was out assessing
the effects of the storm.  Tough Cookies  “For those of you who are on the  barrier islands  who
decided it was better idea to wait this out than to evacuate,
and for those elected officials who decided to ignore my
admonition, this is now your responsibility,” Christie said. He
ordered people to leave the coastal areas Oct. 27. “Evacuations
are no longer possible,” the governor said at the briefing.  Some people sheltering at the Golden Nugget casino agreed
with Christie’s criticism of Langford and said the mayor should
have done more to help with evacuation and storm preparation.  “He should have made sure the evacuation was mandatory,”
said Cary Putzer about Langford.  Putzer was in the casino because he couldn’t walk to a city
shelter. He said he called the local emergency response
telephone numbers four times before finally being told no one
would be coming to pick him up and take him to a safer location.  “The lady started screaming at me and said you need to get
to a shelter by yourself and then we can help you,” Putzer
said. The Brigantine Island resident said he walked across a
bridge into the city to find shelter.  City Unresponsive  Luz Guevara also walked to the casino after calling the
local emergency response numbers. The  Atlantic City  resident
said she began asking for help Sunday night for both herself and
her family, including six grandchildren. Coast Guard personnel
holed up at the casino finally used their personal vehicles to
take Guevara and her family to a shelter.  “If you’re still able to hear me, we need you to hunker
down and get to the highest point possible,” Christie said,
speaking those who remained in the storm’s path from state
police headquarters in West Trenton. “I cannot in good
conscience send rescuers in as the storm is about to hit.”  A 21-member search-and-rescue team will be sent to Atlantic
City starting at daybreak. Another team, with 40 members and 10
boats that’s based in Lakehurst, will be dispatched to other
barrier islands.  New Jersey ’s gambling Mecca is trying to attract new
visitors and reclaim some of the gamblers who frequented the
city when it had an East Coast monopoly. It has lost customers
to newer casinos in  Pennsylvania ,  Delaware  and  New York .  Christie has expanded casino marketing, eased regulations
and created a tourism district around the resorts to give the
state a greater role in policing and development. He gave the
Revel Entertainment Group LLC a $261 million tax break to help
restart construction. The company’s oceanside hotel and wagering
rooms had a grand opening in May.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  