-- Chrysler CEO Reiterates Jeep Production Staying in U.S.
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-30T17:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/chrysler-ceo-reiterates-jeep-suv-production-will-remain-in-u-s-.html
Chrysler Group LLC Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  reiterated that Jeep sport-utility
vehicle production will stay in the U.S. after presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  suggested output may move to China.  “Jeep production will not be moved from the United States
to China,” Marchionne wrote today in a  letter  to  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler’s employees. “Jeep assembly lines will
remain in operation in the United States and will constitute the
backbone of the brand. It is inaccurate to suggest anything
different.”  Romney told a crowd a crowd in Defiance, Ohio, on Oct. 25
that he saw an unidentified story that said Jeep was “thinking
of moving all production to China.” The Republican nominee has
since aired an ad in Ohio highlighting Chrysler’s desire to make
Jeeps in China without mentioning investments and added jobs at
U.S. Jeep plants. President  Barack Obama  is scheduled to air a
response ad in the closely contested state today.  Bloomberg News  reported Oct. 22 that Chrysler’s majority
owner  Fiat SpA (F)  planned to resume Jeep output in China and may
eventually make all of the brand’s models there. The report
stated that potential production in China would be in addition
to output at plants in  Michigan , Illinois and Ohio.  Chrysler hasn’t built Jeeps in China, the world’s largest
auto market, since before Turin, Italy-based Fiat took control
of the U.S. automaker in 2009 after a U.S.-backed bankruptcy.
Production in China would allow Fiat and Chrysler to sell Jeeps
that avoid Chinese government tariffs on imported vehicles.  Italy’s Jeep  Marchionne, 60, has said Jeep has the best opportunity
among all of Chrysler’s brands to succeed globally. Fiat, which
is working on a production plan for Europe to account for the
region’s slumping demand, said today that it will build a small
Jeep in  Italy  for export beginning in 2014.  The Jeep, which wasn’t identified by name, is a new model
for Europe and the U.S. that isn’t currently in production,
according to a Fiat  presentation . A small Jeep was among the 66
new and existing vehicles that Marchionne showed at a convention
last month in  Las Vegas , according to dealers who asked not to
be identified because the meeting was private.  Since its bankruptcy in 2009, Chrysler has announced about
$4.2 billion in investments for Jeep models and plants that
produce them in Detroit; Belvidere, Illinois; and Toledo, Ohio.
The three investments will add about 5,700 jobs combined by next
year, Marchionne wrote today in his message to employees.  Chrysler reported third-quarter net income of $381 million,
an 80 percent increase from a year earlier, in a statement
yesterday. Revenue for the quarter gained 18 percent to $15.5
billion.  The U.S. automaker’s results are offsetting Fiat’s widening
operating losses in Europe. Fiat said today that earnings before
interest, taxes and one-time items, which it calls trading
profit, advanced to 951 million euros ($1.23 billion) from 851
million euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  