-- Cities Are the Best Places to Ride Out a Hurricane
-- B y   S t e p h e n   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-30T19:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/cities-are-the-best-places-to-ride-out-a-hurricane.html
Hurricane Sandy  has immobilized  New
York  City for two days, with mass transit shut down, power out
in many parts of the city, and widespread flooding. At least 10
people in the city died as a result of the storm.  Yet it’s worth saying that it could have been much, much
worse. For a lot of modern history, cities were dangerous
places, prone to acts of God. “In the olden days, you would have
had lots of fatalities,” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
(founder and principal owner of Bloomberg LP) said on Monday.  Earthquakes and fires ravaged  San Francisco  and other
American cities as late as the turn of the 20th century, and
 London  has been defined by its great conflagrations.  Tsunamis, quakes, floods and hurricanes can still kill
hundreds of thousands in a single event in the Third World.  Now, though, you’d be hard-pressed to find a safer place on
earth than in the heart of a wealthy metropolis.  Nearly a century after industrialization, skyscrapers were
thought to be too dangerous for earthquake-prone Tokyo. Yet they
were allowed beginning in the 1960s, when scientists
“demonstrated that skyscrapers, if properly constructed, were
actually more structurally stable than the six-to-eight-story
office buildings that then constituted  Japan ’s standard office
blocks,” as R. Taggart Murphy  wrote  in the New Republic shortly
after the 2011 quake.  Many worried that a fear of “the big one” hitting  Tokyo 
would deter residents from climbing much higher in the world’s
largest city. While prices in high-rises fell after the
disaster, especially around Tokyo Bay, the panic was short-
lived. Nearly a year after the quake, Philip Brasor and Masako
Tsubuku  wrote  in the Japan Times:  “According to real-estate analysts, the earthquake
convinced many commuters to move closer to their workplaces, so
if another major one strikes they would be able to get home
quickly and without the need for public transportation. And the
waterfront is within 5 km of the central business district of
the capital.”  Threats from the sea have also been reduced in large First-
World cities, thanks to advances in engineering and coastal
defense. The Dutch have been fending off the sea from their
densely populated strip of land for 1,000 years, and finally
tamed it in the 20th century with the Delta and Zuiderzee Works,
which turned their saltwater sea into a freshwater lake.  At a  seminar  at New York University’s Polytechnic Institute
to study flood barriers in  New York City , Brian Colle of Stony
Brook University predicted in 2009 that episodes such as this
week’s record-setting floods at the Battery in  Lower Manhattan 
would become more common.  New York City doesn’t have much protection against storm
surges, but for a few billion dollars, it  could  build defenses
blocking the entrances to New York’s Upper or Lower Bays,
according to presenters at the conference.  New York’s large taxpaying population packed onto a small
amount of land makes such a plan feasible. Protecting entire
coastlines such as the New Jersey shore, however, is probably
not. Japan has a massive system of seawalls flanking much of its
coast, but the defenses in its coastal towns were overwhelmed in
last year’s tsunami.  Seawalls aren’t the only protection against natural
disasters that cities can afford but outlying areas can’t.  Burying  power lines  is usually prohibitively expensive
outside of dense neighborhoods, and city dwellers usually don’t
have to wait as long as their suburban counterparts for streets
to be plowed after snowstorms. Running water continues during
power outages for those who live in towns with sewer systems,
whereas those that rely on pumps are out of luck.  If climate scientists are correct and sea levels continue
to rise and extreme weather becomes more common, cities will
probably continue to find ways to protect themselves from
natural disasters.  ( Stephen Smith  is a Brooklyn-based contributor to Bloomberg
View. He writes on  land use  and public transportation.)
 