-- Clarin Says Argentina Media Bill Violates Property Rights
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-30T21:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/clarin-says-argentina-media-bill-violates-property-rights-1-.html
Argentina ’s  Grupo Clarin SA (GCLA)  said the
country’s media law, which may require it to sell some
television stations, violates private property rights and can’t
be enforced.  Argentina’s government says Clarin has until Dec. 7, when a
court’s suspension of the new media law ends, to sell the assets
and comply with the legislation. Clarin should have one year
from Dec. 7 to sell any assets if the law takes effect, company
spokesman Martin Etchevers told reporters in Buenos Aires today.  Clarin, Argentina’s biggest media company, has frequently
clashed with President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s
government since she took power in 2007. When Fernandez visited
 Angola  in May, a member of her entourage handed out socks
emblazoned with “Clarin Lies” to children. Vice President
 Amado Boudou  wore a T-shirt with the same logo during the 2011
campaign.  “The media bill is a law designed to go after Clarin,”
said Carlos Moltini, chief executive officer of the company’s
Cablevision SA unit, at the news conference today. “They want
to take Clarin apart.”  Last week, the country’s media regulator Martin Sabbatella
said the government will call for an auction of the company’s
licenses that exceed legal limits if it doesn’t act by Dec. 7.
The government won’t confiscate or nationalize media companies,
Sabbatella said.  Clarin, which Fernandez has described as a “monopoly”
biased against her government, has 158 TV licenses, 134 more
than the 24 allowed, and employs about 17,000 people, Etchevers
said.  Shares in Clarin rose 3.1 percent today to 6.7 pesos in
 Buenos Aires  trading. The company’s American depositary receipts
didn’t trade in  New York  as a result of superstorm Sandy, which
shut U.S. markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  