-- Clean Development Mechanism Set for Revamp Next Year
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-11-02T08:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/clean-development-mechanism-set-for-revamps-in-2013-unfccc-says.html
(Corrects UNFCCC stance on Kyoto 2 in fifth paragraph of
story published Oct. 30.)  The Clean Development Mechanism, the
United Nations-overseen carbon market beset by record low prices,
is set for revamps next year as initial commitments under the
 Kyoto Protocol  expire.  “Everything is on the table” for making the program more
effective, Niclas Svenningsen, manager of strategy and policy
development at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change,
said today at an emissions conference in Bangkok.  Many investors don’t realize the CDM is due for automatic
review as the first commitment period of the  Kyoto treaty , which
runs from 2008 through 2012, comes to an end, he said. The
program, intended to give richer countries an incentive to fund
emission-abatement projects in  developing countries  such as
China and  India , may face low prices through 2015, according to
analysts including Orbeo.  The review of the CDM will include whether certain
technologies need to be banned, Svenningsen said. At last year’s
meeting in Marrakech,  Morocco , the UNFCCC deferred a proposal to
prohibit UN emission credits linked to hydrofluorocarbon-23 and
other industrial gases, even though the EU will ban such offsets
starting in May 2013. While HFC-23 traps thousands of times more
heat than carbon dioxide, the EU decided to stop allowing these
credits in its emissions trading system, the world’s largest,
and is urging an outright ban on HFCs.  ‘Very Important’  Svenningsen said he hopes there will be a push for
countries to agree to a so-called second commitment period of
Kyoto, or Kyoto 2, at this year’s climate summit in Doha, Qatar.
That would mean developed nations would commit to binding cuts
in emissions starting in 2013. So far,  Europe  is alone in its
pledge to adopt new mandatory targets.  “Kyoto is still very important because it is still the
only legally binding agreement that exists,” Svenningsen said.
While nations including Japan, Russia and  Canada  ruled out new
commitments under the treaty at last year’s climate summit in
Durban,  South Africa , Svenningsen said he would like to see them
sign up for additional emissions caps at the Doha meeting.  Developing nations have doubts about the long-term value of
UN credits that won’t disappear even with new commitments to
Kyoto, Lu Xuedu, an adviser at the Asia Development Bank, said
at today’s conference. He predicted a shakeout of investors
participating in  emissions trading .  ‘Dumping CERs’  UN emission credits may drop close to zero this year before
a possible rebound after 2015, according to Orbeo.  Projects and investors with UN greenhouse-gas credits known
as Certified Emission Reductions are selling them as quickly as
possible, said Dorothy Denis, senior manager at Orbeo, also
known as Solvay Energy Services.  “We see people are dumping CERs,” Denis said today at a
conference in Bangkok. “It may be bad by the end of the year.
We think prices may fall close to zero.”  The price of CERs for December has plunged 85 percent in
the past year because of an oversupply of credits. It’s possible
that prices could rise to 10 or even 20 euros ($13 to $26) a
metric ton after 2015 if some carbon markets are linked as part
of a global agreement, Denis said.  “The key to reviving CDM prices is increasing demand,”
Sung-Woo Kim, regional head of  Climate Change  and Sustainability
in Asia Pacific for KPMG LLP, said at the conference. Prices may
recover as more trading systems are put in place around the
world, he said.  Australia , which started charging its largest
emitters a price of A$23 a ton in July, is scheduled to begin a
cap-and-trade system in 2015.  South Korea ’s legislature agreed
to start its carbon-trading market the same year.  “Right now, prices are low and may stay that way until the
new systems are established by around 2015,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  