-- McNally, Boulud Add Glamor to Hipster Bowery Dining
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/mcnally-boulud-add-glamor-to-hipster-bowery-dining.html
There are groups of wasted 20-
somethings still populating the sidewalks of the Bowery. It’s
just that now they’re as likely to be drunk on $115 bottles of
Barolo as they are on PBR.  Star chefs have descended --  Daniel Boulud ’s DBGB bears a
strong family resemblance to his uptown cafe -- and raised the
bar for everyone. So current restaurants, menus, and, of course,
prices are stark departures from the Bowery of old.  Here are a few places worth checking out:  B-Bar and Grill  One of the earliest harbingers of the Bowery’s
gentrification, B-Bar has now become its grand dame.  The huge outdoor courtyard makes this the perfect place to
have a drink and observe the scene.  While the food isn’t the reason people come to this
restaurant, its standard burgers and brunch food are satisfying.  At 40 East 4th Street. Information: 1+ 212 475-2220;
 http://bbarandgrill.com .  Bowery Diner  This retro diner serves food and alcohol 24 hours a day, a
major advantage for pre-(or post-) gig pick me ups.  The clientele is a mixture of hipsters and hipster
tourists, so it’s a great place for people watching.  Another draw is its close proximity to the New Museum and
all on-site and nearby parties.  The trick is to sample a few cocktails before digging into
the food.  At 241 Bowery. Information: +1-212-388-0052;
 http://www.thebowerydiner.com .  DBGB Kitchen & Bar  Though this is Daniel Boulud’s least expensive restaurant,
he hasn’t sacrificed quality.  The sausages are the ostensible stars of the menu, but small
plates, like the fried egg and asparagus and the crispy
calamari, are worth the trip downtown.  At 299 Bowery. Information: +1-212-933-5300;
 http://www.danielnyc.com   Hecho en Dumbo  If you can get past the $10 bowl of guacamole, you’ll enjoy
a meal at Hecho en Dumbo, the unnecessarily swank Mexican
restaurant that serves a range of small, delicious plates.  This is food that you won’t find at a taco truck: Try the
Tacos de Tuetano, with bone marrow, wagyu beef tongue and
avocado salsa, or the excellent Tacos el Alcalde, with smoked
sable, braised octopus and shrimp with queso fresco.  At 354 Bowery. Information: +1-212-937-4245;
 http://www.hechoendumbo.com .  Il Buco Alimentari e Vineria  Just off the Bowery on Great Jones St., this Italian
restaurant/grocery/wine bar puts an emphasis on fresh, wholesome
comestibles.  Come here to pick up a fantastic loaf of ciabatta, or sit
down for their excellent salumi board.  It seems pricey until you taste the food -- then prices
feel entirely reasonable.  At 53 Great Jones St. Information: +1-212-837-2622;
 http://www.ilbucovineria.com .  Peels  The crowd at Peels is so self-consciously hip you want to
dislike the restaurant, but the place is so nice you can’t help
enjoying yourself.  The second floor is gorgeous, with soaring windows, a
beautiful bar and spacious tables.  Try the beer-battered onion rings or the fried chicken.
There’s usually a line, so be sure to make a reservation.  At 325 Bowery. Information: +1-646-602-7015;
 http://www.peelsnyc.com .  Pulinos  It’s a Keith McNally restaurant: despite crowds and
unceasing cacophony, the wait staff is friendly and pleasant,
and the food is much better than it needs to be.  The pizzas are a standout -- choose from a list of toppings
to make your own, including arugula, egg, pancetta and pickled
chiles.  At 282 Bowery. Information: +1-212-226-1966;
 http://www.pulinosny.com .  The Smile  A block away from the Bowery on a quiet stretch of  Bond
Street , this is one of the best downtown spots to grab a relaxed
drink or small bite.  It’s usually filled with a local crowd of young
artists/writers/models chit-chatting over fava bean crostini,
Moroccan meatballs and affordable bottles of wine.  At 26 Bond St. Information: +1-646-329-5836;
 http://www.thesmilenyc.com   (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Jeffrey Burke on  books  and Krista
Giovacco on  travel .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in  New York :  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 