-- Colombia Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Rate Statement (Text)
-- B y   D a n i e l   G r i l l o
-- 2012-10-30T11:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/colombia-central-bank-s-monetary-policy-rate-statement-text-.html
Following is the text from
 Colombia ’s  Central Bank  statement on the benchmark interest
rate decision. The translation to English was provided by the
Central Bank on its website.  Banco de la Republica keeps the benchmark interest rate
unchanged  In their session today, the Board of Directors of the Banco de
la Republica decided to leave the benchmark interest rate
unchanged. Consequently, the  base rate  for liquidity-expansion
auctions will remain at 4.75%. The decision was made with the
following in mind:  The economic activity indicators in the third quarter of2012
confirmed the weakness of the global economy.  Europe  continues
to contract and the  United States  is growing at a moderate pace.
The slowdown seen in some of the larger emerging economies seems
to be stabilizing. In this context and without inflationary
pressures, it is to be expected that the foreign  interest rate 
will remain low for a prolonged period. Likewise, in spite of
the slower worldwide growth, the international price of
petroleum and other commodities remain high.  The international financial conditions have improved, partly
because of the policy actions of the main central banks around
the world. Volatility has declined and the prices of some assets
have risen. However, the uncertainty associated with the
problems of public finances and of the banks in some advanced
economies are still high.  In Colombia, just as in other countries, the weakness of the
global economy has been reflected in the slower growth of
exports and industrial production. The terms of trade remain
high and stimulate national income.  In spite of the signs of a slowdown, expansion in the coming
quarters will continue to be driven by domestic demand. A
healthy financial system, household confidence, and a strong
labor market will continue to support the growth of consumption.
The prices of commodities, the confidence levels, the
availability of foreign and domestic financing and foreign
direct investment, in turn, will contribute to the performance
of the investment.  The growth of credit continues to slow down and the indices of
prices for new and used housing are at historically high levels.
inflation, the average of the indicators of  core inflation , and
expectations are very close to the mid-point of the target range
(3%).  The greatest risk for the country’s economic activity is still a
strong recession in Europe. It appears that the probability that
this will occur has declined given the actions taken by European
authorities and the reactions of the markets on that continent.  Based on the evaluation of the current balance of risk, the
Board of Directors thought it appropriate to keep the benchmark
interest rate at 4.75%. New information including not only
information concerning developments in the events in advanced
countries and their impact on confidence, global demand, and the
international prices for commodities but also that coming from
domestic performance will make it possible to take future
monetary policy actions.  The Board reiterates that the Banco de la Republica has the
tools and sufficient resources to meet the liquidity needs in
national and foreign currency that the economy requires on a
regular basis as well as those needs that might appear in an
environment of international financial turbulence.  The Board will continue to monitor the trend and projections for
economic activity and inflation in the country, the asset
markets, and the international situation carefully. Finally,
they also reiterate that monetary policy will depend on the new
information that is available.  SOURCE: Banco de la Republica
 http://www.banrep.gov.co/   To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Grillo in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgrillomader@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  