-- Congo Government Wants 35% of Mine Projects in Code Changes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-10-30T20:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/congo-government-wants-35-of-mining-projects-in-code-revisions.html
The Democratic Republic of Congo may
increase state participation in mining projects to 35 percent
from 5 percent and raise royalties on mineral exports, according
to a report obtained by the country’s business association.  The 35 percent stake would be acquired for free and could
not be diluted, according to the report, which was prepared for
an inter-ministerial commission set up to revise Congo’s 10-
year-old mining code. The report was given to Bloomberg by a
member of the business association, known by the French acronym
FEC.  “These proposals will be submitted to all parties for a
consensus,” Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said in a mobile-
phone message today. The changes to the code will be negotiated
at a workshop to be held at an unspecified date, Kabwelulu’s
chief of staff, Valery Mukasa, said in an Oct. 25 e-mail.  Congo is the world’s largest  cobalt  producer and was the
10th-largest exporter of copper last year, according to CRU
Group, a London-based research company. The Central African
nation, which is almost the size of Western Europe, also has
deposits of gold, iron, diamonds, tin and coltan.  Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  of the U.S., Baar,
Switzerland-based  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , and  Minmetals
Resources Ltd. (1208) , based in Hong Kong, have copper and cobalt
projects in the country.  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) ,  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Banro Corp. (BAA)  are investing in gold mines.  Shares Fall  Banro fell 5.8 percent to C$4.35 at the close in Toronto.
Naomi Nemeth, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based Banro, said that
the proposals, if implemented, would have no impact on the
company because it isn’t subject to Congo’s mining code.  “Banro has a mining convention, which is unique in
Congo,” Nemeth said in a phone interview. “Banro doesn’t fall
under the mining code.”  Simon Tuma-Waku, the national vice president in charge of
mines for the FEC, criticized the proposals.  “We feel abandoned and we were not consulted,” he said in
a phone interview yesterday. “What’s important for investors is
the fiscal regime and stability and we think this shouldn’t be
modified because right now it’s very attractive for investors.”  The modifications were proposed “to resolve the unequal
advantages given by the mining code to investors compared to
those of the state,” according to the 30-page report. “The
rise in the mining tax rate will lead to substantial growth in
revenue for the state coming from the mining sector.”  Draft Report  The government hasn’t officially presented the suggested
changes to miners, though companies have “managed to obtain”
the draft report and are concerned about the proposals, Tuma-
Waku said.  Randgold, AngloGold, Minmetals and Freeport didn’t
immediately respond to e-mailed requests for comment. Charles Watenphul, a Glencore spokesman, declined to comment in an e-
mail.  Randgold said in a statement on Oct. 16 that “increasing
the tax burden on those who had taken the risk of investing in
the DRC would not only damage the country’s fledgling mining
industry, it would also discourage future investors from
developing new operations.”  The report also calls for a royalty increase to 4 percent
from 2 percent for non-ferrous metals, which include copper and
cobalt; to 6 percent from 2.5 percent for “strategic” and
precious metals, such as gold; and to 6 percent from 4 percent
for precious stones.  Profit Tax  The recommendations include a windfall-profit tax where the
state will share equally with a company any profit earned when
metal prices rise 25 percent above those projected in a
venture’s feasibility study.  Companies may also be required to sign written commitments
to protect the environment and help local communities. Those
that don’t meet their obligations may have their permits
revoked, according to the report.  Once producing, projects may no longer benefit from
preferential customs rates on imports destined for use in
mining, according to the proposed changes.  Congo will also require companies to pay a capital-gains
tax in the event of a takeover, which would vary depending on
the progress of the project, the report recommends.  Kabwelulu said in July that he wants to increase the
percentage that mining contributes to Congo’s economy to 25
percent by 2016 from 10 percent now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 