-- Copper Rises, Ends Longest Slump in 14 Years, on China Outlook
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-10-30T18:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/copper-rises-ends-longest-slump-in-14-years-on-china-outlook.html
Copper futures rose, ending the
longest slump in 14 years, on prospects for demand to increase
in  China , the world’s biggest consumer.  Total Chinese demand, including refined and scrap metal,
may gain an average 6 percent a year from 2011 to 2015, Wang
Zhongkui, the deputy general manager of Beijing Antaike
Information Development Co., said today. Imports of refined
copper jumped 17 percent in September from a month earlier, the
 most  this year, data showed last week.  “The market is in a supply deficit, and Chinese copper
imports have recently risen again,” helping to support prices,
analysts led by Tobias Merath at Credit Suisse Group AG’s
private-banking unit, said in a report.  Copper futures for December delivery gained 0.3 percent to
settle at $3.506 a pound at 1:14 p.m. on the Comex in New York.
The metal fell in the previous eight sessions, the longest slide
for a most-active contract since October 1998.  Comex floor trading was closed for the second straight day
after  Hurricane Sandy  slammed into the U.S. East Coast, flooding
streets and leaving millions of people without power.  Copper also gained after central banks took more steps
aimed at spurring economic growth. The  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded
its asset-purchase program for the second time in two months,
and the  Reserve Bank  of  India  cut lenders’ reserve requirements
to back a policy revamp by the government.  “Given the added stimulus, I wouldn’t be surprised to see
copper hold at these levels and consolidate a bit,” Matt Zeman,
a strategist at Kingsview Financial in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months rose 0.3 percent to $7,720 a metric ton ($3.50 a pound).
Aluminum, nickel, tin, zinc and lead also gained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  