-- Credit Risk Falls in Europe as Earnings Outweigh Hurricane Woes
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-10-30T11:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/credit-risk-falls-in-europe-as-earnings-outweigh-hurricane-woes.html
Corporate credit risk fell for the
first time in almost two weeks in  Europe  after  BP Plc (BP/)  and
Deutsche Bank AG posted earnings that beat estimates, helping
ease concerns  Hurricane Sandy  will damage the  U.S. economy .  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of swaps linked to the
debt of 50 mostly junk-rated European companies dropped 14.5
basis points to 529.5 at 11:37 a.m. in  London , according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg, the first decline since Oct. 17.  Deutsche Bank, Europe’s biggest lender, reported net income
of 747 million euros ($966 million) in the three months through
September, beating all seven analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. BP Plc, the region’s second-largest oil company,
lifted its dividend as third-quarter net income climbed to $5.4
billion from $5 billion in the same period of 2011.  “Markets are certainly trending higher despite the U.S.
problems and the earnings have helped the more positive mood,”
said  Bill Blain , a London-based credit strategist at Mint
Partners Ltd., a division of BGC Brokers LP. “Because of the
U.S. problems traders naturally took a protective stance, which
is now being unwound.”  Hurricane Sandy’s economic toll is poised to exceed $20
billion after the biggest Atlantic storm slammed into the
Eastern U.S., damaging homes and offices and flooding subways in
America’s most populated city.  Bonds Climb  Deutsche Bank’s 4.2 percent bond due 2017 rose 0.7 percent
to 110.9 cents on the euro, the biggest rise since May 30,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. This cut the yield to 1.7
percent. Credit-default swaps tied to Deutsche Bank’s bonds fell
three basis points to 131.  Bond sales were limited to the safest assets as Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen Girozentrale, also known as Helaba, and
Norwegian mortgage lender Terra Boligkreditt AS tapped markets
for covered bonds. The notes typically get high credit ratings
because they’re secured on mortgages or public-sector loans as
well as a guarantee by the issuer.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell 3.25 basis points to 129.25. Bank
credit risk also dropped, with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index
on the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers down 7.5 basis
points at 175.5.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  