-- Czech Premier Delays Tax Bill Vote as Row Shifts to Congress
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-30T15:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/czech-premier-delays-tax-bill-vote-as-row-shifts-to-congress-1-.html
Czech parliament postponed a vote on
tax increases that is tied to a confidence motion in the
government, as Premier Petr Necas’s struggle to win backing for
his austerity policies shifts to a weekend party congress.  The lower house in  Prague , which was to debate as early as
tomorrow the bill, adjourned its session today and delayed the
vote for at least a week. Lawmakers will resume deliberations at
2 p.m. on Nov. 6, according to proceedings at the legislature.  Necas is battling to win support for the package of
measures he says are needed to cut the budget  deficit  next year
as a group of deputies from his  Civic Democratic Party , or ODS,
opposes his tax plan. With the country in its second  recession 
since 2009, Necas will seek re-election as the party chairman at
a congress on Nov. 3-4.  “I can’t imagine that the congress would approve a
resolution demanding tax increases,” Petr Tluchor, one of the
Civic Democrats opposing the tax bill, told reporters today. “I
can’t imagine that our position after this weekend would differ
from what we are declaring today. We simply won’t support tax
increases because we are convinced that it would be against the
ODS’ program.”  Six of Necas’s lawmakers, including Tluchor, joined the
opposition on Sept. 5 and voted against the bill that includes
raising  sales-tax  rates and a new  tax rate  for high earners. The
government re-submitted the same bill to parliament with Necas
staking the Cabinet’s existence on the legislation by tying it
to a confidence vote.  The government is trying to avoid the fate of European
leaders who lost power in a wave of protests against austerity
measures that contributed to recessions in economies from
 Romania  to  Spain  instead of tackling the euro area’s debt crisis
as envisaged.  The administration, which lost its parliamentary majority
in April over personnel and budget rows, credits previous
measures with helping to reduce borrowing costs. Necas says the
new package will maintain investor confidence by cutting the
fiscal deficit to less than the European Union’s limit of 3
percent of economic output next year.  The yield on five-year koruna bonds fell to a record-low
0.95 percent at 3:55 p.m. today in Prague according to generic
data compiled by Bloomberg. Czech domestic bonds are influenced
by the central bank’s all-time low  interest rates  as falling
household consumption caused an economic contraction in the past
three quarters and tamed inflation.  The two-year-old Cabinet has cut investment, raised the
sales tax and curbed spending on public wages. The budget
shortfall narrowed to 3.1 percent of gross domestic product last
year from 4.8 percent in 2010 and the  Finance Ministry  estimates
it at 3.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  