-- Danish Government Phases Out Short Mortgage Sales: Nordic Credit
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-10-30T09:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/danish-government-phases-out-short-mortgage-sales-nordic-credit.html
The Danish government is shifting to
fixed-rate mortgages with longer maturities to finance public
housing as policy makers bet against further declines in
borrowing costs.  Denmark ’s Housing Ministry said Oct. 26 it will fund new
public housing with only fixed-rate, 30-year loans starting next
year, and it will refinance 6.6 billion kroner ($1.1 billion) in
one- and three-year bonds into five-year papers. The ministry,
which estimates its total mortgage borrowing is at 135 billion
kroner, said 60 billion kroner in adjustable-rate mortgages
won’t be rolled over into-fixed-rate products “for now.”  “We decided to increase the duration-to-maturity on our
portfolio to buy insurance” against interest-rate increases,
Lise Nielsen, a departmental head at the ministry, said in a
telephone interview. While the government declined to comment on
where it thinks interest rates will go, the decision to shift
its borrowing maturities “is a sign we want to go long on our
portfolio,” she said.  Danish homeowners will probably refinance as much as 475
billion kroner at  mortgage bond  auctions this quarter as banks
arranging the sales advise borrowers to cut their risk and lock
into fixed rates, according to Realkredit Danmark A/S. The
ministry’s decision to shift away from short-term financing may
help persuade regular homeowners to follow suit.  Finance Group  The auctions of one-, three- and five-year bonds used to
finance loans in Denmark’s $496 billion mortgage market will
attract about 200,000 Danish homeowners, Realkredit Danmark
estimates. With the  central bank’s deposit rate  already below
zero, borrowers shouldn’t assume rates can fall even further,
according to Realkredit Danmark.  “The changes we’re making are in line with recommendations
by mortgage lenders,” Nielsen said. The decision follows
meetings of a so-called finance group, which includes
representatives from the central bank, the Finance Ministry and
the Business Ministry, she said.  “It’s an important signal that supports the efforts being
made by the mortgage banks to move customers to a longer fixing
period,”  Karsten Beltoft , director of the Mortgage Bankers’
Federation in Copenhagen, said in a phone interview. “It makes
good sense to fix rates for a longer period. The difference is
very small right now.”  Financial Security  Households’ preference for shorter maturity mortgages
decreased in the third quarter, Realkredit Danmark, the mortgage
arm of Danske Bank A/S, said today. One- and two-year loans
accounted for 12 percent of gross lending, compared with 32
percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, the Copenhagen-based
lender said.  “We are pleased to see an increasing number of customers
choose loan types that offer more financial security,”
Realkredit Danmark Chief Executive Officer Carsten Noeddebo said
in a statement.  The one-year mortgage bonds have come under scrutiny from
the central bank and rating companies, which have warned of
refinancing risks associated with using short-term bonds to
finance home loans as long as 30 years. More recently, the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision’s stable funding proposal has
threatened to make it too expensive for banks to continue
issuing the loans.  Basel, which wants banks to move away from such short-term
funding, has excluded liabilities with effective maturities of
less than one year from its definition of stable funding.  Nykredit Committed  Realkredit Danmark has shown willingness to wean borrowers
off the securities, while Nykredit Realkredit A/S, Denmark’s
biggest mortgage issuer, is committed to the bonds, it said this
month.  About 80 percent of the total amount being refinanced at
auctions starting next month will come from one-year loans,
according to Realkredit Danmark. The bank estimates that
refinanced mortgage debt this year will reach an all-time high
of 715 billion kroner amid record-low borrowing costs.  Demand for assets out of AAA rated Denmark has pushed down
yields. The central bank has left its deposit rate at minus 0.2
percent since July to fend off a capital influx and defend the
krone’s peg to the euro.  The yield on the 2 percent benchmark one-year adjustable-
rate mortgage note due April 2013 was 0.435 percent today, and
traded as low as 0.24 percent in August, according to Danske
Bank prices available on Bloomberg. The note’s spread to
Denmark’s government curve was little changed at 65 basis
points, according to bid prices, compared with as wide as 90
basis points in September. The yield on the 4 percent note due
April 2017 was little changed today at 1.23 percent.  ‘Quite Sensible’  The housing ministry’s decision to shift to longer-term
mortgages is “quite sensible, they’re a long-term borrower,”
said Jens Peter Soerensen, chief bond analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
in Copenhagen. If rates rise, the ministry “cannot pass that
cost on to households, because rents are fixed in many cases,
because this is social housing,” he said.  The ministry is planning to move 2.9 billion kroner in
mortgages requiring annual refinancing and 3.7 billion kroner in
loans that are refinanced every third year into mortgages backed
by five-year bonds, Nielsen said.  Demand for mortgages that only need to be refinanced every
fifth year “has put some pressure on the five-year adjustable-
rate mortgage bond segment,” Soerensen said. “But that is not
only due to the public housing agency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  