-- Danske to Sell $1.2 Billion in Shares, Lose 3,000 Jobs
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-10-30T10:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/danske-to-sell-1-2-billion-in-shares-lose-3-000-jobs.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  unveiled plans to
cut 3,000 jobs and sell 7 billion kroner ($1.2 billion) in
shares as Denmark’s largest lender looks for ways to increase
its capital buffers.  The measures were announced together with Danske’s third-
quarter report, showing net income of 1.31 billion kroner,
compared with a loss of 384 million kroner a year earlier. That
was in line with the average 1.34 billion-krone estimate of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Danske’s share sale will be
through an accelerated book building process to help achieve a
core Tier 1 capital ratio in excess of 13 percent by the end of
next year. The bank also announced plans to provide shareholders
a return on equity after tax of 12 percent by the end of 2015.  Danske is responding to a recession and burst housing
bubble in its home market with job cuts, raising its target for
staff eliminations by 1,000 from its previous goal of 2,000
cuts. Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding, who took over from
 Peter Straarup  in February, is pushing through an overhaul of
the bank’s strategy to help boost competitiveness and squeeze
better returns out of the lender. Danske’s business conditions
“have changed radically,” the bank said today.  “The group’s focus on streamlining operations, closing
branches, improving and automating customer service, as well as
changed customer behaviour, will lead to a headcount reduction
of 2,000 in the period 2013-15,” the bank said. That’s on top
of the 1,000 job cuts planned by the end of this year, it said.  Shares Sink  Danske shares slumped as much as 7.7 kroner, or 7.4
percent, to 96 kroner in Copenhagen trading, its steepest
intraday decline since Nov. 1 last year.  The shares , which have
gained 35 percent this year, were down 5.7 percent at 11:07 a.m.
local time. The bank said today it won’t propose any dividend
payment for 2012. Danske, which last passed on profits to
shareholders in 2008, aims to resume dividend payments of about
40 percent of profit “as soon as it is justifiable,” it said.  Danske Bank, which is rated A at Fitch, A- at Standard &
Poor’s and Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, said the capital
increase will help “accelerate rating improvements and
achievement of our capital targets, strengthen our funding
position and better align us with our Nordic peers.”  The bank aims to improve its credit ratings by at least one
level “as soon as possible” to reduce funding costs, it said.  ‘A Surprise’  The share sale announcement “was a surprise to us, but
should be viewed from the perspective that it is targeting a 13
percent core Tier 1 ratio by the end of 2013 and its rating
ambitions,” Simon Christensen, an analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in
Copenhagen, said in a note to clients. “The rights issue is
conducted in order to fast track the return to past rating
levels. Danske Bank could probably boost its rating levels
towards A relatively quickly and more will likely come as
earnings stabilise.”  Danske also said it is committed to its role as a universal
bank in the regions it does business in, which outside the
Nordic region includes Ireland and the Baltics.  That role includes “the value-adding business within asset
management and life insurance and pensions,” the bank said. The
comments followed speculation Danske may be looking to divest
its pension unit Danica.  The bank’s net interest income rose to 6.2 billion kroner
from 6 billion kroner a year earlier, while impairments were
little changed at 2.88 billion kroner, compared with 2.8 billion
kroner in the year-earlier period, the bank said. Trading income
jumped more than six-fold to 1.79 billion kroner.  Negative Rates  Danish banks are struggling to generate interest income
growth after the central bank cut its deposit rate below zero to
defend the krone from a capital influx. Negative policy rates
may last into 2014, Nordea Bank estimates. Danske is also still
fighting to recover from losses in Ireland, where its operations
were dragged down by the nation’s economic crisis.  Denmark , where property prices have plunged about 25
percent since their 2007 peak, is probably in the grip of its
second recession in less than a year, the Confederation of
Danish Industry said yesterday. The economy will remain under
pressure well into 2013, the group estimates.  Danske’s loan losses will decline “significantly” through
2015 as interest rates normalize, Kolding said at a press
conference in Copenhagen today. Once rates start to rise, it
will provide a “huge lift” for the bank’s earnings, he said.  Shareholder Returns  Danske had a loan loss ratio of 0.68 percent on all lending
and guarantees in the first nine months of the year, with
charges mainly relating to commercial property loans in Ireland,
shipping, and retail banking in Denmark, it said. Stockholm-
based Nordea, the Nordic region’s largest lender, had a loan
loss ratio of 0.27 percent in the same period.  Danske reported a return on average shareholders’ equity of
4.1 percent in the third quarter, down from 4.7 percent in the
second quarter. In the three months through September last year,
the return was minus 1.2 percent.  The bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio stood at 17 percent at the
end of the third quarter, compared with 16 percent at the end of
last year and 16.2 percent at the end of June. The core Tier 1
capital ratio was 12.7 percent at the end of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  