-- United, Delta Said to be Warned by California on Privacy
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-10-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/delta-united-warned-by-california-over-mobile-privacy.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  OpenTable Inc. (OPEN)  are among companies in
violation of a California protocol governing mobile applications
for failing to conspicuously post their privacy policies, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Companies using as many as 100 mobile apps were told in
letters sent Oct. 29 by California Attorney General Kamala Harris that they have 30 days to make their privacy policies
readily accessible to consumers of their online services, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. In a statement yesterday, Harris didn’t include
the names of the companies her office has contacted.  “Protecting the privacy of online consumers is a serious
law enforcement matter,” Harris said in an e-mailed statement.
“We have worked hard to ensure that app developers are aware of
their legal obligations to respect the privacy of Californians,
but it is critical that we take all necessary steps to enforce
 California ’s privacy laws.”  Harris said in February when she announced a privacy
protocol that she’s trying to bring the industry in line with a
California law requiring mobile apps that collect personal
information to have a privacy policy. Her actions indicate
concerns over Internet privacy are extending to applications,
the downloadable programs that companies in growing numbers are
using to communicate with customers and market their wares to
users of mobile devices.  ‘Ensure Compliance’  United is “taking all steps necessary and appropriate to
ensure compliance with California law as it relates to our
mobile app,” United spokeswoman Mary Clark said in an e-mail.  Chris Kelly, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based Delta, said in
an e-mail that the company will to provide the information
Harris requested.  California is the only state to require privacy policies
for mobile applications as well as websites, Chris Conley, a
technology lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union in San
Francisco, said in a phone interview. Consumers are becoming
more aware of which apps collect personal information, he said.  “As people become more concerned about how much
information is on a smartphone -- about their location, about
their contacts, about their shopping -- I think people will pay
more attention to applications’ policies in terms of what they
collect, how they use it, what they retain and how they share
this data,” Conley said.  Smartphone Users  Companies that program platforms for mobile applications,
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Research In
Motion Ltd. (RIM) , joined an agreement with Harris to encourage
compliance with the California Online Privacy Protection Act.
The agreement allows users of smartphones, tablets and other
mobile devices to review an app’s privacy policy before they
download the app, according to Harris.  Companies face penalties of as much as $2,500 for each
download of an application violating the law, according to a
copy of the letter Harris sent to the companies. The letter
directs the companies to explain within 30 days their “specific
plans and timeline to comply” with the law, or why the
application isn’t covered by it.  Tiffany Fox, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
OpenTable, an online service that books restaurant reservations,
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on the attorney
general’s communications.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net 
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  