-- Democrat Clinton Backs Gives Texas Republican Tight Race
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/democrat-clinton-backs-gives-texas-republican-tight-race.html
Bill Clinton, a Democrat who may be
more in demand than any politician this season, spent an evening
last week in the Republican-leaning  Texas  territory of retiring
congressman and unsuccessful presidential candidate  Ron Paul .  With the district’s history of supporting Paul and his
libertarian views, keeping the House seat should’ve been easy.
Still, the Democrat, former congressman Nick Lampson, has run an
effective campaign while groups that back Republicans haven’t
given the party’s candidate, Randy Weber, much help.  “National Republicans didn’t feel they needed to invest in
the race because they thought it was a relatively safe district
and they had a relatively uncontroversial candidate who didn’t
have any skeletons or serious flaws,” said  Mark Jones , who
teaches politics at Rice University in Houston.  Paul won his eighth House term in 2010 with 76 percent of
the vote. He has endorsed Weber, who also has support from anti-
tax  Tea Party  groups. The district backed Republican
presidential nominee  John McCain , a U.S. Senator from  Arizona ,
over Democrat  Barack Obama  57 percent to 40 percent in 2008. Yet
the race for the reconfigured seat is among 68 rated “in play”
by the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in  Washington .  Unintended Consequence  “The Republicans were so intent on getting rid of Ron Paul
that they inadvertently created a competitive district,” said
Richard Murray, a  University of Houston  politics professor,
referring to the redrawn lines for the seat. “To win, Lampson
will need a high black turnout and he’ll need to get 30 percent
of the Romney Republicans to flip back and vote for him.”  Almost half of the 14th Texas congressional district’s
residents are new to it this year, following the Republican-led
state Legislature’s remapping to reflect 2010 Census data,
according to Bruce Willsie, president of Labels & Lists Inc. The
Bellevue, Washington-based company processes voter data. The
changes increased the proportion of Democrats, he said.  Lampson’s moderate views and focus on lower- and middle-
income Americans won his support, the former president said at a
rally in Beaumont, about 90 miles (145 kilometers) east of
Houston, a video posted on YouTube.com shows.  “He knows he’s not right all the time, unlike a lot of
people,” Clinton said at the event, held in Lamar University’s
football stadium. “I like Nick Lampson because he believes in
arithmetic over illusion, evidence over ideology, shared
prosperity, opportunity and responsibility over trickle down,
and I know he believes we are all in this together.”  Clinton Backer  Lampson, 67, has known the former president and his wife,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , since  Bill Clinton ’s 1992
presidential campaign, the candidate said at the rally. Lampson
said a daughter, also named Hillary, was Mrs. Clinton’s host
that year during a swing through Beaumont.  The Democrat has used a bulging campaign warchest and the
name recognition from his five terms in Congress from two
different South Texas districts to give Weber, 58, a run for his
money. The Republican, who fought off nine other candidates in
the primary and a runoff vote to win his party’s nomination,
nearly exhausted his funds.  “He’s being outspent,” Steve Munisteri, the Texas
Republican Party’s chairman, referring to Weber. The candidate
used about $1 million to win the nomination, leaving him with
about $55,000 as of Sept. 30, compared with Lampson’s $422,000,
according to federal  records .  ‘Inept Effort’  “Lampson has run as good of a campaign as anyone in the
country, while the Republicans have made an inept effort,” said
Democratic activist Matt Angle. He directs the Lone Star
Project, a political action committee based in Washington.  The coastal district stretches from Galveston to Beaumont
and encompasses the state’s biggest petrochemical complex. It
was reconfigured following the 2010 Census, which gave the state
four new House seats. Even after the addition of more Democrats,
it still leans Republican, as the 2008 presidential vote shows.  A two-term state representative from Alvin who owns a
heating and air-conditioning business, Weber has tried to use
his party’s dominance to his advantage. For instance, he is
quick to tie Lampson to former Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of
 California , the Democratic party’s controversial House leader.  “I don’t need as much money as my opponent because I don’t
need to run from a record of supporting Barack Obama and Nancy
Pelosi,” Weber said in an interview in which he invoked
Pelosi’s name a half dozen times in 15 minutes. He spoke while
asking people for their votes at the Lake Jackson library in
Paul’s hometown on Oct. 25.  Outside Support  Money is now coming in from national Republican groups and
political action committees that back the party’s positions on
the issues, Weber said. He declined to be more specific.  Working with the Weber campaign, the  National Republican
Congressional Committee  spent $90,000 on television ads,
according to Daniel Scarpinato, a spokesman for the Washington-
based party organization. He said he wasn’t sure whether
independent political groups were doing more for Weber.  “We think we’re in a good position,” Scarpinato said.
“The district is very Republican and Mr. Lampson has been
rejected by voters multiple times.”  Lampson, who emphasizes his moderate views and desire to
work with Republicans, raised almost $1 million through Sept.
30, according to the  Federal Election Commission . He said his
political campaigns have spent more than $20 million during the
past 25 years, helping to give him a well-known name.  Mobile Candidate  After serving four House terms starting in 1997, Lampson
lost a re-election bid in 2004. Originally from Beaumont, where
he was the Jefferson County tax collector, he moved more than
100 miles to Stafford, in Houston’s southwestern suburbs, and
was again elected to the House in 2006. Two years later, he was
defeated by Republican Pete Olson.  Weber emphasizes his support for fiscal restraint,
“traditional marriage” and has been endorsed by the Texas
Right to Life political-action committee. He’s also known in
much of the district after serving for years as a city
councilman and state representative, as well as from running his
heating and air-conditioning business for decades in the region.  Weber was rated among the “most conservative” members of
the Texas House, based on a  Rice University  study of the 2011
legislative session.  Paul, who didn’t support federal emergency aid for
Galveston after Hurricane Ike hit the island in September 2008,
won’t be missed by some constituents. The storm caused dozens of
deaths in Texas and property damage estimated at as much as $27
billion nationwide, according to data from the  National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration .  “I’m so sick and tired of ideology,” said Harris
“Shrub” Kempner Jr., a Lampson supporter who is president of
Kempner Capital Management Inc. in Galveston. “All Ron Paul was
doing was promoting his ideology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 