-- DesJarlais Keeps Hometown Support After Abortion Scandal
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-10-30T13:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/desjarlais-keeps-hometown-support-after-abortion-scandal.html
Doug Crisp, speaking outside the
evangelical Grace Baptist Church in South Pittsburg,  Tennessee ,
said he plans to support Representative Scott DesJarlais, a
freshman, pro-life physician and anti-tax Tea Party-backed
Republican.  Crisp said his support isn’t surprising even though
DesJarlais, in a recorded phone conversation more than a decade
ago, tried to persuade a patient with whom he’s admitted having
an affair to get an abortion.  “I’ve known Scott a long time, he’s a good guy,” Crisp, a
35 year-old resident of nearby Kimball, Tennessee, said in an
interview outside Wednesday night services on Oct. 24. “For me,
he’s honest, he’s always been up front with people. I hate what
happened, but he’s human.”  Crisp’s sentiment was echoed by other church members in
this town of about 3,000 in the foothills of the Great Smoky
Mountains, where DesJarlais, who declined to be interviewed for
this story, resides with his second wife and his three children.  Others, like Calvin Case, 50, said the transcript, which
surfaced for the first time earlier this month, was “very, very
troubling” and would keep him from voting for DesJarlais, who
he said was “trying to weasel out” of blame.  “I believe that if you run for political office, you ought
to be up front and honest with everything,” said Case, a pro-
life South Pittsburg resident and member of Grace Baptist
Church.  House Majority  The abortion revelation has given Democrats a potential
bonus pickup in their uphill fight to gain control of the  House
of Representatives . Analysts say  House Democrats  probably will
fall far short of the 25 seats they need to win to capture the
majority in the chamber.  The  Huffington Post  first reported the transcript of the
September 2000 phone call in which DesJarlais, who was going
through a divorce, told a patient he’d been seeing, “You told
me you’d have an abortion, and now we’re getting too far along
without one.”  A Chattanooga newspaper, the Times Free Press, published a
story Oct. 28 anonymously quoting a second woman who claimed to
have had an affair with DesJarlais in 2000 while she was his
patient.  “What’s come out goes to the hypocrisy of folks who will
go to  Washington  and talk one way but they won’t walk the
walk,” state Senator Eric Stewart, DesJarlais’s Democratic
opponent, said in an interview.  Affair Acknowledged  DesJarlais, 48, whose divorce from his first wife became
final in 2001, has acknowledged the affair. He said he only
encouraged the woman to have an abortion because he believed she
wasn’t actually pregnant and wanted to call her bluff.  In an e-mailed statement, DesJarlais campaign manager
Brandon Lewis said Stewart was “trying to use recycled
garbage” to mount a “smear campaign to cover up” his
“support of  Barack Obama ,” who is unpopular in Tennessee.
DesJarlais’s campaign began airing an ad last week accusing
Stewart of using “recycled garbage” against him.  Two years ago, then-Democratic Representative Lincoln Davis, who DesJarlais beat by 19 percentage points, ran ads
emphasizing allegations from court records that DesJarlais
intimidated his ex-wife with a gun.  “Lincoln Davis all but threw the kitchen sink against this
guy personally,” said  David Wasserman , who tracks House races
for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in Washington. “So
there is a little bit of inoculation that is already there.”  Strategy Backfired  In 2010, Davis’s strategy backfired because many voters
“perceived that line of attack on DesJarlais as distracting
from the real issue at hand,” Wasserman said.  Another Grace Baptist Church parishioner, Jimmy Haley, 42,
said he opposed abortion in all instances except rape and that
he would vote for DesJarlais because he was concerned the 2010
health-care law would endanger his job working for a hardwood
floor manufacturer.  Haley, a South Pittsburg resident, said DesJarlais had more
experience helping the poor receive health care than Obama.  “He’s been here in the middle of it, and he sees it,” he
said. “I know a bunch of people he’s seen for free that didn’t
have medical care.”  Several local residents said they’d heard rumors going back
to before 2010 that DesJarlais had been sexually involved with
patients.  ‘He’s a Liar’  Pat Long, 66, a South Pittsburg resident and member of the
First Baptist Church there, said she wouldn’t support
DesJarlais.  “I just feel like he’s a liar,” Long said.  Long said she met the congressman years ago when she sought
medical care from him and “felt like he had a sour
personality.”  “I had gone to him as a doctor, and I didn’t like him,”
she said.  Elected as part of the Tea Party wave that swept
Republicans to a House majority two years ago, DesJarlais has
been a reliable supporter of anti-abortion legislation, earning
a  100 percent rating  from National Right to Life. He’d never
before held elected office.  House Majority PAC, a Democratic super-political action
committee, yesterday launched its second ad attacking
DesJarlais, a $180,000 buy for a spot calling DesJarlais a
hypocrite and contending that he “shouldn’t be representing
us.”  Fundraising Gap  With national party help, Stewart is trying to close a
fundraising gap. Through Oct. 17, DesJarlais had raised $1.1
million and had about $320,000 in cash on hand, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington group that tracks
campaign spending. Stewart had raised about $546,000 and had
about $110,000 in cash on hand, according to the group.  Through Oct. 22, Stewart and House Majority PAC had spent
$148,130 on 209 advertising spots. That compares with $338,720
that DesJarlais had spent on 557 spots, according to  New York- 
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  National Republicans, who have been fighting Democrats’
claims that their party is anti-women, have kept their distance
from DesJarlais. Republican Senate candidates Todd Akin in
 Missouri  and  Richard Mourdock  in  Indiana  have drawn Democratic
fire for comments about abortion. Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  dropped DesJarlais’s endorsement from his
website after the call transcript surfaced.  ‘Better Choice’  One Stewart ad features headlines about the DesJarlais
abortion dustup and describes Stewart as “a better choice.”  Ralyn Tuders, a 21-year-old South Pittsburg resident who
said she plans to vote for the first time on Nov. 6, said she
started to tune out the negative ads both sides are running.  “I see the commercials on it, and to me, politics is
nothing but mudslinging sometimes,” said Tuders, a member of
the First Baptist Church who said she is still deciding who she
will support in the congressional race. “It’s all about ‘let me
badmouth you so I can get my foot up.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in South Pittsburg, Tennessee at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  