-- Deutsche Bank Profit Rises on Surge in Trading Revenue
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-10-30T12:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/deutsche-bank-says-profit-rose-on-investment-bank-revenue.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, said third-quarter profit climbed after a rally in bond
and stock markets brought a surge in trading revenue. The shares
jumped.  Net income unexpectedly rose an annual 3 percent to 747
million euros ($964 million) in the three months through
September, the Frankfurt-based company said in a statement
today. That beat all seven analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg and the 563.9 million-euro average.  Deutsche Bank is seeking to increase its share of income
from  investment banking  among the world’s largest banks as
rivals such as  UBS AG (UBSN)  scale back their operations. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  buoyed markets and spurred
sales of securities in the third quarter by pledging in August
to conduct bond purchases to prop up some euro-region countries.  “It was a good quarter and the stock is also benefitting
from plans UBS announced today -- Deutsche Bank can win market
share as competitors retrench,”  Philipp Haessler , an Equinet AG
analyst in  Frankfurt  who recommends investors buy the stock,
said in a telephone interview.  Shares Surge  Deutsche Bank advanced 4 percent to 34.62 euros at 12:51
p.m., gaining the most in two weeks. The share has increased 18
percent this year.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, announced plans for
another 10,000 job cuts today as it scaled back on investment
banking and focused on  wealth management . It will reduce staff
by more than 15 percent to about 54,000 over three years to help
save an additional 3.4 billion Swiss francs ($3.6 billion), the
Zurich-based bank said today.  Revenue from trading in bonds and other products at
Deutsche Bank jumped an annual 67 percent in the third quarter
to 2.5 billion euros. That beat the average estimate of six
analysts of 2 billion euros. Revenue from equities trading rose
67 percent to 642 million euros.  The lender has completed about 1,200 of the 1,500 job cuts
at its investment bank and related areas as of the end of
September,  Stefan Krause , the company’s chief financial officer,
said today on a conference call with analysts. It will wrap up
the majority of its remaining headcount reduction by the end of
the year, he said.  Savings Goal  The bank, which is cutting a total of 1,993 jobs, has said
it will incur 4 billion euros in costs to achieve annual
targeted savings of 4.5 billion euros by 2015.  Banks across Europe are firing staff and reviewing
businesses as the sovereign-debt crisis reduces trading and
rising capital demands weigh on profitability.  The company, which earned 45 percent of its revenue from
investment banking last year, took 320 million euros in
restructuring charges in the third quarter out of 600 million
euros slated for the second half, according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank said today that it has received requests for
information from regulatory agencies concerning its processing
of U.S. dollar payment orders through U.S. institutions for
parties from countries subject to U.S. embargo laws. The bank is
cooperating with the requests, according to the statement.  Court Costs  Expenses from litigation rose to 289 million euros in the
third quarter from 180 million in the same period a year
earlier, the company’s filings show. Deutsche Bank left its
estimate for potential litigation losses for which it hasn’t set
aside provisions at 2.5 billion euros at the end of September,
unchanged from three months earlier.  The company is among four European banks being investigated
by U.S. authorities for alleged violations involving oil trading
and  Iran , an attorney with knowledge of the matter said in
September on condition of anonymity.  Lawsuits will occupy the company for “quite a while,”
Krause said today.  Deutsche Bank’s core tier 1 capital ratio climbed 57 basis
points, or 0.57 percentage point, to 10.7 percent in September
from the previous quarter, according to the earnings statement.
That means “we are on track to achieve our Basel III capital
ambitions,”  Juergen Fitschen  and Anshu Jain, co-chief executive
officers, said in an e-mail today.  Last Place  The German bank was the least capitalized of Europe’s four
biggest investment banks at the end of June, data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries show. The 10.7 percent ratio may still
place Deutsche Bank last in that ranking. Barclays Plc, which
had a ratio of 10.9 percent at the end of June, reports third-
quarter earnings tomorrow.  Deutsche Bank’s capital levels are still “weak” and the
gap with its competitors is widening, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts Kian Abouhossein and Amit Ranjan wrote in an e-mailed
report.  The “probability of Deutsche Bank issuing new capital
through an indirect capital raise of issuing performance related
shares is increasing,” the London-based analysts wrote.  Net interest income was 3.72 billion euros in the third
quarter compared with 4.3 billion euros a year ago and an
average estimate among seven analysts of 4 billion euros.  German lenders face “intense competition and low  interest
rates  are causing margin pressure,” Moody’s Investors Service
said on Oct. 19.  Deutsche Bank’s pretax profit at its private and business
clients unit rose to 492 million euros in the third quarter from
310 million euros a year ago on gains from asset sales. That
beat the 329 million-euro average estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  