-- Disney Florida Cruise Line Passengers Rocked by Hurricane Sandy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/disney-florida-cruise-line-passengers-rocked-by-hurricane-sandy.html
Guests on two  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) 
cruises reported being rocked as Hurricane Sandy traveled north
along the coast of  Florida  Oct. 26 and 27.  A video at  CNN.com  showed broken glass, gift shop
merchandise on the floor and a ship official warning passengers
to stay in their cabins as the Disney Fantasy was returning to
Port Canaveral, Florida, from a seven-day Caribbean cruise.  On the Disney Dream, passengers who booked a three-day
Bahamas trip instead spent their time coping with rough seas,
according to postings on  Disneycruiselineblog.com , which isn’t
affiliated with the company.  “The cruise on the Dream was horrible,” a passenger who
identified herself as Laurie Eshelman said on the blog. “Rather
than stay in the Gulf of Mexico where it would have been calm
and sunny we followed  Hurricane Sandy  in very rough, rainy seas
with winds up to 83 m.p.h. Passengers were vomiting in the
shops, stairways and theater. Disney you blew this one!”  Angela Bliss, a spokeswoman for the Burbank, California-
based Disney, said in an e-mailed there were no reports of
injuries. Minor damage didn’t prevent the ships from embarking
again on their current itineraries, she said. Both ships are in
the Bahamas, according to Bloomberg data.  The passengers who were in the storm were offered 25
percent discounts on future bookings, according to Bliss. The
company and crews were monitoring weather conditions and in
touch with U.S. Coast Guard officials at the time, she said.  “Safety is our top priority,” Bliss said. “At Disney
Cruise Line, our captains and crew members are highly trained
and experienced in navigating through inclement weather.”  Disney closed at $50.08 on Oct. 26, down 0.4 percent.
Markets were closed today because of the storm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  