-- Yen Climbs Against Peers Even After BOJ Eases Policy
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-30T07:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/dollar-holds-gain-versus-euro-on-storm-europe-economy-concerns.html
The yen climbed against all of its
major counterparts as the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s second round of easing
in two months disappointed some investors expecting more.  The BOJ expanded its asset-purchase program by 11 trillion
yen ($138 billion) to 66 trillion yen, the central bank said
after a policy meeting today. The Nikkei newspaper reported
earlier that the BOJ may increase the program by 10 trillion
yen. Demand for the yen as a refuge asset increased as Sandy,
the largest tropical storm system on record, ravaged the
American Northeast coast and before reports that may show
 Europe ’s debt crisis is damping growth.  “The 10 trillion-yen increase was seen as a minimum
expansion, and the failure to reach 15 trillion yen is very
disappointing for markets,” said Yunosuke Ikeda, head of  Japan 
foreign-exchange research at Nomura Securities Co., the nation’s
biggest brokerage. “The yen is being bought as risk sentiment
is worsening in part because of Sandy.”  The Japanese currency reached 79.28 per dollar, the
strongest since Oct. 22, before trading at 79.47 as of 7:20 a.m.
in  London , 0.4 percent higher than yesterday’s close. The yen
gained 0.2 percent to 102.77 per euro. Europe’s common currency
fetched $1.2932 from $1.2904.  U.S. stock trading will be canceled for a second day after
Sandy made landfall in  New Jersey . The storm froze travel,
spurred evacuations and could potentially affect 60 million
people.  Inflation Target  Fifteen analysts expected the BOJ to add 10 trillion yen to
its 55 trillion yen program that buys assets such as  government
bonds , real estate investment trusts and stock funds, according
to a Bloomberg News survey. Four economists saw it increasing
purchases by as much as 20 trillion yen.  “The outcome is basically as expected,” said Greg Gibbs,
a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
in Singapore. “We’re in a ‘buy the rumor, sell the fact’ move
for the yen at the moment.”  The BOJ doesn’t expect to meet its 1 percent inflation
target in the period through March 2015. Japan’s consumer prices
excluding fresh food will rise 0.4 percent in the year starting
April next year and 0.8 percent in fiscal 2014, after
subtracting the effect of a planned sales-tax increase, the
central bank said in a  statement  today.  Japan’s  industrial production  slid 4.1 percent in September
from the previous month, the most since last year’s earthquake
and tsunami in March, government data showed today. The drop
exceeded the most pessimistic estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said
his company may have to move away from Japan to survive as the
strong yen diminishes the nation’s competitiveness.  “If the  exchange rate  is high, we move out,” Ghosn said
in  Tokyo  today. The yen’s “neutral range” is 100 to the
dollar, he said.  ‘Aggressive’ Policy  “You really do need a much more aggressive monetary policy
to try to get the yen weaker, to try to offer a bit of relief to
the manufacturing sector,”  Richard Jerram , chief economist at
Bank of Singapore Ltd. said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “The yen will be down at 88 in a year’s time
against the dollar as a result of the more aggressive monetary
policy coming out of the BOJ.”  In  Germany , the number of people  without a job  probably
increased by 10,000 in October, according to the median estimate
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a report due today
from the Federal Labor Agency. That would be a seventh-straight
month of increased unemployment.  Separate reports may show  Spain ’s economy  contracted  in the
third quarter and confirm an earlier reading on euro-area
 consumer confidence  that was near a three-year low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  