-- Dollar Drops as Safety Bid Eases Before Chinese PMI Data
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-10-31T06:43:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/dollar-drops-as-safety-bid-eases-before-chinese-pmi-data.html
The  U.S. dollar  weakened versus most
of its 16 major peers on speculation reports tomorrow will show
improvement in Chinese manufacturing, brightening the global
economic outlook and damping demand for haven assets.  The greenback remained lower after dropping yesterday
against the yen as Asian stocks rose and U.S. capital markets
prepared to reopen today after Atlantic storm Sandy swept
through  New York . Appetite for the euro was tempered before data
that may show unemployment in  Europe  climbed to a record, adding
to signs the debt crisis is hurting growth. The Australian and
New Zealand currencies held gains after figures today showed
better-than-expected building approvals.  “We should start to see now further evidence that we’ve
had a bottom on the growth profile, and we should see an
improvement in PMI,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in
Auckland at Westpac Banking Corp., referring to  China’s economy 
and the nation’s manufacturing index. “It would probably be a
negative for the U.S. dollar.”  The dollar bought 79.60 yen as of 6:38 a.m. in  London  after
falling 0.2 percent yesterday. It fetched $1.2962 per euro
following a 0.4 percent decline in New York, the biggest drop
since Oct. 17. Europe’s shared currency was little changed at
103.18 yen after rising 0.2 percent yesterday.  The dollar has strengthened 2.1 percent against its
Japanese counterpart this month. It has declined 0.8 percent
versus the euro since Sept. 30.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares climbed 0.7 percent
today.  China PMI  Figures due tomorrow may show a manufacturing gauge based
on a survey of  purchasing managers  in  China , the world’s second-
biggest economy, climbed to 50.2 this month from 49.8 in
September, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  A separate  measure  by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics probably rose to 49.1 in the same period from 47.9
last month, economists said in another poll before tomorrow’s
release. That would confirm a preliminary reading released Oct.
24. For both indexes, 50 is the dividing line between
contraction and expansion.  The dollar may be poised to drop further versus the yen
should it breach the “target area” from 79 yen to 79.10,
according to Barclays Plc.  “A break below this zone would prompt a revisit of the
daily cloud base near 78.40,” technical analysts led by Jordan Kotick wrote in a note to clients yesterday, referring to the
greenback’s Ichimoku chart, which is used to predict a
currency’s direction by analyzing the midpoints of historical
highs and lows.  Trading Resumes  U.S. equity markets will resume trading today, according to
statements by NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and Bats
Global Markets Inc. Fixed-income trading, halted at noon on Oct.
29, will also reopen, under a recommendation by the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association.  The euro and dollar have declined 2.1 percent this year,
the second-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The yen posted the biggest drop, falling 5.8 percent in the same
period.  The  jobless rate  in the euro area probably climbed to an
all-time high of 11.5 percent in September, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the European Union’s
statistics office releases the data today.  Poor Growth  “Economic growth is going to be pretty poor and I think
for that reason  interest rates  there are going to remain low,”
Westpac’s Speizer said of the euro region’s economic outlook.
“Slow growth, low interest rates -- you cannot get too excited
about the euro currency. I think it will be an underperformer
over the next year.”  The  European Central Bank  lowered the region’s key  policy
rate  to a record 0.75 percent in July and has since kept it
unchanged.  In  Japan , data released today on a manufacturing purchasing
managers’ index by Markit Economics indicated a contraction for
a fifth-straight period in October. A preliminary report
yesterday showed  industrial production  dropped last month by the
most since March 2011, when the nation was struck by an
earthquake and tsunami.  The  Bank of Japan  boosted its asset-purchase program by 11
trillion yen ($138 billion) to 66 trillion yen at a meeting
yesterday. It also said it expects prices excluding fresh food
to rise by 0.8 percent in the fiscal year that begins in April
2014, compared with a 1 percent target announced in February.  Easing Expectations  “Given the increasing downside risks to Japan’s growth,
there still remain expectations for further monetary easing by
the BOJ,” said Kikuko Takeda, a senior analyst in London at the
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., a unit of Japan’s biggest
financial group. “The yen is more likely to weaken.”  Australia ’s statistics bureau said today the number of
 permits  granted to build or renovate houses and apartments
gained 7.8 percent in September from the previous month,
exceeding economist estimates for a 1 percent advance.  Building approvals  in  New Zealand  also increased 7.8
percent in the month, according to a separate report, the
fastest pace since March.  Australia’s dollar added 0.1 percent to $1.0376. Its New
Zealand counterpart gained 0.1 percent to 82.18 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  