-- Don’t Let the Jobs Report Choose the Next U.S. President
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/don-t-let-the-jobs-report-choose-the-next-u-s-president.html
Would you want a random-number
generator to decide who will be the next U.S. president?
Ludicrous as it sounds, something like that could occur Nov. 2,
when the government releases its monthly jobs report.  The employment  report , released at 8:30 a.m. on the first
Friday of most months, offers one of the earliest indicators of
the state of the  U.S. economy . As such, it tends to have a big
impact. The change in nonfarm payrolls and the  unemployment rate 
have become front-page news in a nation searching for signs of
recovery from the worst slump in a generation. A surprise of
even 50,000 jobs can move markets.  This week’s report on the October jobs picture could be
particularly consequential. It comes four days ahead of a
closely contested presidential election in which  job creation 
has been a central issue. A big payroll number, or another drop
in unemployment, could tip the outcome in favor of President
 Barack Obama . A poor report could be just what Republican
candidate  Mitt Romney  needs to convince the nation that it’s
time for a change.  It’s bizarre that the jobs numbers can wield so much
influence, given that they often bear little relation to what’s
actually happening in the economy. The fact is, it’s just plain
difficult to measure in real time how many jobs the economy has
produced in a month. When the Bureau of Labor Statistics
estimates the change in nonfarm payrolls, for example, it is
trying to pin down a tiny shift -- a matter of thousands of jobs
-- in a labor pool of more than 130 million people. Even with a
sample of about 141,000 employers, that’s a daunting task.  Measurement Error  The challenges of measurement translate into large  margins
of error . When the BLS says the economy created 100,000 jobs in
the previous month, it actually means it’s 90 percent sure that
the real number is somewhere between 9,000 and 191,000. The same
is true of unemployment: If the reported rate is 7.8 percent,
the true rate could be anywhere between 7.6 percent and 8.0
percent. A shift of 0.2 percentage point in unemployment --
enough to jolt bond yields and set pundits jabbering -- does not
even breach the threshold of statistical significance.  Revisions to the jobs numbers demonstrate how misleading
the preliminary data and the conclusions people draw from them
can be. In the first eight months of 2008, for example,
employment reports  showed small declines  of about 20,000 to
60,000 jobs a month, suggesting the developing financial crisis
would be mild. The stock market held up, and economists raised
their growth forecasts for the year. Now, revised numbers show
that the economy began shedding about 200,000 jobs a month
beginning in April 2008, a decline that would have pointed to
the deep recession the country was entering.  More recently, in early September, the Labor Department
reported that monthly job growth had slowed to only 96,000 in
August -- a piece of bad news that dealt a blow to Obama the
morning after his acceptance speech at the Democratic National
Convention. By early October, when the number was revised up to
141,000, hardly anyone was paying attention.  What to do? Recognize the preliminary jobs numbers for what
they are: an early guess. The BLS could encourage such an
approach by making some modest changes in the report. Instead of
featuring preliminary estimates for a single month, it could
provide averages of the  unemployment rate  and of the number of
jobs created in the most recent three months. This would give
the news media and the investing public a more accurate read of
the trend. Those who want to dig more deeply into the report
would be free to do so.  Whatever surprises the Nov. 2 report might contain, it
won’t change the broader state of the U.S. economy. Since the
beginning of the year, nonfarm employers have added an average
of 146,000 jobs a month -- enough to make a small dent in the
unemployment rate, the three-month average of which has fallen
to 8.1 percent from 8.5 percent. The slow rate of recovery,
typical for the aftermath of a full-blown financial crisis, is
threatening to do permanent damage. Long bouts of joblessness
are eroding the skills and motivation people need to get back to
work.  Our advice: Vote for the candidate who you think can help
repair the economy. Don’t let one month of fallible data change
your mind.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax initiatives on
California’s ballot ; Clive Crook on why  Obama is the least bad
choice for the U.S. ;  Peter Orszag  on a  tax refund  that could
 solve the fiscal-cliff impasse;  Part three of A. Gary Shilling’s
series on who loses when the  Fed keeps interest rates low ; Part
one of  Virginia Postrel ’s series on  missteps by breast-cancer
charities ; Tim Judah on the  rise of the far-right party Svoboda
in Ukraine .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 