-- Dow Chemical Expects Order of Final Kuwait Award by Year-End
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-30T16:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/dow-chemical-expects-order-of-final-kuwait-award-by-year-end.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical company by sales, said arbitrators should order Kuwait
by year-end to pay more than $2.16 billion now that appeals have
been exhausted in a dispute over a failed plastics venture.  The International Chamber of Commerce is expected to issue
a final order for the $2.16 billion plus “substantial”
interest and arbitration costs in the fourth quarter, Midland,
Michigan-based Dow said today in a regulatory filing. The  High
Court  of Justice in London on Oct. 19 denied Kuwait’s final
appeal to reconsider the size of the award, Dow said.  Kuwait’s Petrochemical Industries Co., under pressure from
lawmakers, canceled a contract to form a 50-50 venture with
Dow’s plastics unit in December 2008. The failure of the so-
called K-Dow venture deprived Dow of a $9 billion payment during
the global financial crisis, almost derailed its 2009 purchase
of Rohm & Haas Co. and prompted the company’s first  dividend 
cut.  “We believe Kuwait will honor the decision,” Dow Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said on an Oct. 24
conference call to discuss third-quarter results. “It’s a
country that belongs to the nations of the world. It is not a
rogue nation.”  The Kuwait award is expected “to go to the balance sheet
and to reward our shareholders,” Liveris said on the call.  Dow may use the proceeds to redeem $3 billion of preferred
shares from  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , Liveris
said July 26. Dow sold the securities, which pay an average 8.5
percent annual dividend, to help fund the Rohm & Hass
 acquisition .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  