-- DP World Expects Full-Year Ebitda ’in Line With Expectations’
-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-30T07:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/dp-world-expects-full-year-ebitda-in-line-with-expectations-.html
DP World Ltd. (DPW) , the world’s third-
largest port operator, expects full-year Ebitda to be“in line
with expectations” as container volumes in the Americas, Asia
Pacific and the Middle East grew in the first nine months.  Third-quarter container volumes dropped 1 percent to 14.2
million twenty-foot equivalent units across its group of
container terminals due to the divestment of three joint-venture
terminals and a decline in volumes in  Europe , the Middle East
and  Africa , it said in a statement to Nasdaq Dubai today. Like-
for-like growth for that period was 0.5 percent.  “The third quarter of the year has seen a slowdown in
container volume growth with some of our regions reporting a
small decline in volumes reflecting the challenging
macroeconomic environment,” Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Sharaf said in the statement. “Whilst there remains uncertainty
within the macro economy, we continue to believe we will achieve
Ebitda in line with expectations.” he said without giving
details about the company’s forecast for earnings before
interest, taxes depreciation, and amortization.  Global container volumes will probably grow 4.3 percent
this year, Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. said July 3. Because
of the weakness in Europe’s economy, the industry won’t have a
strong peak season in 2012 and operators will experience some
“rate erosion” in the summer, it said. DP World said gross
container volumes rose 4.5 percent in first nine months, driven
by growth across the Americas, Asia Pacific, the  Middle East  and
the  United Arab Emirates .  Divestments  DP World, which operates more than 60 terminals in six
continents, is taking “advantage of opportunities to reposition
our portfolio towards higher return businesses where we have
management involvement,” Chairman Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem said
in the statement. Last week the company sold its 25 percent
stake in container terminal Vostochnaya Stevedoring Co. to
 Russia ’s Global Ports Investment for $230 million.  “These recent divestments allow us to recycle cash into
projects already within our pipeline, such as Jebel Ali and
London Gateway and, over time, to invest in new opportunities in
line with our strategy, while maintaining balance sheet strength
and flexibility,” bin Sulayem said.  The company is ready to look at acquisitions in  Latin
America  to meet demand from customers and has enough cash for
investments without needing to sell assets, bin Sulayem said
earlier this month.  DP World shares have gained 20.8 percent so far this year.
They gained 0.3 percent to $11.65 at 10:53 a.m. in Dubai today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  