-- Ecopetrol Falls Most Since June as Profit Declines
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-10-30T22:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/ecopetrol-profit-falls-on-security-costs-and-lower-sales-volume.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ,  Colombia ’s largest oil
company, dropped the most in more than four months after profit
declined for a second straight quarter.  Shares fell 4.5 percent to 5,500 pesos at the close in
Bogota, the biggest drop since June 25. The shares have gained
31 percent this year, beating a 15 percent return by the
benchmark Colcap Index.  Rising spending on protection for its pipelines and fields
from guerrilla attacks and declining sales volumes led
Ecopetrol’s profit to fall.  Net income  slid 22 percent from a
year earlier to 3.23 trillion pesos ($1.76 billion), the Bogota-
based company said yesterday after markets closed.  Sales volumes for Ecopetrol, the world’s seventh-largest
oil firm by market capitalization, fell after delays in
environmental permits for production and transportation
disruptions in July and August. Costs also rose because of
maintenance at a refinery in Santander province and a one-time
adjustment to an oilfield investment in the year-earlier period,
according to a company filing yesterday.  Ecopetrol may cut its annual production goal as it will be
“virtually impossible to achieve” after this quarter, Juan David Pineros, a Medellin-based analyst at Interbolsa SA, said
in a report today. Permit delays and transport interruptions may
continue into the first half of 2013, Pineros said.  Rising Output  Production climbed 1.6 percent from a year earlier to
743,100 barrels a day. Ecopetrol last cut its output forecast in
July to 780,000 barrels a day from 800,000 barrels a day for the
year after guerrillas increased attacks on oil infrastructure.  Ecopetrol will meet its target as production is projected
to increase in many of its fields, Chief Executive Officer
Javier Gutierrez said today in a conference call with analysts.
A Cupiagua field project will add 24,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day, he said.  The company estimates lost output of around 35,000 barrels
a day so far this year, including impact from sabotage and
government permit delays, he said. Attacks on oil pipelines in
the Andean nation rose to 117 in the first 8 months of the year,
from 21 in the same period in 2011, according to government
figures.  Attacks on Ecopetrol’s installations “significantly”
declined in October, Gutierrez said.  The government won’t present a bill to Congress this year
to allow it to sell a stake in Ecopetrol, Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  said in an interview last month. The Colombian
government owns an 88.5 percent stake in Ecopetrol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  