-- El-Erian Says Sandy Probably Won’t Cause U.S. GDP to Shrink
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-30T18:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/el-erian-says-sandy-probably-won-t-lead-to-u-s-gdp-shrinking.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said the damage from superstorm Sandy probably
won’t trigger a reduction in U.S. gross domestic product.  “The wealth of the country has been impacted, however,
there is likely to be catch-up activity,” El-Erian, chief
executive officer at Pimco, said during an interview today with
the Toronto-based BNN television network. “It’s not clear at
the end of the day that GDP, which measures activity, would be
negative.”  The storm that hit the Atlantic coast may cause $20 billion
of damage, flooding New York’s subway system and cutting power
to about 8 million customers from  South Carolina  to  Maine .  El-Erian also said that U.S. lawmakers could reach an
agreement that would avoid the full impact of the so-called
fiscal cliff, the $607 billion in federal spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled to take effect in January unless Congress
acts.  “The fiscal cliff is equivalent to a fiscal contraction of
4 percent of GDP, and a very disorderly fiscal contraction,”
El-Erian said. After next week’s election, “there’s a 60
percent to 70 percent probability that that you get a mini-
bargain, that you get agreement on fiscal contraction of about
1.5 percent of GDP. If that happens, it’s manageable.”  On the global economy, El-Erian told BNN that  Greece 
remains likely to quit Europe’s common currency, and the odds of
that happening also range between 60 percent and 70 percent.  He also said that the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s latest round of
monetary stimulus shows the extent of the economic slowdown in
 Asia , and that central banks are “all in” to deal with it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  