-- Electronic Arts Profit Tops Estimates, Outlook Short
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-10-30T20:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/electronic-arts-profit-tops-estimates-as-outlook-comes-up-short.html
(Corrects Halo title in seventh paragraph.)  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-
largest U.S. video-game maker, posted second-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as digital revenue grew. The current
quarter’s outlook missed projections.  Profit totaled 15 cents a share, excluding some items,
 Redwood City , California-based Electronic Arts said today in a
 statement . That topped the 11-cent average of 23 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales, excluding changes in
deferred revenue, rose 4.4 percent to $1.08 billion in the
period ended Sept. 30, Electronic Arts said, matching the
average  projection .  The company is offering more games online to reduce its
reliance on sales through stores, which have fallen as consumers
boost Internet play. Digital revenue grew 38 percent to $324
million from a year ago, lifted by online sales such as add-ons
to packaged titles like “Madden NFL” and “FIFA Soccer.” The
added content extends play time for users and increases revenue,
said Chief Financial Officer  Blake Jorgensen .  “We’re trying to move the business further and further
that way on every single platform,” Jorgensen said in an
interview.  In the current third quarter, Electronic Arts predicts
profit, excluding items such as stock-based compensation, of 50
cents to 60 cents a share, less than the 70-cent average of 23
estimates. Sales, excluding changes in deferred revenue, will be
$1.25 billion to $1.35 billion, compared with analysts’
projections of $1.38 billion.  Holiday Pressure  Competitive pressure during the holiday buying period and
lower-than-expected sales of the latest “Medal of Honor” game
contributed to the conservative guidance, Jorgensen said.  On Nov. 6,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  releases “Halo 4,” the next
installment of its $3 billion shooter franchise. A week later,
 Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the largest U.S. video-game publisher,
begins selling “Call of Duty: Black Ops 2.”  The net loss for the second quarter widened to $381
million, or $1.21 a share, from $340 million, or $1.03 a share,
a year earlier. Revenue fell 0.6 percent to $711 million, the
company said.  Electronic Arts closed at $11.91 on Oct. 26, down 2.5
percent, the last trading day before markets closed as a result
of  Hurricane Sandy . The stock has lost 42 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  