-- Telefonica Deutschland Rises in Europe’s Biggest 2012 IPO
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-10-30T17:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/telefonica-deutschland-rises-in-europe-s-biggest-2012-ipo.html
Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG,
the German unit of  Spain ’s biggest phone company, climbed in its
trading debut after completing Europe’s biggest initial public
offering this year.  The shares rose 3.6 percent to 5.80 euros in  Frankfurt ,
valuing the Munich-based carrier at 6.5 billion euros ($8.4
billion). The company sold 258.8 million shares at 5.60 euros
each, at the top of a range that was narrowed twice and in the
lower half of an initial range of 5.25 euros to 6.50 euros.  Telefonica Deutschland, operating in a market so far
sheltered from Europe’s debt crisis, is seeking sales growth as
more people use mobile devices to surf the Web, watch video
clips and send e-mail. The unit plans to pay about 500 million
euros in cash dividends from 2012 earnings and has projected
increasing payouts in coming years.  “Investors will be looking at how the business generates
strong cash flows in coming years in order to deliver the
dividends it has promised,” said Heinrich Ey, a  fund manager  at
Allianz Global Investors in Frankfurt, which manages about 300
billion euros.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the Spanish parent with more than 58 billion
euros of net debt, is Europe’s most indebted phone company.
Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is reversing a decade-long
expansion strategy as it rushes to avoid a downgrade of its  debt
ratings . The Madrid-based company also plans to sell shares of
its Latin American unit and divested a $1.4 billion stake in
China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. in July.  Tougher Competition  While the majority of shares were allocated to European
funds, demand was strong among U.S. investors, according to two
people with knowledge of the sale, asking not to be identified
as the information isn’t public.  “ Germany  is one of the best markets,” Ey said. “However,
competition could raise challenges down the road, especially if
a cut on mobile termination rates triggers a price war among the
smaller rivals.”  Even as Germany’s economy has held up better than those of
Spain and  Italy , it is facing a slowdown that may prompt
consumers to start looking for lower mobile-phone rates. German
unemployment climbed twice as much as economists forecast in
October, the Federal Labor Agency said today. The economy may
contract in the fourth quarter as slowing global growth and
 Europe ’s debt crisis crimp demand for its exports, the
Bundesbank said last week.  IPO Drought  “The European economy is in a much better place than three
years ago even if we are not out of the woods yet,” Telefonica
Deutschland CEO Rene Schuster told reporters today in Frankfurt.
“I don’t think there will be another price war in Germany. What
we will see and what we want is the introduction of inexpensive
smartphones -- maybe as low as 50 euros.”  Before today, IPOs in Europe, the Middle East and Africa
have raised $8.5 billion this year, compared with $37 billion in
the same period in 2011, as market volatility caused by Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis slowed the pace of sales, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Talanx AG (TLX) , Germany’s third-biggest insurer, has risen 6.8
percent since the stock began trading on Oct. 2. Dutch cable
company  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  has climbed about 38 percent since its March 21
debut.  Telefonica Deutschland’s IPO is the biggest in Germany
since engine maker  Tognum AG (TGM)  raised 1.8 billion euros in 2007,
according to Bloomberg data. For the telecommunications
industry, it is the largest in Europe since Belgacom SA’s 3.59
billion-euro sale in 2004.  Network Sharing?  Telefonica Deutschland vies with  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s E-Plus for
the position of the third-largest wireless company in Germany,
where  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  are the
leaders. Telefonica Deutschland is considering sharing its
network with E-Plus to lower costs after the two businesses
abandoned talks for a merger this year.  “The whole sector is talking to each other,” Schuster
said today in a speech at the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. “There
is nothing at the moment -- we are focused on the IPO, the
Christmas business and then we will see next year.”  A hypothetical merger of Telefonica Deutschland and E-Plus
could generate savings worth about 4 billion euros for the
companies, according to a document prepared by one of the banks
managing the IPO and obtained by  Bloomberg News . KPN said last
year that such a deal may generate 3 billion euros of savings.  Dividend Cuts  The IPO of Telefonica Deutschland, which failed to get the
upper end of its price range, shows how challenging times are
for stock sales in Europe, Allianz Global Investors’ Ey said.  “The fact that there have been several dividend cuts and
profit warnings in the last year or so makes it harder to
attract investors, as many of them are already very underweight
on the industry as a whole,” he said.  France Telecom SA said last week it will reduce its payout
to as low as 80 cents a share as it copes with a more difficult
environment than expected. The cut was the second this year for
the owner of the Orange brand and marks a drop from a 2011
dividend of 1.40 euros.  In July, Telefonica scrapped a 1.5 euro-a-share dividend
for 2012 and said it plans to resume half of the payout toward
the end of next year. It also cut a revenue forecast and slashed
compensation for top executives including Alierta.  Telefonica Deutschland’s dividend yield is almost 8
percent, slightly above the rest of the industry in Europe,
according to Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores
in  Madrid . That, combined with higher earnings-growth potential
compared with its peers, may be the main reason why the IPO
succeeded, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  