-- Telefonica Loss Is NII’s Gain on Fees-Cut Plan: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   G i u l i a   C a m i l l o
-- 2012-10-30T19:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/telefonica-loss-is-nii-s-gain-on-fees-cut-plan-corporate-brazil.html
Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  and Telefonica
Brasil SA are poised to be the biggest losers in  Brazil ’s plan
for more competition and improved service among mobile-phone
carriers.  Regulators are considering proposals to reduce so-called
interconnection fees, lower taxes and make companies share
infrastructure to aid carriers with smaller stakes in the
market, including  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , which operates the Nextel
brand. The plan would hurt Telefonica Brasil and Tim more
because they’re the top two wireless providers by subscribers.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff , who this year has
ordered banks to shrink  interest rates  and utilities to cut
power bills to fuel growth and curtail inflation, is now seeking
to drive down mobile-phone costs for consumers. Fees to connect
calls between subscribers in Brazil are so high that users often
have multiple chips that they switch in and out of their phones
so they can call others at in-network rates.  “The biggest concern of the telecom industry is the
moderation of tariffs,” Edu Carlier, head of equities at
Schroder Investment, which manages 3 billion reais ($1.48
billion), said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “It’s a
real risk and puts pressure on the whole regulatory
environment.”  Market Share  Telefonica Brasil, the local unit of Madrid-based
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , had 30 percent of Brazil’s 256 million mobile-
phone lines at the end of June compared with Tim’s 27 percent.
America Movil SAB, which is controlled by billionaire  Carlos
Slim  and operates under the Claro brand, had 25 percent of the
market and  Oi SA (OIBR4)  had 19 percent, according to Anatel, the
industry regulator. NII, whose handsets use a walkie-talkie
technology, had 4.2 million local subscribers.  The press offices of NII, America Movil and Oi declined to
comment. Telefonica and Tim said there was no one available to
comment yesterday.  Anatel, as the telecommunications regulator is known, may
vote as soon as Nov. 1 on the plan to prohibit the top four
mobile-phone providers from charging a fee to accept incoming
calls from smaller rivals, said a government official directly
involved in the discussions.  Telefonica Brasil increased 1.4 percent to 44.80 reais at
the close in  Sao Paulo  trading, while Tim rose 4 percent to 7.30
reais. The companies, which get more than half of their sales
from mobile services, each  plunged  more than 13 percent in Sao
Paulo trading this year.  Tim’s 60-day historical  volatility  fell to a five-month low
on Oct. 26. Tim traded at a ratio of 12.6 times reported
earnings today, compared with 10.1 times for Telefonica Brasil,
7.19 for Oi and 13.8 for America Movil.  Lower Rates  Under the plan to be voted upon in Brasilia as early as
this week, users who sign up with smaller carriers such as NII
and need to call out of network regularly won’t be penalized
because the provider’s customer base is smaller than Tim or
Telefonica Brasil, said the government official who asked not to
be identified because a decision is yet to be made. The move
would allow NII to lure customers by offering lower rates to
make out-of-network calls than rivals, the official said.  The change may reduce the overall cost of mobile
interconnection fees, known in Brazil as VU-M, by 20 percent,
the official said. Out-of-network calls cost an average of 70
percent more than in-network, the person said.  ‘Competitive on Price’  “If you want to promote competition, that’s a way to do
it,”  Chris King , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore who has a buy rating on NII, said in a telephone
interview. “It allows Nextel to be competitive on price.”  In a filing yesterday, NII asked Anatel for permission to
take over Unicel do Brasil Telecomunicacoes SA to gain 3G
mobile-phone airwaves in Sao Paulo, giving it more capacity for
Internet downloads and voice traffic.  In addition to evaluating fee reductions, officials are
preparing regulations to require land-line, wireless and cable
companies to share infrastructure, Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said last month. While such measures have been adopted
in  Europe , they’ve also been used in  developing countries  where
it’s more difficult to build infrastructure,  according  to the
International Telecommunications Union, a United Nations agency.  Anatel in July banned Tim, Oi and  America Movil  from
signing up new wireless customers for 11 days in some states to
force them to address complaints about quality and customer
service.  Tax Relief  Not all the proposals being considered by the government
will hurt the industry. Rousseff this year approved a law
eliminating a tax on locally made equipment purchases by phone
companies to expand fiber-optic networks. The measure, details
of which the government has yet to disclose, is expected to save
companies 6 billion reais over five years, according to the
Communications Ministry’s press office.  “In the longer run, phone companies should rely less on
phone calls as their main source of revenue and focus more on
data services and  Internet access , segments where profit margins
are higher,” said Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 220
million reais at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil.
“If this happens, changes in rates related to phone calls would
have little impact in their profitability.”  Since the fee plan is just a proposal, Anatel’s board could
vote to reject it and reconsider the plan, according to the
agency’s rules. Competition has already intensified as Brazil’s
economic growth has slowed, which may have hurt the carriers’
shares more than regulation, said Valder Nogueira, an analyst at
Banco Santander SA in Sao Paulo.  “The government’s intervention didn’t help, but it’s not
the only thing that has weighed on the shares,” Nogueira said.
“Competition in the industry is already very strong, and one of
the things we’re talking about is how far the government wants
to go in stimulating competition in telecom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Giulia Camillo in Sao Paulo at 
 gcamillo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  