-- Emerging Stocks Risen First Day Three; India Shares Fall
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-30T20:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/emerging-stocks-rise-as-chimei-chinese-developers-climb.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for the
first time in three days as consumer discretionary shares
rebounded from a six-week low.  India ’s benchmark equity gauge
tumbled the most in three weeks after the central bank refrained
from cutting interest rates.  Grupa Lotos SA (LTS) , Poland’s second-largest oil refiner,
climbed to the highest level in more than a year after profit
beat analysts’ estimates.  State Bank of India Ltd.  sank the most
in almost three months. OAO Gazprom, Russia’s biggest natural
gas exporter, dropped to a three-month low after the board
approved a 25 percent spending increase this year.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index gained 0.3 percent to
993.09 in  New York . Copper rose in New York for the first time
in nine sessions on the prospects for demand to strengthen in
China. Bank of America Merrill Lynch raised its forecast for the
country’s economic growth to 7.7 percent from 7.6 percent this
year. India refrained from cutting borrowing costs today to
fight price pressures, while Hungary lowered its main  interest
rate  for a third month as concern about economic growth
outweighed inflation.  “The absence of bad news is good news,” Aurelija
Augulyte, an emerging-markets strategist at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, said by e-mail. “The markets are at the turn toward
risk-off, but not there yet.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has lost 1 percent this
month, headed for its worst month since May. Equity trading
volumes in some Asian markets were lower than average as
 Hurricane Sandy  shuttered U.S. stock markets for a second day
and sent floodwaters gushing into New York City.  Low Volumes  The number of shares changing hands for South Korea’s  Kospi
Index (KOSPI)  companies was 44 percent below the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Trading volumes were
about 12 percent lower than average for the  Shanghai Composite
Index. (SHCOMP)   “With the U.S. closed the likelihood of other markets
moving in a big way is substantially lower,” Maarten-Jan
Bakkum, an emerging-market strategist at ING Investment
Management in The Hague, said by e-mail.  Russia’s Micex index fell for a sixth day, the longest
losing streak since May, while Brazil’s Bovespa jumped 0.9
percent. The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  lost 1.1 percent while
China’s Shanghai Composite Index added 0.2 percent. Taiwan’s
 Taiex Index  rallied 1.3 percent, snapping a seven-day slide,
which was its longest losing streak since May 2010. Benchmark
indexes in the  Czech Republic , Turkey and Thailand gained more
than 1 percent.  Current Account  South Korea’s  Kospi index  advanced 0.4 percent and the won
gained to a 13-month high as data showed the country’s current-
account surplus widened to the second biggest on record in
September. The Hungarian forint strengthened and yields on
three-year  government bonds  declined after the central bank cut
its benchmark rate to 6.25 percent, still the European Union’s
highest.  A  gauge  of consumer discretionary and technology companies
led gains among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index, adding more than 1 percent. The developing-
nations measure has climbed 8.4 percent this year, trailing a 10
percent increase by the  MSCI World Index. (MXWO)  The emerging-markets
index trades at 11.5 times estimated earnings, compared with the
MSCI World’s multiple of 13.2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest automaker, jumped
2.5 percent, rebounding from its biggest decline in seven weeks
yesterday.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , the country’s second-largest
carmaker, climbed 2.3 percent.  Beating Estimates  Grupa Lotos advanced 5.3 percent to the highest since
August 2011. The company reported net income was 626 million
zloty ($195 million) in the third quarter, beating the median
estimate of 459.6 million zloty in a Bloomberg survey of five
analysts.  ZE PAK SA (ZEP) , the power producer controlled by Polish
billionaire Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, dropped on its first day of
trading in Warsaw after holding the country’s largest initial
public offering in more than a year.  State Bank  of India, the nation’s biggest lender, dropped
4.3 percent, the most since Aug. 9.  Gazprom fell 2.4 percent, the most since July. The board
today approved a revised, 975 billion-ruble ($31 billion) budget
for the year, the Moscow-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The program, which is 25 percent higher than
the initial plan adopted in December, includes 890 billion
rubles of capital expenditure on gas production, transportation
and storage projects.  Ecopetrol SA, Colombia’s largest oil company, tumbled 3
percent, the most in more than four months, after profit
declined for a second straight quarter. Net income slid 22
percent from a year earlier to 3.23 trillion pesos ($1.77
billion), the Bogota-based company said yesterday after markets
closed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  