-- Eni Beats Estimates as Libya Recovery Counters Gas Charges
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-10-30T15:41:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/eni-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-libya-production-recovery.html
Eni SpA (ENI) ’s third-quarter profit beat
analyst estimates as gains from recovering Libyan output after
its civil war countered 909 million euros ($1.2 billion) in
charges  Italy ’s largest oil company posted mainly from gas.  Adjusted  net income  increased to 1.82 billion euros from
1.80 billion euros a year earlier, the Rome-based company said
today in a statement. The figure beat the 1.56 billion-euro
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Management continues to expect unfavourable trading
conditions to continue in the European gas sector,” said
Dominique Patry, an analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA.
Libyan output “will help the company absorb the impact of
project rescheduling at important fields.” The growth helps to
counter a shutdown of the Elgin-Franklin platform off the U.K.
and losses in  Nigeria  from sabotage and theft, Patry said.  Eni, planning to increase production about 3 percent a year
through 2022, has been working to restore output in  Libya  after
shutting operations during last year’s war. The company reported
special charges on operating profit from continuing operations
mainly from price revisions in long-term gas purchase contracts.  In September, Eni forecast a 604 million-euro charge on net
income after arbitration with  GasTerra BV  over historical fuel
supplies by the Dutch trading company from 2003 to 2006.  Higher Output  Output expanded 16 percent to 1.72 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day, Eni said. It expects to pump about 240,000
barrels of oil a day in Libya this year and return to the pre-
unrest level of about 285,000 barrels by the end of the next
year, Chief Operating Officer  Claudio Descalzi  said Oct. 11. The
company forecast production will increase this year.  Eni expects pumping at the Total SA-operated Elgin-Franklin
fields to resume in the first quarter, Descalzi told investors
on a conference call. It also expects extraction at the Zubair
field in  Iraq  to rise to 350,000 barrels of oil equivalent next
year, up from a current rate of about 250,000 barrels a day.  Output growth was “supported by the continued improvement
of the Libyan output,” Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni 
said in the statement. “Our excellent growth prospects will be
further fuelled by our portfolio of development projects and our
extraordinary success in exploration activities.”  Benchmark Brent crude futures fell 2.4 percent in the third
quarter from a year ago as slowing global growth curbed demand.  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) ,  Portugal ’s largest oil producer, said
yesterday that third-quarter profit climbed 58 percent to 98
million euros on higher output from its Brazilian projects.  Selling Stake  Eni is selling down its 28 percent stake in Galp.  “We have received quite recently a lot of interest from
many financial institutions” in the Galp stake, Chief Financial
Officer Alessandro Bernini told investors. “Based on these
demonstrations of interest a market transaction could be easily
realized very soon. But since the benchmark is the prevailing
market price today, this doesn’t satisfy our minimal
expectation.”  In October, Eni completed a sale of 30 percent of Italian
gas distributor  Snam SpA (SRG)  to state lender Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti for about 3.5 billion euros. In the last two months,
CDP sold about 2.1 billion euros of shares in the  oil company ,
reducing its stake to 25.8 percent. Debt fell to 19.6 billion
euros in the quarter from 26.9 billion euros in the second
quarter after the disposal of Snam, Eni said.  Eni, together with Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, plans to start production in March at Kazakhstan’s
Kashagan, one of the world’s biggest oilfields. The partners
were originally scheduled to start pumping at the site in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  