-- Erste Puts Off Repaying $1.6 Billion State Aid Til 2015
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-10-30T12:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/erste-puts-off-repaying-1-6-billion-state-aid-til-2015.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Austria ’s
biggest lender, won’t repay 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of
state aid in the next two to three years unless the conditions
attached to the 2009 capital injection change.  Erste, which pays an 8 percent annual dividend on the
capital, will only start repayments in 2015, Chief Executive
Officer Andreas Treichl told analysts on a conference call
today. He scrapped a plan to repay the aid last year after
writedowns resulted in a loss at the Vienna-based bank.  “If the conditions under which we took it remain the same,
which is actually what we anticipate, we probably will keep it
for another two to three years and start repaying it 2015,”
Treichl said, adding that the bank might opt for immediate
repayment should the government change those conditions.  Erste and Austrian peer  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) 
received state aid in the form of participation capital, a non-
voting capital that absorbs losses on the same terms as equity.
Treichl is unhappy that Erste must also pay higher taxes to fund
the 1 billion-euro bailout of  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)   “We are paying tax in order to support the state-owned
banks and their competitive endeavors, which makes me really
angry,” Treichl said. Erste is paying the “highest bank taxes
in the world” in its home country as well as in Hungary and
Slovakia, he said.  Austria’s government, which increased its banking levy by
25 percent this year, also bailed out Kommunalkredit Austria AG
in 2008 and Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG in 2009.  Participation Capital  While the participation capital used by Erste has no
maturity, its dividend and repayment terms make it gradually
more expensive from 2014 to create an incentive for redemption.
The first dividend step-up to 8.5 percent in 2014 wouldn’t worry
him “substantially,” Treichl said.  The dividend for the participation capital compares with
the current cost of equity of “slightly above 10 percent,”
said  Michael Mauritz , a spokesman for the bank.  Austria booked a 624 million-euro repayment of the capital
in its 2013 budget.  Participation capital is being phased out under new rules
proposed by the Basel Committee for Banking Supervision starting
in 2019.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  