-- Erste Rises as Romania Prompts More Upbeat Profit Outlook
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-10-30T16:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/erste-meets-estimates-sees-romanian-unit-stabilizing-.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  expects results
to improve next year after the “stabilization” of its Romanian
business helped eastern  Europe ’s third-biggest lender return to
profit in the last quarter.  Erste rose the most in six weeks in Vienna trading after
Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said a turnaround in
Romania will boost profit next year. The bank posted third-
quarter net income of 143.7 million euros ($186 million),
matching the average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, after a year-earlier loss of 1.5 billion euros.  “Whereas we’re by no means bullish about what’s going to
happen in 2013, we’re quite firm that we will see a further
improvement of our results,” Treichl said. “I can’t assure you
that things are going to be extremely happy-dappy over the next
12 months, but in relative terms we feel quite comfortable.”  Erste posted its first loss last year since at least 1988
after bad-loan charges, credit-default-swap losses and
writedowns in  Romania  and  Hungary , where it owns the largest and
second-biggest banks respectively. While the lender expects
Hungary to remain in the doldrums, Erste outlined a plan to
ensure its Romanian business returns to profit next year.  Erste  climbed  6.3 percent, the most in six weeks, to 19.07
euros a share in Vienna, making it the best performer on the 38-
company  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index . The
stock has  advanced  40 percent this year, more than double the 16
percent gain of the index.  ‘More Upbeat’  “Erste became somewhat more upbeat with regards to the
outlook, as now it expects only a slight decline in operating
profit compared to last year,” Gabor Kemeny, an analyst at
Concorde Securities, said in a note to clients.  Erste expects 2012 operating profit to be “only slightly
behind” last year’s 3.63 billion euros, a wording that Treichl
said was intended to highlight the more upbeat mood. The bank
had lowered the guidance for operating profit in both July and
April.  Treichl, who leads eastern Europe’s third-biggest bank
after  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , paid
six times book value when he bought Banca Comerciala Romana for
3.75 billion euros. He hired new management this year as losses
widened in the Black Sea country, where more than a quarter of
Erste’s lending is delinquent.  “We’re seeing results coming in,” Treichl said. “The
trends have been so stable during past months that we now feel a
lot more comfortable saying that the worst is over.”  Romania Story  Erste laid out a four-pronged “road to profitability” in
Romania in  slides prepared  for a meeting with investors in
 London  today. The bank plans to reduce loan losses
“significantly” next year, after they shaved 560 million euros
off earnings in the first nine months of 2012 -- equivalent to
more than a third of total provisions. It also plans to increase
revenue, cut costs and stop lending in euros to unhedged retail
clients.  “They are trying to push the Romania story, the outlook is
a bit better than what I expected,” said  Ronny Rehn , an analyst
at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods in London, who rates Erste market
perform. “It looks like it might get better a little quicker.”  Treichl expects the cost-income ratio, a measure of bank
profitability, to improve next year as revenue rises, costs
decline and margins increase. The board expects to propose
 resuming dividend payments  for 2012 after scrapping them last
year.  Loan Losses  The bank reiterated that loan losses would be about 2
billion euros. Bad debt was unchanged at 9.2 percent of all
loans in the third quarter from the preceding three months as
reductions in Austria and Slovakia offset increases in Romania
and  Croatia . Delinquent loans in Hungary remained at 25 percent,
halting a four-year expansion.  Erste’s core Tier 1 capital, a key measure of financial
strength, was also unchanged at 8.8 percent of risk-weighted
assets, once  government aid  and other non-voting capital is
stripped out. Including state aid, which Treichl said he won’t
repay before 2015, the ratio stood at 10.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  