-- EU to Start Common Carbon Permit Auctions on EEX on Nov. 13
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-30T15:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/eu-will-start-common-carbon-permit-auctions-on-eex-on-nov-13.html
The European Energy Exchange AG will
begin auctions of post-2012 carbon allowances on behalf of most
European Union states on Nov. 13, starting with sales for 11 out
of 25 nations that plan to use the trading platform.  Those countries will offer 4.03 million EU spot carbon
permits for the next period of the bloc’s emissions trading
system in each of the first two auctions on Nov. 13 and Nov. 15.
Not all countries have yet concluded their preparations to start
auctioning, and the calendar of sales will be reviewed on a
weekly basis, EEX said in an e-mailed  statement  today.  “If further auctioneers have joined, their quantities will
be added to the auction volume,” EEX said. “The additional
certificates which have not been auctioned off so far will be
distributed evenly over the next auctions.”  The 27-nation EU is moving toward selling a greater
proportion of carbon allowances, now mostly given to companies
for free, in the eight-year trading period starting in 2013,
known as Phase 3. To smooth the transition and limit price
shocks, the bloc will auction a total of 120 million Phase 3
permits this year.  Auctions will take place every Tuesday and Thursday until
Dec. 18, EEX said. Delays by member states in completing their
preparations to sell permits may mean that some auctions will be
delayed until 2013, the bourse said.  EU carbon allowances for delivery in December this year
dropped as much as 2.1 percent to 7.91 euros ($10.26) a metric
ton following the EEX announcement and traded at 8.03 euros on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 2:53 p.m. in London.  Common Platform  While  Germany  and the U.K. have their own auctioning
platforms, the remaining 25 EU countries decided to use EEX as
the venue for their sales of carbon allowances.  Poland , which
also plans to have a national auctioneer, aims to use EEX
temporarily. Iceland and Norway, non-EU countries that
participate in the bloc’s emissions trading system, will also
sell their allowances on the Leipzig-based exchange.  EEX in its capacity as a common venue will also offer as
many as 2.3 million allowances for airlines in five weekly sales
starting Nov. 21. The number of allowances for sale in each
auction after Nov. 15 is subject to revision as more countries
complete their preparations, EEX said. The EU emissions trading
system expanded into aviation at the beginning of this year.  The 11 member States that will take part in the first two
auctions are  Bulgaria , Spain, France, Italy,  Latvia ,  Austria ,
 Romania , Slovenia, Slovakia,  Finland  and  Sweden . Should new
national auctioneers become ready to sell, the EEX will publish
new calendar versions each Monday after the end of trading
starting Nov. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  