-- Exxon Favors Gas Over Expensive Oil Sands in M&A Deals
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-30T20:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/exxon-favors-gas-over-oil-sands-in-m-a-deals-corporate-canada.html
International investors including
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  are favoring natural gas over oil sands
acquisitions in  Canada  as the less-expensive way to supply Asian
markets.  Three of the five largest energy acquisitions announced by
foreign buyers in Canada this year, valued at a combined $9.8
billion, were for natural gas assets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The trend will continue next year as liquefied
natural gas developers move closer to commissioning projects,
said Robert Mark, who helps oversee C$4.5 billion ($4.5 billion)
at MacDougall, MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in  Montreal .  “There’s a unique scramble in Canada to lock up gas assets
for LNG,” he said. “Asian buyers look at that as a significant
opportunity.”  A race to secure natural gas for planned LNG export on
Canada’s West Coast by Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Exxon and others
has spurred interest in the fossil fuel among investors seeking
to benefit from the price differences between Asia and North
America. With at least five LNG projects valued at as much as
$15 billion each proposed for British Columbia’s northwest
coast, proponents are lining up supplies from reserves such as
the Horn River and the Montney shale formations.  Record Premium  Canadian natural gas traded yesterday at C$3.175 per
gigajoule, after more than doubling from a 10-year low of
C$1.4475 on April 20. That compares with about $16 for LNG
contracts sold in  Japan . A gigajoule is a unit of energy. About
100 gigajoules of natural gas is required to heat a single
family home in Canada for one year.  Foreign buyers of natural gas producers or assets this year
include Tokyo-based  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Japan’s largest trading
company; Irving, Texas-based Exxon; and Petroliam Nasional Bhd,
Malayasia’s state-owned oil and gas company. The premiums paid
for those assets have reached as high as 97 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Petroliam Nasional, known as Petronas and based in Kuala
Lumpur, boosted its first offer for  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ)  to C$22, or 97 percent more than the Calgary-based
company’s 20-day average before the initial proposal, the
steepest premium on record in the oil and gas industry.  Petronas yesterday extended its C$5.16 billion offer for
Progress after an initial regulatory rejection by the Canadian
government on Oct. 19. Progress rose 0.4 percent to C$19.89 at
4:19 p.m. today after soaring 8 percent yesterday.  Deals Increasing  Exxon, the world’s largest energy company by market value,
agreed to pay C$2.86 billion for Calgary-based Celtic
Exploration Ltd.’s leases in  Alberta ’s gas-producing Duvernay
and Montney formations on Oct. 17, its biggest Canadian
acquisition.  Canada’s decision on Petronas’s bid will determine how many
more foreign investors are lured to Canada, said John Stephenson, who helps manage C$2.7 billion at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. He owns shares of natural
gas producers including  Painted Pony Petroleum Ltd. (PPY)  and Crew
Energy Inc.  “It remains to be seen how many of these deals get done,”
he said in a phone interview. “Up until this point, natural gas
deals have been on the upswing.”  Producers with holdings in the  Montney formation  in
northeastern British Columbia, could see bids for assets or
entire companies as LNG proponents secure gas reserves, said
Gordon Currie, analyst at Salman Partners Inc. in Calgary.  “You need to have a lot of reserves tied up to support an
LNG export facility so it’s entirely possible they would be out
looking to tie up additional resources,” Currie said in a phone
interview.  Possible Targets  Targets could include Painted Pony,  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ,
 Advantage Oil & Gas Ltd. (AAV) , and  ARC Resources Ltd. (ARX) , Currie said.
Shares of these gas producers, all based in Calgary, have
declined this year through yesterday, with Painted Pony down 5.3
percent; Talisman, 7.2 percent; Advantage, 18 percent; and ARC
Resources, 3.2 percent.  Patrick Ward, Painted Pony’s chief executive officer, was
not immediately available to comment yesterday when contacted by
phone by Bloomberg.  Exxon looks for “value” for its shareholders,  Alan Jeffers , a company spokesman said in a phone interview,
yesterday. The company is in the “very early stages” of
evaluating an LNG terminal for western Canada.  Advantage is considering a strategic review after
announcing in August that it plans to sell “non-core” assets,
Doug Jackson, a company spokesman said in a phone interview
today. Phoebe Buckland, a spokeswoman for Talisman, did not
immediately respond to an e-mail request for comment. Niki
Anderson, a spokeswoman for ARC Resources, said the company had
“nothing to add” to its past position on market perceptions it
could be a target. The company is not interested in being taken
over or in pursuing joint ventures, David Carey, ARC Resources
vice president of capital markets, said in a Sept. 14 interview.  Stranded Gas  Among companies seeking partners to develop gas reserves in
Canada are Encana Corp., which is marketing a stake in its
Duvernay shale acreage in Alberta and Cutbank Ridge acreage in
British Columbia.  Building infrastructure to allow “stranded” gas reserves
to reach new markets makes those assets more attractive to
potential investors, said Tim Marchant, an adjunct professor of
energy strategy and geopolitics at the University of Calgary and
a former senior manager at  BP Plc. (BP/)   TransCanada Corp. has agreed to develop a 700-kilometer
(434-mile) pipeline in British Columbia to link gas from the
Montney to an LNG project in Kitimat led by Shell.  Spectra
Energy Corp. (SE) , based in Houston Texas, has signed on with  BG
Group Plc (BG/)  to build a separate 850 kilometer line from the
Montney to BG’s proposed terminal in Prince Rupert.|  Oil Sands  “Any time you get a major trunk line built, a lot of
assets that may have been considered stranded, become attractive
because you can evacuate them,” Marchant said in a phone
interview. “Asian state-owned oil companies are planning in a
very holistic way for energy demand over the next few decades
and North American gas is cheap if you want to add reserves.”  Oil sands projects will probably require C$23 billion this
year in investments, according to the  Canadian Association  of
Petroleum Producers. Foreign companies are holding off on oil
sands purchases, said Wenran Jiang, a University of Alberta
professor and adviser to the Alberta government on Asian
investment.  Asian national energy companies and private investors are
eyeing Western Canadian natural gas reserves as well as
conventional oil deposits outside the oil sands to quench
current supply shortages, Jiang said.  “Oil sands are too big in scale, in terms of advanced
investment and the slow pace of return and scale of the
infrastructure building,” Jiang said in a telephone interview
from  Edmonton  on Oct. 26.  Canada Crude  Price discounts for  Canadian heavy crude , made from oil
sands bitumen, when compared to prices paid for Brent, the
international benchmark, are also working against oil sands
investments, said Mark of MacDougall, MacDougall & MacTier.  “As an international investor you look around the globe,
and you see that you’re getting paid in Brent, but with Canadian
heavy crudes, you’re getting a big discount,” he said. “If
you’re buying assets, you might be more inclined to buy gas or
conventional crude.”  U.S. energy companies  ConocoPhillips (COP) , Marathon Oil Corp.
and Murphy Oil Corp. said they are all considering divesting
oil-sands assets amid industry concerns about project cost
overruns and discounting of Canadian crude prices as export
pipeline capacity is squeezed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  