-- Fiat-Chrysler Merger Takes Backseat to Europe Fix
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-30T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/fiat-chrysler-merger-takes-backseat-to-europe-fix.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the majority owner of
Chrysler Group LLC, is putting efforts to fix its European
operations ahead of finishing a full merger between the two
companies, Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said.  “Our primary objective right now is fixing the European
environment and getting that up and running so we can restore
the full Fiat level of profitability that it needs to achieve,”
Marchionne said yesterday on Chrysler’s quarterly earnings
conference call. Marchionne, 60, who heads both companies, said
he’s still targeting a combination of them by 2015.  Fiat, which owns 61.8 percent of Chrysler, presented a plan
to turn around the European operations that are generating wider
losses and led the Turin, Italy-based company to cut its 2014
profit goal by 31 percent to 5.2 billion euros ($6.7 billion).
Other European automakers also are struggling as industrywide
sales head for their biggest annual decline in 19 years.  Chrysler, boosted by demand for 200 sedans and Jeep Grand
Cherokee sport-utility vehicles, on Oct. 29 reported third-
quarter net income of $381 million, an 80 percent increase from
a year earlier. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based company also
confirmed its forecast for 2012 profit of $1.5 billion.  Fiat yesterday reported 20 billion euros of available
liquidity at the end of the third quarter, down from 22.7
billion euros as of June 30. The company expects to generate
cash from operations in the last three months of the year,
according to a  statement .  Fiat’s Plan  With Fiat’s capital position, it’s “highly unlikely” that
the company would be able to “finance a takeout” of the
minority stake in Chrysler,” Marchionne said on the call.  The business plan update that Fiat presented yesterday,
which didn’t include a monetary investment figure, calls for the
introduction of 19 new models that will be produced from  Italy 
through 2016. Of those vehicles, 15 will be made both for export
and  Europe ’s market, according to an investor  presentation .  “If I were to take a look at cash utilization, given our
plan here, there’s no room left for the acquisition of the
minority interest in Chrysler,” Marchionne said yesterday on
Fiat’s conference call.  When asked by an analyst if he would consider ways to raise
capital to complete a Fiat and Chrysler merger, Marchionne said
that “everything is on the table.” He has previously discussed
the possibility of an initial public offering of Fiat’s Ferrari
supercar division.  Court Dispute  Fiat said last month that it asked a U.S. court to confirm
the price it has to pay to increase its controlling stake in
Chrysler after failing to reach an agreement with the United
Auto Workers’ retiree health-care fund. The fund, known as a
VEBA, owns the remainder of Chrysler.  The Delaware Chancery Court probably will rule on the
matter by the end of the year, Marchionne said on the Fiat call.  As part of Chrysler’s 2009 bankruptcy, Fiat was granted a
 call option  to purchase a portion of the VEBA’s stake every six
months through June 2016. The agreement covered 40 percent of
the trust’s holdings.  The VEBA is able to request a registration to sell some of
its Chrysler stake beginning in January 2013, Marchionne said on
the Fiat call.  “Once registration is in place, then I think they could
ask that we take it public, and we will comply if they so
desire,” he said.  Fiat is “standing by” its call options and will exercise
them as they become due, Marchionne said.  Premium Brands  Fiat’s updated business plan calls for the carmaker to
focus product development toward its Alfa Romeo, Maserati and
Ferrari premium brands to improve margins rather than close one
or more plants in Europe. The Italian automaker has capacity
available in the region, and its U.S. partner is more
constrained in  North America .  Chrysler will use 107 percent of its production capacity
in its home region this year, Fiat estimated in yesterday’s
investor presentation. The U.S. automaker in 2010 used just
73 percent of capacity, measured on the basis of 16 hours
of output during 235 workdays a year.  Fiat reduced its forecast for Europe industry sales for
this year through 2014 by a combined 10 million units. The
automaker now sees 2014 deliveries of 14.1 million, from a
previous estimate of 18.2 million.  In an effort to find a solution to woes in Europe,
Marchionne approached PSA Peugeot Citroen and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
earlier this month about a pan-European combination, three
people familiar with the matter said. The Fiat CEO is looking
for a partner to break the Italian carmaker out of its isolation
in the region after GM’s Opel unit and  Peugeot (UG)  announced an
alliance earlier this year.  Opel-Peugeot  Marchionne, who unsuccessfully bid to buy Opel when GM
considered selling the unit in 2009, said yesterday on the Fiat
call that he has not spoken to GM about Opel since that time.
The CEO also said he meets regularly with Peugeot executives and
family members because of historical ties.  “Don’t read anything into having a coffee at the bar,”
Marchionne said. “There are other things than combinations and
mergers that people talk about from time to time.” GM and
Peugeot representatives declined to comment yesterday.  The French government has had to support Peugeot by backing
7 billion euros in new bonds for its financing arm.  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  is closing three plants in Europe, Daimler AG scrapped its
profit target for next year, and Volkswagen AG posted its
largest drop in earnings since 2009 in the third quarter.  Italy Woes  Fiat’s problems are compounded by its troubled home
country, which accounts for half its European sales. Its plants
in Italy, where car sales are on pace to plunge this year to the
lowest level in more than three decades, are running at 50
percent of capacity, below the 80 percent threshold typically
considered profitable.  Chrysler, on the other hand, is benefiting from a rising
U.S. auto market. Light-vehicle deliveries are on pace to
increase at least 10 percent for the third consecutive year, the
first such streak since 1973. The full-year industry sales are
headed to exceed 14 million, for the best annual total since
2007, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  U.S. light-vehicle sales for Chrysler rose 24 percent in
the first nine months and its share of the U.S. market increased
to 11.5 percent from 10.6 percent a year earlier, according to
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata. Deliveries of the 200
sedan during the period surged 71 percent to 100,267 and the
Grand Cherokee climbed 31 percent to 112,075.  “We’ve been able to hit all the targets that we have set
for ourselves,” Marchionne said on Chrysler’s conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  