-- Fiat Forecasts European Slump as Regional Losses Widen
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-10-30T15:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/fiat-reports-third-quarter-earnings-increase.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, forecast a prolonged downturn in
the European market after reporting a wider loss in the region.  The third-quarter operating loss in Europe widened 61
percent to 219 million euros as revenue slumped 13 percent, the
Turin, Italy-based carmaker said today. The company said it may
not break even in the region until 2015 or 2016 after earlier
targeting an end to losses in two years.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is cutting back
on investment and holding off on bringing new Fiat vehicles to
market because of Europe’s downturn, where industrywide sales
are headed for their biggest annual drop in 19 years. The
company said today 2012 trading profit will be at the lower end
of a previous target of 3.8 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros.  “Events of the past 12 months have reinforced our negative
view of the development of the European markets,” Marchionne
said in a statement. “We see continuing weak trading conditions
for the remainder of 2012, extending well into 2013 and at least
part of 2014.”  Fiat  dropped  as much as 20 cents, or 5 percent, to 3.92
euros, the worst performer on the Bloomberg Europe Autos Index
and Milan’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index, and was trading down 4.1
percent as of 4:18 p.m. local time. The stock has climbed 11
percent this year, valuing the company at 4.94 billion euros.  Cracks Appearing  The Italian carmaker today said net debt at year’s end will
be about 6.5 billion euros, compared with a previous forecast of
as much as 6 billion euros. Net debt rose in the third quarter
by 1.26 billion euros to 6.69 billion euros.  “The real story here is the balance sheet and finally we
are seeing the cracks appears,”  David Arnold , a sales
specialist at Credit Suisse in London, said in a note to
investors. “Fiat’s core has managed to consume 1.4 billion
euros in cash within 92 days, or 15 million euros per day, much
worse than what we are seeing anywhere else.”  In an effort to find a solution to woes in Europe,
Marchionne approached PSA Peugeot Citroen and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
earlier this month about a pan-European combination, three
people familiar with the matter said. The Fiat CEO is looking
for a partner to break the Italian carmaker out of its isolation
in the region after GM and Peugeot announced an alliance earlier
this year.  Targets Cut  Fiat also cut revenue and profit goals for 2014 today. The
Italian manufacturer now targets trading profit in a range of
4.7 billion euros to 5.2 billion euros, compared with an April
2010 forecast of about 7.5 billion euros. Revenue is set to
increase to more than 94 billion euros, down from the previous
forecast of 104 billion euros.  Third-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and one-time
items, which Fiat calls trading profit, advanced 12 percent to
951 million euros on sales of Chrysler vehicles in  North
America . Revenue rose 16 percent to 20.4 billion euros.  Boosted by demand for 200 sedans and Jeep Grand Cherokee
sport-utility vehicles Chrysler yesterday said its net income
surged 80 percent to $381 million. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-
based manufacturer also confirmed its 2012 forecast of about
$1.5 billion in net income.  Fiat, which consolidated Chrysler last year after
increasing its stake in the U.S. carmaker to more than 50
percent, also reduced its 2014 forecast for deliveries to at
least 4.6 million vehicles from the original target of about 6
million.  Italian Plunge  The Italian manufacturer isn’t alone in struggling in
Europe. The French government has had to support  Peugeot (UG)  by
backing 7 billion euros in new bonds for its financing arm.  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  is closing three plants in the region,  Daimler AG (DAI) 
scrapped its profit target for next year, and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
posted its largest drop in earnings since 2009 in the third
quarter.  Fiat’s problems are compounded by its troubled home
country, which accounts for half its sales in the region. Its
plants in  Italy , where car sales are on pace to plunge this year
to the lowest level in more than three decades, are running at
50 percent of capacity, far below the 80 percent threshold
typically considered profitable.  To counter the severe slump in European sales, Marchionne
plans to use its Italian plants to export cars outside  Europe .
The automaker, which doesn’t intend to shut down additional
factories in Italy, will build six new models in its home
country for export in 2014, including an all-new Jeep model, two
Alfa Romeo cars and a new Maserati. It also plans to introduce
six vehicles in Europe next year.  ‘Negative Value’  Fiat also said it is in talks with the Italian government
on actions to improve competitiveness of exports. The carmaker
has suspended  investments  in Italy, cutting European spending by
500 million euros in 2012, and has delayed new models, including
the Punto hatchback.  Marchionne, 60, has acknowledged that he neglected Europe
while turning around Chrysler after it emergence from
bankruptcy. While he ultimately would like to merge the two
companies into a single global giant, he has said he wants to
get Fiat back on track before that can happen.  “The European operations have deeply negative real
value,” Harald Hendrikse, a Citigroup analyst in  London  who
recommends selling Fiat shares, wrote in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  