-- Fischer Battling Israel’s Housing Bubble: Mortgages
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-10-31T12:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/fischer-battling-israel-s-housing-bubble-mortgages.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  is signaling he’s ready to stave off a potential housing
bubble like the one that triggered the U.S. housing collapse,
even as the government focuses on re-election.  The central bank announced home loan limits this week while
at the same time unexpectedly reducing the benchmark rate to the
lowest in 22 months. The directives set a maximum loan-to-value
for the first time, restricting mortgages to 50 percent for
investors, 75 percent for those who have never purchased a home
before and 70 percent for everyone else.  “There is a problem with the real estate market, it can’t
be ignored,” Yaniv Pagot, chief strategist at the Ramat Gan-
based Ayalon Group Ltd., said by telephone. “The government is
in a sort of “end of school” atmosphere. The Bank of Israel,
as the responsible adult, will have to let out the hot air until
the government solves the problem by increasing supply.”  Fischer’s steps to slow home price growth come three weeks
after Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called early elections
amid a budget deadlock, caused in part by the government’s
inability to fund social-welfare spending promised after
consumer protests over spiraling housing and food prices. At the
same time, the low rates have fuelled ballooning mortgage debt,
raising central bank concerns about the stability of banks.  Israel’s efforts to avert a housing bubble, with prices up
about 20 percent since 2010, mirror those taken elsewhere, as
central bank efforts to jumpstart growth by pushing down
borrowing costs fuels demand for real estate.  Hong Kong  In  Hong Kong , where home prices have already surpassed
their previous record from October, 1997, the central bank
tightened mortgage lending on Sept. 14, then last week announced
a property tax aimed at overseas and corporate buyers. In
 Canada , the government shortened the maximum period on mortgages
it insures to 25 years from 30 years, and lowered the maximum
amount homeowners can borrow against the value of their home to
80 percent from 85 percent.  “Many financial crises which took place in various
countries began with the granting of housing credit at terms
that did not reflect the risks developing in that market,” the
 Bank of Israel  said in its announcement. “High loan-to-value
ratios can damage the ability of borrowers to repay their
mortgages if scenarios such as an increase in unemployment or a
significant decline in housing prices are realized.”  Expectations ‘Pessimistic’  The Bank of Israel, which forecasts growth this year will
slow to 3.3 percent from 4.6 percent in 2011, sees growth
slowing further next year. The level of economic risk around the
world remains high and domestic growth may be slowing, the
central bank said in explaining its decision to cut the lending
rate. Exports make up about 40 percent of Israeli gross domestic
product.  “Expectations seen in consumer surveys and the Business
Tendency Survey are pessimistic and indicate predictions of
further moderation in activity,” the Bank of Israel said in its
Oct. 29 rate decision.  The Bank of Israel has gradually reduced interest rates
from 3.25 percent in September 2011 to 2 percent in the latest
decision this week, to help support growth. As the rates
declined, housing prices have climbed and mortgage credit has
increased.  Household debt climbed by 4.6 percent since the beginning
of the year, to 381 billion shekels ($98 billion), while debt
for housing rose 5.4 percent to 272 billion shekels, according
to central bank figures.  Reducing Investment  “The Bank of Israel directives are expected to lead to a
decline in housing prices, especially in more remote towns,”
Dudi Miezlik, mortgage division manager at Mercantile Discount
Bank Ltd. said. “The directives will clearly reduce investment
activity in the housing market, without hurting homebuyers.”  Housing prices have increased by about 20 percent since the
beginning of 2010, and by about 50 percent in the past decade,
according to Central Bureau of Statistics figures. In the past
six months,  home prices  have increased by close to 3 percent,
the Bank of Israel said in its Oct. 29 rate decision.  The price of a three-and-a-half to four-room apartment in
Tel Aviv was about 2.36 million shekels ($610,000) in the second
quarter of 2012, according to the statistics bureau. In
 Jerusalem , the price was about 1.74 million shekels ($450,000),
it said.  Second Attempt  This isn’t the first attempt by the central bank to rein in
the housing market. In May 2010, the bank said it would require
lenders to increase provisions against high loan-to-value home
loans. In April 2011, the Bank of Israel issued a draft
directive limiting variable-rate mortgages to one-third the
value of the total loan.  Based on past experience, about 20 percent of borrowers
seek mortgages with a loan-to-value ratio higher than the new
maximum and will therefore be affected by the new limits, the
Bank of Israel said. Almost half of those in this category are
investment-home buyers, it said.  Some economists believe Fischer’s most recent steps may
backfire.  “The Bank of Israel’s choice to cut the  interest rate  in
order to ease the state of the economy, while at the same time
counteracting that step by imposing mortgage restrictions, is
liable to instead raise the inherent risk in the ballooning
housing market,” says Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at DS
Securities & Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  Alternative Investments  Cutting the benchmark rate makes investment in  government
bonds  and  bank deposits  less attractive, and encourages
investors to look for  alternative investments , Zabezhinsky said.
As a result, additional funds are likely to flow into the
housing market and push prices higher, he said.  Pressure is increasing to slow home price growth, leaving
Fischer, 69, little choice but to act.  Housing costs were a key factor in spurring protests last
year in which tens of thousands of demonstrators, some of whom
erected tent encampments, gathered in the center of Tel Aviv and
other Israeli cities.  Fischer was appointed governor in 2005 after being offered
the job by former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Netanyahu, who
at the time was Finance Minister. A former economics professor
at the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  for 22 years,
Fischer was U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
thesis adviser and later served as the International Monetary
Fund’s No. 2 official in the 1990s.  He’s often warned and acted against complacency. In October
2008, he beat the Fed and the  European Central Bank  by a day in
cutting interest rates following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., reducing the  base rate  by half a percentage point
to 3.75 percent.  “There’s probably no better central banker in the world
than Stan Fischer,” said Glenn Yago, senior director at the
 Milken Institute , a U.S. economic think tank, in a telephone
interview from Israel. “He’s trying to set regulatory standards
in order to make demand somewhat more contained so it’s not
driving up real estate prices. It makes sense in this context.
It’s a creative way to address it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban in  New York  at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 