-- Ford Profit Slips as North America Counters Europe Loss
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-10-30T20:19:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/ford-profit-slips-as-north-america-counters-europe-loss.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, said third-quarter profit exceeded estimates,
slipping 1.1 percent, as its North America unit delivered record
earnings that made up for higher taxes and losses in  Europe .  Ford reported its 14th consecutive profitable quarter, with
net income of $1.63 billion, or 41 cents a share, compared with
$1.65 billion, or 41 cents, a year earlier. Excluding one-time
items, the profit was 40 cents a share, exceeding the 30-cent
average estimate of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally, who revealed plans
Oct. 25 to close three European factories, is attempting to
engineer a turnaround adapting the strategy that worked in the
U.S. Ford had a pretax operating loss of $468 million in Europe
in the third quarter, from a loss of $306 million a year
earlier. The automaker lost $553 million in Europe in the year’s
first half and has said it expects deficits in the region of
more than $1.5 billion this year and again in 2013.  “Europe has been the biggest drag on the shares,”  Peter Nesvold , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. who has a buy rating on
Ford, wrote today. “You’ve now seen what the company did in
transforming North America. One has to believe the shares have
tremendous upside if the company comes even close to replicating
that success in Europe.”  North America  In North America, where Ford generates most of its sales
and profits, the automaker reported record pretax operating
income of $2.3 billion, lifted by higher prices and a $400
million improvement on commodity hedges. Ford said its North
American operating margin was 12 percent for the quarter. The
region earned $1.6 billion in the same period a year earlier.  “This is the third quarter in a row where we earned over
$2 billion and the third quarter in a row with an operating
margin over 10 percent,” Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks
said of North American profits. “The story isn’t just the
results in the quarter, but the consistency.”  Structural costs, including engineering, manufacturing and
marketing expenses, will rise in the fourth quarter, he said.
“Don’t expect the results to be as strong as this quarter,” he
said.  Ford’s decline in net income came from a change in its tax
rate to 30 percent this year, from 10 percent last year, which
lowered net income by $400 million, Shanks said in an interview.
Ford’s tax rate changed after it removed an allowance for past
losses from its balance sheet in last year’s fourth quarter.  Profit Playbook  Ford’s improvement in North America was aided by a $200
million positive adjustment to warranty costs and a $100 million
gain from hedging for commodity prices, Shanks said. Commodity
hedges cost the company $300 million in last year’s third
quarter.  In the first half, Ford earned $4.14 billion in North
America and had an operating profit margin of 10.8 percent.
Ford’s U.S. car and light truck sales rose 5.3 percent through
September to 1.69 million, according to researcher Autodata
Corp.  Ford’s success in North America is building confidence that
the same plan can revive its European operations, Joseph Spak,
an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in New York, wrote today. In
the last two years, Ford has earned a pretax profit of $11.6
billion in North America after losing $6.3 billion in the region
in 2008 and 2009.  “The strength in North America is significantly better
than thought,” wrote Spak, who has an outperform rating on
Ford. “We believe this playbook should eventually drive
improved European profitability.”  Europe Slump  Ford said last week it doesn’t expect to make money again
in Europe until mid-decade. A stubborn sovereign-debt crisis has
sent auto sales skidding to their lowest level in 19 years. Ford
has said they may fall further next year before a modest rebound
in 2014.  Ford has fallen 14 percent in the past 12 months as
European losses have grown. The shares fell 0.3 percent to
$10.36 on Oct. 26, the last day before  Hurricane Sandy  caused
New York trading to be suspended.  “The European issues have caused me to pull back and
reassess,” said Gary Bradshaw, fund manager for Dallas-based
based Hodges Capital Management, who sold more than half his
Ford holdings at a loss and is reconsidering the 100,000 shares
he has left. “Domestically, they’re doing just fine, but the
European issues seem to linger and that’s the painful part.”  ‘Maybe Worse’  It will probably get worse before it gets better in Europe,
Shanks said in an interview.  “Everyone’s going to have to be a little patient,” the
CFO said. “We don’t think next year is going to look much
better, in fact maybe worse.”  European governments need to enable automakers to reduce
factory capacity instead of enacting policies that artificially
prop up the market and prevent plant closings, Shanks said.  “What they need to do is allow the industry to
restructure,” he said. “To the extent they could actually
facilitate or midwife that, that would be fabulous. We don’t
expect that to be what they’ll do, but really that’s what needs
to be done. The industry needs to restructure.”  European Cuts  Ford plans to cut 6,200 employees in Europe, or 13 percent
of its workforce there. It said next year it will close a
Transit van plant in Southampton,  England , and a stamping plant
in Dagenham, on the outskirts of  London . In 2014, Ford plans to
close a factory in Genk,  Belgium , that builds the Mondeo mid-
sized car, the S-Max wagon and the Galaxy minivan.  Ford has cut production in Europe and is paring dealers’
inventory. That reduces revenue, which Ford records when it
sends vehicles to dealers. Ford is “trying to battle” heavy
discounting in Europe, where it managed to “eke out” a $26
million improvement in net pricing, Shanks told reporters today.  Third-quarter revenue fell to $32.1 billion, from $33.1
billion last year. The compares with $31.3 billion, the average
of 11 estimates.  In the U.S., the redesigned Escape small sport-utility
vehicle is helping push up the prices consumers pay for Ford
models, said Ivan Drury, an analyst for researcher Edmunds.com.
Consumers are opting for more well-equipped models, he said.  U.S. consumers paid an average of $33,376 for Ford models
in the third quarter, up 3 percent from a year ago, according to
Edmunds. Ford’s average prices are up 27 percent from 2002 and
13 percent from 2007.  Consumer Reports  Ford’s pretax profit per vehicle reached $3,533 in the
third quarter, which is probably a record, Shanks said.
Consumers on average paid $700 more per vehicle in the third
quarter over the year-earlier period, he said.  “The technology that we’re putting in the vehicles is sort
of a two-edged sword because, clearly, from Consumer Reports
we’re taking it on the chin,” Shanks said of a report yesterday
that listed Ford next-to-last in reliability due in part to
complaints about touch-screen dashboard controls. “But we
actually are attracting people because of that technology.”  In Asia-Pacific and  Africa , Ford reported pretax operating
income of $45 million, from a $43 million loss last year. Ford
said sales of its commercial and passenger models rose 11
percent in  China  in the year’s first nine months, to  428,083 
vehicles. Ford is spending $4.9 billion on nine new Asian
factories and bringing the Lincoln line to China in 2014.  In South America, Ford reported pretax operating income of
$9 million, down from a profit of $276 million a year ago. Ford
made $5 million in South America in the second quarter as heavy
discounting, weakening currencies and changes in government
policies took a toll.  Ford Debt  Automotive debt, which excludes Ford Motor Credit, was
$14.2 billion on Sept. 30, unchanged from June 30.  Ford has more debt than rivals because it borrowed $23.4
billion in late 2006 and avoided the bailouts and bankruptcies
that befell the predecessors of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler
Group LLC in 2009. The automaker put up all major assets as
collateral, including its blue oval logo.  Ford recovered control of those assets May 22 when Moody’s
Investors Service became the second major rating company, after
Fitch Ratings, to raise the automaker to investment grade.
Standard & Poor’s still rates Ford  one step  below that level.  “GM has still got the dead weight of government
involvement limiting their flexibility,” said Jim Kee,
president of South  Texas  Money Management in San Antonio, who
bought 1.2 million shares of Ford and 500,000 shares of GM in
February on the expectation they’ll rise 30 percent to 50
percent. The U.S. still owns  32 percent  of GM.  “Here in Texas, there’s still a lot of people who will
choose Ford over GM for that reason.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  