-- France Telecom’s Debt Rating Cut for First Time in Decade
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-10-30T14:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/france-telecom-s-debt-rating-cut-by-fitch-on-competition.html
France Telecom  SA’s  debt rating  was
cut for the first time in a decade by a rating company on
concern that the country’s former phone monopoly will struggle
to raise prices and boost profitability amid competition at home
from discounter  Iliad SA. (ILD)   Fitch Ratings today lowered France Telecom’s rating by one
level to BBB+, the third-lowest investment grade.  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service rate the company one notch
higher at the fourth-lowest investment grade.  France Telecom reduced its planned dividend last week for a
second time this year after third-quarter earnings and sales
declined, in a bid to keep debt under control and avoid credit-
rating cuts. The move followed similar dividend reductions from
European peers such as  Telefonica SA. (TEF)   “A telecom incumbent cannot be rated in the A category
when its domestic business is hemorrhaging,” said  Roger Appleyard , head of global credit research at  RBC Capital Markets 
in  London . “The French market is so competitive, with companies
such as Iliad or SFR or Bouygues, that we don’t really know
where the bottom is.”  Iliad, founded by French entrepreneur Xavier Niel, scooped
up about 5.4 percent of the French mobile market in its first
six months of business after it started selling discounted phone
packages in January under the brand name Free. It distributes
exclusively over the Internet and doesn’t subsidize handsets, in
a strategy based on lower prices and costs on average compared
with those of rivals France Telecom, SFR -- a  Vivendi SA (VIV)  unit --
and  Bouygues SA. (EN)   Domestic Pressure  “The downgrade is based on the continued pressures in
France Telecom’s core domestic business,” Fitch said today.
“Increased competition is causing the company’s cash flows to
decline.”  France Telecom’s 1 billion euros of senior unsecured bonds
due June 2022 today fell 0.3 percent to 103.87 cents on the
euro, according to Bloomberg prices.  France Telecom has said its operating cash flow would only
grow again in 2014 once pricing pressure stabilizes in France.
Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard refocused on preserving
cash eight months ago, when the company cut its dividend
forecast for the first time and abandoned a promise to buy back
shares.  Discounter’s Push  Still, the Paris-based company also faces the threat of
having its  credit rating  reduced for the first time since 2002
by Moody’s Investors Service, which said in August that the
company may have trouble sustaining debt ratios. Standard &
Poor’s also has a negative outlook on France Telecom’s rating.  “France Telecom is set to lose all three of its A ratings
and Fitch kicked the process off,” Appleyard said. “Its just a
matter of time before Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s downgrade
the company’s ratings as well.”  As competitive pressures weigh on prices, especially in
France, France Telecom is betting it can charge consumers more
by investing in improved networks and new services. Richard said
this month that the rollout of a faster wireless Internet
network is vital to charge clients more money.  “Although Fitch recognizes the importance of these
investments for the company’s long-term success, in Fitch’s
opinion the current economic climate is not conducive to such an
investment,” Fitch said. “Consumers may not be willing to
increase their telecoms spend in times of austerity.”  France  Telecom declined 29 percent in Paris trading this
year through yesterday, making the stock the third-worst
performer in the country’s  CAC 40 benchmark Index  which gained
7.9 percent. Today, France Telecom was up 0.8 percent as of 3:19
p.m.   France Telecom, the owner of the Orange brand, said Oct.
25 that it will pay a dividend of at least 80 cents ($1.04) each
for 2012 and 2013, as much as 41 percent lower than last year.
This marks a drop from a 2011 dividend of 1.40 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  