-- Freddie Mac’s ’Omniscient Gnomes’ Led the Company Astray
-- B y   L o u i s   H y m a n
-- 2012-10-30T21:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/freddie-mac-s-omniscient-gnomes-led-the-company-astray-echoes.html
For me, a magazine advertisement in
1984 explains where it all went wrong. In a bizarre ad in the
American Bankers Association journal, the chief financial
officer of Freddie Mac, Leland Brendsel, appears to be
consulting with gnomes on how to oversee America’s mortgage-
backed securities markets.  According to the advertisement, “the gnomes of the
secondary market, our omniscient associates” had brought the
secret of securitization to Freddie Mac, the government-
sponsored housing-finance company. Although clearly the result
of an advertiser pulling an all-nighter, the gnomes reflected
the supernatural aura of the collateralized mortgage obligation,
which seemed to violate the rules of nature. Even to bankers,
the system was mysterious. Yet its history was entirely
conventional.  Financial markets require invention, and usually help from
the federal government. In the Emergency Home Finance Act of
1970, Congress authorized the creation of the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac. Almost immediately,
Freddie began to offer mortgage-backed securities, which had
only been reauthorized for Fannie Mae, Freddie’s sister company,
in 1968. Mortgage-backed securities and their predecessor, the
participation certificate, had been absent from American finance
since the 1930s, when the market for them collapsed during the
Great Depression. State laws forbade the sale of such
instruments, but their fate was in any event sealed by their
toxic reputation.  Reputations can be revived, however -- especially when
history is forgotten, as it was by the late 1960s.  Security Alchemy  As an easy way to turn investors’ capital into borrowers’
dreams, there is no better alchemy than the mortgage-backed
security, which transforms illiquid mortgages into liquid bonds.
This magic, of course, is what Freddie Mac did when it “created”
the market. The gnomes of Freddie Mac bought mortgages from
banks and then resold them, packaged as bonds. The first few
bond sales were prearranged theater, and were federally insured,
but once confidence rose, the bonds were sold like any other
commodity.  Within three years, Freddie Mac was buying $1 billion in
conventional mortgages every year, which was a blessing because
the standard sources of borrowing -- small banks, savings-and-
loans, and insurance companies -- were drying up. The president
of the  Mortgage Bankers Association of America , Robert Pease,
declared at the annual convention that, except for Fannie Mae
(and by extension Freddie Mac), “there is almost no money
available for residential housing. We are in a real honest-to-
goodness housing crisis!”  In 1971, an average of $50 million in mortgages flowed from
the capital markets through mortgage-backed securities into
housing each month, keeping the U.S. housing market afloat.  While Fannie dealt in federally insured loans -- such as
Federal Housing Administration and Veterans’ Administration
loans -- Freddie dealt in the so-called conventional market,
which was everything else. With Freddie’s thaumaturgy, this
market boomed. By January 1973, mortgage companies were
originating more conventional mortgages than FHA or VA loans. By
the 1980s, with interest rates rising and banks of all stripes
wary of holding on to fixed-rate mortgages, the resale of
conventional home mortgages only accelerated. A homeowner with a
30-year mortgage at 6 percent in 1970 would have been thrilled
to watch his house appreciate through inflation, and to still be
paying 6 percent every year as interest rates hit 21 percent.
For the banks, this situation was a calamity. Holding long-term
fixed-rate mortgages no longer made sense in an era of interest-
rate volatility.  Genuinely New  To find investors for all these fixed-rate mortgages took
some serious wizardry. While so many of the other “new”
financial instruments of the 1970s had existed in the 1920s and
before, and then were abandoned after the Great Depression, in
June 1983 Freddie Mac, in association with the investment bank
Salomon Brothers and the First Bank of Boston, issued a
genuinely new financial instrument: the collateralized mortgage
obligation, or CMO.  The CMO managed to create many different kinds of
securities out of one mortgage, through the now-familiar concept
of a “tranche.” The trick was to slice the mortgage repayments
into different streams, so that a 30-year mortgage could be sold
as a one-year bond, a 10-year bond, and a 30-year bond, all with
different interest rates.  Slicing mortgage-backed securities into tranches required
elaborate calculations -- not only for Freddie Mac, but for
investors, as well. As Dexter Senft, a First Boston investment
banker who worked on the first CMO, said, “these products
couldn’t exist without high-speed computers. They are the first
really technologically driven deals we’ve seen on Wall Street.”  Innovations like the CMO gave Freddie Mac access to new
sources of profit as well as new investors. Freddie Mac’s
president during this period, Kenneth Thygerson, proudly said
upon his retirement in 1985 that he “tried to extend the
barriers to the limits of the corporation’s charter. Future
opportunities will require an act of Congress, so this is the
time for me to look to the private sector.” In the three years
Thygerson was with Freddie Mac, its portfolio increased to $100
billion from $25 billion, and its profits increased almost
fivefold.  The next appointed president of Freddie Mac, Brendsel, who
had been directly responsible for the first CMO as Freddie Mac’s
chief financial officer, reflected the importance of the new
instrument to the company’s future. Perhaps the gnomes should
have advised him that magic is, after all, better wielded by
magicians than financiers.  (Louis Hyman is an assistant professor of history at
Cornell University and the author of “Borrow: The American Way
of Debt.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Louis Hyman at
 lrh62@cornell.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  