-- Gasoline Falls on Speculation Superstorm Sandy Will Cut Demand
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-30T20:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/gasoline-falls-on-speculation-superstorm-sandy-will-cut-demand.html
Gasoline fell on speculation that
demand will decline on the East Coast as Atlantic superstorm
Sandy causes widespread flooding and power outages.  Futures sank as at least 3.6 million homes and businesses
lost power yesterday, the U.S. Energy Department said.
Philadelphia Energy Solutions said it is restoring normal
operations at its 355,000-barrel-a-day refinery in  Pennsylvania .
The storm came ashore in southern New Jersey at 8 p.m. local
time yesterday, driving floodwaters to life-threatening levels.  “It’s too early to tell if major damage was done to the
refineries but we do know nobody is driving up and down the East
Coast,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures
Group in  Chicago . “This could be the biggest demand destruction
event short-term. It will take time to get back to normal.”  Gasoline for November delivery fell 2.8 cents, or 1
percent, to settle at $2.7288 a gallon on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. All trading was electronic as the Nymex
floor was closed a second day for the storm.  After surging 23 percent in the third quarter, gasoline has
been the biggest loser in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24
materials this month. Prices have slid 18 percent so far in
October as refineries restarted units after repairs and
wholesale demand declined.  Futures jumped 2.1 percent yesterday as six East Coast
refineries accounting for 94 percent of regional processing
capacity shut or reduced rates in advance of the storm,
according to information from the companies and from the Energy
Department. Terminals, ports and sections of product pipelines
also shut.  “The market is falling in anticipation of the return of
supply,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC
in Houston.  Refinery Capacity  Refiners in the region, which includes New York Harbor, the
delivery point for Nymex futures, can process 1.29 million
barrels a day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. East
Coast, or Padd 1, gasoline supplies were 9.1 percent below year-
earlier levels in the week ended Oct. 19, Energy Department data
show.  Phillips 66 and  Hess Corp. (HES) ’s New Jersey refineries remained
shut after storm Sandy cut power to both plants late yesterday.
Restart is contingent upon post-storm assessments, the companies
said.  “Obviously, demand is off as well as the refineries,”
 Bill Klesse , the chief executive officer of refiner Valero
Energy Corp., said today during the San Antonio company’s third-
quarter earnings call. PBF Energy Inc.’s refineries in  Delaware 
City, Delaware, and Paulsboro,  New Jersey , are operating at
reduced rates.  Gasoline Demand  Total gasoline demand fell to the lowest level since March
16 in the weekend ended Oct. 19, according to Energy Department
data. East Coast gasoline consumption accounts for about 35
percent of total U.S. demand, according to department data.  Heating oil  for November delivery fell 2.86 cents, or 0.9
percent, to settle at $3.0866 a gallon on the exchange. Prices
have fallen 2.6 percent in October.  The average nationwide price for  regular gasoline  at the
pump declined 0.9 cent to $3.534 a gallon yesterday, AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring organization, said today on its website.
That’s the lowest level since Aug. 1. Prices have fallen every
day since Oct. 10. The pump price reached a 2012 high of $3.936
on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 