-- Dollar Weakens While Canadian Shares Gain After Storm
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-30T22:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/gasoline-retreats-as-sandy-makes-landfall-asian-stocks-advance.html
The dollar fell the most in almost
two weeks amid speculation damage from superstorm Sandy will be
less severe than anticipated. Canadian  stocks  advanced and oil
rose from the lowest level in almost four months.  The dollar weakened 0.4 percent to $1.2960 per euro at 4
p.m. in New York and slid against nine of its 16 major
counterparts. Canadian shares increased 0.5 percent, while
Brazilian equities rallied 0.9 percent. The  Stoxx Europe (SXXP)  600
Index climbed 0.9 percent. Oil rose 0.2 percent, paring an
earlier gain of as much as 0.8 percent. S&P 500 futures expiring
in December added 0.2 percent from Friday’s close as of 6:29
p.m. New York time, ahead of the reopening of equity markets.  “The numbers have yet to be established in terms of what
that’s going to cost to clean up,”  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in
Toronto, said in a phone interview. “Whether it’s disruptive
any more than the last two days will be seen. It’s lightened
liquidity in all markets, and even shut some down. There’s much
less liquidity in the overall financial markets when New York is
closed.”  Sandy, now termed a post-tropical cyclone, came ashore in
southern  New Jersey  at 8 p.m. New York time yesterday and drove
floodwaters to life-threatening levels in a region with 60
million residents. U.S. equity markets were shut for a second
day today, with the New York Stock Exchange saying it plans to
open tomorrow. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association also recommended that trading resume tomorrow of
U.S. dollar-denominated fixed-income securities.  Jobs Report  The Labor Department is striving to issue its monthly
report on employment in the U.S. in three days as scheduled, a
spokesman said today. The jobs report is the last before the
presidential election, and may help sway voters trying to decide
between giving President  Barack Obama  another four years in
office or to change course with Republican challenger  Mitt
Romney .  Nonfarm payrolls increased by 125,000 workers in October
and the jobless rate rose to 7.9 percent, the reports on Nov. 2
may show, according to median forecasts of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  The S&P/Case-Shiller Index of  property values  in 20 cities
rose 2 percent in August from a year earlier, after a 1.2
percent advance in July, a report showed today. The average
estimate by economists in a Bloomberg survey had called for a
1.9 percent increase.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.4 percent to 79.95.  Spanish GDP  The euro appreciated against most of its major peers as
Spain’s National Statistics Institute said gross domestic
product declined 0.3 percent in the three months through
September. That compared with the Bank of Spain’s estimate on
Oct. 23 of a 0.4 percent contraction.  The yen rose 0.2 percent against the dollar after the  Bank
of Japan (8301)  added less stimulus than some analysts expected. Policy
makers raised their asset-purchase fund, its main policy tool,
by 11 trillion yen ($138 billion) to 66 trillion yen.  The Stoxx 600 climbed for the fourth time in five days,
rallying 0.9 percent. BP Plc gained 4.2 percent, the biggest
jump since November, after it raised its dividend and earnings
topped forecasts. Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s largest lender,
jumped 4.5 percent after profit unexpectedly rose as investment-
banking revenue exceeded targets.  Italy Auction  Italy’s five-year note yield fell six basis points to 3.82
percent after the nation sold 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) of
new 3.5 percent notes maturing 2017 and 3 billion euros of 10-
year bonds at auction today, meeting its maximum target. A
report today showed German unemployment climbed twice as much as
economists forecast in October.  Copper rose 0.3 percent as total Chinese demand, including
refined and scrap metal, may gain an average 6 percent a year
from 2011 to 2015, Wang Zhongkui, the deputy general manager of
Beijing Antaike Information Development Co., said today. The
metal fell in the previous eight sessions, the longest slide for
a most-active contract since October 1998.  Crude oil for December delivery rose 14 cents to $85.68 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  amid speculation that
demand will soon rebound in the aftermath of Sandy.     Phillips
66, Hess Corp., NuStar Energy LP and PBF Energy Inc. reduced
refinery operations because of Sandy.  “Most of the refineries should soon be back to normal
operations, which will increase demand for crude,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “It also looks like the storm will
have a relatively small impact on fuel demand.”  Canadian stocks added 0.5 percent, climbing for a fourth
day, as  Petrobank Energy & Resources Ltd. (PBG)  rose 8.1 percent, its
biggest increase since March. Brazil’s Bovespa index rallied 0.9
percent, rebounding from a two-day drop. Oil producer  Petroleo
Brasileiro (PETR4)  SA and OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
contributed most to the gauge’s advance, jumping at least 0.9
percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.3 percent.  India ’s
 Sensex index  slipped 1.1 percent as the central bank kept
 interest rates  unchanged. South Korea’s  Kospi index  advanced 0.4
percent as the country’s current-account surplus widened to the
second biggest on record in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  