-- Gasoline Supply Seen Down to 1990 Low on Sandy: Energy Markets
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-30T18:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/gasoline-supply-seen-down-to-1990-low-on-sandy-energy-markets.html
Gasoline stockpiles on the U.S. East
Coast may sink to the lowest level since at least 1990 as
 Hurricane Sandy  moves ashore, curtailing fuel production and
distribution, based on Energy Department data.  Refineries accounting for 94 percent of regional processing
capacity shut or reduced rates before Sandy, the largest
tropical storm on record in the Atlantic, approached the East
Coast yesterday. Colonial Pipeline Co., which operates the
largest link between Gulf Coast refiners and East Coast
distributors, planned to shut its main line delivering fuel to
Philadelphia and  New York  Harbor late yesterday as customers
shuttered operations.  Prices had jumped 5.9 percent in three days, breaking the
longest losing streak since 1986, as the storm headed directly
for the heart of East Coast fuel refining and distribution.
Gasoline  inventories  in the central Atlantic area are already 16
percent below a year earlier. Sandy threatens to flood and
disrupt power at refineries and terminals that account for one-
third of U.S. finished gasoline production, according to BNP
Paribas SA.  “Given that the hurricane is passing over the refining and
terminal system and not just near them, it’s clear that supply
concerns will outweigh concerns about reduced demand as people
stay home,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s head of
commodity markets strategy in London, said in an interview
yesterday. “You’re going to have a run-up in prices that could
be kept up.”  Gasoline Futures  Gasoline for November delivery fell 1.3 percent to $2.7221
a gallon at 1:48 a.m. in electronic trading today after rising
5.77 cents yesterday to settle at $2.7568 a gallon on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , the third day of gains.  After surging 23 percent in the third quarter, gasoline has
been the biggest loser in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24
materials this month. Prices have slid 19 percent so far this
month as refineries restarted units after repairs and demand
sank to the lowest level since March 16 in the week ended Oct.
19, according to Energy Department data.  Inventories in the central Atlantic, which includes
Philadelphia and New York, were 22.9 million barrels as of Oct.
19, up from 20.4 million Sept. 28.  Supplies dropped 1.9 million barrels from Aug. 19, 2011, to
Sept. 2 that year when  Hurricane Irene  swept along the East
Coast. A similar decline would reduce supplies that at the end
of September were at the lowest level since the Energy
Department began publishing weekly figures in November 1990.  Refineries Shutting  The refineries shutting production ahead of the storm
account for 1.22 barrels of the area’s 1.29 million-barrel-a-day
capacity. In  New Jersey , Phillips 66 shut its 238,000-barrel-a-
day Bayway plant and  Hess Corp. (HES)  shut its 70,000-barrel-a-day
refinery in  Port Reading .  Philadelphia Energy Solutions said many of the process
units at its 355,000-barrel Philadelphia refinery were shut. PBF
Energy Inc. reduced rates at its 185,000-barrel Paulsboro, New
Jersey, and 182,200-barrel Delaware City, Delaware, plants. The
Energy Department reported that the 185,000-barrel-a-day Trainer
 refinery  in  Pennsylvania , run by Delta Air Lines Inc.’s Monroe
Energy LLC subsidiary, is operating at reduced rates.  Colonial began shutting delivery lines along the East Coast
as customers in  Virginia ,  Maryland , New Jersey and New York
halted operations. Line 3, an 825,000-barrel-a-day fuel pipeline
running from Greensboro,  North Carolina , to Philadelphia and
Linden, was expected shut as of 7 p.m.,  Steve Baker , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Buckeye Partners LP (BPL)  said its
pipelines delivering fuel from Linden were shutting as of 4 p.m.  East Coast Blending  The East Coast received 1.42 million barrels a day of
finished gasoline and fuel to be blended with ethanol at
terminals in July, Energy Department data show. Imports to the
region were 471,000 barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 19,
department data show.  The storm threatens to reverse an increase in East Coast
capacity over the past year as refiners processed less expensive
oil from  Texas  and North Dakota shale formations instead of
pricier imports. U.S. oil  production  reached 6.61 million
barrels a day in the seven days ended Oct. 19, the most since
1995, department data show.  North Dakota Bakken crude sank $6.50 a barrel to a $10
discount to benchmark West Texas Intermediate yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as refiners shut
production.  Shutting Terminals  Hess,  Nustar Energy LP (NS) ,  Phillips 66 (PSX) , Citgo Petroleum Corp.
and  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  said they closed fuel
terminals. The East Coast is a major blender of gasoline and
much of that blending occurs at terminals. New York, New Jersey
and Delaware Bay ports were closed to vessel traffic by the U.S.
Coast Guard, halting tankers that deliver gasoline to suppliers
and also help supply the region’s refineries with crude oil.  “If there’s damage to these terminals and ports, if the
ability to get product is compromised, that will be the real
challenge,” said  Sander Cohan , a global transportation fuels
analyst and principal with Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield, Massachusetts. “You will see the largest demand
region in the U.S. deprived of fuel.”  If the outages are short-lived, the market may focus its
attention from supply to demand if the hurricane disrupts
people’s ability to drive.  Dropping Demand  “The market is overlooking that we’re going to lose about
2 million barrels of demand,” said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “Prices could rapidly fall
if those still operating ride out the storm unscathed and return
to normal operations on Wednesday and the market recognizes a
significant amount of demand.”  The average nationwide price for  regular gasoline  at the
pump declined 0.9 cent to $3.534 a gallon yesterday, AAA, the
largest U.S. motoring organization, said on its website. That’s
the lowest level since Aug. 1. Prices have fallen, or were
unchanged, every day since Oct. 7, losing 7.4 percent. The pump
price reached a 2012 high of $3.936 on April 4.  AAA expects that disruption to supply will be short-lived
and that the bigger threat is to demand so it has not changed
its projection that the national average will fall as low as
$3.40 a gallon by election day, Avery Ash, a spokesman for AAA
in Washington, said in an interview.  “You’ve got a slow-moving storm that is going to keep
motorists off the road for a number of days in a very, very wide
region,” said Ash. “We may see a short-term regional bump in
prices but, once the storms move through, the national average
will continue on its downward trend the rest of the year.”  Inventory Report  U.S. gasoline inventories  probably  fell by 600,000 barrels
in the week ended Oct. 26 on a nationwide basis, according to
the median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Energy Department’s weekly inventory report, which is
normally published at 10:30 a.m. Washington time each Wednesday,
will be postponed until at least Nov. 1 because of Sandy, Jon Cogan, a spokesman for the Energy Information Administration
said in an e-mail today. Crude  inventories  are projected to have
risen 1.475 million barrels, according to the analyst survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  