-- Genworth Posts $34 Million Profit as Strategy Talk Looms
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-30T20:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/genworth-posts-34-million-profit-as-ceo-strategy-talk-looms.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the insurer
seeking a chief executive officer, reported a  profit  as losses
narrowed at the unit backing U.S. home loans and investment
results improved.  Net income  was $34 million, or 7 cents a share, compared
with a loss of $16 million, or 3 cents, a  year earlier , the
Richmond, Virginia-based insurer said in a statement today.
Operating profit, which excludes some investment results and a
goodwill impairment, was 25 cents a share, compared with the 19-
cent  average estimate  from 10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Mortgage insurance losses drained capital at Genworth and
pushed the company’s  credit grade  down to one level above junk
at Moody’s Investors Service, which said isolating the unit
could help the rating. Acting CEO Martin Klein has said there
are obstacles to a separation, and the company is scheduled to
discuss “action plans” on a conference call tomorrow after
completing a review of the insurer’s strategy.  “If they can get through the next several quarters, the
U.S. mortgage insurance business could start getting
attractive,” Sean Dargan, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.,
said in an interview before results were released. “Things are
improving in the U.S. housing market, so there’s a hope that
that would be reflected.”  Klein  said  Aug. 1 that Genworth, which also sells  life
insurance  and long-term care coverage, had finished reviewing
its businesses and that implementation of plans could begin
before a permanent CEO is named. He didn’t disclose details
during a conference call, prompting  Suneet Kamath , an analyst at
UBS AG, to say the lack of specifics was “frustrating.”  Goodwill Impairment  The insurer recorded an $86 million goodwill impairment in
the third quarter at its international protection segment as a
slump in the European economy weighed on the prospects for the
business that helps consumers pay debt if they become unable to
meet their obligations after an accident or job loss. Genworth
changed its definition of operating income to exclude goodwill
impairments, it said in today’s statement.  Net investment gains were $9 million, compared to losses of
$157 million a year earlier. Book value, a measure of assets
minus liabilities, climbed to $33.40 per share at the end of the
quarter from $32.17 on June 30.  The U.S. mortgage-insurance unit, which covers losses when
homeowners default and foreclosures fail to recoup costs,
reported an operating loss of $38 million, compared with a loss
of $79 million a year earlier. The business had losses of more
than $1.3 billion in the past six calendar years.  Australia Unit  Operating profit at the international mortgage insurance
division widened to $94 million from $68 million. At the
 Australia  unit, operating profit improved to $57 million from
$36 million.  Genworth has  declined  16 percent this year as CEO Michael Fraizer resigned in May after delaying a public offering of part
of the Australia mortgage insurance business and Moody’s put the
company on review for a downgrade to junk status. The 24-company
 KBW Insurance Index (KIX)  has gained 16 percent since Dec. 31.  “Valuation appears attractive, but our fundamental outlook
remains cautious,”  Jimmy Bhullar , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase
& Co.,  wrote in an Oct. 11 research note. The stock may not
rally until the U.S. and Australia mortgage-guaranty businesses
improve, he said.  Genworth in April postponed an initial public offering of
the Australia unit to 2013 amid elevated losses in the nation,
sending the shares lower by 24 percent the following day. The
insurer had targeted a sale in the second quarter of this year.  Financial Flexibility  Moody’s placed the firm’s debt on review for a downgrade to
junk status in June and extended the evaluation in September,
saying it would weigh management’s “actions and plans to
enhance financial flexibility” and steps to isolate the
mortgage insurance business.  Standard & Poor’s cut Genworth to one level above junk this
month, citing volatility in the insurer’s results and pressure
on profits from a weak global economy.  Holding company cash was $1.4 billion as of Sept. 30, up
from $1.2 billion on June 30. The figure, which is monitored by
investors as a measure of liquidity, had been about $950 million
at the end of 2011.  Defending Genworth’s investment-grade status at Moody’s may
be more costly than a cut to junk, Klein told  Mark Palmer , an
analyst at BTIG LLC, in September. A downgrade wouldn’t be “the
end of the world,” Palmer said at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  