-- Germany, France Say November Key to Keeping Greece in Euro
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-10-30T14:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/germany-france-commit-to-keep-greece-in-euro-as-showdown-looms.html
France  and  Germany  will strive over
the next four weeks to stop Greece from unsettling markets as
officials work to put the country’s faltering bailout plan back
on the rails, French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said.  Moscovici made his comments at a joint press conference in
Berlin today with his German counterpart,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , as
their deputies entered a second day of negotiations in Brussels
to lay the groundwork for a Greece-related conference call
tomorrow. The working group “is making good progress step by
step in the difficult question of Greece,” Schaeuble said.  “I just want to underline that we continue to seek a
comprehensive solution during the month of November, to end the
uncertainty,” Moscovici said. “And we will marshal all of our
forces for that.” Germany and France are equally determined
“that Greece stays in the euro zone, and that Greece makes the
necessary efforts to ensure the integrity of the euro zone.”  Euro-area finance chiefs are readying for talks as the 17-
nation bloc grapples over ways to fill  Greece ’s financing gap
and ease investor concerns that it might have to exit from the
euro. Ministers are due to hold a conference call at 12:30 p.m.
tomorrow, then a Nov. 12 meeting in Brussels, with a possible
special gathering slated for Nov. 8.  Troika Report  In Greece, politicians are still haggling over the measures
needed to clinch a new bailout agreement. While Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras said that negotiations over the budget have been
completed and the package will be presented to parliament
tomorrow, the Democratic Left party supporting his coalition
reiterated its opposition to proposed labor reforms. Democratic
Left’s economic policy spokesman said Oct. 25 the party will
vote for the budget.  European policy makers are preparing their opening gambits
on Greece as the so-called troika of the European Commission,
the  European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund 
compiles its latest report on Greece’s progress in meeting
internationally agreed targets that are a prerequisite for the
next instalment of a 130 billion-euro ($168 billion) rescue.  “The discussions are continuing, including with the
troika,” Moscovici said. He declined to comment on details.  IMF chief  Christine Lagarde  is due to meet with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin today as officials try to
work out a plan that will cut Greek debt to 120 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020 from about 144 percent now amid the
worst recession in a generation. Failure to hit the debt target
could see the IMF withdraw aid, sparking another wave of
speculation about Greece’s future in the euro.  ‘Another Standoff’  “It’s yet another standoff between  Athens  and its
creditors,” Nicholas Spiro of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
 London  said in an e-mail.  Merkel and Lagarde are due to brief reporters at about 6:30
p.m. together with the heads of the  World Bank , the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development, the  World Trade
Organization  and the International Labor Organization.  OECD Secretary General Angel Gurria said in a Bloomberg
Television interview that the international organization heads
discussed competitiveness, jobs and productivity for three hours
with French President  Francois Hollande  in Paris yesterday.  Moscovici reiterated French calls for debt mutualization
for the “very long term” as part of moves to restore investor
faith in the euro region.  “We are not talking about euro bonds anymore,” he said in
Berlin. “I know that it is a red line here in Germany.”  Joint Debt  “We are working on a common financial policy and to the
degree that we have a common fiscal policy, we can have more
intelligent debt management,” Schaeuble said. “When we have a
common financial policy, then we can issue joint debt to that
degree. That’s clear.” Without a common financial policy, there
can be no euro bonds, he said.  European stocks and the euro gained today, with the single
currency rising 0.5 percent to $1.2963 as of 3:28 p.m. in
Berlin. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 0.75 percent.  Merkel’s government, as the biggest country contributor to
Greece’s two bailouts, has signalled that it is willing to
consider an ECB proposal for a buyback of Greek debt. Schaeuble,
who cast doubt on the proposal earlier this month, said in an
Oct. 28 radio interview that a buyback “is worth serious
discussion.”  At the same time, German officials said Greece shouldn’t
expect other euro-area nations to renegotiate the loans they’ve
already given the country.  German news magazine  Der Spiegel  reported in this week’s
edition that the troika proposes a debt restructuring for Greece
that would require public-sector lenders to take heavy losses.
Greece already carried out the biggest write-off of privately
held debt in history. An interim troika report was distributed
to the German government last week, Schaeuble said.  “There is no consensus right now,” said  Carsten Brzeski ,
a senior economist at ING Group in Brussels. “I still think
that some kind of debt forgiveness will happen in the future but
I don’t see it happening right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  