-- Goldman’s Cohn Says Firm to Assess Locations of NY, NJ Buildings
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r ,   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-10-30T17:55:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/goldman-s-cohn-says-firm-to-assess-locations-of-ny-nj-buildings.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said it
will assess the risk of having two buildings in close proximity
after Hurricane Sandy caused flooding at offices in Manhattan
and across the Hudson River in Jersey City,  New Jersey .  “It’s one of the things we’ll talk about,”  Gary Cohn , the
company’s president and chief operating officer, said today in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers”
program. “They’re very much in similar weather zones, so
clearly something to be thought of.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets and
the largest by equity-trading revenue, surrounded both buildings
with sandbags before the storm deluged lower Manhattan and parts
of New Jersey yesterday. The two office towers, both built
within the past decade, are a ferry ride across the river from
each other.  Some of Goldman Sachs’s Wall Street rivals, such as
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Morgan Stanley, have headquarters in
midtown Manhattan -- on higher ground that escaped flooding.  “We’ve gone through all the protective measures we could
to isolate the buildings from each other,” including separate
electrical and communications systems, Cohn said, adding that
the firm likes the ease with which it can move employees between
the locations.  Goldman Sachs has a total of 3.7 million square feet at its
New York headquarters at 200 West St., which was completed in
2009, and the tower at 30 Hudson St. in  Jersey City , according
to an annual filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  London, Tokyo  The firm has more than 1,600 people in Salt Lake City who
can handle some of the bank’s business if the New York and
Jersey City locations are shut down, Cohn said. Goldman Sachs
also can count on London, Hong Kong and Tokyo to assume some
responsibilities, he said.  “We have a bunch of conference calls going on trying to
get people to where they need to be,” Cohn said, adding that
some employees are within walking distance of headquarters.
“Sales and trading personnel are the people that will be our
No. 1 priority to get into the building.”  Goldman Sachs also is weighing how to help the Battery Park
neighborhood surrounding its headquarters, including allowing
residents to use facilities at the Conrad Hotel adjacent to 200
West St. and owned by the bank, Cohn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 