-- Green Mountain Investors Sue Claiming Keurig Deception
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-30T23:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/green-mountain-investors-sue-claiming-keurig-deception.html
Green Mountain  Coffee Roasters Inc.
investors filed a consolidated securities lawsuit accusing the
maker of Keurig coffee brewers of misleading them about the
demand for Keurig and K-Cup products.  “Unbeknownst to investors, and contrary to defendants’
statements that they were barely able to ship orders as they
came in, Green Mountain Coffee Roaster’s warehouses were
overflowing with unused and expiring coffee products that were
not being sold to consumers,” according to the complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in Burlington,  Vermont .  A group of pension funds, including the Louisiana Municipal
Police Employees’ Retirement System, accuse the Waterbury,
Vermont-based company of violating U.S. securities law. They
seek to represent all investors who bought Green Mountain shares
between Feb. 2, 2011, and Nov. 9, 2011, and request unspecified
damages.  Green Mountain  shares  plunged 34 percent Nov. 9, 2011,
erasing $3.1 billion in market value, after fourth-quarter  sales 
fell short of analyst’s estimates. The Louisiana retirement fund
sued the same month, accusing the company of overstating revenue
“based on falsified sales orders” and using a fulfillment
vendor to store overproduced, unsold products.  Katie Gilroy, a company spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call to her office for comment on the consolidated
complaint after regular business hours.  Grocery Stores  Green Mountain is facing more competition as grocery stores
such as  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and  Kroger Co. (KR)  make private-label capsules
that fit into the company’s Keurig machines. The main patents
for Green Mountain’s K-Cups expired in September.  To combat rivals, Green Mountain earlier this year
introduced Vue machines, which make lattes and cappuccinos.
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee shop operator,
recently began selling its own single-serve brewer, the Verismo.  Hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  said in March that the
Starbucks single-cup machine “is part of the competitive
onslaught hitting Green Mountain.” Einhorn, head of Greenlight
Capital Inc., last year criticized the company for its
accounting practices and lack of transparency.  Green Mountain is the subject of a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission inquiry, disclosed in September 2010. Two
months later, the company restated earnings for years dating
back to 2007 because of issues with K-Cup coffee-pod revenue and
royalties, according to a statement.  Shareholder Lawsuits  The company is also a defendant in a consolidated
shareholders lawsuit in Vermont federal court by investors who
bought the stock between July 28, 2010, and Sept. 28, 2010, the
day the company announced the SEC inquiry. A third series of
shareholder suits was filed in May, after Green Mountain said
its second-quarter result fell short of its previous guidance.  In addition to the securities fraud cases, Green Mountain
also faces a consolidated derivative shareholder lawsuit in
Vermont, combining four separate cases filed by investors on
behalf of the company against the board, and a derivative case
filed in Vermont state court, according to Green Mountain’s
 quarterly report  filed Aug. 1 with the SEC.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, 11-00289,
U.S. District Court, District of Vermont (Burlington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  