-- Greek Coalition Allies Balk as Samaras Says Austerity Talks Done
-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-10-30T15:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/greek-coalition-allies-balk-as-samaras-says-austerity-talks-done.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s coalition partners said they still oppose parts of a
budget and austerity package after the premier said negotiations
required to secure more bailout funds had been completed.  Greek Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras, who will submit
the budget to parliament tomorrow and the austerity package next
week, briefed Samaras on plans for a conference call by euro
area finance ministers on Greek-related issues tomorrow. The
measures are linked to approval for the payment of 31.5 billion
euros ($41 billion) of bailout funds from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund .  “We completed negotiations on measures and the budget,”
Samaras said in an e-mailed statement today. “As long as this
agreement is approved and the budget is ratified  Greece  will
stay in the euro.”  While Samaras said a deal had been completed, his coalition
partners are highlighting divisions. Democratic Left, which has
said it will support the budget, today reiterated opposition to
proposed labor reforms. Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  said
talks on the deal will continue up to a Nov. 12 meeting of euro
area finance ministers.  The “hasty” announcement while Pasok and Democratic Left
were holding meetings of their lawmakers is “at the very least
unfortunate,” Venizelos said in an e-mailed statement. “When
Mr. Samaras announces the completion of negotiations on the
measures and the budget he obviously means on the troika
level.”  The so-called troika of the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the IMF is compiling its latest report
on Greece’s progress in meeting internationally agreed targets
that are a prerequisite for the next installment of a 130
billion-euro rescue.  Samaras urged lawmakers to “act responsibly” and vote for
the measures which he said will ensure the country avoids chaos.
His coalition government now has 176 seats in the 300-seat
chamber and Samaras, whose New Democracy party controls 127
seats in parliament, relies on Pasok and Democratic Left’s
support to turn any pledge to lenders into law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  