-- Gulfstream Sees China Private-Jet Rebound as India Trails
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-30T00:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/gulfstream-sees-china-private-jet-rebound-as-india-trails.html
China ’s private-jet market will
rebound next year after a leadership transition in the ruling
Communist Party while business aviation falls behind in India,
the chief of  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream unit said.  China is building about 10 airports a year and easing
flying restrictions to spur demand, Gulfstream President Larry Flynn said yesterday in an interview. He said sales waned before
the country’s once-a-decade power shift, which gets under way
with a Communist Party congress starting Nov. 8 in Beijing.  “They’re waiting on the new government in China, so our
Chinese orders were down this year from last year,” Flynn said
at the National Business Aviation Association conference in
 Orlando ,  Florida . “The new government gets installed, people go
back to normal business, you’ll see more orders out of China.”  Gulfstream’s role as a producer of private jets such as the
long-range G650 gives it a perspective on plane sales inside and
outside the U.S. Official support for corporate aviation in
China will help the industry expand more quickly in the world’s
most-populous country, Flynn said.  “They’re importing airplanes as fast as they can. They’re
building airports as fast as they can. And the restrictions have
been lessened,” Flynn said. “I see that trend continuing.
They’ve been great to work with.”  That’s not the case in India, Flynn said.  India , along with
 Brazil , Russia and China, is one of the so-called BRIC countries
where economic growth rates have outstripped those in developed
markets.  Falling Behind  “India does not have near the commitment that China does.
The infrastructure is slower. The import process is slower,”
Flynn said. “India is falling farther and farther behind.”  Emerging markets  led by China will post growth in aircraft
demand that outpaces the U.S. and Europe, according to a study
by  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  released before the business
aviation conference this week. The number of jets in China will
increase an average of 30 percent annually over the next five
years, according to Honeywell.  Gulfstream builds planes for private buyers as well as for
government uses, such as aerial reconnaissance and
transportation of dignitaries. Parent General Dynamics is based
in  Falls Church , Virginia.  China, though promising, is now a difficult market in which
to operate corporate jets, said Claudio Galdo Camelier, vice
president of market and product strategy for  Embraer SA (EMBR3) ’s
executive jet unit. Business aircraft now are usually reserved
for company owners and often fly to international destinations
rather than within the country, he said.  Pilot Shortage  “In China, general aviation is almost nonexistent,” he
said. “ There aren’t very many airports where you can fly with
the airplane. Lack of pilots is a big issue in China.”  The government has stepped up its effort to build more
airports and relax restrictions, such as having to file a flight
plan a week in advance, he said at the conference. Embraer is
based in Brazil.  Cessna  is laying groundwork now to sell more planes as
China’s aviation market matures over time, said Scott Ernest,
CEO of the company, a unit of Providence, Rhode Island-based
 Textron Inc. (TXT)  The company signed joint venture agreements in
March with Aviation Industry Corp. of China to provide aviation
service and plane manufacturing in the country.  As part of the agreements, Cessna will build some Caravans,
the company’s large, propeller-driven airplane, in the U.S. and
finish the interior and painting in China, he said.  “If you’re going to sell in China, it’s a good thing to be
in China,” he said. “You have to progress through the learning
curve and we’ll see where that goes down the road.”  While the Caravan is a workhorse plane that can land and
take off in tough conditions, Chinese customers also are showing
interest in Cessna’s larger jets, such as the Citation
Sovereign, Ernest said.  “There’s a tremendous amount of successful businesses in
China and that’s who we sell our product to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Orlando, Florida, at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  