-- Iberdrola Debt Retrenchment Calms Bondholders: Corporate Finance
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-10-30T10:26:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/iberdrola-debt-retrenchment-calms-bondholders-corporate-finance.html
Iberdrola SA (IBE)  Chairman Ignacio Sanchez Galan is soothing  bondholders  with plans to reorganize
Spain’s biggest utility and cut debt as the nation’s five-year
economic slump deepens.  Galan is pledging to lower  borrowings  to 26 billion euros
($34 billion) from 31 billion euros by 2014 and sell 2 billion
euros of assets after power generation fell seven quarters in a
row. Iberdrola bonds outperformed the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s EMU Corporates Utilities index this month, returning
2.73 percent compared with an average 0.82 percent.  Iberdrola’s predicament is much the same as Spain’s as both
company and country struggle to generate growth while cutting
costs as demand falls. Spanish retail sales dropped 11 percent
in September from a year ago, the Bank of Spain estimated last
week that gross domestic product declined for a fifth quarter
and figures on public finances and consumer prices are today
forecast to confirm a deteriorating economy.  “All the announced measures are intended to improve
Iberdrola’s cash flows, so that’s good for bondholders,” said
George Satlas, the Athens-based head of investments at Mutual
Funds of Postal Savings Bank and Hellenic Post, which owns
Iberdrola bonds. “It’s a good compromise to reduce concerns
from investors regarding its exposure to the Spanish sovereign,
which is the Damoclean Sword hanging over Iberdrola.”  Wind Farms  Galan spelled out his two-year plan for Iberdrola on Oct.
24, when the world’s largest wind-farm operator reported a 12
percent increase in net income to 2.4 billion euros, driven by
growth in its renewable energy business.  As well as lowering debt, the company will cut about 1,200
jobs, amounting to about 4 percent of its staff, adding to the
nation’s jobless rate of more than 25 percent.  “Iberdrola will slow down its investment and rely on the
disposal of non-strategic assets,” Galan told analysts at a
meeting in  London . “Even in a stressed scenario we have
identified a number of divestment opportunities ready to be
executed.”  They’ll have “minimal impact on profit and loss
accounts,” he said.  An official at Iberdrola, who wouldn’t be identified citing
company policy, declined to comment.  Iberdrola, which has been operating for more than 150
years, supplies electricity to about 27 million customers with
43 percent of production in Spain, 15.6 percent in the U.K. and
10.6 percent in the U.S., according to the company’s website.  Debt Reductions  The prospect of debt reductions helped make credit-default
swaps on Iberdrola the best-performing contracts in the past
three months in the Markit iTraxx Europe index linked to 125
investment-grade companies, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The swaps were quoted at 259 basis points today from
a record 561 on June 28.  Iberdrola swaps are the lowest of all companies relative to
contracts on their host countries after Italian power generator
Enel SpA, according to data compiled by LBBW. It costs 259,000
euros annually to insure 10 million euros of Iberdrola’s debt
for five years, 45,000 euros less per year than swaps on Spanish
government debt, Bloomberg data show.  The number of companies that trade lower than their
sovereigns fell to 12 from 20 last month, according to LBBW
analysts Jochen Korb and Marcy Ryll.  Debt Rankings  Iberdrola’s debt is  ranked BBB+  by Standard & Poor’s, which
placed the company’s grade on “watch negative” on Oct. 15,
five days after the ratings company downgraded Spain to BBB-,
two levels lower.  S&P said it would assess whether Galan’s strategic plan
will be enough to counterbalance the “challenging macroeconomic
and business environment in Spain” as well as the rating
company’s forecasts for a weak power market.  The company will have to maintain the relationship between
the funds it gets from operations compared with debt to about 20
percent, according to S&P. The leverage indicator was at 17
percent at the end of 2011, the rating’s firm said. That
compares with 16.6 percent of  Electricite de France SA,  which is
rated three steps higher at A+ by S&P.  The average yield investors demand to hold Iberdrola bonds
compared with the safest government debt tightened to 237 basis
points from 544 basis points at the end of June. That compares
with a 73 basis-point drop to 140 basis points in the period for
bonds tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Utilities
Index. That gauge includes German power generator E.ON AG, which
is ranked A- by S&P and EDF.  Downgrade Review  Moody’s Investors Service ranks Iberdrola at Baa1, the same
level as S&P, and has the company’s debt on review for a
possible downgrade.  “We positively view the various measures aiming to boost
group credit metrics and liquidity profile,” said Ivan Pavlovic, a Paris-based credit analyst at Natixis. “Iberdrola
is taking the appropriate steps to maintain its current rating
levels.”  The company reported earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization for the first nine months at 5.78
billion euros, in line with analyst estimates. Profit from the
utility’s international business advanced 52 percent, while
dropping 36 percent in Spain.  Asset Sales  Iberdrola isn’t saying which assets it will sell, although
the company did say it will hold on to core businesses in Spain,
the U.K., the U.S., Brazil and Mexico, according to an Oct. 25
report from independent research firm CreditSights Inc. The
company’s Scottish Power unit is the third-biggest power
distributor in the U.K., and its 2008 acquisition of Energy East
Corp. made it the biggest Spanish investor in the U.S.  The company has renewable power assets in France, Germany
and  Romania  which, CreditSights, said were “possible disposal
candidates.”  The research firm recommended investors hold Iberdrola’s
750 million euros of bonds due June 2015 because they are
“comfortably covered” by the company’s 11.3 billion euros of
cash. The 3.5 percent notes yield 2.14 percent, according to
Bloomberg prices. That’s equivalent to 171 basis points above
the asset swaps rate, compared with 517 basis points on June 28.  “Any effort to deleverage is good for bondholders in the
short term, but its strategy has to show growth outside its core
markets,” said Matteo Cazzini, a Milan-based fund manager at
UBI Pramerica SGR SpA, which manages 30 billion euros of assets
including Iberdrola bonds. “So if it sells overseas assets its
exposure to Spain will grow, and that is not great.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  