-- Libyan Prime Minister-Elect Presents Cabinet Nominees
-- B y   S a l e h   S a r a r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-10-30T16:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/libyan-prime-minister-elect-presents-cabinet-nominees.html
Libyan Prime Minister-elect Ali Zaidan presented lawmakers with a 27-member Cabinet he said will
ensure broad representation for everyone in the oil-rich North
African nation.  The list submitted by Zaidan to the National Congress today
includes representatives from Libya’s regions and from the main
secular and Islamist parties in parliament. The Cabinet list
aims to avoid the same pitfalls that cost Zaidan’s predecessor,
Mustafa Abushagur, his job after he was ousted earlier this
month amid objections to his nominees.  The new government seeks to address Libya’s needs and “all
its wounds” following the uprising last year that toppled
 Muammar Qaddafi , and aims to ensure that all areas of the
country are represented so the “nation is present” in the
Cabinet, Zaidan said in comments aired on state television.
Lawmakers in Tripoli will discuss the nominees later today.  Zaidan, a human-rights lawyer who was appointed to the post
on Oct. 14, said his nominees included officials from the pro-
business National Forces Alliance and the Muslim Brotherhood’s
Justice and Construction Party -- the parliament’s two largest
voting blocs. He also said there is a balance of officials who
represent Libya’s three provinces in the west, east and south.  Disarming Militias  Abdelbari al-Arusi was appointed as oil minister and Ali
al-Oujali,  Libya ’s ambassador to the U.S., as foreign minister.
In addition to the 27 ministers, Zaidan named three deputy prime
ministers and two ministers of state who haven’t been assigned
portfolios.  Officials from oil-rich eastern Libya were nominated for
key security portfolios. Omar Sulieman Shwayel, from Benghazi,
the principle city in the eastern province of Cyrenaica, has
been named interior minister. A former senior police officer
under the regime of Qaddafi, he switched sides when the
rebellion broke out in Benghazi in February 2011 and became head
of security for the National Transitional Council, Libya’s
transitional government which handed over to the National
Congress after July 7 elections.  Defence Minister-nominee Mohammed Mahmoud Albarghati is a
former pilot, previously stationed in Benghazi and Tobruk, who
joined the 2011 uprising. Two women are nominated for posts, for
the tourism and social affairs portfolios.  Libya remains unstable a year after Qaddafi was toppled and
killed. The central government’s ability to exert its influence
over the nation has been curbed by its failure to convince
militias to disarm and disband.  Militia Presence  Complicating that push, which took on new urgency after the
Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, is that
officials rely on militias to provide security. The consulate
attack, which led to the death of the U.S. ambassador and three
other Americans, has become a political football in the weeks
leading up to the Nov. 6 U.S. election.  Reflecting the unease in Libya, Defense Minister Osama Jweli said late yesterday that the government has no control
over Bani Walid, a pro-Qaddafi stronghold about 190 kilometers
(118 miles) southeast of Tripoli where thousands of people have
been displaced amid heavy fighting.  Jweli said he opposes using militias in the Bani Walid
operation to capture people wanted in connection with the death
of a former rebel credited with Qaddafi’s capture last year.
Militias from the Libya Shield, an umbrella group of government-
allied fighters, were involved in the operation.  Jweli said in televised comments that he and soldiers
accompanying him were denied access to the town last week,
showing that “the chief of staff of the Libyan army has no
control over Libya Shield forces.” Days earlier, authorities
said they had secured control over Bani Walid in an operation
that left dozens of troops and fighters dead or wounded.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saleh Sarar in Tripoli at 
 ssarar@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  