-- ICBC Net Rebound Exceeds Estimates on Loans, Provisions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-31T08:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/icbc-profit-rebounds-beats-estimates-on-wider-lending-margin.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  led the nation’s biggest lenders in posting profit
that beat analyst estimates, defending their lending margins
even as economic expansion slowed to a three-year low.  The combined profit at  China ’s four largest banks rose 15
percent to 189 billion  yuan  ($30 billion) in the third quarter,
almost triple the amount at the top four U.S. banks and 3
percent more than the average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg.  Net income  at ICBC, the world’s largest bank by
market value, rose 15 percent to a record 62.4 billion yuan.  The four state-owned lenders, which account for almost half
of China’s loans, have resisted government pressure to offer
discounts to borrowers after the central bank narrowed the band
between lending and deposit rates. The squeeze on profitability
may worsen and defaults may rise further after the world’s
second-largest  economy  decelerated for a seventh quarter.  “The third-quarter results season tells us we do not need
to be super bearish for these money-making machines,” Victor Wang, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities
Ltd., wrote in a note today. While banks’ “true” bad loan
ratios will continue to edge up and net interest margins will
inevitably decline, the lenders “have strong ability to manage
their loan portfolio and sticky pricing power.”  Although shares of Chinese lenders have rallied since mid-
September, as the U.S. announced a third round of quantitative
easing and China’s sovereign wealth fund said this month it will
buy more shares, they continue to trade close to record-low
valuations.  Shares Underperform  ICBC rose 2 percent in Hong Kong to close at HK$5.13,
taking this year’s gain to about 11 percent.  China Construction
Bank Corp. (939) , the nation’s second largest by assets, advanced 2.3
percent, while  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288)  added 1.5
percent.  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  gained 2.2 percent. The lenders,
based in Beijing, have all underperformed the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  this year.  Bank of China  last week reported a better-than-estimated 17
percent increase in third-quarter profit, while  Agricultural
Bank of China  posted a 16 percent gain, also exceeding analysts’
estimates. Construction Bank’s 12 percent increase was in line
with projections.  Bank of Communications Co. , the nation’s fifth largest,
said yesterday third-quarter profit rose 12 percent to 13.4
billion yuan, compared with an average analyst estimate of 13.9
billion yuan. The stock fell 2 percent in  Hong Kong  to HK$5.54,
the lowest closing price since Oct. 10.  Stable Economy  “Given China’s determination to maintain a stable economic
environment, I’m not too worried about banks’ profitability at
least in the fourth quarter,” said Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-
based managing director at China Merchants Securities Co. “As
the economy seems to have bottomed out and the view on yuan
appreciation has strengthened, Chinese banks look attractive to
me.”  ICBC’s full-year earnings growth may slow to 8.5 percent as
it struggles to rein in bad loans, a Bloomberg survey of
analysts shows. The bank has posted growth of  at least 10
percent  each year since its first public share sale in 2006.  The bank, led by Chairman  Jiang Jianqing , 59, had 74.8
billion yuan of non-performing loans as of Sept. 30, a decrease
from 75.1 billion yuan three months earlier, according to a
statement yesterday.  Repayment risks are higher in the Yangtze River Delta
region, where bad loans rose 3.3 billion yuan to 14.6 billion
yuan, and among smaller businesses, Deutsche Bank AG analysts
Tracy Yu and Judy Zhang wrote in a note today, citing comments
by ICBC management during an analyst briefing.  Soured Loans  While soured loans also fell at  Agricultural Bank of China ,
they rose at Construction Bank and Bank of China. Total non-
performing loans at the four banks increased 2.1 billion yuan in
the third quarter to 295.7 billion yuan, according to their
statements.  “ China’s economy  seems to have bottomed out but there’s
usually a time lag before the effect shows up in banks’ non-
performing loans,” said Ivan Li, deputy head of research at Kim
Eng Securities Hong Kong Ltd.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits dropped 6.2 percent
in August from a year earlier, the largest decline this year and
the fifth straight monthly deceleration, before gaining 7.8
percent in September, according to the statistics bureau.  Steel Producers  Profit at steel producers and processors tumbled 81 percent
during the first eight months to 19.3 billion yuan on
overcapacity and sluggish demand from builders and automakers.  Net interest income at ICBC rose 16 percent to 107.3
billion yuan in the third quarter, while income from fee-based
services such as credit cards increased 1.5 percent to 24.9
billion yuan, the bank said yesterday.  “ICBC reported the best earnings mix of the big four banks
-- with stable net interest margins, steady loan expansion,
strongest deposit growth, outperforming  credit quality  and a
strong capital base,” Sophie Jiang, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Religare Capital Markets, wrote in a note yesterday. Jiang
has a buy rating on ICBC.  The government has accelerated approvals of investment
projects, lowered interest rates and boosted tax support for
exporters. At the same time, authorities have refrained from
further easing monetary policy since rate cuts in June and July
and a May reduction in banks’  reserve requirements .  Seeking Deposits  The central bank in June allowed lenders to widen the
discount on the official lending rate to 20 percent and
broadened the limit to 30 percent a month later, picking up the
pace of  interest-rate  deregulation. Meanwhile, banks are
offering savers a premium of as much as 10 percent over the
benchmark deposit rate as they seek to attract more funds.  ICBC’s net interest margin, which measures profitability on
loans and other interest-bearing assets, “rebounded” in the
first nine months, the bank said in today’s statement, without
providing the figure. The measure was 2.67 percent in the first
nine months, widening from 2.6 percent in the same period last
year, according to an estimate by Sheng Nan, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at CCB International Securities Ltd.  The lender attributed the margin improvement to “tighter
control on liability costs, stronger loan pricing power, higher
investment yields” and a delayed “effect from the loan re-
pricing,” according to the Deutsche Bank report. ICBC expects
its net interest margin to come under pressure, the analysts
quoted executives as saying.  Agricultural Bank  Agricultural Bank’s net interest margin expanded to 2.82
percent in the first nine months, up 2 basis points from a year
earlier. The indicator rose 6 basis points to 2.74 percent
during the same period at Construction Bank and widened to 2.12
percent at  Bank of China .  ICBC may earn a record 226.1 billion yuan this year,
according to the average of 32 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey, compared with 208.3 billion yuan in 2011.  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. bank, may report profit of $20 billion
this year, while profit at HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, is estimated at $16.4 billion.  The  Federal Reserve  said in September it would buy $40
billion a month of mortgage debt in a third round of asset
purchases known as quantitative easing and hold the main
interest rate near zero until at least mid-2015 to boost the
economic recovery.  Low interest rates have reduced lending profitability in
the U.S. banking industry. JPMorgan’s net interest margin
narrowed to 2.43 percent at the end of September from 2.66
percent a year earlier. The measure at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the
U.S. bank with the highest market value, dropped to 3.66 percent
from 3.91 percent at the end of June.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  