-- Microsoft Says Apps Coming to Windows, Consumers Upgrade
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-10-30T17:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/microsoft-says-sold-4-million-windows-8-upgrades.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Steve Ballmer  said 4 million Windows 8 upgrades were
sold to consumers since the flagship operating system for
personal computers went on sale last week.  SAP AG (SAP) , Twitter Inc. and Dropbox Inc. are building
applications for Windows 8, Ballmer said at a conference for
developers at Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond, Washington.
He said application developers would benefit from their
familiarity with older Windows versions and will be able to
write for mobile phones and tablets.  The world’s largest software maker began selling Windows 8
on Oct. 26. The operating system has been completely redesigned
to work with desktops, laptops and touch-screen tablets as
Microsoft competes with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  for the
loyalty of customers who are increasingly shunning PCs and
flocking to mobile devices. Attracting developers to write apps
for Windows will be crucial in capturing sales.  “Windows 8 needs a great Twitter app,” Twitter said in a
short blog, which was confirmed by the company. “So we’re
building it. Looking forward to sharing it with you in the
months ahead.”  Downloadable applications have become central to the way
customers use tablet computers, and one of Apple’s selling
points is its leadership in apps. Google said yesterday it has
matched the 700,000 apps that Apple offers on its online store.  Walt Disney Co., ESPN and Lego A/S are also developing
applications for Windows 8, Microsoft said. The software maker
also showed how developers could set up payment systems in their
apps from either PayPal or Microsoft.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  