-- Virgin Australia Deals Spark Air-Travel Duopoly Concerns
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-10-31T07:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/tiger-disciplines-qantas-virgin-says-regulator-sims.html
Virgin (VAH)  Australia Holdings Ltd.’s
plan to buy two domestic airlines faces a “very complicated”
review because of concerns the country’s aviation market will be
reduced to a duopoly, the nation’s antitrust regulator said.  The proposed  acquisition  of a controlling stake in  Tiger
Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR) ’s local unit and of a regional carrier
will need to be examined “extremely carefully” in a process
that will probably take months, Rod Sims, chairman of the
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, said yesterday
by phone. The antitrust issues will be “very complicated,” he
said, declining to comment on whether approval was likely.  A Tiger deal would combine Australia’s second and third-
biggest airlines as Virgin Chief Executive Officer John Borghetti pursues acquisitions and international tie-ups to lure
passengers from  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  Brisbane-based Virgin also
agreed to sell a 10 percent stake to  Singapore  Airlines Ltd. for
A$105 million ($109 million) to help fund its plans.  “Having a third player in there like Tiger does discipline
the other two players,” Sims said, referring to Virgin and
Qantas. “If you have that taken out you do lose that
discipline.”  Virgin Purchases  Virgin plans to buy 60 percent of Tiger Australia for A$35
million. It intends to pay about A$94 million in shares and
stock for all of  Skywest Airlines Ltd. (SXR) , pending approval from
the smaller carrier’s  shareholders . The stake sale to Singapore
Air, which has already been approved by Australia’s foreign
investment regulator, is unlikely to raise significant
competition issues, Sims said.  Virgin has about 30 percent of  Australia ’s domestic travel
market, while Tiger has around 4 percent and Skywest has less
than 1 percent, Matthew Spence, an analyst at Bank of America
Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in an Oct. 30 note to clients.
Qantas has about 65 percent of the market, a level which it
considers optimal and has pledged to defend.  Borghetti yesterday said the Tiger and Skywest acquisitions
will bolster competition as Qantas would face a larger rival. He
also said that Tiger isn’t a direct competitor as, unlike Qantas,
Virgin doesn’t have a budget arm.  “Since we’ve started, any entry that we’ve had in just
about any market improved competition,” he said. “That won’t
change.”  The carrier’s entrance into the business-class market has
helped drive domestic premium ticket prices to 20-year lows. The
airline began adding business-class seats in the past couple of
years after abandoning a budget-carrier strategy.  Overlapping Markets  Sims rejected the suggestion that low-cost and full-service
carriers aren’t in competition with each other.  “You can’t segment it to say there is an absolutely
separate premium and low-cost carrier market,” he said. “They
do cross over.”  Virgin may also argue that its joint venture may be the
best way to stop Tiger’s management quitting the Australian
market to focus on more profitable routes,  Russell Shaw , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney, wrote in a note to
clients Oct. 30.  Still, this exception is only allowed when the target
company is “in imminent danger of failure,” according to the
regulator’s  guidelines . Tiger Air is based in Singapore.  No Concessions  Virgin may be unwilling to make significant concessions to
win regulatory approval for the two takeovers as it seeks to
pare costs and boost sales by aligning operations.  Coordinating Virgin and Tiger’s schedules is “absolutely
fundamental” to the deal, Borghetti said in an interview. If
the regulator blocks this, the deal won’t happen, he said.  Virgin rose 1 percent to close at 49 Australian cents in
Sydney. The stock surged 5.4 percent, the most in almost two
months, yesterday. Qantas declined 0.8 percent to A$1.33 today.  The takeovers and the Singapore Air equity tie-up may add
to pressure on Qantas, which has already cut international
services, delayed new planes and sought a tie-up with Emirates
on  Europe  routes to pare overseas losses.  The takeovers would give Virgin a budget brand to compete
with Qantas’ Jetstar and a regional arm to challenge QantasLink,
Tony Webber, managing director of Webber Quantitative Consulting,
said by phone. These are markets Virgin has overlooked in its
push to win premium traffic, he said.  “They’ve aggressively pursued the corporate and business
market but they lacked depth and exposure to the leisure segment,
regional and charter segments,” he said.  Etihad Stake  Virgin, which is part-owned by  Richard Branson ’s Virgin
Group, has previously sold stakes to Etihad Airways PJSC and  Air
New Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  The airline also cooperates with the two
carriers, Singapore Air and Delta Air Lines Inc. on
international routes.  Qantas “remained focused on its strategy” of maintaining
market share on domestic routes and forming the alliance with
Emirates, spokesman Andrew McGinnes said in an e-mailed
statement.  Qantas has defended this mark by increasing Jetstar’s
capacity about 20 percent over the past year, mainly because of
expansion by Tiger, Macquarie’s Shaw wrote in an earlier note to
clients Oct. 22.  Growth in domestic capacity “remains well above long-term
demand growth,” which will pressure fares and margins, he said.  Tiger, which flies to nine destinations in Australia
including all of the country’s state capitals, said last week it
was looking at adding new flights after restrictions imposed by
Australia’s air-safety regulator were lifted. The carrier had
its local flights grounded for about six weeks last year because
of safety violations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  