-- IMG Sees ‘Tremendous’ Sponsor Interest in Chinese Soccer
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-30T23:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/img-sees-tremendous-sponsor-interest-in-chinese-soccer.html
IMG Worldwide Inc., the sports
agency that this month announced a marketing agreement with
 China ’s top professional soccer league, has started setting up
meetings with possible U.S. corporate sponsors.  “We’ve just begun the process, but there’s a tremendous
interest from companies in the U.S.,” Adam Zhu, the head of
IMG’s operations in China, said in an interview in Beijing
yesterday. Meetings to discuss possible sponsorships have been
held with “major consumer product companies,” with IMG also
planning a promotional tour for the league, Zhu said, without
identifying which companies had participated in talks.  Foreign companies including  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) 
and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  have used athletes to market their
products in China, which has grown to become the world’s largest
consumer of cars, mobile phones and computers. IMG’s agreement
with China’s soccer league comes as the nation’s most-popular
sport emerges from an anti-corruption campaign that jailed
former players and referees for taking bribes.  “We saw the opportunities here,” Zhu said of IMG’s
agreement with the Chinese Super League.  IMG, which represents athletes including  Maria Sharapova 
and Ernie Els, said Oct. 17 that its venture with state
broadcaster  China Central Television  had signed a 10-year
agreement with the Chinese league to attract corporate sponsors
and advise on training of players and management of clubs. The
venture with CCTV has also promoted events including the China
Open tennis tournament and Volvo Ocean Race sailing.  Past Involvement  The sports agency had previously helped manage China’s top
league from 1994 to 2004, after having generate the funding
needed to start it, according to the company. IMG’s involvement
ended after it decided that the league in 2004 was “a little
bit overvalued,” Zhu said. The Chinese football association’s
desire to have a Chinese company manage the league also
contributed to the exit, he said.  IMG’s return comes after a committee formed by 12 ministry-
level government agencies began a crackdown on graft in the
sport in 2009. That campaign led in June this year to two former
directors of the Chinese Football Administrative Center, the
sport’s top government regulator, being each sentenced to 10 1/2
years in prison for taking bribes.  “We’ve done tremendous due diligence politically,
financially and people wise,” Zhu said. “We’re going to help
improve the system.”  In addition to sponsorships, IMG is also looking at how the
Chinese Super League can boost revenue through online media and
has met English Premier League Chief Executive Officer  Richard Scudamore  to discuss the league’s development, Zhu said.  Didier Drogba  Another boon for the sport has been an infusion of players
and coaches from abroad.  Didier Drogba  in June agreed to a
contract to play for Shanghai Shenhua, joining former Chelsea
teammate  Nicolas Anelka . Marcello Lippi, who coached Italy’s
2006 World Cup-winning team, joined Guangzhou Evergrande in May.  Xi Jinping, forecast to succeed  Hu Jintao  next month as
head of China’s Communist Party before becoming president in
March, is also “a big fan” of soccer, providing further
support for the league, Zhu said.  “It’s good news for the football industry,” Zhu said of
Xi’s interest in the sport. “There will be more investment in
this area and more people will get involved and more
importantly, there will be more conducive policies developed to
support the industry.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  