-- Imperial Tobacco Earnings Advance on Higher Cigarette Prices
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-10-30T09:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/imperial-tobacco-earnings-advance-boosted-by-price-increases.html
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest cigarette maker, reported higher operating profit
as the maker of Davidoff cigarettes increased prices to combat
declining shipments in Europe.  Adjusted operating profit climbed to 3.16 billion pounds
($5.1 billion) in the 12 months ended Sept. 30 from 3.1 billion
pounds a year earlier, the Bristol, England-based company said
today. That compares with the 3.19 billion average  estimate  of
eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The stock rose as much as
2.5 percent, the most since Sept. 20.  “Some skeptics are likely to remain unconvinced by today’s
results, but we believe that the company is making good
progress,” Damian McNeela, an analyst at Panmure Gordon, said
in a note to clients today.  Imperial Tobacco  has debuted packs that flip open with one
hand and flavored filters to goose demand and offset lower
consumption in  Spain , where a worsening in the economy led it to
take a 1.2 billion-pound non-cash impairment charge. Price
increases in the U.K., where Imperial is the market leader, also
contributed to growth. Profit in the European Union rose 4
percent.  “The EU is tough,” Chief Executive Officer Alison Cooper
said in an interview with Cantos. “But we’re growing.”  The stock was up 1.4 percent at 2,364 pence at 9:36 a.m. in
 London . It has gained 5.1 percent over the past year, including
reinvested dividends.  Pricier Smokes  The operating margin for tobacco widened to 42.7 percent
from 42.3 percent, which Jefferies analyst Dirk Van Vlaanderen
said was “laudable” amid increased marketing spending on the
company’s brands.  Imperial raised the full-year dividend 11 percent to 105.6
pence a share, resulting in a total payout of 52.5 percent of
earnings. Analysts polled by Bloomberg had expected 104.5 pence.
The company also said it has bought back 528 million pounds of
its own stock.  Tobacco revenue rose 4 percent in constant currencies to 7
billion pounds. Volume fell 2.7 percent, better than the
company’s September projection of a 3 percent decline and an
improvement on the 4.1 percent drop in shipments during the
first half. Shipments in fiscal 2013 may drop 0.5 percent,
Barclays analyst Simon Hales estimates.  “Imperial is continuing to face challenging trading
conditions in many of its core western European markets,” Hales
said in a note published before the results.  Contraband Tobacco  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) , the world’s largest
publicly traded tobacco company, this month reported third-
quarter profit that trailed estimates after sales tumbled 15
percent in the European Union, where smokers have cut back or
switched to contraband cigarettes or roll-your-own varieties.  Imperial is the market leader in Spain and the second-
biggest tobacco seller in France and  Germany . In Germany,
Imperial’s market share fell by 0.8 percentage point to 25.8
percent as smokers chose cheaper brands.  Canaccord Genuity analyst Eddy Hargreaves deemed the
results a “creditable performance against the tough economic
backdrop.”  Total shipments of the Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West
and JPS brands gained 7 percent. Those brands make up 30 of
Imperial’s volume, the company said in the statement. Fine-cut
tobacco volume was little changed.  U.S. Decline  “We are encouraged by the strong growth in key strategic
brands,” Panmure’s McNeela said.  In the U.S, which accounts for about 9 percent of
Imperial’s tobacco revenue, both revenue and profit declined 11
percent amid a 4 percent contraction in the cigarette market.
Imperial has overhauled its U.S. management team and
consolidated its cigarette and cigar sales forces to boost
market share, which fell last year.  “It’s not been a good set of results in the U.S.,” Cooper
told reporters. “This is a key year for me there.”  Imperial’s market share in  Russia  declined “slightly” to
9.3 percent, the company said.  The government in Russia -- where Imperial derives 10
percent of its volume, according to Barclays -- is due to submit
a bill to lawmakers this week proposing to outlaw all cigarette
advertising and sponsorship as well as kiosk sales.  Australia  this year became the first country to require
cigarettes to be sold in plain packs without any logos.  New
Zealand  and the U.K. are among countries whose governments have
indicated interest in implementing similar action, which takes
effect in Australia Dec. 1. Cooper said plain-packaging laws
will move “a lot slower” outside of Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  