-- India’s Chidambaram Irked as Subbarao Defies Rate-Cut Call
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-10-31T13:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/india-cuts-reserve-ratio-to-back-growth-push-holds-key-rate.html
India ’s central bank resisted calls
from Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram for lower interest
rates, prompting him to say the government will revive economic
expansion by itself if necessary.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  kept the  repurchase rate  at 8
percent to damp price increases, while reducing the  cash reserve
ratio  to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent to support lending, the
 Reserve Bank of India  said in Mumbai yesterday. Borrowing costs
have remained unchanged since a 50 basis-point cut in April.  Chidambaram called for cheaper credit earlier this month to
back a government push to spur growth, and pledged on Oct. 29 to
contain the  budget deficit  as officials try to increase scope
for a rate cut. While the monetary authority signaled it may
ease policy in January-to-March as inflation cools, the finance
minister said boosting the economy is already a key task.  “Growth is as much a challenge as inflation,” Chidambaram
told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday after the  Reserve Bank ’s
decision. “If government has to walk alone to face the
challenge of growth, then we’ll walk alone.”  An  inflation rate  near 8 percent curbed Subbarao’s scope to
join counterparts from  Brazil  to  Thailand  in extending rate cuts
as the global recovery falters. Nineteen of 33 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted no change in borrowing costs,
with 13 forecasting 7.75 percent and one 7.5 percent.  ‘Bit Peeved’  The reduction in  reserve requirements , the fourth this year,
is effective Nov. 3 and will add about 175 billion rupees ($3.2
billion) to the banking system, the Reserve Bank said. The 25
basis-point cut takes the  cash reserve ratio  to a 36-year low.  “Both the government and the RBI have shared goals,”
Subbarao said in an interview with Bloomberg Television India
today. “We want to see growth improving, we want to see
inflation coming down and remaining at low levels, and the
collective endeavor, as well as our individual efforts, are
focused on achieving those objectives.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration started a
policy revamp on Sept. 13, including fuel-subsidy curbs and a
push to spur investment. That snapped months of gridlock over
how to bolster growth. The rupee is up 3 percent versus the
dollar since then, paring its one-year drop to 8.5 percent.  “The central bank is still waiting to see the government
effectively implement the reforms it announced before it cuts
interest rates,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at
Credit Suisse Group AG in  Singapore . “The finance minister was
probably a bit peeved that the RBI wasn’t prepared to take his
word for it.”  Further Easing  The rupee strengthened 0.3 percent to 53.815 per dollar at
the close in Mumbai today, while the BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
of stocks rose 0.4 percent. The yield on the benchmark 8.15
percent bonds due June 2022 rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 8.22 percent from 8.18 percent yesterday.  “The baseline scenario suggests a reasonable likelihood of
further policy easing in the fourth quarter of 2012-13,” the
Reserve Bank said. “The above policy guidance will, however, be
conditioned by the evolving growth-inflation dynamic.”  The central bank added that “it is critical that even as
the monetary policy stance shifts further towards addressing
growth risks, the objective of containing inflation and
anchoring inflation expectations is not de-emphasized.”  The Reserve Bank raised its inflation forecast to 7.5
percent by March 2013 from 7 percent, adding the pace of price
increases is expected “to rise somewhat” in the October
through December period before easing in the following quarter.  Growth Outlook  The projection for economic  growth  was cut to 5.8 percent
for the year through March 2013, from 6.5 percent, on moderating
investment and consumer spending, declining exports and the
impact on farming of a weak monsoon season.  The government last month raised diesel prices about 14
percent and limited supplies of subsidized cooking gas, while
opening industries such as retail to more foreign investment.  Chidambaram this week set a  budget-deficit  goal of 5.3
percent of gross domestic product for the 12 months that began
April 1, narrowing to a nine-year low of 3 percent by 2017.  The government will seek to maximize revenue collection and
control expenditure, he said today. He said on Oct. 12 that more
rupee gains will help damp costs and that “ interest rates  must
come down.”  Subbarao reduced  rates  in April for the first time since
2009 and has said that move “frontloaded” reductions on
expectations of fiscal consolidation.  ‘Effective Action’  He has also cut lenders’ reserve ratios by 1.75 percentage
points in 2012. The central bank has said its comfort zone for
inflation is about 5 percent.  “As recent policy initiatives by the government start
yielding results in terms of revitalizing activity, they will
open up space for monetary policy to work in concert to
stimulate growth,” the central bank said, adding the
administration’s steps need to yield “effective action.”  Singh is trying to tackle the widest fiscal  shortfall  in
major  emerging markets  and restrain a trade deficit to avert a
credit-rating downgrade. The budget gap was 5.8 percent in the
year ended March.  Standard & Poor’s  predicts it will widen to
about 6 percent this fiscal year.  Indian inflation, fanned by food and fuel costs,
accelerated to a 10-month high of 7.81 percent in September. GDP
rose 5.5 percent in the three months through June from a year
earlier, below Singh’s goal of about 8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in New Delhi at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net . 