-- India Data Dearth Roils Investors as RBI Gathers Own Figures
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-10-31T08:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/india-data-dearth-roils-investors-as-rbi-gathers-own-statistics.html
Mumbai housewife Sangita Shinde
sought work in a shopping mall last year to help pay her
children’s soaring school fees. Don’t expect to find that jump
in living costs reflected in  India ’s inflation data.  “I was forced to take up a job,” said Shinde, 35, as she
oversaw cleaning at a retail complex in India’s financial center.
“It’s so difficult to meet rising expenses.”  What Shinde and millions of others have to cope with every
day is hidden from investors and central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao when it comes to gauging India’s economy, because
official data are often incomplete or months out of date. The
statistical fog spurred the central bank to collect its own
price data to supplement the benchmark  wholesale-price index ,
which excludes services including education that make up 57
percent of gross domestic product.  “To a large extent, the Reserve Bank of India is
essentially making decisions in the dark,” said Jahangir Aziz,
India chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  Washington  and
a former adviser at the nation’s Finance Ministry. “There is no
doubt about it that India lacks a solid, good measure of
inflation. There has to be much broader coverage of services.”  What Subbarao can deduce about price pressures left him
holding off on lowering the benchmark interest rate yesterday
and opting to reduce lenders’ reserve requirements instead. He
said at a press briefing in Mumbai that the central bank must
not lose sight of its inflation goals, adding the “stickiness”
of price increases is a main concern.  Patchy Data  While Shinde says school fees have doubled in the past five
years, the wholesale index shows inflation in Asia’s third-
biggest economy averaged 7.3 percent since September 2007. The
gauge conflates retail and producer prices, and fails to reflect
services, Subbarao said July 17. In contrast, economies from
 Indonesia  to the  European Union  and the  U.S.  include services
such as education in inflation measures.  The Reserve Bank now collects prices for items such as food
grains and lentils to capture variations across the country, it
said last month.  Labor-market data are also patchy -- the most recent
jobless estimate is at least four months old. The reliability of
the official 3.8 percent  unemployment-rate  estimate is clouded
by being based on a sample of about 0.05 percent of Indian
households.  “It’s almost unthinkable for the central bank to make
policies without knowing unemployment,” said Aziz, who
previously worked at the International Monetary Fund. “If I
don’t even know the demand side of the economy, how can I do
demand management?”  ‘Uncertain Past’  Less than a year after becoming governor in September 2008,
Subbarao said that while “most economies have to contend with
an uncertain future, here, in India, we are having to contend
with an  uncertain past  as well,” citing more frequent data
revisions than elsewhere.  Subbarao’s point was underscored this year with an
inflation report that might have affected the Reserve Bank’s
April 17 decision to lower interest rates for the first time
since 2009. The half-percentage-point cut in the benchmark
 repurchase rate  came a day after a release showing wholesale-
price inflation had eased to 6.89 percent in March, signaling
more scope for monetary stimulus.  Weeks later, revisions showed inflation had accelerated to
7.69 percent that month, the second-fastest for the year so far,
pulling away from Subbarao’s comfort level of about 5 percent
and casting doubt on the judgment to reduce borrowing costs.  Defending Decisions  “If the true extent of inflation was known to the central
bank, they probably wouldn’t have gone for such an aggressive
action,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at state-owned
Bank of Baroda in Mumbai.  Subbarao defended the rate cut when asked whether he had
any regret on a conference call with analysts on Aug. 1, saying
that the move was the “best decision based on the situation at
that time.”  While peers in the Group of 20 major economies rely on
consumer inflation as their main gauge, India only began
publishing a comprehensive, year-on-year  measure  of such prices
in February.  The late introduction shows how the nation’s data system
has struggled to keep up since Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
began modernizing the economy two decades ago as finance
minister, cutting import and investment barriers.  “The nature of the economy has changed at a very fast pace
and some of our systems are still old,” said Ashish Kumar,
who’s in charge of compiling  gross domestic product  figures at
the government’s Central Statistical Office.  Buffeting Investments  The agency relies on information from India’s 28 states and
seven union territories, and such reports can be very delayed or
revised, he said.  Revisions to economic figures also buffet Indian
investments. The government on April 12 slashed its estimate of
January year-on-year  industrial production growth  to 1.1 percent
from 6.8 percent, blaming an error in sugar output calculations.
Benchmark bonds rallied the most in more than two months that
day on speculation the central bank would cut rates.  Equities surged on Feb. 14, 2011, with the BSE India
Sensitive Index rising 2.7 percent, aided by a government report
that inflation had cooled in January. Two months later, the
index slid the most in seven weeks when officials revised the
inflation rate up by more than 1 percentage point, to almost 9.5
percent.  “Huge data revisions lead to improper asset allocation by
investors and cause unnecessary market volatility,” said
Mumbai-based Ganti N. Murthy, who oversees about $981 million as
head of fixed-income investments at Peerless Funds Management Co.  Inflation Maze  The country’s economic data are “adequate for surveillance,
but weaknesses remain in the timeliness and coverage of certain
statistical series,” the IMF said in a  report  in April.  Subbarao has refrained from further lowering the benchmark
rate even as counterparts from Asia to  Europe  eased policy to
address rising global economic risks. Price increases, stoked by
food costs, supply bottlenecks and a 9.7 percent drop in the
rupee against the dollar in the past year, have sapped growth.  The currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 53.925 per dollar
as of 1:46 p.m. in Mumbai, while the benchmark BSE India
Sensitive Index of stocks rose 0.3 percent.  Growth Puzzle  Indian inflation based on wholesale prices was 7.81 percent
in September, the fastest in the BRIC group that also includes
Brazil, Russia and  China . Using the new consumer-price index, it
was 9.73 percent, the highest in the G-20 after  Argentina , which
the IMF has put on notice to address concerns about the quality
of its data.  There are six further Indian inflation gauges, and Subbarao
says he analyzes them all to set policy. They include a central
bank in-house core inflation index that excludes food and fuel
costs.  Measuring growth in India’s $1.8 trillion economy is also
tricky: an Aug. 31 report showed it both accelerated and slowed.  GDP rose 5.5 percent in the three months through June from
a year earlier, near the three-year low of 5.3 percent in the
previous quarter, using assessments of output from industries.  An alternative estimate based on spending on goods and
services shows a slowdown to 3.9 percent, according to
calculations by Bloomberg using data in the release.  Subbarao flagged discrepancies in GDP reports in July 2011
and said policy choices can turn out to be “sub-optimal” if
they use inaccurate provisional estimates.  RBI’s Efforts  The Indian economy will expand 4.9 percent this year, the
slowest pace in a decade, according to IMF projections. Prime
Minister Singh is trying to boost confidence in the nation’s
ability to return to 8 percent growth.  The Reserve Bank under Subbarao has stepped up efforts to
fill information gaps. Aside from gathering its own price data,
the bank started a  consumer confidence  survey in 2010 and
introduced a house-price index for Mumbai, the financial capital,
in 2009, that was later extended to eight more cities.  It also surveys inflation expectations and compiles a
composite leading indicator for the economy.  India isn’t alone in suffering data failings. In China,
Vice Premier Li Keqiang, then a regional Communist Party head,
said in 2007 that the figures going into the country’s GDP are
“man-made” and “for reference only,” according to a
diplomatic cable published by Wikileaks in 2010.  Falling Short  The deficiencies in India are worse than a number of
regional peers, said  Rahul Bajoria , an economist at Barclays Plc
in  Singapore .  “India’s data does fall short on many benchmarks as
compared to other nations in the region,” he said. “If you are
not able to take the data completely at the face value, you have
to be ready that you may make some mistakes.”  While the new consumer-price gauge is a step in the right
direction, its limited history makes it unsuitable as a sole
headline measure of inflation, Subbarao said in July.  For Shinde and other consumers, sacrifices are needed to
cope with the increasing cost of living. Since July, she’s
stopped taking taxis to work, and now joins millions of
commuters taking Mumbai’s packed trains into the city, jostling
in carriages so crowded that passengers cling to the roofs and
hang out of doorways.  “With rising school fees, transportation costs and house
rent, life is becoming quite a struggle,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 