-- India’s Sensex Plunges to Six-Week Low as RBI Holds Interest
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-10-30T12:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/india-s-sensex-swings-between-gains-losses-ahead-of-rbi-policy.html
India ’s benchmark stock retreated to
a six-week low after the nation’s central bank refrained from
cutting borrowing costs to fight price pressures.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, lost 1.1 percent
to 18,430.85 at the close in Mumbai, its lowest level since
Sept. 20. The 30-stock gauge erased an intraday gain of 0.4
percent after the policy announcement.  State Bank of India , the
biggest lender, sank the most since August, leading its peers
lower.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner of Jaguar Land Rover, slid the
most in three months.  India faces  inflation  of almost 8 percent, limiting the
central bank’s scope to join nations from  Brazil  to  Thailand  in
extending rate cuts. While the  Reserve Bank  of India resisted
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram’s call for cheaper
credit to back the recent policy revamp, the authority said
there is a “reasonable likelihood” of further easing in the
first quarter of 2013 as inflation cools.  “The market has reacted negatively because a rate cut
expectation was built in,” Navneet Munot, who manages $9.6
billion as chief investment officer at SBI Funds Management Pvt.
in Mumbai, said in a phone interview. “The RBI would like to
see execution of the reforms announced by the government and a
little more credibility on the fiscal side. The bigger concern
for the RBI is that inflation has been sticky.”  CRR Cut  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao lowered the  cash reserve ratio  to
4.25 percent from 4.5 percent, injecting 175 billion rupees
($3.2 billion) into the system. The reduction, the fourth this
year, was predicted by 19 of 33 analysts in a Bloomberg News
survey, while four expected 4 percent and the rest no change.  His decision to keep the key rate unchanged was predicted
by 19 of 33 economists in the survey. Borrowing costs have
remained unchanged since a 50 basis-points cut in April, the
first since 2009.  The central bank increased its inflation estimate to 7.5
percent by March 2013 from 7 percent, adding the pace of price
increases may ease in the first quarter of next year. Inflation
reached a 10-month high in September after diesel prices rose.  The authority pared its economic  growth  forecast to 5.8
percent for the year through March 2013, from 6.5 percent, on
slowing investment and consumer spending, declining exports and
the impact on farming of a weak monsoon season.  ‘Three Issues’  “The three issues for the RBI are inflation, inflation and
inflation,” said K.R. Bharat, managing director of Advent
Advisory Services, in an interview with Bloomberg TV India. The
central bank is unlikely to cut borrowing costs “when growth
rates are coming down and inflation is rising,” he said.  The central bank resisted calls from finance minister
Chidambaram for lower  interest rates  to boost growth, prompting
him to say the government will revive economic expansion by
itself if necessary.  Chidambaram called for cheaper credit earlier this month to
back a government push to spur growth, and pledged yesterday to
set a budget-deficit goal of 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product in the 12 months that began April 1, narrowing to a
nine-year low of 3 percent by 2017. The government’s current
term ends in 2014.  “When the sustainability of the government itself is in
question, then any fiscal road map would be taken with a pinch
of salt,” Aneesh Srivastava, who oversees $470 million of
assets as chief investment officer at IDBI Federal Life
Insurance Co. in Mumbai, said by phone today. “The RBI’s hands
are tied.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration started a
policy revamp on Sept. 13, including fuel-subsidy curbs and a
push to spur investment. That snapped months of gridlock over
how to bolster growth. The rupee is up 2.6 percent versus the
dollar since then, paring its one-year drop to 9.6 percent.  ‘Walk Alone’  “Growth is as much a challenge as inflation,” Chidambaram
told reporters in  New Delhi  after the Reserve Bank’s decision.
“If government has to walk alone to face the challenge of
growth, then we’ll walk alone.”  State Bank of India (SBIN)  tumbled 4.3 percent to 2,074.3 rupees,
reversing an intraday gain of 1.5 percent.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the
second-biggest lender, lost 2.2 percent to 1,045.15 rupees.  Axis
Bank Ltd. (AXSB)  sank 3 percent to 1,184.7 rupees.  Tata Motors plunged 3.5 percent to 247.65 rupees, the most
since July 26, and  Hero Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL)  decreased 1.7 percent to
1,872.1 rupees, halting a three-day, 6-percent rally.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the biggest carmaker, rallied 2.1
percent to 1,390.8 rupees after reporting profit that beat
analyst estimates. Net income at Suzuki Motor Corp.’s Indian
unit fell to 2.27 billion rupees ($42 million) in the three
months ended Sept. 30, from 2.4 billion rupees a year earlier.
That beat the 1.97 billion-rupee median of 38 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Liquidity Rally  The Sensex has increased 19 percent this year, driven by
overseas fund purchases and government policy reforms announced
since mid-September to revive the economy. Foreign funds bought
a net $18.1 billion of local shares this year, the most among 10
Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg, excluding  China .  “Markets are not moving on fundamentals but on the back of
liquidity,” Advent’s Bharat said. “Markets will do well in the
next two-three months as global liquidity remains good.”  Drugmaker Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. increased 1.6
percent to 1,724.3 rupees. The second-biggest drugmaker by value
reported a 32 percent increase in second-quarter profit to 4.07
billion rupees, beating estimates.  Earnings have trailed analyst  forecasts  at only three of
the 18 Sensex firms that have posted results for the September
quarter, compared with 40 percent in the three months through
June, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In comparison, about 59
percent of companies on the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index that
posted earnings this month have missed analysts’  estimates .  The Sensex is valued at 14.7 times  estimated earnings ,
compared with a multiple of 11.5 times for the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The S&P  CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY)  of 50 companies fell 1.2 percent to
5,597.90 and its November futures settled at 5,628. The BSE-200
Index lost 1.2 percent and the BSE Mid-Cap Index shed 1 percent.
The National Stock Exchange of India and the BSE Ltd.  traded  741
million shares yesterday, 19 percent less than the 12-month
daily average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  