-- Iraq Violence Surges Amid Corruption, U.S. Report Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/iraq-violence-surges-amid-corruption-u-s-report-finds.html
Iraq  has endured “a troubled year
evidenced by increasing official corruption, resurgent
violence” and apprehension about the war in  Syria  since the
last American troops departed, according to an assessment by a
U.S. special inspector general.  Violence during the last quarter “rose to levels not seen
for more than two years,” with at least 854 Iraqi citizens
killed and more than 1,640 wounded in attacks -- 1,048
casualties in September alone, the bloodiest month since 2010,
Stuart Bowen, the special inspector general for Iraq
reconstruction, said today in his quarterly report.  Even in the face of such “daunting challenges,” Iraq’s
economy improved, with record electricity production and the
“highest crude  oil  output since 1990,” at more than 3 million
barrels a day, according to Bowen.  Bowen’s report provides an independent assessment of Iraq’s
troubles and progress a week before the  U.S. presidential
election , after a campaign in which the timing and extent of the
troop withdrawal that ended in December has become a point of
contention between President  Barack Obama  and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney .  Obama has said he kept a 2008 campaign pledge by ending the
 Iraq war  begun under Republican President  George W. Bush  and
bringing U.S. forces home. Romney has blamed the president for
failing to negotiate a Status of Forces agreement with Iraq that
would have allowed several thousand troops to remain to help
train Iraqis and stabilize the country.  Costly War  Bowen’s quarterly reports have been the only regularly
available assessments of conditions in Iraq after a U.S.
invasion that resulted in 4,488 U.S. military and civilian
personnel killed and 32,220 wounded, according to Pentagon
 figures . As many as 120,000 civilians may have died, according a
2011 Brown University  estimate .  In addition to the human price of the war, it cost the U.S.
$725 billion, according to Pentagon data that doesn’t include
State Department, intelligence agency and long-term disability
payments. The Pentagon estimate leaves out about $100 billion
that it doesn’t categorize as “war-related,” according to Amy Belasco, an analyst who has studied the war’s costs for the
nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service .  In addition, the U.S. has appropriated $60.5 billion for
Iraqi relief and reconstruction as of September, according to
Bowen.  Revived al-Qaeda  Even so, security has deteriorated in the last year “amid
regular reports of a reviving al-Qaeda in Iraq,” Bowen wrote.  U.S. intelligence officials say that as many as 2,500
members of al-Qaeda in Iraq, a group ideologically allied but
only loosely affiliated with the remnants of Osama bin Laden’s
core group in Pakistan, are now living in five training camps in
Iraq’s Sunni-dominated Anbar and Saladin provinces.  The officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the intelligence reports are classified, said that fewer than
800 al-Qaeda fighters were thought to be in Iraq when the last
U.S. troops departed at the end of 2011. Six months earlier, in
June 2011, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  had said in testimony
before the Senate Armed Services Committee that “there are a
thousand al-Qaeda that are still in Iraq.”  Iraq “sustained a series of coordinated bombings
nationwide this quarter as well as assassinations and other
smaller daily attacks, mostly in Baghdad, Anbar, Diyala and
Ninewa provinces,” Bowen said.  Deadliest Attacks  Many of the deadliest attacks coincided with the Sept. 9
sentencing to death in absentia by Baghdad’s Central Criminal
Court of Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi, a Sunni political
figure who fled Baghdad. He was convicted of operating death
squads.  The Islamic State of Iraq, al-Qaeda’s Iraqi branch, said
attacks that killed dozens of people in the past two days were
in response to what the group described as arrests of Sunni
women in an effort to pressure relatives wanted by Iraqi
security forces to turn themselves in, according to a statement
posted yesterday on a militant website, the  Associated Press 
reported.  In a section on corruption, Bowen reported that Iraqi Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki and Iraq’s chief justice said
corruption “remains a problem,” though both said the
pervasiveness “has been exaggerated.”  Government critics, however, told inspectors “corruption
is now worse than it has ever been,” Bowen said.  Dollar Flight  Abdul-Basit Turki, the interim governor of Iraq’s  Central
Bank , told Bowen’s inspectors “there has been a massive flight
of U.S. dollars from Iraq, mostly through  money laundering , and
that this is evidence of widespread corruption,” according to
the report.  The bank official said “approximately $1 billion a week is
leaving Iraq -- 80 percent of it moved through fraudulent
documents hiding its true purposes,” according to the report.  U.S. relations with al-Maliki and his Shiite-dominated
government have been strained in the last year by his growing
ties to Iran. Both countries support the regime of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, who is fighting mostly Sunni rebels
seeking his overthrow with backing from the U.S., European
allies, Turkey and Persian Gulf nations such as  Saudi Arabia  and
Qatar.  A “deteriorating” border situation has led to an influx
of 39,036 Syrian refugees into Iraq as well as 80,850 Iraqis who
returned after living in Syria, according to Bowen’s report.  Russia, China  Iraqi deals, including agreements announced this month to
buy more than $4.2 billion in Russian arms, have added to
tensions and questions about whether Iraq’s ties to the U.S. are
fraying. Russia was the main supplier of arms to the late
dictator  Saddam Hussein ’s regime, so many Iraqis are familiar
with them.  About 30 percent of new  oil fields  being developed in Iraq
have some financing or involvement by  China , Fatih Birol, the
chief economist of the  International Energy Agency , said at a
conference sponsored by the Center for Strategic & International
Studies in  Washington  on Oct. 22, according to Bloomberg BNA.  About half of Iraq’s oil exports currently go to Asian
markets, and that’s likely to increase to 80 percent in the next
two decades, Birol said.  An IEA report released Oct. 9 predicted that Iraq’s oil
production could double to 6 million barrels per day by 2020 and
reach 8.3 million barrels per day by 2035.  Kurdistan Tensions  Tensions remain between al-Maliki’s central government and
the regional government in Kurdistan over how to share revenues
from the northern Kirkuk oil field. Kurdish officials have been
negotiating their own deals with foreign energy companies.  Iraq surpassed Iran in June as the second-biggest producer
in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after Saudi
Arabia. Iran’s oil sales have been hobbled by U.S. and European
Union economic sanctions aimed at its nuclear program.  While electricity production has increased by
“unprecedented amounts,” it “was still only enough to provide
the average Iraqi consumer with 10-12 hours of power each day
because demand vastly outpaces supply,” Bowen said in his
report.  The last U.S. Status of Forces agreement with Iraq for
keeping U.S. troops in the country was negotiated in 2008 under
Bush and expired at the end of last year.  Authors  Michael Gordon  and Bernard Trainor, in their new
book “The Endgame,” said Obama in August 2011 settled on a
proposal to the Iraqis that would have kept a force of about
3,500 U.S. troops in Iraq and an additional 1,500 would rotate
through the country.  The proposal was submitted to the  Iraqi parliament  with a
provision that U.S. troops be given legal immunity from
prosecution from Iraqi laws, and it failed to win approval. The
administration didn’t consider the inability to get a new
agreement a setback “because the White House never considered
it a requirement,” Gordon and Trainor wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  