-- Hitachi Buys U.K. Nuclear Power Venture for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-10-30T14:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hitachi-to-buy-horizon-nuclear-jv-from-eon-rwe-for-1-1-billion.html
The Japanese manufacturer  Hitachi
Ltd. (6501)  agreed to buy Horizon Nuclear Power from Germany’s two
largest utilities for 696 million pounds ($1.1 billion),
ensuring support for the U.K. government’s energy program.  The transaction will be completed next month and secure
financial backing for as many as six new nuclear reactors at two
sites in Britain, according to a statement from Hitachi and the
utilities,  RWE AG (RWE)  and  EON AG. (EOAN)  The German companies are
withdrawing as the nation closes its own nuclear plants.  The deal helps Hitachi’s  goal  to more than double nuclear
sales to 360 billion yen ($4.5 billion) by 2021 and underpins
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s decision remain one of three
western European nations expanding atomic power. Horizon is part
of Britain’s 110 billion-pound program to replace aging power
plants, upgrade grids and cut pollution.  “This is a decades-long, multi-billion pound vote of
confidence in the U.K. that will contribute vital new
infrastructure to power our economy,” Cameron said in a
statement released by the government in London today.  The German utilities decided to sell Horizon after opting
to close all of its reactors by 2022 following the 2011 atomic
disaster in  Japan . That raised questions about whether the
Horizon venture could go forward.  Investment Program  “Today’s investment furthers our investment links in the
U.K. with the start of what is likely to be approximately 20
billion-pounds investment program in the U.K.’s energy
infrastructure,” Tatsuro Ishizuka, vice president and chief
executive officer of Power Systems Company of Hitachi, said
today at a conference in  London .  For EON and RWE, the Horizon deal comes at “a good price
and could even cause a little book profit,” Daniel Seidenspinner, an analyst at B. Metzler Seel Sohn & Co. KGaA,
said today by phone from Frankfurt. However, it is “no act of
liberation” for RWE, which is struggling to reach its asset-
sales target of 7 billion euros by the end of 2013.  “No profit is lost by the sale,” Matthias Heck, an
analyst at Macquarie Capital Europe Ltd., said by phone from
Frankfurt. He said the purchase price was “reasonable.”  For Hitachi, the investment represents a “leap of faith”
that the British government will backstop the profitability of
the venture by ensuring higher electricity prices, said George Borovas, head of nuclear projects at law firm Pillsbury Winthrop
Shaw Pittman LLP.  EDF Talks  The U.K. government is in talks with Electricite de France
SA about the price it will pay for power from nuclear plants.
EDF has warned it won’t move forward with funding for replacing
its plants without a commercial price. Environmental groups say
nuclear power will be too expensive and should be scrapped.  “Instead of waiting years to find out how much bill-payers
will end up subsidising this project, the government should join
Japan and Germany, abandon nuclear, and invest instead in clean,
renewable energy,” said Leila Deen, an energy campaigner for
Greenpeace.  Britain, which gets about 22 percent of its power from
nuclear plants, must replace those facilities within the next
two decades. It’s seeking to support the industry through
changes to rules governing the electricity markets.  ‘Strike Price’  Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said at the London conference he
will put the final proposals for a vote by lawmakers in
Parliament “within weeks.” He said the government and Hitachi
will start discussions similar to those currently on going with
EDF over the so-called “strike price.”  “The British government should not take this preliminary
investment as an irreversible commitment to build new nuclear
plants in the U.K., but should illustrate to investors that they
will find a willing and supportive partner in the U.K.
government,” Borovas said. The deal opens up the possibility of
access to Japanese export credit agency and commercial
financing, he said.  U.K. companies  Babcock International Group Plc (BAB)  and  Rolls-
Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  and Canada’s  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  have
agreed to join Hitachi to “plan and deliver” the construction
project, the Japanese company said.  “Today starts our 100 year commitment to the U.K. and its
vision to achieve a long-term, secure, low-carbon, and
affordable energy supply,” Hitachi President Hiroaki Nakanishi
said in a statement.  Plants Planned  Hitachi plans to build two to three nuclear plants with
capacity of about 1,300-megawatts each at Wylfa, Anglesey, and
Oldbury, Gloucestershire, it said. The company plans to start
operation of one of the units in the first half of the 2020s.  The Japanese company expects to create as many as 6,000
jobs at each site during the construction period and another
1,000 permanent jobs per site after starting operations, it
said. Cameron said the venture will support 12,000 jobs during
construction and “thousands more” skilled ones when the plant
begins operating.  “Hitachi bring with them decades of expertise, and are
responsible for building some of the most advanced nuclear
reactors on time and on budget,” Davey said. “New nuclear
isn’t only about keeping the lights on and emissions down, it’s
an industrial strategy with big potential wins,” he said, also
welcoming Hitachi’s plans for a U.K. module assembly facility.  Partners Sought  Masaharu Hanyu, Hitachi’s vice president, indicated the
company may seek other partners in the venture as it would be
difficult to raise the “massive construction costs” alone.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  have
been hired as financial advisers for the projects, Hanyu told
reporters in  Tokyo  today.  Hitachi sold its profitable hard-disk drive unit to  Western
Digital Corp. (WDC)  in March and earlier sold a stake in Elpida Memory
Inc. as it expanded into infrastructure and power businesses
from electronics.  An earthquake and tsunami in March 2011 caused triple
meltdowns at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station, causing mass evacuations and leaving some areas
uninhabitable for decades. On Sept. 14 this year, Japan Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  approved a policy to stop building
atomic plants and to phase out nuclear power by 2040.  ‘Overseas Markets’  “Nakanishi is targeting overseas markets as nuclear
business prospects have dimmed at home” since Japan adopted a
policy to phase out atomic power,  Yoshiharu Izumi , an analyst at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM)  in Tokyo, said by phone before the
announcement.  In contrast, U.K. industry has set out plans to build 16
gigawatts of nuclear power by 2025 and the government has
designated eight sites for plants. Those goals appeared at risk
when  Areva SA (AREVA)  and China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. pulled
out of the bidding for Horizon this month. That left  Electricite
de France SA (EDF) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA as the only
developers advancing U.K. nuclear projects.  Hitachi’s Advanced Boiling Water Reactor, which it makes
with  General Electric Co. (GE) , has been licensed in the U.S., Taiwan
and Japan. While it is yet to seek U.K. approval through a
process known as Generic Design Assessment, the reactor
equipment already operates in Japan. Hitachi’s Ishizuka said
today he expected the GDA approval process to take three to four
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  