-- Hitachi Quarterly Profit Falls on Economy, Disk-Drive Unit Sale
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-10-30T06:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hitachi-quarterly-profit-falls-on-economy-disk-drive-unit-sale.html
Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Japan ’s second-largest
manufacturer, posted a 52 percent drop in quarterly profit after
selling a hard-disk drive unit and suffering from weaker demand
because of the global economic slowdown.  Net income  fell to 23.1 billion yen ($267 million) in the
three months ended September from 48 billion yen a year earlier.
The average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
was for a profit of 37.1 billion yen.  Hitachi also announced the acquisition of a U.K. nuclear-
power company as it moves its focus from electronics to
infrastructure and power. The Tokyo-based company sold its hard-
disk drive unit to Western Digital Corp. in March, and it has
also shed a stake in Elpida Memory Inc. and a liquid-crystal
display business.  “Hitachi is seeing the impact of its restructuring,” said
 Takeo Miyamoto , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG.
“It’s no longer receiving the profits from the hard-disk drive
unit. The slowdown in the economy is also having an impact.”  The company agreed to buy Horizon Nuclear Power from EON AG
and RWE AG, according to a separate statement. Horizon has
government backing to build plants in  Wales  and western  England .  Hitachi dropped 0.2 percent to 410 yen on the Tokyo Stock
Exchange. The announcements came after the market close. The
company has risen 1.5 percent this year, compared with a 0.7
percent gain for the benchmark Topix Index.  The company left its forecast for annual net income at 200
billion yen. It expects sales of 9 trillion yen, compared with
an earlier forecast of 9.1 trillion yen.  In July, Hitachi won a 4.5 billion pound ($7 billion) train
order in the U.K. with partner John Laing. The company also
makes nuclear reactors, auto parts and air-conditioners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  