-- Italy Sells 7 Billion Euros of Bonds as Borrowing Costs Drop
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-10-30T12:23:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/italy-sells-7-billion-euros-of-bonds-as-borrowing-costs-drop-1-.html
Italian borrowing costs dropped at
an auction of five and 10-year debt as investors shrugged off a
threat by former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  to topple Prime
Minister  Mario Monti ’s government.  The Rome-based Treasury matched the maximum target for the
sale. Italy sold 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of a 10-year
benchmark bond at 4.92 percent, the lowest since May 30, 2011,
and down from 5.24 percent at the last auction on Sept. 27. The
Treasury also sold 4 billion euros of a new 2017 bond to yield
3.80 percent, down from the 4.09 percent paid at the auction a
month ago.  “The good result of the auction shows that the recent rise
of Italian bond yields was externally driven and linked to
uncertainties in  Spain  and  Greece ,” Mario Spreafico, chief
investment officer at Schroders Private Banking in Milan, said
by phone. “Clearly domestic political risk is not having any
impact.”  Berlusconi said Oct. 27 he may pull his party’s support
for Monti, sparking concern that Monti’s government might not
remain in power until elections due by May. The following day
the anti-austerity 5 Star movement led by Beppe Grillo made a
strong showing in the Sicilian regional elections, seen as a
barometer for next year’s national vote. No political coalition
won an outright parliamentary majority and Grillo’s movement got
almost 15 percent, becoming the biggest political force in
Sicily, though its candidate for regional governor came in
third.  Redemptions  “The yields are very acceptable and very manageable,”
Maria Cannata, head of the country’s debt agency, said in Milan
today. “There are no problems of sustainability.” Some
volatility is to be expected on markets and a gradual drop in
yields is preferable to big swings, she said.  Today’s auction was probably helped by 13.5 billion euros
in redemptions on Nov. 1. Investors bid for 1.43 times the
amount of the 10-year bonds, up from 1.33 last month. The bid-
to-cover on the five-year bond was 1.49, compared with 1.38 in
September.  Italy ’s 10-year yield fell 4.2 basis points to 4.97 percent
at 12:35 p.m. in Rome, snapping three days of increases and
narrowing the difference with comparable maturing German debt to
349.5 basis points.  Italy plans to reduce the amount of short-term debt it
auctions during the rest of the year after the sale of retail
bonds this month attracted 18 billion euros of orders, more than
the previous two offers combined, a Treasury official said Oct.
22.  Growing Divide  At a press conference in  Madrid  after meeting his Spanish
counterpart Mariano Rajoy yesterday, Monti dismissed concerns
that his government would fall and said that he can’t be
threatened by lawmakers pushing for changes to his economic
policy.  The two leaders masked a growing divide over  Europe ’s new
bailout strategy. Asked whether Italy would request a bailout
alongside Spain, Monti said Italy doesn’t need external aid,
indicating Spain will probably have to request it alone in
negotiations with European authorities.  Rajoy is resisting international pressure to seek a  credit
line  from the European Stability Mechanism rescue fund. That
would enable the  European Central Bank  to buy Spanish debt on
the secondary market, a prospect that helped lower the nation’s
borrowing costs.  Italy may benefit indirectly from a backstop for Spain as
such a move would probably prompt a relief rally in peripheral
bond markets. While the country continues to be seen by
investors as a safer bet than Spain, Rajoy’s hesitation in
requesting a bailout risks putting Italy under renewed pressure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  