-- Italian Families Spend Savings to Get By as Economy Contracts
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-10-30T10:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/italian-families-spend-savings-to-get-by-as-economy-contracts.html
Italian families are consuming their
savings as the economy contracts, weakening the safety net
highlighted by former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  as a
chief source of the country’s financial strength.  Thirty-one percent of families dipped into their savings in
the last year, compared with 29 percent in 2011, according to a
survey released today by ACRI, an association of Italian
cooperative banks. The share of families that added to their
nest eggs fell to 28 percent from 35 percent.  More Italians are falling back on accumulated wealth to
shield them from poverty as unemployment rises and the recession
deepens. The culture of private savings in  Italy , which has the
third-lowest consumer debt in the 17-nation euro area, has given
many families a buffer as tax increases and cuts to  government
spending  dampen economic activity.  “Italians still have a strong propensity toward saving,
which has now become an anchor for their security,” ACRI said
in a statement. About 40 percent of Italians consumed what they
earned, according to the ACRI survey.  Italy’s public debt is 126 percent of gross domestic
product, the second-highest ratio in the euro area behind
 Greece . The difference in yield between Italian and German 10-
year bonds widened 19 basis points to 356 basis points
yesterday.  The downturn in the country’s financial fortunes has put
pressure on the austerity policies implemented by Prime Minister
 Mario Monti , who replaced Berlusconi last year, to protect Italy
from  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis. Voters in Sicily, Italy’s
most impoverished region, cast 15 percent of their ballots on 
Oct. 28 for the anti-austerity party of comic-turned politician 
Beppe Grillo.  Absolute Poverty  Absolute poverty rose in Italy last year to claim 3.4
million people, or 5.7 percent of the population, from 5.2
percent in 2010, according to the country’s statistics office,
Istat.  Savers in Italy, as the debt crisis intensified, have been
invited to give greater to support to the country’s treasury.
The government launched a four-year bond this year aimed at
retail investors. This month, the third sale of the so-called
Btp Italia received orders for 18 billion euros ($23 billion),
doubling the two previous offers combined.  “Our system is different than that of other countries that
are used to spending more than what their families can afford,”
Berlusconi said in Naples on Oct. 1, 2008 in a speech about the
importance of Italian savers.  About two-thirds of Italians prefer to keep their savings
in liquid instruments, ACRI said. The portion of Italians who
consider real estate “the ideal investment” fell to 35 percent
from 43 percent last year and 70 percent in 2006, according to
ACRI.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  