-- Japan-Style Nuclear Safety Errors Abound, Regulator Warns
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-30T08:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/japan-style-nuclear-safety-errors-abound-french-regulator-says.html
Japan’s nuclear safety failures that
led to last year’s disaster at Fukushima are being repeated in
other countries that operate atomic reactors, according to
 France ’s top regulator.  Nuclear safety focuses too much on technology and not
enough on the human side of preventing accidents, Andre-Claude
Lacoste, 70, the outgoing head of the French Autorite de Surete
Nucleaire, said in an interview. France is the most dependent
country in the world on nuclear power, which is produced from
state-owned utility  Electricite de France SA’s  58 reactors.  Regulators in some countries, which he declined to name,
lack enough independence from industry and government to be able
to identify nuclear safety shortfalls, Lacoste said. In some
small nations, atomic experts regularly rotate between jobs at
safety authorities, operators and research organizations,
creating conflicts of interest and a deep-seated reluctance to
raise the alarm about potentially dangerous situations.  “In some societies, solidarity between people is more
important than transparency, and this means that errors aren’t
questioned and are hard to correct,” said Lacoste, who has
overseen French nuclear safety for two decades. “There are
countries where transparency isn’t a virtue.”  Japan  has acknowledged nuclear safety shortcomings after a
tsunami in March 2011 knocked out power supply, disrupting the
cooling process that led to reactor meltdowns at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The accident necessitated
mass evacuations and led to long-term environmental damage. As a
consequence, Japan plans to scrap atomic power by the end of the
2030s.  Peer Review  Lacoste headed a peer review of Japan’s nuclear regulatory
system in 2007, which he said “explicitly” warned the country
of shortcomings and recommended creating an independent watchdog
that would separate safety oversight from the government
ministry that promoted atomic power.  “The Japanese situation wasn’t good,” said Lacoste. He
was informed that the Japanese government had rejected his
recommendations at the end of 2010. He has since called
Fukushima a “collective failure.”  Still, after overseeing the transformation of France’s
atomic regulator from being part of a government ministry into
an authority whose independence is enshrined in a 2006 law,
Lacoste refuses to publicly name countries where safety doesn’t
meet his standards. Finger-pointing would be counter-productive,
he said.  Safety Rating  On March 14, 2011, three days after the tsunami at
Fukushima, Lacoste held a press conference in Paris. He was the
first regulator to publicly rate the event a 6 on the seven-step
ranking of nuclear accidents, describing how a meltdown at the
plant’s reactors had probably already released more
radioactivity than during the Three Mile Island accident in
1979, the worst in U.S. history. The 1986 accident at Chernobyl
was rated a seven.  French atomic safety experts led by Lacoste continued their
daily briefings for more than a week, commenting on methods used
at Fukushima to deal with explosions and safeguard the
population. They raised the alarm about dangerously high
radiation levels likely received by emergency workers and
provided estimates of how far radioactive fallout could travel
around the world. The French were among the first in  Europe  to
be informed when low levels of radioactivity from the Japanese
site were detected on home soil.  That contrasted with the aftermath of Chernobyl, when
French nuclear safety experts denied the radioactive cloud had
passed overhead. It was also a departure from the secrecy that
surrounded the country’s worst atomic accident, the 1980 partial
meltdown of a reactor core at Saint-Laurent-des-Eaux in central
France.  Independence  Fukushima allowed Lacoste to test the French watchdog’s
independence, which granted him power to shut down nuclear
installations. The stakes were high in a nuclear-dependent
country, which had up until Fukushima enjoyed popular backing
for the energy as well as support from major political parties.
France’s atomic energy program, started under President  Charles
de Gaulle , has spawned an industry employing hundreds of
thousands of workers. Exporting nuclear technology is a key
strategy of EDF and reactor-maker  Areva SA. (AREVA)   Polls showed popular support wobbled in the months after
the Japanese accident, triggering a political schism during the
ensuing presidential election won by Socialist Francois Hollande. He has pledged to lower the country’s reliance on
atomic energy to half of power output from more than 75 percent
today.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault yesterday said Pierre-
Franck Chevet, the environment and energy ministry’s top
official, would be proposed to parliament as a replacement for
Lacoste, whose non-renewable term at the ASN ends next month.  No Basis  Fukushima has slowed expansion of nuclear energy to
countries that don’t already have reactors. The disaster
prompted the  ASN  to bar French companies from exporting reactor
technology considered less safe that Areva’s EPR model, a
situation that would create “two-speed” safety, he said.  Less than 10 new countries will acquire the technology
within two decades, according to Lacoste. His estimate is less
than the some three dozen nations considered by industry group
 World Nuclear Association  to be considering projects. Many of
those are “the stuff of dreams,” according to Lacoste.  “The challenge isn’t to buy a reactor, it’s to install and
operate it,” he said. “In many countries the infrastructure to
develop nuclear energy is absent, there is a need for trained
people, a legal framework and a watchdog. This takes time. A
country can say they are going to get into nuclear energy but in
reality there is no chance this will happen. Lots of these
projects have no basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  