-- Japan’s Industrial Production Falls as BOJ Mulls Easing
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-10-30T02:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/japan-s-industrial-production-falls-as-boj-mulls-further-easing.html
Japan ’s industrial production fell
the most since last year’s earthquake and tsunami, bolstering
the case for the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to add to monetary easing today
to support an economy at risk of contraction.  Output declined 4.1 percent in September from the previous
month, when it dropped 1.6 percent, the Trade Ministry said in
Tokyo today. The median of 29 estimates in a  Bloomberg News 
survey of analysts was for a 3.1 percent slide. None forecast
such a large decline. A separate report showed unemployment
unchanged.  Weakness in global demand and the expiration of car-
purchase subsidies hit output, which is on a “downward trend,”
the ministry said today. Most economists in a Bloomberg News
survey expect the central bank to ease for the second time in
two months, as a political standoff leaves the government at
risk of running out of money and a territorial dispute with
China further limits exports.  “Today’s data makes it certain that Japan’s economy
contracted in the third quarter,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a former
central bank official. “It’s almost inevitable that the BOJ
will ease monetary policy today.”  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.3 percent as of 10:34
a.m. in Tokyo on prospects for easing. The yen was at 79.88 per
dollar after declining more than 2 percent this month. Strength
in the currency has eroded the sales and profits of the nation’s
exporters, with the yen reaching a postwar high of 75.35 per
dollar in October last year.  Honda Sales  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is deadlocked with the
largest opposition parties over legislation needed to fund the
rest of the year’s budget, with Finance Minister Koriki Jojima
yesterday reiterating that the government may run out of money
at the end of November.  The month-on-month decline in production was the biggest
since March last year, when parts of the northeast were
devastated by the tsunami and earthquake. Output fell 8.1
percent from a year earlier. The  unemployment rate  held at 4.2
percent, matching analysts’ forecasts.  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Japan’s third-largest carmaker, yesterday
cut its full-year profit forecast by 20 percent as Chinese
consumers shunned Japanese brands amid a territorial dispute. In
Japan, industrywide car sales fell in September for the first
time in a year as the government stopped accepting applications
for subsidies for fuel-efficient vehicles.  U.S. Markets  In the U.S., stock markets were prevented from opening by
Sandy, the Atlantic Ocean’s biggest-ever tropical storm. Strong
winds and rain roared ashore late yesterday and disrupted
commerce, transportation, utilities and government services from
 Boston  to Washington.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index scheduled for release today may
show property values in 20 U.S. cities increased 1.9 percent in
August from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  In Europe’s day ahead, reports may show Spain’s gross
domestic product contracted in the third quarter at a faster
pace from a year earlier, Germany’s unemployment rate rose to an
11-month high of 6.9 percent in October and euro-area  consumer
confidence  hovered near the lowest level since 2009.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  expect the
Japanese economy to contract in the two quarters through the end
of the year. Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara  said today he would
attend the central bank’s meeting for the second time in a month,
saying he plans to tell board members they should pursue
powerful monetary easing to achieve a 1 percent inflation goal.  All but one of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
expect the central bank to add to its 55-trillion-yen ($688
billion) asset-purchase program. Fifteen analysts expect the BOJ
to add 10 trillion yen to its asset-purchase funds, while four
economists see it adding as much as 20 trillion yen.  At the most recent meeting, on Oct. 5, the bank held off
from easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  