-- Kenya in Talks With Base, Goldplat on New Ownership Rules
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-10-31T13:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/kenya-in-talks-with-base-goldplat-on-new-local-ownership-rules.html
Kenya’s Natural Resources Ministry
said it asked mining companies including  Base Resources Ltd. (BSE)  and
 Goldplat Plc (GDP)  to submit proposals on how they will comply with
local ownership rules introduced this month.  The East African nation on Oct. 12 gazetted a law stating
that all mineral rights should be 35 percent owned by Kenyan
citizens. The amount of time that companies will be given to
comply with the new legislation will be determined on a case-by-
case basis, Ali Mohamed, permanent secretary in the ministry,
said in a phone interview on Oct. 29.  “We have asked them to prepare a proposal on how they will
progressively comply with the new regulations,” he said  Kenya, which has deposits of gold, copper, zinc and coal,
is revising its mineral laws as it seeks to boost the industry’s
0.8 percent contribution to the nation’s $32 billion economy.
The country also has “significant” deposits of soda ash,
fluorspar and titanium, according to the ministry. Other changes
to legislation being considered include a three-fold increase in
royalty fees to as much as 10 percent,  Business Daily , a
Nairobi-based newspaper, reported on Sept. 27.  Shares in West Perth, Australia-based Base Resources  jumped 
14 percent to A$0.25 by the close, after falling 47 percent in
the previous two days. The company said Oct. 29 it’s in talks
with the government to understand the potential implications for
its mineral sands project at Kwale in southeastern  Kenya .
Mineral sands are a class of ore deposit that includes titanium,
tungsten and rare earth elements.  Prospecting Period  Base Resources Managing Director Tim Carstens didn’t
respond to a voice mail left on his mobile phone when called for
comment.  Goldplat’s head office number in  London  didn’t connect to a
person who could direct calls.  The revised legislation also reduces the prospecting period
to three years from an unlimited time previously with an option
for renewal in cases where a company provides proof of “good
investment,” Mohamed said, without providing further details.  Investment in Kenya’s natural resources industries lags
behind other countries in the region, including Tanzania,
Africa’s third-largest gold producer, and  Uganda , where  Tullow
Oil Plc (TLW)  expects to start pumping crude by 2016. Tullow, with
partner  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI) , made Kenya’s first oil discovery in
March.  Increased Interest  Investor interest in Kenya’s mining industry has increased
steadily since the beginning of this year and the nation is
offering several mining leases including two blocks in the Mui
Basin for coal exploration via tender, the Energy Ministry said
in June.  The Kenyan Competition Commission formally approved  African
Barrick Gold Plc (ABG) ’s acquisition of Aviva Mining Kenya Ltd. from
Aviva Corp. earlier this month. Aviva has a gold project in
Kakamega in western Kenya.  Cortec Mining Kenya Ltd., a Nairobi-based exploration
company, will start production at its niobium project in
southeastern Kenya by 2016, Managing Director  David Anderson 
said Oct 24. Cortec, a unit of  Pacific Wildcat Resources Corp .,
plans to invest as much as $200 million to extend a drilling
program at its Mrima Hill prospect, analyze samples and build a
mineral-processing test plant within two years.  Red Rock Resources Plc (RRR) , a U.K. gold exploration and mining
company, expects “large-scale” production to start in Kenya by
2016, Chief Executive Officer Andrew Bell said Oct 12.  Mining companies also will be encouraged to list some of
their shares on the  Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSEASI)  as part of the
new law, he said.  “Our economy is expanding rapidly, our capital markets are
expanding well and we want to interest the mining sector to come
to the  capital markets ,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  