-- NAB’s Clyne Sees ‘Challenging’ 2013 as Rate Cuts Misfire
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-10-31T05:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/nab-profit-drops-first-time-since-2009-on-u-k-bad-debts.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  faces a
challenging year ahead amid subdued economic growth and as
interest rate cuts do less to revive mortgage demand than hoped,
said Cameron Clyne, the lender’s chief executive officer.  The central bank’s 1.5 percentage points of reductions to
 Australia ’s key interest rate over the past year are being
blunted because consumers know the cuts are prompted by fears of
economic weakness, Clyne told a media briefing in Sydney today.
National Australia Bank’s full-year profit tumbled 22 percent in
the year through September as a weak U.K. economy forced the
bank to set aside more money for bad debts, the Melbourne-based
lender said.  Lowering benchmark borrowing costs “does have an impact
but it’s not always entirely stimulatory,” Clyne said. “It’s
likely to be a challenging 2013,” as each year has been in
recent times, he said.  National Australia Bank, the worst performing stock among
the country’s major lenders in 2012, reported its first full-
year profit decline since 2009 today. Charges for debts that may
sour rose 44 percent, fueling a loss at the U.K. unit, while
business banking profit dropped.  Net income sank to A$4.08 billion ($4.2 billion) in the
period, missing the lowest of six analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, which averaged A$4.83 billion.  The lender’s  shares  dropped 0.4 percent to A$25.79 in
Sydney today, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.7
percent.  Bad Debts  Australia’s private-sector  loan growth  has been subdued
over the past year, crimping demand in the retail bank’s core
market. Sales of newly built homes declined for a third straight
month in September, according to the Canberra-based Housing
Industry Association.  National Australia Bank’s net interest margin -- a measure
of the profitability of its lending -- fell 11 basis points in
the six months ended Sept. 30 to 2.06 percent, the company said.  Cash earnings at the lender’s business banking unit dropped
1.5 percent on higher bad debt charges. Across the group, such
costs rose to A$2.6 billion.  “Unemployment is rising and we’ve got a number of
businesses going to the wall at the moment,”  Angus Gluskie ,
managing director at White Funds Management Pty. in Sydney, said
by phone. “We need to see a broader economic recovery here
before that risk diminishes,” he said, referring to the
prospects for increased bad debts.  The Australian lender, owner of  Scotland ’s Clydesdale Bank
and the Yorkshire Bank, increased its charges for soured loans
from the U.K. unit by 335 million pounds ($539 million), after
restructuring the division this year to shift a 5.6 billion
pound commercial real estate portfolio to the group balance
sheet.  Fresh Look  The restructure of the U.K. unit, announced April 30 along
with plans to cut 1,400 jobs, had led the bank to reassess the
quality of the division’s loans, Mark Joiner, chief financial
officer, told an investor briefing today.  “You’ve got new eyes looking through it and that’s
probably bringing more realism to bear,” he said.  The U.K. unit had a cash earnings loss of 139 million
pounds for the full year, National Australia Bank said today, as
that country’s economy shrank for  three straight quarters  before
rebounding to its best rate since 2007 in the most-recent
period.  The lender “faces the risk of persistent earnings
downgrades” in a weak U.K. economy, Credit Suisse Group AG’s
Sydney-based analyst Jarrod Martin wrote in a note to clients
Oct. 22. “We see a risk of further U.K.-related provision top-
ups from NAB in future periods.”  Subdued Growth  The decline in National Australia Bank shares today pared
their advance this year to 10 percent. That’s the smallest gain
among Australia’s four largest lenders.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  has jumped 24
percent,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  has gained 17 percent
and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  has climbed 28 percent since Dec. 31.  Profit for the second half of A$2.03 billion fell 27
percent from a year earlier. The charge for bad and doubtful
debts was A$1.48 billion in the second half, up 31 percent on
the figure on March 31, the bank said.  The bank’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of its ability to
absorb losses, rose to 8.29 percent as of Sept. 30, assessed
under so-called Basel II requirements, from 8.03 percent six
months earlier.  Cash return on equity, a measure of National Australia’s
ability to generate profits from its net assets, fell 1.5
percentage points to 13.5 percent for the six months to Sept.
30, from 15 percent in the previous half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  