-- Nestle Nutrition Unit Gets Third New Chief in Three Years
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-10-30T13:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/nestle-nutrition-unit-gets-third-new-chief-in-three-years.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  said the head of its
nutrition unit resigned a year after taking the job, resulting
in the third change of leadership for the business since 2009.  Kurt Schmidt will give up the position in December, leaving
for personal reasons and to pursue other opportunities, the
Vevey, Switzerland-based food company said today in a statement.
Luis Cantarell, 60, the chief executive officer of Nestle Health
Science, will also manage the nutrition division, which is in
the process of completing the $11.9 billion acquisition of
Pfizer Inc.’s infant-nutrition unit.  The change caps a decade during which Nestle has repeatedly
organized and reformed a business central to its strategy of
being the world’s “leading nutrition, health and wellness”
company. Annual sales growth of the nutrition unit has never met
a long-term goal of 10 percent set six years ago. Its Jenny
Craig weight-loss service has been suffering from weaker U.S.
consumption, while Nestle failed to expand the PowerBar brand of
performance nutrition products beyond the market of athletes.  “They’ve had problems with Jenny Craig, performance
nutrition isn’t doing all that well and they’ll have to
integrate Pfizer pretty soon, so Schmidt may have been under
pressure,” said Jean-Philippe Bertschy, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel in Zurich. “They may have wanted to get a veteran
Nestle manager at the head of the business.”  Pfizer Integration  Cantarell, who ran the nutrition unit from 2001 to 2005 and
has worked more than three decades at Nestle, has experience of
integrating acquisitions such as its Gerber baby-food business
and has helped reshape Nestle’s business portfolio, for example
by halting ice-cream production in  Germany , Bertschy said.
Cantarell will probably remain head of the nutrition unit for
the coming two to three years, he said.  Schmidt took charge of the division last year when his
predecessor, Nandu Nandkishore, a temporary replacement for
Richard Laube, became head of Nestle’s business in  Asia ,
Oceania,  Africa  and the  Middle East . Schmidt had previously
headed Nestle’s infant nutrition business in  North America .  ‘Revolving Door’  “It certainly hasn’t been easy sailing at Nestle’s
nutrition business, and there has been a bit of a revolving door
in terms of executives,” said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research
at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich. Cantarell “is a very, very
safe pair of hands. He was a bit under-utilized at the health
science business.”  The nutrition unit had a 6.6 percent increase in nine-month
adjusted revenue, with total sales of 5.8 billion Swiss francs
($6.2 billion), the Swiss food company said earlier this month.  Nestle is putting the health science business and nutrition
under the same manager two years after it decided to split them
up. The Swiss company formed health science to develop products
to treat chronic diseases and conditions such as obesity.  “There is bound to be closer coordination in terms of R&D
efforts,’ Cox said. ‘‘I never understood why health science was
ripped out of the nutrition division in the first place --
ultimately what is discovered and developed has to be levered
back into nutrition and the rest of the group.’’  Nestle shares were unchanged at 59.65 francs at 2:09 p.m.
in Zurich trading. The stock has gained about 10 percent this
year, making the Swiss foodmaker  Europe ’s second-largest company
by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  