-- Netanyahu Visits France to Press for More Iran Sanctions
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-10-31T18:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/netanyahu-visits-france-to-press-for-more-iran-sanctions.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and French President Francois Hollande said they would
work together on toughening economic sanctions and trying to
stop Iran from building an atomic bomb.  Netanyahu flew to Paris today for his first visit since
Hollande took office in May and praised the French leader for
his “strong” stance against Iranian nuclear development. The
two also discussed efforts to renew Israeli-Palestinian peace
negotiations that have been frozen for two years.  “We must make sure that through pressure, sanctions and
later through negotiations, Iran renounces its intention to have
access to nuclear weapons,” Hollande said, standing next to
Netanyahu during a press conference at the Elysee presidential
palace. “I am working in that spirit.”  Netanyahu is making a fresh start in France after previous
diplomatic strains that became evident when former President
Nicolas Sarkozy was overheard at a Group of 20 summit last year
telling President  Barack Obama  that Netanyahu was a liar and “I
can’t stand him anymore.” Netanyahu hosted Italian Prime
Minister Mario Monti in Jerusalem last week and plans to visit
Germany in December to press on tightening Iran sanctions.  Re-Election Race  The 63-year-old Israeli leader who is running for re-
election to a third term in January repeated the warning he
delivered at the United Nations last month that time is running
out to prevent an Iranian nuclear bomb, which he expects to be
aimed at Israel. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who
regularly denounces Israel as an illegitimate regime that should
“disappear,” says his country’s nuclear program is for
peaceful purposes.  “Given the history of the Jewish people, I would not sit
by and write off a threat by those who say they are going to
annihilate us,” Netanyahu said. Arab nations, he said, would
also be “relieved” if the Iranian nuclear threat were removed.  Netanyah will meet Hollande, 58, again tomorrow in the
southwestern city of Toulouse and take part in a memorial
ceremony for the three children and a rabbi shot dead by a
radical Islamist outside a Jewish school in March. From there,
he will return to Israel.  “This is another opportunity for Netanyahu to put the Iran
issue on the world stage,” David Vital, a European historian
and emeritus professor at Tel Aviv University, said by
telephone. “It’s also important for him to connect with members
of the French Jewish community who have significant fears about
their safety.”  Peace Efforts  Other issues that came up in talks with Hollande and French
Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius were the stalled peace efforts
with the Palestinians and how to manage the instability in Syria
and other neighboring Arab countries.’’ Hollande agreed with
Netanyahu that Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s
plan to seek recognition as a “non-member state” at the UN
next month would not help resolving the conflict with Israel.  “There is the temptation of the Palestinian Authority to
seek at the UN General Assembly that which it fails to obtain
through negotiation,” Hollande said. “Only negotiation can
lead to a definitive solution to the situation of Palestine.”  Hollande has met twice with Abbas since taking office,
aides said.  Netanyahu’s last trip to Paris in May 2011 accentuated his
differences with Sarkozy, who prodded the Israeli leader in a
magazine interview on the eve of the visit to accept the
establishment of a Palestinian state and put more energy into
peace talks.  “I don’t see France’s foreign policy making any major
turn” from maintaining a balance between Israeli and
Palestinian policies, Jean-Yves Camus, a researcher at the
Paris-based Institute of International and Strategic Relations.
“Stability with the traditional positions is what we should
expect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Paris at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  