-- New York City Marathon Assesses Damage Before Race Decision
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-10-31T13:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/new-york-city-marathon-assessing-storm-damage-before-race-call.html
New York City Marathon  officials
continue to check damage caused by  Hurricane Sandy  before
deciding what impact the biggest tropical storm in Atlantic
Ocean history will have on the Nov. 4 race.  New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg said during a press
conference yesterday that the race would “go on as normal, as
of now.” Bloomberg said he will continue to discuss the race’s
logistics with city and marathon officials before a final
decision is made.  Mary Wittenberg, president for the  New York Road Runners ,
which organizes the annual race through the city’s five
boroughs, said yesterday that the group is working with city
officials to determine a specific course of action.  “This is a very challenging time for the people and city
of New York,” Wittenberg said in a statement. “The city is
rightfully focused on assessment, restoration and recovery. We
stand with our city agency partners and support their efforts.”  Marathon spokesman Richard Finn today called Bloomberg’s
statement “encouraging” and said that race preparations
continued.  Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, speaking at a news
conference today in Sydney, said staging the marathon will
reinforce the perception of the city’s strength.  “I hope beyond hope they have the marathon on Sunday
because we end up with about 30,000 runners and a couple million
people on the streets of  Manhattan , which reaffirms the fact
that we’re tremendously resilient and can overcome anything,”
Giuliani said. “One of the proudest things that I watched and
participated in after Sept. 11 was making sure the marathon took
place.”  Options Open  Wittenberg said race officials are keeping all options open
and will make any accommodations and adjustments necessary to
race day and race weekend events.  The 900-mile-wide (1,500 kilometer) storm produced life-
threatening surges in a region with 60 million residents and
caused what may add up to billions of dollars of damage.  If flooding or other damage affects the course or events
related to the race, there are contingency plans in place and
adjustments can be made, Wittenberg said on a media conference
call two days ago.  While many runners who signed up for the 43rd edition said
the safety and well-being of the region’s residents remains
their first concern, they’re eager to run after months of
training.  “Once you finish thinking about everyone’s safety, then
you think, ‘I’ve run how many miles in the last four months? If
it doesn’t happen, what do I do?’” Dawn Speckhart, a Roswell,
Georgia, resident who will travel to New York to run her first
marathon, said in a telephone interview. “It’s been stressful.
You don’t want to complain. People have lost their houses and
are worried about their lives. I’m just running a race.”  47,000 Runners  The 26.2-mile race is expected to attract about 47,000
runners this year, including about 20,000 international
participants. New York Road Runners officials said race
registration hours will be extended to accommodate late
arrivals.  This year’s race will be carried on ESPN2, which reaches
almost every household with cable or satellite television, and
on ABC’s affiliate in the New York area as part of a five-year
accord with the Walt Disney Co.-owned networks. New York is one
of the five World Marathon Majors along with  Boston ,  Chicago ,
 London  and Berlin.  Eleven days after registration opened for the New York race
on Jan. 2, 50,000 entries had been submitted for its annual
lottery selection system, a total that took 38 days longer to
reach a year earlier.  ‘Other Races’  T.J. Ryals, a 31-year-old resident of Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , got into the race through the lottery.  “It will be great if they have it but, at the end of the
day, it’s not something that I would hold against the New York
Road Runners if they cancel,” Ryals, who will be running the
race for the first time, said in a telephone interview. “There
are other races.”  Ryals plans to run with his wife, Bethany, 27, who is
recovering from elbow surgery following a bike crash in June.
The two have completed two 140.6-mile Ironman triathlons and a
50-kilometer trail race in  Alabama , but never a stand-alone
marathon.  “There’s a lot of preparation that goes into the training,
but the most important thing is that the personnel that needs to
attend to the city is able to do what they need to do for the
greater good,” Ryals said.  Sandy, which weakened as it passed over the U.S. east
coast, shaped up to be among the worst storms in New York
history, rivaling the blizzards of 1888 and 1947.  A fire in New York’s Queens borough destroyed at least 80
homes after the storm sent floodwaters gushing into the area.
The storm submerged cars, tunnels and the subway system, and
darkened swaths of the nation’s most populous city.  At least 18 deaths in New York City have been caused by the
storm, Bloomberg said yesterday at a news conference. Bloomberg
is the founder of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  