-- New York Times Digital Readers Help Boost Circulation by 40%
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-30T15:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/new-york-times-weekday-circulation-jumps-40-on-digital-readers.html
The  New York  Times Co., struggling
with shrinking demand for print media and advertising, got a
boost from digital subscriptions over the past six months,
helping it post a 40 percent increase in weekday circulation.  Total circulation climbed to 1.61 million for Monday-to-
Friday editions and 2.1 million on Sunday, the New York-based
company said, citing data from the  Audit Bureau of Circulations .
Online readers more than doubled from a year earlier to 896,352
on weekdays, marking the first time digital circulation has
surpassed print. The numbers reflect Web users, as well as
subscribers on e-readers such as Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle.  While the gains show that the 161-year-old publication is
adapting to the digital world, Internet growth hasn’t fueled an
advertising recovery. Total ad revenue declined 8.9 percent last
quarter, with print advertising shrinking 11 percent. The slump
contributed to a surprise loss in the period, triggering a stock
selloff on Oct. 25 that erased more than a fifth of the
company’s market value.  Print advertising still sells at a premium to online fare,
making it harder for Times Co. to build its comeback on Internet
readers. Print subscriptions, meanwhile, continue to drop.
Average weekday print circulation fell 6.9 percent to 717,513 in
the six-month period ended on Sept. 30. The one bright spot for
print: Sunday home delivery inched up 0.6 percent to 998,080.
Total circulation revenue increased 7.4 percent last quarter.  Reporting Changes  While online circulation hit a milestone by exceeding print
readership, the way the Audit Bureau measures the data makes it
hard to compare the two figures. A paying subscriber who
accesses the  Times newspaper  on different digital devices --
everything from a smartphone to a tablet to a desktop computer
-- could be counted three times in a single day. A print reader
would only be counted once.  Other U.S. newspapers also saw increases in circulation.
The  Newark Star-Ledger , owned by the Newhouse family’s Advance
Publications Inc., posted a 48 percent gain.  Wall Street Journal, owned by  News Corp. (NWSA) , remained the
largest circulating weekday newspaper in the U.S., with 2.29
million readers, according to the Audit Bureau. That was a 9.4
percent gain over the previous year.  USA Today , owned by Gannett
Co., ranked second, after dropping 3.9 percent to 1.71 million
readers. The New York Times was third.  The Times had the largest readership among Sunday papers,
with a circulation of 2.1 million, up 28 percent over last year.  The shaky advertising market will add to the challenges
facing incoming Times Co. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Thompson .
The former British Broadcasting Corp. executive is scheduled to
take charge on Nov. 12.  Advertising has fallen across all categories for the
newspaper industry, dropping 6.6 percent in the first six months
of this year, according to the most recently available data from
to the  Newspaper Association of America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  