-- Hospital Evacuation in N.Y. Exposes Outdated Power Backup
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r ,   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-31T19:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/new-york-hospital-evacuates-patients-as-sandy-hits-power.html
New York University  Langone Medical
Center, the 705-bed hospital in lower Manhattan that assured
city officials it was ready for  Hurricane Sandy , stood dark and
empty a day after the storm rolled through.  As wind and rain from the largest-ever Atlantic storm
pounded New York on Oct. 29, electricity at NYU-Langone went
out. Then a backup generator failed. In the middle of the night,
medical staff had no choice but to carry patients down dark
stairwells and relocate them to other facilities.  The patient evacuation is prompting questions from trustees
and the city’s mayor about how prepared the medical center was
for the storm. Blame is being placed on the building’s outdated
backup power system, which has raised concern that aging
infrastructure at U.S. hospitals has created a risk for similar
outages that jeopardize patient care.  “Hospitals are careful to get the latest and greatest
medical equipment, but then they don’t spend on the
infrastructure,” Michael Orlowicz, a principal at consulting
company  Lawrence Associates LLC , said in an interview. “It
surprises me what happened in  New York .”  One in 20 hospitals are unprepared for power disruptions,
and an incident may result in more than $1 million in lost
revenue and other costs, according to Bridgewater, New Jersey-
based Lawrence Associates, which focuses on economic
justification for technology spending. Coney Island Hospital and
Bellevue Hospital Center in New York also were forced to
evacuate patients because of power failures.  Hospital Preparation  Kenneth Langone, the billionaire chairman of New York
University Hospital, was a patient at the time of the power
failure and evacuation. He said the hospital expected its backup
generators to work and was surprised by the power of the storm.  “We believed we had the machines, we believed the machines
would work, and we believed everything we were told about the
scope and size of the storm,” Langone, now home, said in an
interview. “Do you think they’d have kept me in there if they
thought I was going to be unsafe?”  The board knew the facilities’ generators were outdated and
at risk,  Gary Cohn , a trustee who is also president of Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  “The infrastructure at NYU is somewhat old,” Cohn said in
a television interview. The backup generators “are not state of
the art and not in the most state-of-the-art location.”  Raising Money  Cohn said an effort to raise $3 billion for hospital
upgrades is under way. The hospital had raised $1 billion by
June 2011, according to a statement.  The evacuation drew the ire of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , who
said he had been assured the hospital had tested its equipment.  “The one thing we had not counted on, New York
University’s hospital backup power, in spite of them assuring us
that it’s been tested, stopped working, and we’re working with
them to help move people out,” Bloomberg said Oct. 29 at a
press conference. The mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent company of  Bloomberg News .  New York City  weathered a 16-hour power failure in 2003
that affected 120 hospitals, with one forced into bankruptcy and
10 others suffering significant revenue loss, according to the
2010 study by Lawrence Associates.  Katrina Deaths  Electricity failures at hospitals in  Louisiana  during
 Hurricane Katrina  led to lawsuits.  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the
third-largest publicly traded U.S. hospital chain, agreed to
settle a class-action lawsuit over patient deaths brought by
families who blamed the actions of officials at the company’s
Memorial Medical Center in  New Orleans . At least 34 patients
died at the hospital after the hurricane knocked out power.  Backup generators need to be tested regularly and gas or
diesel fuel replaced, Orlowicz said. They also need to be kept
on floors that are above any potential flooding, he said.  The evacuation at NYU-Langone began after flooding at the
building, with more than 20 ambulances lined up outside in the
night, said Ilyssa Goodman, a pediatrician who was off-duty in
her apartment across the street and went to help. Patients were
carried down the stairs on stretchers because elevators weren’t
working, she said.  “The side where the ICU is was completely dark, and the
stairwells were lit by medical students with flashlights,”
Goodman said in an interview. “It was very calm. Medical
students and residents came in to help.”  Redirecting Patients  The hospital is part of a complex of NYU medical facilities
along First Avenue in  Manhattan  near the  East River . Attempts to
contact NYU-Langone personnel yesterday for comment were met
with busy telephone signals and unreturned messages. Goodman
said the computer system was down and e-mail wasn’t working.  By yesterday afternoon, the hospital was closed with
security blocking the door and all patients had been evacuated.
Residents seeking care were directed to other hospitals.  Mount Sinai Medical Center in East Harlem said it took in
patients from NYU-Langone, as well as from Bellevue Hospital
Center and Coney Island Hospital.  Sandy, a storm with winds stretching 1,100 miles (1,770
kilometers) from end to end, tested the preparedness of
hospitals across the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions. The
storm hit New York,  New Jersey  and  Connecticut  hardest, toppling
trees, knocking down  power lines  and swamping electrical systems
with record tides.  Bellevue Conditions  At Bellevue, staff were evacuating 500 patients today after
sustaining worse-than-expected damage to the basement, which
took on 17 million gallons of water, the mayor said in a news
conference. The hospital is trying to find facilities for those
patients. It previously evacuated critical patients dependent on
a ventilator.  Bellevue lost power during the storm and doctors had been
working mostly in the dark since the night of Oct. 29 with
limited power from generators. The lobby was dark yesterday and
telephones were down although some walk-in emergency patients
were being admitted.  The  North Shore-LIJ Health System , the largest on New
York’s  Long Island , said its Staten Island University Hospital
started flooding Oct 29, shutting down the computers and
electronic medical records and forcing workers to use paper
records, according to its website.  Prior to the storm, dozens of critically ill patients
dependent on ventilators and other devices were evacuated from
Staten Island University Hospital and Southside Hospital in Bay
Shore, the health system said Oct. 28 in a statement.  North Shore LIJ ambulances evacuated 26 patients from
Eastern Long Island Hospital, according to a statement.  Staying Open  The health system, which has 16 hospitals and three long-
term care centers in New York, said all its hospitals, emergency
departments and long-term care facilities are open.  AtlantiCare Regional Medical Center , based in Galloway, New
Jersey, remained fully staffed and had personnel stay overnight
in casinos and hotels, Jennifer Tornetta, a spokeswoman, said
Oct. 29 in an interview. Most cared for patients who were too
ill to be discharged rather than injuries related to the
hurricane, she said.  Meridian Health Hospitals, based in Neptune, New Jersey,
suspended visitation for patients Oct. 29 and discouraged
visitors through the height of the hurricane for safety and
security reasons, according to a press release. They also
canceled many elective and non-urgent procedures.  Washington ERs  Hospitals in  Washington  reported mostly quiet conditions.
At  George Washington University Hospital , which has 371 beds,
there were 150 doctors, nurses, and support staff who slept on
cots on the sixth floor and 100 additional staff members who
stayed overnight in local hotels. Medstar Washington Hospital
Center, the largest private hospital in the city with 926 beds,
reopened outpatient clinics yesterday after closing them before
the storm, So Young Pak, a spokeswoman, said in an interview.  Some hospitals that turned to backup power fared well.
Saint Barnabas Medical Center, a 597-bed hospital in Livingston,
New Jersey, operated yesterday on auxiliary power.  “We made sure our generator worked,” Sally Malech, a
spokeswoman, said in an interview. “We’re fully staffed,
patients are safe, and the ER is open.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  