-- New York Shops Remain Closed as Retailers Assess Damage
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d ,   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2012-10-30T20:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/new-york-shops-remain-closed-as-retailers-assess-damage.html
Retailers from  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  to
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  kept stores shuttered in hard-hit New York and New
Jersey while reopening some other East Coast locations as they
worked to assess the damage to their shops and sales.  While food merchants will benefit from consumers stocking
up before the storm and home-improvement retailers will gain
from the clean-up, clothing and department stores won’t get a
chance to make up the loss, Poonam Goyal, an analyst for
Bloomberg Industries in Princeton, New Jersey, said today. The
hit may even affect sales during the crucial holiday shopping
season, she said.  “The wild card here is when will stores reopen,” Goyal
said in a telephone interview today. “If stores will not reopen
for the next two or three weeks, it’s going to impact holiday
sales.”  Sandy, spanning 900 miles, slammed into southern  New Jersey 
at about 8 p.m. New York time and brought a record storm surge
of 13.88 feet (4.2 meters) into Manhattan’s Battery Park.
Flooding, high winds and fallen trees cut power to about 8
million customers from South Carolina to Maine, and travelers
were stranded as U.S. airlines grounded about 12,500 flights.
U.S. stock trading is closed again today in the first back-to-
back shutdown for weather since 1888.  Record tides from the storm combined with hours of pounding
wind and rain to flood electrical substations and shut down New
York’s financial district. Yesterday, Eqecat Inc., an Oakland,
California-based provider of catastrophic risk models, estimated
Sandy would cause as much as $20 billion of economic damage with
about $5 billion to $10 billion of that in insured losses.  Wal-Mart Closings  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  now has about 80 of its namesake and
Sam’s Club locations closed, according to the company’s website.  Company officials have received no reports of significant
damage to facilities, and merchandise losses were minimal, Mark
Cooper, senior director of global emergency management for the
retailer, said on a conference call. Stores will reopen as roads
are cleared and power returns or generators are put into use, he
said.  “Trucks are loaded and ready to go as soon as stores come
open,” he said.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  has about 15 stores still closed in
New York and New Jersey because of power outages, Jeff Long,
Costco’s senior vice president for the Northeast, said in an
interview. While stores in the Northeast sold out of water,
generators, batteries and flashlights last weekend, traffic in
open stores recently is less than the company normally expects,
he said.  “I haven’t seen anything like this,” Long said. “It’s
easily the biggest storm I’ve ever seen.”  Target Closings  Target Corp. (TGT)  has reopened most of its stores, with 20
locations in the New York and New Jersey areas still closed,
Jessica Deede, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. About 41 stores
are operating on generator power, she said.  The company’s stores have begun donating basic items such
as pillows and cribs to their local areas and has provided
bottled water to the Red Cross, she said.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, began shipping 750 truckloads of generators, cleaning
supplies, rakes and chainsaws to northeastern stores today, said
Aaron Flowe, president of the Atlanta-based company’s northern
division. It has reopened all but about 12 of the 44 stores it
closed as Sandy approached, he said.  Home Depot stores suffered “very little damage”
characterized by leaking roofs and broken door glass “that we
can quickly fix,” Flowe said.  Lowe’s Closings  Lowe’s Cos. (LOW) , which had 200 locations in the affected area,
has four stores closed, the company said today in an e-mailed
statement. A store in Rosedale, New York, was damaged by water
while the other closed stores, which are in New Jersey and
Pennsylvania, are shut because of power outages.  Macy’s stores and offices in New York City and in central
and northern New Jersey remain closed, said  Jim Sluzewski , a
spokesman. Stores in the Washington area and other parts of the
East Coast have begun reopening today, he said.  “The determining factor is if the store and shopping
center have electricity, and if associates are able to get to
work,” Sluzewski said in an e-mail. The retailer had closed 130
Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s stores all day yesterday and closed an
additional 65 stores early, he said.  The company has no reports of significant damage or
injuries to workers, Sluzewski said. It is impossible to
estimate lost sales at this point, he said.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, has more than 800 U.S. stores.  Saks Manhattan  Saks Inc. (SKS) ’s main store in Manhattan as well as stores in
New Jersey, Connecticut and on New York’s Long Island will
reopen tomorrow, said Julia Bentley, a spokeswoman. The
retailer, whose head offices in New York still are closed, will
begin assessing damage today, she said. The company planned to
reopen stores in the Washington area and in Pennsylvania
starting late this morning.  Macy’s and Saks are among the retailers most likely to be
hurt by Sandy, data compiled by Bloomberg Industries show.
Macy’s has about 30 percent of its stores located in the storm
states, and Saks has about 27 percent of its locations there.
The retailers reported a 150 basis-point hit to August
comparable-store sales last year because of Hurricane Irene.  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN) , the Seattle-based chain of more than 100
department stores, had 15 stores still closed today with many
others opening late, partly because mass transit disruptions
prevented some employees from getting to work, said Tara Darrow,
a spokeswoman. Stores had minor water damage, and the company
hasn’t yet estimated the effect on sales, she said.  Spending Needs  People are now spending on needs, which may alter their
shopping plans for the rest of the year and reduce the 4.1
percent growth the National Retail Federation forecast for the
holiday season, Scott Bernhardt, president of Planalytics Inc.
in Wayne, Pennsylvania, said today in an e-mail.  “Significant spending now, this week is likely going to
cause many consumers to revisit their holiday shopping
budgets,” he said.  Gap Inc. (GPS)  continues to monitor its stores in the Northeast
that were closed due to the hurricane, Edie Kissko, a
spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based company, said yesterday
in an e-mail.  “Gap Inc. has been taking several precautions, including
implementing an emergency protocol to help ensure all employees
are accounted for and safe during this natural disaster,” she
wrote yesterday.  American Eagle  American Eagle Outfitters Inc. (AEO) , which closed 64 stores
yesterday, is reopening some locations as power is restored,
“but our employees’ safety and well-being is our number one
concern at this point and so we are focused on making sure
everyone is accounted for and safe,” Iris Yen, a spokeswoman
for the Pittsburgh-based company, said in an e-mail.  Limited Brands Inc., which owns the Victoria’s Secret and
Bath & Body Works chains, reopened some of its stores today at 1
p.m., Tammy Roberts Myers, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. The
Columbus, Ohio-based company closed about 160 stores yesterday.  Apparel companies will face most of Hurricane Sandy’s
impact in November sales because October results will only go up
until Oct. 27,  Jennifer Davis , an analyst with Lazard Capital
Markets in New York, said in a telephone interview. The hit also
won’t be significant because the storm struck on a Monday and
Tuesday, which aren’t busy shopping days, she said.  “The very beginning of November is not really important
and the very end of the month is, so it’s during a small volume
period during small volume days,” she said.  The bigger concern is how long stores will be closed,
especially those that were damaged, she said.  J.C. Penney  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) , the 110-year-old department-store company,
closed more than 100 stores by yesterday evening because of the
storm, Joey Thomas, a spokesman for the Plano, Texas-based
retailer, said in an e-mail. The company plans to reopen 50
stores in the next couple of days and is assessing damage.  Walgreen, which owns the Duane Reade chain, had about 530
stores closed as of noon, down from a peak of about 750, the
company said today in an e-mailed statement. The company has
about 1,400 stores in the affected area.  Beginning last week, Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreen
stocked shelves with extra water, batteries, flashlights and
medications, the company said yesterday.  Walgreen Shutdowns  Walgreen, the largest drugstore chain in the U.S., also
said it has 180 electricity generators to help power stores
along the East Coast and dry ice to keep certain medicines cold.
About 300 stores were without power, the company said.  The storm may benefit mass merchants’ October sales as
shoppers stocked up on water and food before it hit, according
to Bloomberg Industries. The effect on November sales will be
determined by how long stores are closed and how much of
Halloween sales were missed, according to the study.  A few  Kroger Co. (KR)  stores along the East Coast have closed
after losing power, Carl York, the company’s head of public
affairs for its Mid-Atlantic region, said in an interview. Right
now, the company is working to open a store in Elkins, West
Virginia, which closed after it lost power amid about a foot of
snow, York said.  West Virginia  “We’re concentrating on West Virginia now,” he said.
“There’s a lot of rain and a lot of snow and we’re worried
about flooding.”  No damage has been reported at Kroger’s 122 stores in the
Mid-Atlantic region, he said. Kroger, the largest U.S. grocery-
store chain, is based in Cincinnati.  “We are still very busy,” York said. “We have customers
that are coming in and they are buying the milk, bread, water.
They’re still bracing for the weather hanging around.”  Supervalu Inc. (SVU)  has started opening stores after closing all
Acme and Shoppers locations yesterday,  Mike Siemienas , a
spokesman for the  Eden Prairie , Minnesota-based company, said in
an interview. The third-largest U.S. grocery chain still has 29
Acme and about 30 Save-A-Lot stores closed, while all Shaw’s,
Farm Fresh and Shoppers units are open, he said.  There are Acme stores that don’t have power that are open
and operating on generators, Siemienas said. The company is
unable to get to some shuttered Acme markets along the Jersey
Shore to evaluate possible damage, he said.  PepsiCo Inc.’s (PEP)  headquarters in Purchase, New York, and some
other offices in the area remained closed today. Several of the
snack and beverage maker’s factories, warehouses and offices in
Sandy’s path were without power and teams were assessing
damages, said Aurora Gonzalez, a company spokeswoman.  “Our first priority is the safety of our employees,”
Gonzalez said. “We are working to resume operations as quickly
and as safely as possible.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  