-- Nigeria Approves Siemens, Korea Electric Power Grid Bids
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-10-30T11:17:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/nigeria-approves-siemens-korea-electric-power-grid-bids.html
Nigeria  approved bids from companies
including  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Korea Electric Power Corp. (KEP)  for 10
state-owned power distribution companies, marking the end of a
five-year privatization process.  The successful bids were worth more than $1.3 billion, the
Abuja-based National Council on Privatization headed by Vice
President  Namadi Sambo  said in an e-mail yesterday. Siemens led
a group of four companies that won with a $135 million bid for
the Eko Distribution Co., and Korea Electric headed the winning
offer for the grid in the Ikeja region of Lagos, it said.  Buyers are required to provide bank guarantees “for 15
percent of the transaction value within 15 days of notification
from the Bureau of Public Enterpirses,” the council said in the
statement. Payment should be completed within six months, it
said.  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer, is selling majority
stakes in  power plants  and letting private investors buy as much
as 60 percent of 11 distribution companies spun out of the
former state-owned utility as it seeks private investment to
curb power shortages. Blackouts are a daily occurrence in
Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country with more than 160
million people. Demand for electricity in Nigeria is almost
double the supply of about 4,000 megawatts and the government
plans to boost output to 14,019 megawatts by 2013.  Structural Reforms  “This is an important step forward and probably the main
area where the outlook for structural reforms is promising,”
 Samir Gadio , a London-based  emerging markets  strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd., said today in an e-mailed response to
questions. “What is encouraging is that the authorities have
realized over time that the power sector would not be
qualitatively reformed as long as a public entity remained the
main player.”  Bids worth more than $700 million for five power plants
were also approved by the privatization council, after the
winners were announced on Sept. 25.  Other successful bids for power grids confirmed by the
council were by companies including Meralco Industrial
Engineering Services Corp., Aurecon Australia Group Ltd. and
Copperbelt Energy Corp., Calcutta Electric Supply Corp. and
Turkey’s Kayseri & Civari Elektrik TAS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  