-- Norway May Keep Interest Rate Unchanged on Krone
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-10-30T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/norway-may-keep-interest-rate-unchanged-on-krone.html
Norges Bank will probably keep
interest rates unchanged for a fourth meeting after the krone’s
strength pushed inflation below target and as policy makers in
 Europe  fail to end the region’s debt crisis.  The bank will leave its overnight deposit rate at 1.5
percent, according to all 14 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.
The decision is due to be announced at 2 p.m. today in Oslo.  Governor Oeystein Olsen is trying to balance policy to
guide an oil-driven expansion in Europe’s second-largest crude
exporter as house prices soar to records. The bank, which has
cut rates by 0.75 percentage point since December to keep the
krone in check, may signal it won’t be able to stick to its plan
to start tightening policy at the end of the year, according to
Kjersti Haugland, a senior economist at DNB ASA,  Norway ’s
largest bank.  “We’re looking for a lowering of the interest rate path
and we expect Norges Bank to postpone the timing of the first
hike until sometime in the second half of 2013,” Haugeland
said. The bank is unlikely to tighten earlier than that because
of “lower forward rates abroad, a stronger krone” and “lower-
than-expected inflation,” she said.  Norges Bank’s room to maneuver has been curtailed by
developments abroad as central bankers elsewhere resort to
stimulus to boost growth. The European Central Bank plans to
expand bond purchases as it struggles to contain the bloc’s
crisis, while the U.S. Federal Reserve has announced a third
round of quantitative easing. In neighboring  Sweden , the
Riksbank cut rates last month citing the fallout of Europe’s
crisis.  Rates Elsewhere  Falling rate expectations abroad have put pressure on the
krone, which has attracted investors seeking a haven from the
euro area’s debt crisis. Norway is backed by a $650 billion
sovereign-wealth fund and has no net debt. The country, like
Switzerland, has opted to stay outside the European Union.  “The main reason that we like Norway is the growth
opportunity,” Audrey Kaplan, who manages $532 million at
Federated InterContinental Fund, said by phone. “Whether you
look at corporate growth or economic growth, it is one of the
fastest growing developed economies.”  Kaplan has 12.4 percent of her portfolio in Norway.  Norway’s  mainland economy , which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will expand 3.7 percent this year and 2.9 percent in
2013, the government forecast in its budget last month. That
compares with a 0.3 percent contraction in the euro area,
according to a European Commission forecast.  Strong Krone  Norway’s  registered unemployment  fell to 2.3 percent in
September and wages will grow by more than 4 percent this year,
according to government forecasts.  The strong krone, which hit a nine-year high against the
euro in August, has kept  inflation  below the central bank’s 2.5
percent target since mid-2009. Annual underlying inflation,
which adjusts for taxes, fees and energy prices, slowed to 1.1
percent last month from 1.2 percent in August.  The krone, which has lost 2 percent against the euro since
the bank’s latest rate meeting on Aug. 29, is up about 4 percent
against Europe’s single currency since the end of 2011.  The currency gains have raised the cost of Norwegian
exports and in part forced companies such as the world’s second-
biggest newsprint maker  Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG)  and solar
company  Renewable Energy Corp. (REC)  ASA to cut jobs.  Government Stimulus  The government last month proposed stimulating economic
growth in its 2013 budget, adding to the central bank’s dilemma.
Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen plans to use 125.3 billion
kroner ($22 billion) of the country’s oil fund to plug deficits
in its spending plans.  Olsen earlier this year urged the government to tighten the
fiscal rule which limits the use of petroleum revenue to 4
percent of Norway’s wealth fund. He called for the rule to be
amended to 3 percent, as an over-reliance on oil and gas risks
killing jobs in the manufacturing sector.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  