-- Novartis’s Seebri Drug More Effective Twice Daily: EMA
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-10-30T14:47:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/novartis-s-seebri-drug-more-effective-twice-daily-ema.html
Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Seebri drug for
smoker’s cough may be more effective when given twice a day, a
finding that could put it at a disadvantage to Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH’s once-daily Spiriva lung treatment.  Information from a clinical trial suggests that taking 25
micrograms of Seebri twice a day may be better than taking 50
micrograms once a day, the European Medicines Agency said in an
Aug. 1 assessment report. The document is the first time the
details of the dosing study have been disclosed, Bloomberg
Industries analyst Sam Fazeli said in a note published today.  The inhaled drug, which Novartis licensed from  Vectura
Group Plc (VEC)  in 2005, may garner sales of $517.3 million by 2017,
according to the average of three analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. While patients taking the medicine once a day may be
more inclined to stick to the treatment, a twice-daily schedule
may be safer and more effective, the agency said in its report.
Seebri won approval in  Europe  as a once-daily treatment,
Novartis said Oct. 1.  “The once-daily regimen has a clearly demonstrated
efficacy and offers a benefit regarding patient compliance,”
the agency said.  Optimal Dosing  The European agency has asked for an additional study in
humans to find the optimal dosing schedule for the drug,
according to the document.  “This may explain why the FDA asked for more trials,”
Fazeli said in the note, referring to the U.S. drug regulator.
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s umeclidinium also has data showing it may
be better twice daily, he wrote.  The Swiss company said last year that marketing approval
for the treatment in the U.S. would be delayed after the  Food
and Drug Administration  requested more data on Seebri.  These new studies “will further explore the efficacy of
once-daily Seebri Breezhaler as a COPD treatment and will also
explore the efficacy of a twice-daily regimen of the same total
daily dose,”  Eric Althoff , a spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  Novartis is still developing the trial protocols and
expects results of these studies three to five years after their
approval, Althoff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  