-- Novartis to Resolve Texas, U.S. Eczema Drug Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-30T18:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/novartis-to-resolve-texas-u-s-eczema-drug-probe.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  agreed to pay $19.9
million to the U.S. and Texas in settlement of claims it
unlawfully marketed Elidel, a topical cream used to treat
eczema.  “Evidence uncovered by the state revealed that Novartis
improperly urged physicians to prescribe Elidel to children
under two years of age for purposes that had not been approved
by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,” Texas Attorney
General  Greg Abbott  said today in a statement.  As a result, the state’s Medicaid program “overpaid” for
those prescriptions, he said.  The company also failed to disclose known harmful side
effects associated with the medicine, including a risk of
cancer, according to the attorney general.  Julie Masow, a spokeswoman for Basel, Switzerland-based
Novartis, acknowledged the accord in a statement e-mailed to
 Bloomberg News .  “We deny the allegations by Texas but are pleased to have
this matter behind us,” Masow said. Novartis said it would sell
global manufacturing and marketing rights to the medicine to
 Meda AB (MEDAA)  for $420 million, in April of last year.  Medicaid is a joint state and federal program. Novartis’s
payment will be divided among  Texas , which will get $6.6
million, the U.S. and the whistle-blower who Abbott said
uncovered the alleged conduct.  The U.S. Justice Department press office didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment.  A copy of the settlement agreement obtained from Abbott’s
office identifies the whistle-blower as Donald R. Galmines.  An attorney for Galmines, Jennifer Verkamp of Cincinnati’s
Morgan Verkamp LLC, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
message seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  