-- Nymphs Mix With Bohemians in Lely’s Sensual Art: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-10-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/nymphs-mix-with-bohemians-in-lely-s-sensual-art-martin-gayford.html
Nudity, poetry, music and pleasure
are not necessarily words you’d associate with the puritan
regime of Oliver Cromwell.  Yet an engaging show at  London ’s  Courtauld Gallery  --
“Peter Lely: A Lyrical Vision” (through Jan. 13, 2013) --
demonstrates that some of the most sensual, hedonistic, if not
downright indecent images in British art were produced during
the Civil War and the Commonwealth, the first and (to date) only
English republic.  Their painter Peter Lely (1618-1680) was a Dutch artist
from Haarlem who migrated to London in the early 1640s, just as
the fighting between Charles I and Parliament was hotting up.
His work is usually associated with the dissolute reign of
Charles II, after the monarchy’s restoration in 1660.  In later life, however, Lely worked mainly, and
prolifically, as a portraitist. While Cromwell is said to have
asked Lely to paint him with “pimples, warts and everything as
you see me,” most other sitters wanted to appear fashionably
good-looking. So as the poet Dryden quipped, Lely “drew many
graceful pictures, but few of them were like.”  At the same time, Lely produced bucolic idylls with naked
nymphs, rustic music makers, and, in one case, a combination of
the two. He lived in  Covent Garden , in a square that would later
become Soho: raffish, bohemian and the heart of the city’s
artistic life. He mixed with writers such as the poet Richard
Lovelace, who dedicated two poems to his friend “Mr. Pet.
Lilly.”  Clunky Pictures  The earlier pictures in this exhibition are clunky, if
charming: Lely improved with time. “A Boy as a Shepherd”
(c.1658-60) and “Nymphs by a Fountain” (c. 1654) are
masterpieces of British art. The latter, however, with its
ostensibly underage models and a nude who points her bottom at
the viewer, hints at the sordid reality of low life in
republican London.  An earlier moment in 17th-century Britain is the focus of a
fine exhibition at the  National Portrait Gallery . Heir to James
I of  England  (and James VI of  Scotland ), Henry Stuart died in
November 1612, just before his 19th birthday.  The sudden passing of this glamorous and popular royal --
probably from typhoid contracted while swimming in the filthy
 River Thames  -- caused a shock not unlike the one produced four
centuries later by the death of  Princess Diana .  It also fueled speculation as to what might have been if
Henry, Prince of  Wales , had come to the throne as King Henry IX.  Sceptical Scholar  In a catalog essay, the historian Malcolm Smuts pours
scholarly cold water on all the conjecture. He’s right: It’s
impossible to say what this energetic teenager might have done
as monarch over a decade later.  It’s still hard to resist the thought that he might not
have made as much of a hash of things as his younger, less
confident, and less gifted brother Charles. British and even
world history might have taken a different turn: no civil war,
no Westminster-style democracy.  Henry did have an impact on geopolitics: as a strong
supporter of the English colony in  Virginia . (That’s why the
point where the Virginia Company’s fleet landed on the southern
mouth of Chesapeake Bay in 1607 was named “Cape Henry”).  On display is an evocative array of portraits, armor, and
items from Henry’s collection of art -- including, touchingly, a
bronze statuette of a “Pacing Horse” by Pietro Tacca (c. 1600)
which the Prince loved and held as he lay dying.  “ Peter Lely: A Lyrical Vision ” is at the Courtauld
Gallery through Jan. 13, 2013. “ The Lost Prince: The Life and
Death of Henry Stuart ” is at the  National Portrait Gallery ,
also through Jan. 13, 2013.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market,
Ladka Bauerova on Prague dining and Jeffrey Burke on  books .  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 