-- NYU Hospital Knew Generators Subpar Before Storm, Cohn Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r ,   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-10-30T21:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/nyu-hospital-knew-generators-subpar-before-evacuation-cohn-says.html
New York University Hospital’s board
of directors knew that generators at NYU Langone Medical Center
were outdated and at risk before their failure during  Hurricane
Sandy  forced patients to evacuate, said Gary Cohn, a trustee.  The facility’s backup generators “are not state-of-the-art
and not in the most state-of-the-art location,” Cohn, who is
also president of New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  “That is all very well-known by the board of directors of
NYU and in fact we are undergoing a $3 billion renovation of the
entire hospital facility to completely modernize it to ensure we
would have backup power forever,” he said.  The Lower Manhattan hospital began evacuating patients to
other medical facilities late yesterday after the storm
interrupted power and the backup system failed. Evacuations
continued today.  “The one thing we had not counted on,  New York 
University’s hospital backup power, in spite of them ensuring us
that it’s been tested, stopped working, and we’re working with
them to help move people out,” New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said yesterday at a news conference.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  “I am very concerned; a hospital the size and importance
of NYU is a mainstay of New York City,” Cohn said. “When you
are going through a natural disaster, obviously medical care is
a crucial component.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  