-- Obama Is the Least Bad Choice U.S. Voters Can Make
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-10-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/obama-is-the-least-bad-choice-u-s-voters-can-make.html
With a week to go and  Hurricane
Sandy  bringing fresh uncertainty and new opportunities for
gaffes, the U.S. presidential election still looks tied. Last
week, I argued that the contest need not have been this close,
that  Barack Obama  could have won comfortably if he’d governed
and campaigned as the centrist he said he was in 2008 and not
the thwarted progressive he turned out to be.  This week, I want to argue that despite this failure Obama
is still a better choice than  Mitt Romney .  The incumbent has achievements to be proud of. The fiscal
stimulus, flawed as it was, helped prevent what would have been
an even worse recession. Obama’s signature initiative, health-
care reform, addresses the most egregious failure of American
public policy: the country’s inability to insure all its people
against illness, something just about every other advanced
economy has managed to do. The Affordable Care Act is flawed,
just as the stimulus was flawed, but it upholds a vital
principle. It should be built on, not repealed.  Sadly, in domestic policy as in foreign policy, the
president led from behind, and health-care reform never had the
champion it needed. It remains unpopular, hence capable of being
undone by a Republican president and a Republican-dominated
Congress. If you hope to see the health-care reform survive with
improvements, as I do, that’s reason in itself to support Obama,
as disappointing as his failure to lock the policy down might
be.  Obama’s biggest mistake was to abandon his efforts -- never
very strenuous -- to work with his Republican opponents or,
failing that, to expose them as irresponsible extremists. To do
this, as I explained last week, he had to occupy the center that
the Republicans had vacated. Instead, despite the Democrats’
drubbing in 2010, he tacked left, further polarizing the
country. In this he probably followed his instincts. Unlike Bill Clinton, a centrist by conviction, Obama’s intellectual loyalty
is to the progressive wing of his party. His campaign’s class-
war anti-capitalist rhetoric -- not a great vote-winner in the
U.S., even after the Great Contraction -- has seemed all too
sincere.  In that complaint, of course, lies the case for Romney. The
disinterred former governor of  Massachusetts  stands close to the
U.S. political center of gravity. Would he take up the
opportunity Obama missed, and bridge the divide in Washington?  Somebody needs to try. For the past four years, Democrats
and Republicans in Congress have settled for talking past each
other and past much of the country, too, advancing rival
fantasies of a transformed country that few Americans actually
want. One vision is collectivist, stressing redistribution and a
permanently enlarged role for government; the other is radically
individualist, seeking to eviscerate the federal government and
roll back the welfare state. Activists on both sides may be all
fired up, as Obama likes to say. The rest of the U.S. despairs.  Most voters, I’m convinced, want to see the U.S. mended,
not transformed. If I’m right, more ballots will be cast next
week to block the outcome that voters fear most than to affirm a
future they actually support. Both campaigns -- especially
Obama’s -- have been directed to this end. Whatever the outcome,
therefore, this election will deliver no mandate. That’s the
price of polarization, a measure of  Washington ’s failure, and it
points to continued deadlock: a clash of grand ideologies
signifying nothing, leaving the country’s eminently fixable
problems unaddressed.  Could Romney be the answer? It’s possible. Critics say he’s
a man without conviction. In my view, that’s his main advantage:
Washington already has a surfeit of true believers, and the last
thing the country needs is one of either stripe in the White
House.  If the real Romney is the former governor of Massachusetts,
as I suspect, not the man who campaigned for the GOP nomination,
he would fit the bill. His audacious pivot from the severe
conservative of the primaries to the pragmatic moderate who
turned up for the first presidential debate suggests he
understands what the country, as opposed to his party, is
looking for: a manager, a fixer, a consensus-builder, a maker of
deals.  To be that president, however, Romney would have to be
willing to thwart the ambitions of Republicans in Congress. That
won’t be easy. He’s promised to start dismantling the Affordable
Care Act -- the national equivalent of his own Romneycare -- on
Day One. He can’t easily go back on that. He’s also adopted the
mindless Republican opposition to any and all tax increases,
despite knowing that higher revenues will be needed to get
 public borrowing  back under control.  President Romney might want to swing all the way back to
Massachusetts moderate. I can even imagine him hoping for
Democrats to do well in the 2014 mid-terms, to make this easier.
But in 2013 he would at least have to go through the motions of
making common cause with Republicans in Congress. That’s an
alarming prospect. If the choice is between an empowered
Republican party in its present radicalized form and continued
paralysis, I’d reluctantly choose paralysis.  Whatever America decides, there will be little to celebrate
on Nov. 7. The country’s politics are broken. Obama has claimed
during the campaign that if he’s re-elected, the Republican
fever will abate and the deadlock in Washington will give way to
productive engagement. Rubbish. Suppose Obama wins narrowly --
the best he can hope for, if polls are to be believed -- and a
Republican majority is returned to the House. Things will stand
much as they have for the past two years. When such an outcome
is the best that can be expected, it’s hard to be optimistic
about the country’s prospects.  I want Obama to win. Even if he does, I’ll need a drink to
drown my sorrows.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax initiatives on
 California ’s ballot and on why  you shouldn’t read too much into
the jobs report ; Peter Orszag on a tax refund that could  solve
the fiscal-cliff impasse;  Part three of A. Gary Shilling’s
series on who loses when the  Fed keeps interest rates low ; Part
one of Virginia Postrel’s series on  missteps by breast-cancer
charities ; Tim Judah on the  rise of the far-right party Svoboda
in Ukraine .  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 