-- Office Depot Adopts Poison Pill as Starboard Buys Stake
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-10-30T21:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/office-depot-adopts-poison-pill-as-starboard-buys-stake.html
Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  approved an anti-
takeover defense about six weeks after activist investor
Starboard Value LP became its largest shareholder and started
pushing for changes.  The second-largest U.S. office-supply chain passed a
shareholder rights plan that would give its investors additional
shares if one entity surpasses 15 percent ownership, according
to a statement today. Starboard owned 14.8 percent of the Boca
Raton, Florida-based retailer as of Oct. 12.  The so-called poison pill is designed to protect all
stockholders “against potential acquirers who may seek to take
advantage of the company and its stockholders through coercive
and unfair tactics aimed at gaining control of the company
without paying all stockholders a full and fair price,”
according to the statement.  Starboard Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Smith  wrote in a
letter to Office Depot CEO Neil Austrian on Sept. 17 that the
retailer’s “poor operating performance” has hurt the shares.
Office Depot should move to smaller stores and reduce the number
of items it sells, he said. The chain also should cut general
expenses and “significantly” lower advertising costs, Smith
said.  The retailer, which has about 1,680 locations worldwide,
has posted four straight years of falling  sales  and a net loss
of $57.4 million last quarter. Office Depot,  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  and
OfficeMax Inc. are facing more competition from online retailers
such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  while selling fewer traditional supplies
as more workers use computers, tablets and smartphones.  Office Depot had gained 11 percent this year through Oct.
26, the last day of trading before markets closed as a result of
 Hurricane Sandy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  