-- Oil Rises From Lowest Level Since July After Superstorm
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-10-30T20:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/oil-rises-from-lowest-level-since-july-after-superstorm.html
Oil rose from the lowest level in
almost four months in New York on speculation that demand will
soon rebound after Atlantic superstorm Sandy made landfall on
the U.S. East Coast.  Futures gained after the storm came ashore in southern New
Jersey late yesterday and drove floodwaters to life-threatening
levels in a region with 60 million residents.  Phillips 66 (PSX) ,  Hess
Corp. (HES) ,  NuStar Energy LP (NS)  and  PBF Energy Inc. (PBF)  reduced refinery
operations because of Sandy.  “Most of the refineries should soon be back to normal
operations, which will increase demand for crude,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in
Winchester,  Massachusetts . “It also looks like the storm will
have a relatively small impact on fuel demand.”  Crude oil for December delivery rose 14 cents to settle at
$85.68 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Yesterday’s
settlement of $85.54 was the lowest since July 10. Prices are
down 13 percent this year.  Floor trading was suspended for a second day on the Nymex
because of the storm, CME Group Inc., the exchange’s owner, said
in an e-mail. Electronic trading is operating normally.  Prices were little changed after the industry-funded
 American Petroleum Institute  reported  oil inventories  climbed
2.12 million barrels last week to 371.7 million. Oil was up 10
cents at $85.64 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:33 p.m.  New
York  time.  Brent Market  Brent oil for December settlement slipped 36 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $109.08 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude’s premium to West
Texas Intermediate contract narrowed to $23.40 after widening
for the previous six sessions.  Six East Coast refineries curbed production because of
Sandy, accounting for 1.22 million barrels of the area’s crude-
processing capacity of 1.29 million barrels a day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The storm may cut the region’s
gasoline supplies to the lowest level since at least 1990, based
on Energy Department data.  “The refineries were shut in a systematic way, which
should allow them to restart in an organized fashion,” said
 Kyle Cooper , director of commodities research at IAF Advisors in
Houston. “They just have to wait for the power to come back on
and then we should see then back running.”  Sandy, now termed a post-tropical cyclone packing maximum
sustained winds of 45 miles (72 kilometers) per hour, was
centered 145 miles west of Philadelphia at 11 a.m. local time,
according to the  National Weather Service . The storm was moving
west at 10 mph and was expected to weaken steadily over the next
two days and move north into western New York state today. The
cyclone will reach Canada tomorrow.  Fuel Prices  Gasoline for November delivery declined 2.8 cents, or 1
percent, to end the session at $2.7288 a gallon in New York.
November heating oil dropped 2.86 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
settle at $3.0866 a gallon.  New York,  New Jersey , Baltimore,  Long Island , Delaware Bay
and Connecticut ports were closed to vessel traffic by the U.S.
Coast Guard, halting tanker deliveries that help supply the
region’s refineries with crude.  “We’re seeing a retracement of what’s occurred over the
last couple days,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “Crude
was down and the products were up yesterday and we’re seeing the
opposite today on expectations that the refineries will soon be
back up and the ports will soon reopen for tankers.”  Colonial Pipeline  Colonial Pipeline Co., which operates the largest system
connecting the U.S. Gulf Coast and the Eastern Seaboard, shut
delivery lines as terminals in  Virginia ,  Maryland , New Jersey
and New York stopped operations.  The U.S.  Energy Information Administration  said it will
postpone the release of its weekly report on oil stockpiles and
production from tomorrow because of storm-related delays. The
data may be published Nov. 1, the Energy Department’s
statistical unit in Washington said in an e-mailed statement.  Trading volume was 195,181 contracts as of 4:34 p.m. Volume
totaled 306,145 contracts yesterday, 42 percent below the three-
month average. Open interest was 1.59 million, the highest level
since Sept. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  