-- Oil Trades Near Four-Month Low as Sandy Shuts Refineries
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-10-30T14:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/oil-declines-to-three-month-low-as-u-s-refineries-shut-on-sandy.html
Oil rose from a four-month low in
New York as better-than-expected company earnings bolstered
confidence that economic recovery will support fuel demand.  West Texas Intermediate crude climbed as much as 0.8
percent as European equities advanced after results from  BP Plc (BP/) 
and Deutsche Bank AG beat analyst estimates. Prices fell earlier
after Phillips 66,  Hess Corp. (HES) ,  NuStar Energy LP (NS)  and PBF Energy
Inc. reduced refinery operations on the U.S. East Coast because
of Atlantic storm Sandy. Gasoline dropped from a two-week high.  “We do not see much downside risk for oil demand,” said
 Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in London. The impact of Sandy is “mildly bearish”
for crude prices, he said.  WTI for December delivery increased as much as 70 cents to
$86.24 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and traded for $85.95 at 10:14 a.m. local time. The
contract closed at $85.54 yesterday, the lowest since July 10.
Floor trading will be suspended for a second day on the Nymex
because of the storm, CME Group Inc., the exchange’s owner, said
in an e-mail.  Brent for December settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slipped 20 cents to $109.24 a barrel.
The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $23.36 to the
WTI contract. The spread widened for a sixth day yesterday to
$23.90, near the most in more than a year.  Gasoline for November delivery in  New York  was down 5.29
cents at $2.7039 a gallon. Prices rose 2.1 percent to close at
$2.7568 yesterday, the highest since Oct. 17.  Floor Trading  BP, Europe’s second-biggest oil company, raised its
dividend after earnings topped forecasts, and Deutsche Bank,
Germany’s largest lender, said profit unexpectedly rose as
investment-banking revenue exceeded targets.  Floor trading on the Nymex was suspended yesterday because
of Sandy and will be halted again today, CME Group Inc., the
owner of the exchange, said in an e-mailed statement. Electronic
trading is operating normally.  Six refineries curbed production because of Sandy,
accounting for 1.22 million barrels of the area’s crude-
processing capacity of 1.29 million barrels a day, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The storm may cut East Coast
gasoline supplies to the lowest since at least 1990, based on
Energy Department data.  Cyclone Sandy  Sandy, now termed a post-tropical cyclone packing maximum
sustained winds of 65 miles (105 kilometers) per hour, down from
75 mph earlier, was centered 15 miles east of York,
Pennsylvania, according to an advisory released at 5 a.m. by the
Maryland-based  Hydrometeorological Prediction Center .  New York,  New Jersey , Baltimore, Long Island, Delaware Bay
and Connecticut ports were closed to vessel traffic by the U.S.
Coast Guard, halting tanker deliveries that help supply the
region’s refineries with crude.  Colonial Pipeline Co., which operates the largest system
connecting the U.S. Gulf Coast and the eastern seaboard, began
shutting delivery lines along the East Coast as terminals in
 Virginia ,  Maryland , New Jersey and New York stopped operations.
The company planned to close Line 3, an 825,000 barrel-a-day
link running to Linden from Greensboro,  North Carolina , at 7
p.m. New York time yesterday, a bulletin to shippers showed.  The U.S.  Energy Information Administration  said it will
postpone the release of its weekly report on oil stockpiles and
production from tomorrow because of storm-related delays. The
data may be published Nov. 1, the Energy Department’s
statistical unit in  Washington  said in an e-mailed statement.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release its weekly
report on supply and demand at the usual time of 4:30 p.m. in
Washington today, and will alert subscribers if it decides to
delay the data, spokesman Carlton Carroll said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  