-- Tokai Rika to Pay $17.7 Million Fine for Price Fixing
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-30T16:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/tokai-rika-to-pay-17-7-million-fine-for-price-fixing.html
Tokai Rika Co. (6995)  will plead guilty to
criminal charges and pay a $17.7 million fine for conspiring to
fix prices of heater control panels installed in cars sold in
the U.S. and elsewhere, the U.S. Justice Department said.  Tokai Rika, based in Nagoya,  Japan , in a filing today in
federal court in  Detroit , was charged with one count of
conspiracy to restrain trade and one count of obstruction of
justice. Heater control panels are located in the center console
of an automobile and regulate the temperature of the interior
environment of a vehicle.  “They knew their actions would harm American consumers,
and attempted to cover it up when caught. The division will
continue to hold accountable companies who engage in
anticompetitive conduct and who obstruct  law enforcement ,”
Scott D. Hammond, the head of criminal enforcement in the
department’s antitrust division, said in an e-mailed statement.  Tokai Rika is among nine companies that have pleaded guilty
or agreed to plead guilty in the Obama administration’s ongoing
investigation into price fixing and bid rigging in the auto
parts industry, according to the department. Eleven executives
have also pleaded guilty and received prison sentences of one to
two years. More than $790 million in fines have been imposed,
according to the department.  A person who answered the phone at the company’s Plymouth,
Michigan, office said Tokai Rika will post a statement on the
case on its website later today. She said she was instructed to
not give her name.  Toyota Sales  Tokai Rika engaged in a conspiracy by agreeing during
meetings and conversations to rig bids and fix prices for heater
control panels sold to Toyota in the U.S. and elsewhere, on a
model-by-model basis, according to the court filing. Tokai Rika
and its co-conspirators carried out the scheme from at least as
early as September 2003 until at least February 2010, according
to the filing.  “The conspirators used code names and chose meeting
places and times to avoid detection,” Hammond said.  The case is U.S. v. Tokai Rika Co., 12-cr-20711, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 