-- Hollande Ducks as French Industry Bleeds Jobs
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-10-31T11:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hollande-faces-competitiveness-calls-amid-job-cuts.html
Renault SA (RNO)  says if President
Francois Hollande wants more cars built in  France , he needs to
tackle the country’s high labor costs and rigid work rules.  France’s second-largest carmaker, which is based near Paris
and 15 percent owned by the government, built fewer than a
quarter of the 2.83 million cars that rolled off its assembly
lines last year  in France . With plants around the world, Renault
makes its Clio hatchback in  Turkey  and is ramping up production
at a new 1 billion-euro ($1.29 billion) factory in  Morocco .  “Making the same Clio IV in France rather than in our
Turkish plant is 1,300 euros more expensive and half of the gap
is due to labor costs,” Chief Operating Officer Carlos Tavares
said. “Within Renault, the French plants are the weakest. It’s
not only a matter of cost, it’s a matter of flexibility.”  For Socialist President Hollande, confronting such
grievances from French industry by introducing a more flexible
workplace environment would put him at odds with his base among
unions. At the same time, not addressing the competitiveness
concerns of business leaders risks worsening an economic climate
that is resulting in thousands of job cuts at companies from
carmaker PSA Peugeot Citroen and Air France-KLM to drug-maker
Sanofi, driving  unemployment  to a 13-year high.  On Nov. 5, Louis Gallois, former head of Airbus SAS parent
European Aeronautic Defence and Space Co., will deliver a
government-commissioned report on making France more
competitive. Hollande’s pledge to stem job losses will be tested
by how far he is willing to go with the report.  Nothing New  His decisions also will be noted for their contrast with
neighboring Spain and  Italy , which are dramatically
restructuring their economies to cope with  Europe ’s debt crisis
as it enters its fourth year.  The significance of the Gallois report is as much political
as it is economic. His diagnosis of why France had a record 73
billion-euro trade deficit last year and has failed to grow for
at least three quarters may not vary significantly from previous
reports, like the one delivered by Jacques Attali to Nicolas Sarkozy eight months into his presidency in January 2008.  “Everyone agrees that France has a problem of cost
competitiveness at a time when Spain and other peripheral
countries are cutting wages,” said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief
economist at Exane BNP Paribas in  London . “French governments
have been looking for ways to cut labor costs for 10 years.”  With his  popularity slumping , the challenge for Hollande is
to use Gallois’s recommendations to steer French unions and
employers on to a path that will spur growth without generating
social unrest.  Tempering Expectations  Protests have derailed previous reforms, like when former
President Jacques Chirac attempted to trim public sector
retirement benefits in 1995.  Companies are concerned that a consensual approach may
amount to lack of action. Gallois said as early as July that
France needs a “competitiveness shock” with a 50 billion-euro
cut in payroll taxes to make French exports more attractive.  Hollande and his government, meanwhile, have sought to
temper expectations. He said last week that he prefers the word
“pact” and his Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault told
businesses they should instead watch the government’s
“direction.” Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said today that
a shock risks dividing the nation.  “I was very disappointed to hear about a competitiveness
trajectory rather than a competitiveness shock,” Bruno Cercley,
chairman of ski-maker Groupe Rossignol, said at a L’Usine
Nouvelle magazine conference on Oct. 17. “There’s a really
urgent situation. I see a huge concern among business leaders.”  ‘Different Planets’  Cercley was speaking barely a week after thousands of
French workers demonstrated across the country against
Hollande’s plans to trim the deficit and make labor laws more
flexible.  “The key question is whether employers and trade unions
can reach agreement,” said  Antonio Barroso , an analyst at
Eurasia Group in London. “Right now they seem to be on
different planets.”  The political sensitivity of the labor issues was
demonstrated by a report in Le Parisien newspaper last week that
said Gallois would recommend that Hollande drop a decade-old law
that limits the official work week to 35 hours. Prime Minister
Jean-Marc Ayrault’s office issued an immediate denial.  Asked again about the 35-hour law, Ayrault said in
yesterday’s Le Parisien newspaper that “nothing is taboo,” a
comment that met with immediate opposition from the CFDT union,
which has frequently supported the government.  Unions’ ‘Non’  “There is no question of reconsidering the length of the
work week, let that be clear,” CFDT General Secretary Francois Chereque said on France Info radio. “If the government wants to
see the CFDT angry, this is the subject to raise,” he said.  Less than an hour later, Ayrault was on the radio promising
to keep the measure that is in part blamed for France’s
declining share of European exports. Scrapping the law was among
Attali’s recommendations almost five years ago.  Still, after meeting with officials from the International
Monetary Fund and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development this week, which are both preparing their own
reports on the French economy, Hollande promised not to bury
Gallois’s report.  “Nothing will be excluded, everything will be addressed,
everything will be on the table,” he told journalists after the
meeting in Paris. “Decisions will be taken. We will assume our
responsibilities.”  Borrowing Costs  Hollande’s cautious approach may make sense as long as he
delivers on pledges over his five-year mandate, economists say.  “I would prefer the government do something gradual and
sensible rather than jumping at headline-grabbing measures that
get reversed after six months because they’re politically or
socially unacceptable,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “It doesn’t need to
yield results immediately as long as investors and the corporate
sector get the sense things are going in the right direction.”  For now, bond investors show little sign of concern. French
borrowing costs have dropped on Hollande’s watch, with the yield
on France’s benchmark 10-year debt declining to a record low of
2.002 percent on Aug. 3.  It was at 2.23 percent today. The  premium  France pays over
Germany to borrow for 10 years is less than half of what it was
in November last year. France today sold 4.37 billion euros in
10-year debt at lower yields than at its last auction.  Political Courage  For companies, the situation may be more urgent. With
French labor costs up about 19 percent in a decade and
neighboring  Germany ’s holding almost constant, France’s share of
euro-area exports has dropped by 3.5 percent, more than any
other country in the region, according to a study by research
group Coe-Rexecode in Paris.  Over the period, operating margins of French companies have
shrunk by almost 40 percent, limiting their ability to invest
and sustain future growth, figures from the Groupe des
Federations Industrielles show. The operating margins of German
companies have gained about 40 percent, the GFI report said.  In many ways, the situation in the auto industry is
emblematic. About 2 million cars are now produced in France,
down from 3.5 million in 2005 and employment by car
manufacturers has dropped by 30 percent in a decade, the
government  estimates . The question is whether Hollande is ready
to do what it takes to reverse that drop.  So far “the government’s diagnosis of the roots and
consequences of the crisis is on the mark,” Exane’s Beffy said.
The problem is “it has lacked the political courage to
implement the structural reforms that are needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  