-- Home Prices in 20 U.S. Cities Rise by Most in Two Years: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-10-30T14:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-increase-by-most-in-two-years.html
Residential real-estate prices
 increased  in the year ended August by the most in two years, a
sign housing will continue to boost U.S. economic growth.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
rose 2 percent from August 2011, the biggest year-to-year gain
since July 2010, after climbing 1.2 percent the prior month, the
group said today in New York. The median  forecast  of 25
economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a 1.9 percent gain.  The stabilization in values is rippling through the economy
after the housing slump helped trigger the recession, supporting
gains in  consumer confidence  and spending that are benefitting
companies such as  Lowe’s Cos. Inc. (LOW)  and  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  Federal
Reserve policy makers have promised to keep  interest rates  low
through mid 2015 to spur growth and reduce unemployment.  “The housing recovery has had modest momentum,” said
 Anika Khan , a senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
Charlotte, North Carolina, a subsidiary of the largest U.S.
mortgage lender. “We still are looking for housing improvement
and think that trend will continue.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from gains of 1.5
percent to 3.1 percent. The Case-Shiller index is based on a
three-month average, which means the August data were influenced
by transactions in June and July.  All U.S. equity markets are closed again today in the
aftermath of Sandy, the Atlantic superstorm that slammed into
the East Coast. It was the first shutdown for stock markets in
consecutive days due to weather since 1888. The Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association said bond trading
will also be suspended today.  German Unemployment  Elsewhere today, the number of unemployed in Germany rose
twice as much as economists forecast in October and the jobless
rate climbed for the first time in three years.  In  Asia , the  Bank of Japan  expanded its asset-purchase
program for the second time in two months amid mounting evidence
that the economy contracted last quarter.  U.S.  home prices  adjusted for seasonal variations increased
0.5 percent in August from the prior month, with 19 of 20 cities
showing gains, today’s Case-Shiller report showed.  Seattle  was
the exception, showing a 0.1 percent decline. Unadjusted prices
climbed 0.9 percent.  The softening in unadjusted prices that typically happens
starting around this time of year as sales cool may be
exacerbated in the short-run by Sandy, said Khan.  Northeast Pullback  “We could see in the Northeast in particular a little bit
of a pullback in home sales,” Khan said. “The month-to-month
declines are going to be because of the seasonally slow” time
of year, she said.  Lenders may put transactions on hold in the affected areas
until the properties can be inspected for damage, said  David
Stevens , president of the  Mortgage Bankers Association . Homes in
seven states valued at almost $88 billion were at risk of having
been damaged, according to a report by CoreLogic Inc., a
mortgage software and data firm in  Irvine ,  California .  The year-over-year  gauge  provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller group. The
panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Seventeen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year gain, led by an 18.8 percent increase in Phoenix. Atlanta
led declines, with a 6.1 percent drop.  “The sustained good news in home prices over the past five
months makes us optimistic for continued recovery in the housing
market,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the index committee, said
in a statement.  Confidence Improves  The pickup may be helping gain confidence. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment gauge advanced this
month to the highest level since September 2007, before the
recession began.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
gross domestic product, rose 0.8 percent in September, the most
since February, Commerce Department data showed yesterday.  A drop in borrowing costs to record lows, thanks in part to
the Fed’s open-ended commitment to purchase $40 billion of
mortgage debt a month, may continue to buoy the housing market.
The average rate on a 30-year, fixed-rate loan was at 3.41
percent last week compared with 3.36 percent in early October
that was the lowest in data going back to 1972, according to
 Freddie Mac .  Americans bought new homes in September at the fastest pace
in two years, the Commerce Department reported last week, with
demand up 27.1 percent from a year ago.  Shares of Benton Harbor, Michigan-based Whirlpool, the
world’s largest appliance maker, reached their highest in more
than two years this month after the company raised its 2012
earnings forecast.  “We continue to see some early but consistent signs of
housing recovery, which makes us increasingly optimistic about a
more structural-demand recovery,” Marc Bitzer, president of
Whirlpool  North America , said during an Oct. 23 earnings call.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  