-- TomTom Lowers Sales Forecast as Demand From Carmakers Drops
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-10-30T09:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/tomtom-lowers-revenue-guidance-as-demand-from-carmakers-declines.html
TomTom NV (TOM2) , the Dutch supplier of
navigation applications for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone 5, lowered its
prediction for sales this year after declining revenue from
carmakers, sending its shares down the most in a month.  “We’re facing a very weak demand situation in  Europe  in
automotive,” Chief Executive Officer Harold Goddijn said in a
conference call today, adding TomTom expects automotive revenue
to remain pressured in the coming quarters. The company now
forecasts sales of around 1.05 billion euros ($1.36 billion)
against 1.10 billion euros previously. Amsterdam-based TomTom
maintained its forecast for adjusted earnings per share of
around 35 cents.  The market for portable navigation devices has plummeted in
North America and Europe since the introduction of the iPhone in
2007 and is expected to shrink to $950 million by 2019 from $9.6
billion in 2008, when revenues and unit shipments peaked,
according to Strategy Analytics. Price erosion for devices has
halted, Goddijn said, adding market volumes will decline again
next year.  Automotive Weaker  Automotive sales dropped 16 percent in the third quarter to
49 million euros and were “weaker than expected, mainly because
Renault isn’t doing well at all”, Maurits Heldring, an analyst
at ABN Amro said by phone.  TomTom shares dropped as much as 4.6 percent, the biggest
intraday fall since Sept. 28, and were 3.1 percent lower at 3.73
euros as of 10:15 a.m. in Amsterdam, reducing the market value
to 827 million euros. The mapmaker has lost more than 90 percent
of its value since the introduction of the iPhone.  Consumer revenue dropped to 172 million euros from 225
million euros a year earlier, as the market for portable
navigation devices declined.  Net income declined to 22.2 million euros from 28.9 million
euros a year earlier, the company said. Four analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg estimated profit of 18 million euros on average.
Sales fell 19 percent to 274 million euros, compared with an
average estimate of 282 million euros of seven analysts.  The maker of consumer navigation equipment is developing
systems for vehicles and mapping software for smartphones to
combat declining demand for its traditional GPS products. Apple
included the TomTom’s application as part of the new iOS 6
software in September.  TomTom shares rose 18 percent in the week to Oct. 19 after
SNS-analyst Martijn den Drijver suggested the founders,
including Goddijn, could bid for the company using financing
from Cupertino, California-based Apple. The CEO said today in an
interview that TomTom’s strategy is to remain independent.  “Martijn den Drijver has done a good job with his report,
but it really is on his account,” Goddijn, who declined to
comment on a delisting scenario, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  