-- Hon Hai Net Climbs on Efficiency Gains, Reversed Charged
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-10-31T04:34:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hon-hai-nine-month-net-profit-rises-to-nt-57-8-billion.html
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of electronics, posted a
bigger-than-expected profit as investment losses were overturned
and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  paid more for the iPhone’s  manufacture .  Third-quarter  net income  climbed 58 percent to NT$30.3
billion ($1 billion), according to Bloomberg calculations based
on nine-month results filed to the Taiwan Stock Exchange
yesterday evening. The average of 13 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was for a profit of NT$23.4 billion.  Hon Hai, the Taipei-listed flagship of Foxconn Technology
Group, benefited from a reversal of losses on a planned
investment in Sharp Corp. and improved efficiency at new plants.
Increased payments from Apple helped offset the difficulty of
making its iPhone 5 that led to labor unrest and product
shortages.  “Apple’s subsidies to Hon Hai were key to them improving
profits for the quarter given how complicated the new model has
been to produce and the fact they made about the same amount of
iPhones as the previous quarter,” said Vincent Chen who
upgraded the stock to  buy  from hold at Yuanta Financial Holding
Co. in Taipei. “Continued generosity from Apple is unclear and
would be a factor in Hon Hai’s profitability this quarter.”  Stock Gains  Shares of Hon Hai added 1.8 percent to NT$89.60 as of 12:23
p.m. in Taipei, the highest in almost a month, while the
benchmark  Taiex (TWSE)  fell 0.2 percent. The stock has climbed 19
percent this year, outpacing the Taiex’s 1.4 percent advance.  Parent-level sales climbed 6.8 percent to NT$711 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nine-month net income
rose to NT$57.8 billion on parent revenue of NT$2.23 trillion,
the company said in an exchange filing.  Foxconn in August raised pay more than 16 percent, halved
the probation period for new workers and offered a peak-season
bonus equal to 11 percent of base salary at its factory in
Zhengzhou in north-central  China  that assembles iPhones. Those
increases were funded by Apple, Yuanta’s Chen said.  An Apple quality-control crackdown aimed at cutting the
number of iPhone 5s shipped with scratches reduced output and
led to disputes between production and quality-assurance
workers, a person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News
this month.  Workers went on strike and output was halted as
manufacturing employees protested the tighter rules and quality-
control teams were instructed to enforce the tougher standards.  More than 5 million iPhone 5s were sold in the opening
weekend of sales, which started Sept. 21, Apple  said  last month.
Demand exceeded supply, it said at the time.  Apple Forecasts  Apple, which contracts Foxconn to make its iPhones and
iPads, reported a  gross margin  last week of 40 percent for the
three months through September, its lowest in seven quarters, an
indication it’s paying more for components and assembly. Apple’s
revenue and earnings-per-share forecasts for this quarter fell
short of analysts’ estimates.  “Despite initial low yields and augmented overheads, we
think Hon Hai might have passed on incremental costs to Apple
who recognizes time-to-market/volume more than pricing,”
Jasmine Lu and Po-ling Chen, Taipei-based analysts who rate the
stock overweight at Morgan Stanley wrote in a report today.  The
results are “a sign of enhanced bargaining power.”  Foxconn Technology Group, which includes mobile-phone
casing maker Foxconn Technology Co., Hong Kong-listed handset
supplier  Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038)  and display
manufacturer  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481) , has 1.4 million workers
globally, including 1.2 million in China.  Dell, Nintendo  In addition to making devices for Apple, computers for Dell
Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co. and games consoles for Nintendo Co.
and Sony Corp., Hon Hai is developing televisions to be sold
globally at cheaper prices than competitors.  “The uptrend is due to better vertical integration, as Hon
Hai is making more components in-house, and better production
scale,” Birdy Lu, who rates the stock buy at Daiwa-Cathay
Capital Markets Co. in Taipei, wrote after the results
yesterday. “We believe Hon Hai might deliver record-high top-
line and bottom-line results in 4Q12.”  Hon Hai’s third-quarter earnings were boosted by the
reversal of a previously-booked NT$4.5 billion loss on its
planned acquisition of a 6.6 percent stake in Sharp. Hon Hai and
Foxconn Technology Co., which planned to buy 3.3 percent, had
made a provision for a decline in the value of the  Osaka , Japan-
based maker of Aquos TVs, which has dropped 69 percent below the
originally agreed share price.  China Investment  Rising profit at Foxconn Technology Co. and a narrower loss
at Chimei Innolux helped non-operating income during the period.
Profitability, including gross margins and operating margins,
will be available after the company reports consolidated numbers
next month.  Separately, Hon Hai announced plans to invest a total of
$375 million in China, including $275 million for a  mobile-
device facility in Jiyuan , LCD module facilities in Chengdu and
Shenzhen and a precision-molding business in Hengyang.  Hon Hai’s directors also approved a plan to sell as much as
NT$18 billion in bonds to repay short-term debt, the company
said in its statement to the Taiwan exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  