-- London Police Probe Alleged Comments by Chelsea-United Referee
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-10-30T14:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/london-police-probe-alleged-comments-by-chelsea-united-referee.html
London police started an
investigation into alleged comments by soccer referee Mark Clattenburg at the Chelsea-Manchester United match two days ago.  English soccer’s ruling body has already started its own
probe into Chelsea’s allegation that Clattenburg, 37, made
“inappropriate” comments to two of its players. He’s accused
of racially abusing Chelsea's Nigerian midfielder John Obi
Mikel, the  Daily Mail  reported. He denies making inappropriate
remarks to Mikel and  Spain ’s  Juan Mata  and is supported by his
assistants at the game, the newspaper added.  The police involvement follows a complaint by the Society
of Black Lawyers, which called for an inquiry into whether a
criminal offense had been committed.  The police probe “follows on from a complaint received by
the  Metropolitan Police Service  on Oct. 29,” the police said in
a statement  on its website  today. “Officers from Hammersmith &
Fulham borough are in liaison with Chelsea Football Club and the
Football Association. At this time, the Metropolitan Police
Service has not received any complaint from either Chelsea
Football Club or the Football Association.”  Chelsea’s complaint to the soccer authorities followed the
3-2 Premier League home defeat against United, during which the
referee red-carded Branislav Ivanovic and  Fernando Torres , and
allowed a winning goal that Blues manager Roberto di Matteo said
was offside. Clattenburg also yellow-carded Mikel for dissent as
United closed to within a point of league leader Chelsea.  The Professional Game Match Officials, a body that manages
referees, has said the allegations were “being treated with the
utmost seriousness” and that Clattenburg “will cooperate fully
and welcomes the opportunity for the facts to be established.”  Terry Case  The PGMO yesterday said Clattenburg won’t officiate a match
next weekend, adding that “with any football match the focus
should not be on the officials but on the players and the game
itself.”  Prospect, a union which represents the referees, has said
it’s offering full support to Clattenburg in relation to the
allegations made against him.  The complaints against Clattenburg follow a series of race-
linked controversies affecting Chelsea and English soccer.  The case has parallels with the one involving Chelsea
captain  John Terry , in that soccer authorities and police became
involved in separate processes.  In July, Terry was found not guilty in a criminal case
linked to alleged racial abuse of Queens Park Rangers defender
 Anton Ferdinand  in a game last October. On Sept. 27 he was
banned by the F.A. for four games over the same incident,
missing the United game because of that suspension.  The soccer disciplinary proceedings against Terry were
delayed until after the criminal case had taken its course.  Some players in the English game then refused to wear anti-
racism T-shirts in a protest against what they saw as
ineffective action to combat racist conduct.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  