-- Hong Kong New Office Supply Won’t Meet Half of Demand, CBRE Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-10-30T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hong-kong-new-office-supply-won-t-meet-half-of-demand-cbre-says.html
New prime office supply set for  Hong
Kong  over the next nine years won’t be enough to meet half of
the forecast demand for space, according to a study by  CBRE
Group Inc. (CBG) , the world’s biggest commercial realtor.  The city’s developers are planning to add about 8 million
square feet of office space by 2020, CBRE said in a report with
Daiwa  Capital Markets . Hong Kong companies will need 17 million
square feet of new space in the period, the report said.  Demand for financial and professional services from
companies and individuals in other parts of  China   fueled  an
expansion by banks, law and accounting firms in Hong Kong since
2005. That, together with a shortage of new supply, has pushed
the average office occupancy cost in the Central business
district to the world’s highest, according to a separate report
by Los Angeles-based CBRE.  “Vacancy rates look likely to remain very tight throughout
the whole decade,” the report said. “Supply is inadequate not
only in terms of quantity but quality.”  There’ll be no new buildings with a single landlord and
floor area of more than 10,000 square feet -- features preferred
by most large tenants -- being added to  Hong Kong Island , where
the Central business district is located, before 2017, CBRE said.  Hong Kong’s office occupancy cost was 11 percent higher
than London’s West End, the world’s second-most expensive place
to lease commercial space, at the end of the first quarter, even
after having fallen 17 percent from a year earlier, CBRE said.  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest developer
by market value, is Hong Kong’s largest office landlord with
almost 15 percent of total prime office space in the city,
according to CBRE. It is followed by  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972)  with
10.6 percent,  Hongkong Land Holdings Ltd. (HKL)  with 6.5 percent, and
 Wharf Holdings Ltd. (4)  with 6.5 percent, the report said.  Hong Kong companies have been moving offices away from the
Central district to less expensive areas, with some financial
services firms relocating their back offices to cut costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at   kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  