-- Mongolia Growth Rate May Sink by One-Third, Central Banker Says
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-10-30T03:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/mongolia-growth-rate-may-sink-by-one-third-central-banker-says.html
Mongolia’s central bank governor
said that the nation’s growth rate may slow by a third this year
from a record 17 percent in 2011 as inflows of foreign
investment cool.  “It’s a reality check for us,” Naidansuren Zoljargal said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television in  Hong Kong  today,
saying that the pace of expansion may be a “very healthy” 11
to 12 percent.  Standard & Poor’s yesterday revised down its outlook for
Mongolia’s debt rating to stable from positive, citing increased
risks of volatility in an underdeveloped economy. The  World Bank 
said in February that the nation should guard against “another
boom-and-bust cycle,” while foreign investors are concerned
after  Rio Tinto  Group said it was asked to renegotiate a deal
for a $6 billion mine.  Zoljargal said Mongolia is focusing on investment in
infrastructure to improve the competitiveness of the  mining
industry  that is the drawcard for overseas investors.  Mongolia’s new government, led by Prime Minister Norovyn Altankhuyag, faces challenges ranging from wealth disparities to
the slowdown in neighboring  China , the destination for most of
its exports.  Rio Tinto, the world’s second-biggest mining company and
the biggest single foreign investor in the nation, said this
month that it had rejected a renewed government request to
renegotiate a 2009 deal over the Oyu Tolgoi copper mine.  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  said last month that growth
is likely to be in “double digits” this year and to accelerate
in 2013 as Oyu Tolgoi starts to produce and the Tavan Tolgoi
mine expands.  While the central bank has tightened monetary policy,
raising the official policy rate to 13.25 percent and increasing
reserve requirements, “inflation remains high and pressures on
the balance of payments are increasing,” the IMF said in last
month’s report.  Mineral product exports, which account for more than 90
percent of the country’s goods sold abroad, fell 41 percent in
September from a year earlier to $324 million, on reduced demand
from China, government statistics show. That was the biggest
decline in three and a half years.  Inflation is about 15 percent, “primarily due to rapidly
rising  government spending ,” the IMF said last month. That
exceeds the central bank’s target of a rate of less than 10
percent this year and below 8 percent in 2013 and 2014.  Investment Rules  Perceived uncertainty over investment rules after a
political debate over renegotiating the Oyu Tolgoi contract is
hurting Mongolia’s standing among foreign investors, the IMF
said.  The likelihood of an upgrade for the nation’s debt rating
has waned with increases in external borrowing and domestic
credit growth that could lead to “financial sector problems,”
Standard & Poors said. The ratings company reduced the outlook
on the BB- long-term rating to “stable” from “positive,”
highlighting the nation’s dependence on mineral sales and “the
lack of a strong political leadership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  