-- Lonmin Plans $800 Million Share Sale After Deadliest Strike
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-10-30T17:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/lonmin-plans-800-million-share-sale-after-deadly-strike-at-mine.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI)  will offer $800 million
of stock to investors to help the third-largest platinum company
meet pledges to creditors as it needs funds to resume operations
after the deadliest post-apartheid strike in South Africa.  “Debt levels will rise significantly over the coming
months to fund the production ramp-up,” the Johannesburg-based
producer said today in a statement. The company also reached a
deal with dollar and rand lenders on amending debt facilities.  Fourth-quarter output slid 46 percent from a year earlier
on the strike, Lonmin said. The six-week walkout at the Marikana
mine from Aug. 10 cut 110,000 ounces of platinum output valued
at about $170 million at prices in London today. Lonmin stock
lost more than half its value in the past six months before
today, the second-worst drop on the FTSE 350 Mining Index.  Strikers only returned to work after Lonmin agreed to raise
pay by 11 percent to 22 percent and following the deaths of 46
people including 34 protestors shot dead by police on Aug. 16.  “This is a large rights issue for the company given the
shrinking of the market capitalization,” Fairfax I.S. Plc said
in a note. “Given a soft demand environment for car demand and
margin erosion from higher wage settlements, platinum prices
still need to rise from here to make this a clear buy case.”  Platinum was at $1,546.74 an ounce today in  London , a third
lower than the 2008 record of $2,301.50. Lonmin rose 7 percent
to close 71.95 rand in Johannesburg. The company said it agreed
on a “standby equity underwriting letter” in which its rights
offer is underwritten at a minimum $1 a share.  London Shares  Lonmin gained 7 percent to 513.5 pence in London.  The company avoided breaking debt conditions Sept. 30 after
banks agreed to amend the covenants and reduce credit facilities
to $400 million from $700 million, it said today. Lonmin agreed
to keep net debt and capital expenditure within set thresholds.  “They have done what needed to be done to sure up the
balance sheet but capex and costs are still high,” Liberum
Capital Ltd. said today in a note. Thirteen of 23 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg recommend selling the company’s stock.  Lonmin may cut jobs after lowering targets for investment
and output, acting Chief Executive Officer Simon Scott said on a
call. The company, which mothballed its K4 shaft in September,
plans to produce 680,000 ounces of platinum this fiscal year and
cut sales targets to a minimum 750,000 ounces for the following
two years. CEO Ian Farmer, being treated for an illness Lonmin
hasn’t disclosed, had planned to spend an average $400 million a
year to boost annual output to 950,000 platinum ounces by 2015.  Output Cut  The company produced 700,000 ounces in the year ended Sept.
30, 6.7 percent below its May 14 target of 750,000 ounces.  Lonmin will discuss its rights offer with  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in
coming weeks, Scott said on the call. Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata owns a 25 percent stake in the platinum producer.  “We’ll assess the company’s strategy, business plan and
management capabilities to ensure an attractive and sustainable
future for the business before making any decisions about our
intentions in respect of the proposed rights issue,” Alison Flynn, a spokeswoman for Xstrata, said today by phone.  The offer price mostly depends on Xstrata’s support, Edward Sterck, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets, said in a report.  “Although the rights issue potentially alleviates near-
term financial constraints, it could be dilutive to existing
shareholders if not taken up evenly,” Sterck said, adding the
theoretical price after the rights offer, of about 1.51 pounds a
share, is about a 70 percent dilution to yesterday’s close.  Diluted Stakes  Shareholders’ stakes may also be diluted should Lonmin
issue further shares to meet  South Africa ’s requirements for
local investors to own at least 26 percent of mining operations
by 2014, Lonmin said. Proposals haven’t been decided, it said.  HSBC Holdings Plc, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Standard Bank Group Ltd. will manage the rights offer, said two
people familiar with the plans, declining to be named because of
company policy. Lonmin wouldn’t comment. The company will reveal
details of the share sale later, it said in today’s statement.  Labor unrest at Lonmin spread to  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s largest producer of the metal, as well as to
South African gold, coal and iron ore operations. The spate of
stoppages shaved 50 basis points off the country’s economic
growth, Treasury Director General Lungisa Fuzile said Oct. 26.  Producers of platinum in South Africa, which accounts for
most of global output, were struggling before the unrest in the
second half. Labor and power costs rose faster than inflation in
the last three years as metal prices held steady, cutting profit
and prompting  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  and Anglo Platinum to shut
some operations. Strikes continue at Anglo Platinum mines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  