-- Lowe Says RBA’s Rate Cuts Helping Lift Demand, Sees QE ‘Working’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-10-30T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/lowe-says-rba-s-rate-cuts-helping-lift-demand-sees-qe-working-.html
Australia’s  interest-rate  cuts are
showing signs of boosting demand as looser monetary policy
abroad helps keep the nation’s currency elevated, Reserve Bank
Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said.  “Lower-than-average interest rates are providing some
support to demand in the economy,” Lowe said in a speech
yesterday in Sydney. “There is also some sign that they have
led to a slight improvement in the  property market , although
there has been little change in the appetite for debt.”  Lowe focused  his prepared remarks  on costs and benefits
that quantitative easing by major economies have on currencies
and interest rates in nations such as South Korea and  Canada 
where growth remains healthy. The U.S. Federal Reserve,  European
Central Bank  and  Bank of England  have expanded their  balance
sheets  since 2008 to try to resuscitate growth, and the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  yesterday boosted its asset-purchase program for the
second time in two months.  The local dollar rose 52 percent in the past four years,
the best performer among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, as investors sought exposure to the raw materials
powering China’s economic boom. The main reason for the strength
is “the large shift in the relative price of commodities,”
Lowe said.  The so-called Aussie bought $1.0377 yesterday in London,
extending a stretch above parity with the U.S. currency that
started in late-June.  Intervention Threshold  In response to questions from the audience, Lowe said that
while the  Reserve Bank  maintains the option to intervene in
 currency markets  to weaken the Australian dollar, such a move
would require evidence that it’s fundamentally overvalued and is
restraining the economy in a significant way.  The benefits of a floating exchange rate are “strong” and
the threshold for intervention is “quite high,” he said,
reiterating comments he made in March. There isn’t a strong case
to be made that the Australian dollar at current levels is
significantly overvalued, he said.  The RBA has reduced its overnight  cash-rate target  by 1.5
percentage points to 3.25 percent since November last year and
it remains among the highest borrowing costs among major
developed nations. Traders are pricing in a 59 percent chance
policy makers will cut by a further quarter point at next week’s
meeting, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  The elevated dollar is partly attributed to the nation’s
higher returns relative to economies that have maintained low
borrowings costs, Lowe said in his prepared remarks. “Portfolio
flows help explain why the  exchange rate  has changed little
since mid-year despite a general softening of the global outlook
and a decline in key export prices,” he said.  Commodity Prices  Australia’s currency remained above parity with the  U.S.
dollar  even as the price of  iron ore , which made up more than 20
percent of exports last year, dropped as much as 37 percent
before recovering in recent weeks.  The currency’s strength has “helped us navigate our way
through a once-in-a-century investment boom,” Lowe said in the
speech text. The contractionary effects of appreciation fueled
by quantitative easing “can be countered with more stimulatory
domestic policy setting -- including through lower interest
rates -- than would otherwise have been the case,” he said.  Canada, South Korea,  Switzerland ,  New Zealand  and some of
the Nordic nations are among those that have low interest rates
and a high exchange rate as major central banks expanded their
balance sheets, Lowe said.  QE Progress  Still, “there is evidence that this transmission channel
of quantitative easing is working. Market participants report
that, at least in some areas, the appetite for risk is slowly
returning, with some investors looking at how to improve their
returns,” he said.  Central banks in the U.S., euro area,  Japan  and the U.K.
have expanded their balance sheets since 2008 and have assets of
about $5 trillion, or about 15 percent of the combined gross
domestic product of the four economies, Lowe said.  “The very low  interest rates  in many other economies
should not be seen as a good thing or something to aspire to,”
he said. “They reflect those countries’ difficult economic
circumstances, and particularly the low risk-adjusted returns
available on new investment.”  Lowe said while the problems in major developed nations
have weighed on confidence in Australia, sentiment has also
deteriorated because of weaker employment growth, asset-price
gains and consumption than in the decade to the mid-2000s.  “The return to more normal patterns has come as a
disappointing surprise to many who thought that the previous
outcomes were the norm,” Lowe said. “This gradual realization
that the future is likely to be different from the past is an
important factor weighing on sentiment in Australia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  