-- Panasonic Seen Cutting Forecast as TV Makers’ Misery Deepens
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-10-30T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/panasonic-seen-cutting-forecast-as-tv-makers-misery-deepens.html
Panasonic (6752)  Corp.,  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
 Sharp (6753)  Corp. may cut full-year earnings estimates by a combined
136 billion yen ($1.7 billion) as restructuring costs and
falling demand hamper recoveries by Japan’s top three TV makers.  Panasonic may post a loss of 24.7 billion yen in the year
ending March 31, according to the average of 17 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, compared with its projection
for net income of 50 billion yen. Sony’s net income may be 5
billion yen, compared with its 20 billion-yen forecast, and
Sharp’s loss may be 296 billion yen, or 18 percent wider than it
forecast, according to the estimates.  The sluggish global economy and political tensions with
 China  may slow the companies’ rebound from record annual losses
caused by declining TV sales, a strong  yen  and competition from
 Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. and Apple Inc. A territorial dispute
that fueled anti-Japan sentiment in China already contributed to
forecast revisions at  Canon Inc. (7751)  and Honda Motor Co.  “The pain for Japanese consumer electronics makers isn’t
going to let up,” said Seiichiro Iwamoto, who helps oversee
about $34 billion at Mizuho Asset Management Co. in  Tokyo . “It
will take time for them to return from the brink of disaster.”  CEOs Replaced  Panasonic is scheduled to announce second-quarter earnings
at 3 p.m. in Tokyo today, and Sony and Sharp will disclose
results tomorrow. Atsushi Hinoki, a spokesman for Panasonic;
 George Boyd , a spokesman for Sony; and Miyuki Nakayama, a
spokeswoman for Sharp, all declined to comment before the
announcements.  Panasonic, Sony and Sharp replaced their top executives
earlier this year to speed up reforms after posting combined
losses of more than $20 billion in the year ended March 31.  “They’ve all bet on the global economy, so they’re
vulnerable to slowdowns in the U.S.,  Europe  and China,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who oversees more than $600 million at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  Global TV shipments fell 8 percent to 51.6 million units in
the quarter ended June 30 from a year earlier, a second straight
quarterly decline, DisplaySearch said Sept. 11. Japan was
hardest hit, plunging 77 percent, while developed markets
overall recorded a 23 percent decline, the researcher said.  China Protests  At Panasonic, slowing China sales and a weak industry
outlook may force President  Kazuhiro Tsuga  “to make bold
choices in the second fiscal half for businesses that are loss-
making or have little prospect for improvement,”  Takashi Watanabe , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in an
Oct. 16 report. He cut his full-year estimate for Panasonic to a
335 billion-yen net loss from an August projection for a 30.4
billion-yen profit.  China’s economic growth slowed for a seventh straight
quarter in the July-September period. Protests in the country,
where Panasonic generated 14 percent of its first-quarter sales,
disrupted local operations last month as one of its factories
was set on fire.  A dispute over islands in the  East China Sea  claimed by
both countries sparked anti-Japan demonstrations, halting output
by Japanese manufacturers and reducing demand for their products
in the world’s second-largest economy.  Canon, the world’s biggest camera maker, cited lower demand
in China as one reason for cutting its annual profit forecast
6.4 percent last week. Honda, Japan’s third-largest carmaker,
lowered its profit forecast 20 percent this week as Chinese
consumers shunned Japanese cars.  Samsung, LG  At Sony, Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai , who was
promoted in April, is cutting 10,000 jobs and selling assets to
revive the inventor of Walkman music players after four
consecutive annual losses.  The world’s third-largest TV maker expects the slow global
economy to hurt business this fiscal year, Masashi Imamura,
senior vice president in charge of the unit, said Sept. 28. The
maker of Bravia TVs is monitoring sales in China as some local
outlets halted promotions of Japan-made goods, he said.  Sony’s share of the TV market shrank to 8.3 percent in the
quarter from 9.4 percent the preceding three months as it lost
sales to Samsung and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s two
largest makers, according to  DisplaySearch . The Tokyo-based
company lost 692 billion yen from selling TVs in the past eight
years and projects those losses may continue this fiscal year.  Writedowns, Restructuring  Sharp, which turned to lenders for financial support amid
losses at its liquid-crystal-display business, is struggling
with low operation rates at its factory for medium-sized panels
because of low demand, said Junya Ayada, an analyst at Daiwa
Securities Co. in Tokyo. Margins at Sharp’s large-display
business may worsen as the company offers discounts, he said.  Sharp also is vulnerable in China, where it generated 20
percent of sales last fiscal year, making it the company’s
largest overseas market, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Japan ’s largest LCD maker may take 200 billion yen in
charges for losses on LCD panels and other inventory, a
writedown of deferred tax assets and restructuring costs, the
Nikkei newspaper reported, without citing anyone.  The maker of Aquos TVs is cutting more than 10,000 jobs and
selling plants in an attempt to return to profit next year,
people with knowledge of the plans said Sept. 26. The Osaka-
based company presented a revival package to lenders that
included asset sales and job cuts as it sought 360 billion yen
in loans, the people said.  “There’s nothing much these three companies can do to
recover this fiscal year,” said Masamitsu Ohki, a manager at
Stats Investment Management Co., a Tokyo-based hedge fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  