-- Pena Nieto Has Ability to Open Mexico Oil Sector, Aide Says
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-10-30T22:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/pena-nieto-has-strength-to-open-mexico-s-oil-industry-aide-says.html
Mexico ’s President-elect Enrique Pena Nieto will be able to bring together members of his party
and the opposition to pass laws opening up the oil industry to
private investment, his top economic adviser said.  Pena Nieto has “the conviction for the reforms, the
political experience and the leadership of his party,” to push
through the changes, Luis Videgaray, co-head of the incoming
president’s transition team, said in an Oct. 26 interview. “It
implies building a political consensus. It’s what we’ll do with
energy.”  The toughest resistance may come from within Pena Nieto’s
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, a traditional ally of
unions that have opposed past energy overhauls, said Lisa Schineller of  Standard & Poor’s . Already, labor legislation
presented by outgoing President  Felipe Calderon  and initially
backed by Pena Nieto to ease the hiring and firing of workers is
facing delays in Congress as PRI lawmakers refuse to approve
some clauses to boost union transparency.  Pena Nieto is returning the PRI to power after a 12-year
hiatus from more than seven decades of uninterrupted rule.  “Luis Videgaray represents this very reform-minded wing,
but the PRI is diverse,” Schineller, a sovereign ratings
director at S&P, said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“It’s different when the PRI was in power pre-2000. The power
base at the local level is now greater. When it comes down to
actual negotiations, it may be harder than expected.”  Tax, Oil  Pena Nieto wants to simplify and expand tax collection with
a bill he plans on presenting in 2013 and which would take
effect in 2014, Videgaray said. The legislation would seek to
increase  tax revenue  sufficiently to create “universal” health
care in Mexico, Videgaray said, denying speculation that the
president elect would present the bill in December after taking
power the first of the month.  Pena Nieto hasn’t yet decided whether to push for a
constitutional amendment to lift investment in the state-run oil
company  Petroleos Mexicanos , or rely on smaller legal changes,
said Videgaray, who served as the president-elect’s finance
chief when he was governor of Mexico state between 2005 and
2011.  Pemex, as the company is known, is struggling to reverse
seven years of production declines that have cut output 25
percent from a peak of 3.4 million barrels a day in 2004.  Bypassing a constitutional change would be a departure from
the strategy outlined by Videgaray before the July 1 election.
He said in an interview in May that his party would ask Congress
to approve changes to the nation’s charter to allow joint
ventures.  The PRI’s alliance with the  Green Party  fell short of
winning a majority in Congress, garnering only 241 seats in the
500-member lower house.  While that puts it close to the majority needed to pass
laws and regulations, it’s less than the party had expected to
win and doesn’t ensure it sufficient support for constitutional
changes, which must also be ratified by a majority of
legislatures in the 31 Mexican states and the federal district.  Mexico State  A graduate from the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
with a doctorate in economics, Videgaray says Mexico state’s
debt record is proof of Pena Nieto’s commitment to keeping a
balanced budget and to improving the nation’s sovereign rating.  Under Videgaray’s watch, Mexico’s most populous state saw
its  credit rating  lifted to investment grade as its debt fell by
46 percent in real terms to 28.7 billion pesos, according to
Aregional, a Mexico City-based public finance research
organization.  As governor, Pena Nieto “never saw debt as a strategy to
promote development in his state,” the 44-year-old Videgaray
said. “This sets a precedent that there will be responsible
management of public finances.”  The markets also seem to have confidence in the new
president.  The cost of protecting dollar debt from Mexico against
default for five years has dropped 36 basis points since Pena
Nieto won the July 1 election as of 3:37 p.m. in Mexico City,
while the benchmark  stock index  has gained  3.5 percent .  Development Banks  Pena Nieto also plans to strengthen state development banks
such as Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior SNC and Nacional
Financiera SNC, and boost competition among lenders in order to
increase access to credit that currently trails regional rivals,
Videgaray said.  While bank lending in Mexico is growing at a 15 percent
pace, helping drive growth that the government expects will
reach 3.8 percent this year, access to credit remains restricted
more than a decade after the collapse of the country’s banks
during the 1994-1995 Tequila Crisis. Outstanding credit as a
percentage of gross domestic product is  19 percent , less than
half the level in  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “If credits don’t flow, that will always put the brakes on
growth,” he said, without providing details on how he’d
stimulate competition in the financial sector. “The issue with
Mexico’s economy isn’t  interest rates , it’s availability” of
credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  