-- Pro-Gun Group Ads Call Obama a Threat to Firearms Rights
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-10-30T19:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/pro-gun-group-ads-call-obama-a-threat-to-firearms-rights.html
After three women were shot dead
inside a suburban Milwaukee spa, a local TV news bulletin
interrupted the broadcast of a football game between the Green
Bay Packers and St. Louis Rams.  Moments later, a 30-second ad followed from the National
Rifle Association, warning a second term for President  Barack Obama  would “threaten our right to self-defense.”  In the presidential race’s final days, the self-proclaimed
“foremost defender” of the Second Amendment is placing ads in
some of the most competitive states, including Wisconsin and
 Florida , where high-profile shootings this year attracted
national attention. While polls show gun issues don’t register
among most voters’ top concerns, Republican nominee  Mitt Romney 
will benefit from the NRA energizing supporters in key states.  “The NRA is very active in turning out the vote,” said
Republican pollster  Ed Goeas , of the Alexandria, Virginia-based
Tarrance Group who conducts the bipartisan Battleground Poll.
“If all else is even and argued to a draw, that’s where gun
owners could have an affect.”  The NRA aired two TV ads 2,156 times in Wisconsin, Florida,
 Ohio  and  Virginia  in the two weeks between Oct. 9 and Oct. 27,
the fourth-biggest presidential TV ad campaign during that time
among groups not affiliated with either candidate, according to
New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  ‘Turnout Strategy’  “Voters that care about Second Amendment rights are an
important part of our base turnout strategy,” said Kevin Madden, a Romney adviser. “If they’re mobilized to go out and
vote, that helps us.”  The NRA’s ads mislead voters, said Adam Fetcher, an Obama
campaign spokesman. He pointed to laws signed by Obama that
allow concealed weapons in national parks and in checked luggage
on Amtrak trains.  “President Obama’s record makes clear that he supports and
respects the Second Amendment and the tradition of gun ownership
in this country,” Fetcher said in an e-mail. “He believes we
can take common-sense steps under existing law to keep our
streets safe and to stem the flow of illegal guns to
criminals.”  The NRA ad that aired Oct. 21 during the Packers game shows
a woman walking alone and looking over her shoulder at a man who
follows, as a narrator urges viewers to “defend freedom, defeat
Obama.”  Wisconsin Shooting  The juxtaposition of that spot with news that a husband
shot and killed his wife and two other women before turning the
gun on himself pleased Jeff Nass, president of  Wisconsin  Force,
an NRA affiliate. He said the shooting highlighted the need for
people to carry firearms.  “That’s why you carry when you go to the beauty parlor,”
Nass said. “One of those people there could have been carrying
and could have stopped that.”  The shooting at the Brookfield, Wisconsin salon happened 11
weeks after another gunman killed six people and himself about
20 miles away at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, another Milwaukee
suburb.  In Florida, where the NRA is also airing ads, an unarmed
teenager, Trayvon Martin, was shot dead in the Orlando area in
February, and the gunman claimed self-defense.  Another group, Mayors Against Illegal Guns, is airing its
own ad in  Colorado , where 12 died and 58 were injured in July
when a gunman opened fire inside an Aurora theater during a
showing of the latest Batman movie.  Gun Murders  The ad, which aired 28 times this month, features Stephen
Barton, who survived the Aurora shooting and urges viewers to
“demand a plan” to reduce gun violence from the candidates.
The group was co-founded by  New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg,
who is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  Sitting in an empty movie theater, Barton tells viewers
that 48,000 Americans will be murdered with guns during the next
presidential term.  “Enough to fill over 200 theaters,” Barton says.  The presidential campaigns have mentioned guns in just one
TV ad in advance of the Nov. 6 general election. A Spanish-
language spot by Romney that aired a total of nine times in
Florida and Las Vegas attacks Obama over operation Fast and
Furious, conducted by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives. The agency lost track of about 2,000
weapons, which turned up at crime scenes in the U.S. and  Mexico .  Romney Endorsement  The Fairfax, Virginia-based NRA has been using Obama, who
said in an Oct. 16 debate that he supports an assault weapons
ban, to rally its members. The headline on the cover of group’s
October issue of American Rifleman is “Hand Obama His Walking
Papers.” The image is a mock check, with Obama’s face on it,
being made out to the NRA.  “If President Obama is re-elected, we’re going to see an
anti-Second-Amendment, anti-freedom rampage in this country like
we’ve never seen before,” said NRA Chief Executive Officer
Wayne LaPierre while endorsing Romney this month at a campaign
rally in Fishersville, Virginia.  Gun maker  Sturm Ruger & Co. (RGR) , based in Southport,
 Connecticut , stopped taking orders from March to May, the first
time ever, to catch up to  demand . Smith & Wesson Holding Corp.,
of Springfield,  Massachusetts , has estimated  sales  of more than
$530 million in its current fiscal year, a 29 percent increase
from last year, said Jeffrey Buchanan, the company’s chief
financial officer, during a September call with investors.  The number of federally licensed gun dealers increased in
2011 and is on pace to do so again this year, according to ATF
data. That hasn’t happened since 1992.  ‘Political Environment’  “The recent political environment has been favorable at
both a state and federal level, highlighted by the upcoming
presidential election,” said P. James Debney,  Smith & Wesson (SWHC) 
president and chief executive officer, during a June conference
call with investors.  Obama’s support for a ban on some types of rifles worries
gun enthusiasts about what a second term will bring, said
Christopher Galosi, 44, who sells guns in Virginia Beach,
Virginia, the state’s most populous city.  Galosi conducted door-to-door surveys for the NRA, asking
if Obama supports Second Amendment rights. He’s distributed
“Defeat Obama” yard signs.  Voters are concerned Obama would “push through the assault
ban like he pushed through health care,” Galosi said.  NRA Spending  The NRA and its political committees have spent a combined
$10.7 million on the presidential campaign through yesterday,
according to Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics,
which tracks political spending. That total is the 10th-most
among groups not affiliated with either candidate and only about
$2.07 million less than Washington-based Service Employees
International Union.  From Oct. 12 through yesterday, the NRA spent $3 million on
production and airing of TV ads, $1.7 million on Internet
advertising, $1.5 million on mailers, $540,000 on radio ads,
$60,500 on phone banks and $790 on booth rentals at gun shows,
Center for Responsive Politics data show.  The NRA has statewide “campaign field representatives” in
most of the states that strategists from both presidential
campaigns view as competitive, including two each in Colorado,
 Nevada , Ohio and Wisconsin, according to its website.  In North Carolina, the NRA plans to contact between 750,000
and 1 million voters with phone calls, mailers or personal
contacts, spokesman Andrew Arulanandam was quoted as saying in
the  Charlotte  News & Observer. Arulanandam did not return phone
calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Comedian’s Support  In Colorado, comedian Jeff Foxworthy hosted a grassroots
event this month for the NRA in Colorado Springs, according to
an invitation posted on Facebook by the group’s Institute for
Legislative Action.  Foxworthy stood on a truck at the Romney campaign office
and joked with dozens of sportsmen, many decked out in orange
hats and hunting gear. He pointed to a pair of 5-4 rulings from
the U.S. Supreme Court, according to a KKTV-TV report of the
event.  In 2008, the court ruled 5-4 that the Second Amendment
protects individual rights to own guns. In 2010, the court, with
the same five justices in the majority, ruled that the amendment
limits gun control laws by states and cities as well as the
federal government.  “We’re a heart attack away from losing our right to bear
arms,” Foxworthy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  