-- Putin Wages War on Vodka as Lifestyle Death Toll Mounts
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-10-31T12:14:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/putin-wages-war-on-vodka-as-lifestyle-death-toll-nears-million.html
Vladimir Putin  is waging the biggest
public health drive since former Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev 
failed to wean his country off alcohol abuse with a crackdown on
tobacco and drink.  An anti-tobacco law submitted to parliament yesterday will
ban smoking in public places, advertising and kiosk sales. That
follows measures to curb the world’s fourth-highest  alcohol
consumption  per capita with tax increases and by limiting trade.  Smoking and drinking kill 900,000 people a year in Russia,
the world’s second-largest market for cigarettes and alcohol,
according to official estimates. The country’s population of 143
million is about 5 million less than in 1991, when the  Soviet
Union  collapsed. Alcohol and tobacco abuse costs the Russian
economy at least $104 billion a year, or 5 percent of gross
domestic product, the government estimates.  “Putin has set himself the goal of reversing the
population decline through encouraging a more healthy
lifestyle,” said  Sergei Markov , a former lawmaker in the ruling
United Russia party and vice-rector of the Plekhanov Russian
University of Economics in Moscow. “But if you look at our
history, Gorbachev wasn’t successful in that.”  $1 Vodka  The crackdown risks encouraging Russians to seek
counterfeit cigarettes and drinks, according to  tobacco
companies  and alcohol industry analysts. Illegal sales of vodka
-- which is priced as little as $1 for a half-liter (0.13
gallon) -- will rise to 60 percent from 35 percent of the market
by 2014, according to the  Center for Federal and Regional
Alcohol Market Studies . Illicit tobacco trade may expand to 40
percent of the market from 1 percent, the lobby group Tabakprom
estimates.  Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  on Oct. 16 railed at  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group (IMT) , blaming them for
addicting millions of children and women to cigarettes since the
early 1990s. The four companies control 93 percent of the $19.5-
billion Russian tobacco market. Thirty-nine percent of Russians
smoke regularly, according to the  World Health Organization .  Five foreign-owned companies hold more than 80 percent of
the beer market in Russia -- Baltika Breweries, part of
 Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) ,  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ,  Heineken NV (HEIA) , Andalou
Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS and  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)  The alcohol
market in Russia, which is 24 percent vodka and 51 percent beer,
is worth $34.4 billion according to Euromonitor, a consumer
research company.  Slumping Shares  Imperial, the maker of Davidoff cigarettes, retreated 0.9
percent to 2,349 pence at 12:07 p.m. in London. Japan Tobacco
shares fell 1.5 percent to 2,206 yen at the close in Tokyo
trading. AB InBev, the maker of Budweiser and  Stella Artois ,
slid as much as 1.5 percent in Brussels while Carlsberg fell the
most in three months in Copenhagen trading, dropping as much as
3.8 percent.  The Russian government will insist that the anti-smoking
draft bill submitted yesterday be approved in its current form,
said Alexei Levchenko, an aide to Deputy Prime Minister Olga
Golodets, who’s responsible for health and social affairs.  ‘Serious’ Increase  The  Finance Ministry  is also due to respond at the start of
November to the government’s proposal for a “serious” increase
in tobacco excise taxes, Levchenko said by phone from Moscow
today.  Russian vodka sales will decline 4 percent by 2016 and beer
sales will remain stagnant over the period, Euromonitor
predicts. Russia this year increased the minimum price of a
half-liter of vodka to 125 rubles ($4) and plans to raise it  to
200 rubles by 2015, according to the government daily,
Rossiiskaya Gazeta. Beer duties were increased threefold in 2010
and will be six times higher in 2015 than in 2009.  The Health Ministry says smoking levels may be cut in half
as a result of the anti-tobacco law and planned tax increases
for cigarettes in Russia, where a pack of Marlboros sells for
about $2. The aim is to bring prices to European levels by 2015.  Russia cut alcohol consumption to 15 liters (4 gallons)
from 18 liters per capita in the last two years, Deputy Prime
Minister  Viktor Zubkov  said in December. The government wants to
reduce it to at least 8 liters by 2020, the WHO’s accepted
consumption level.  ‘Hooks People’  “We aren’t banning people from smoking or drinking,”
Deputy Health Minister Sergei Velmyaikin said in an interview.
“We’re just implementing a package of measures to stop
extremely aggressive marketing which hooks people on very
harmful products.”  Gorbachev, who came to power in 1985, started an anti-
alcohol campaign that cut the production of vodka and other
spirits by as much as 40 percent within a year, uprooted
vineyards, restricted sales and increased prices. Russians
compensated by producing “samogon” or moonshine at home,
according to a  study  last year by  Stanford University .  The campaign ended in 1988 after eroding Gorbachev’s
popularity and spawning a series of jokes about him. Yeltsin,
who was known for appearing drunk in public, stepped down in
1999, nominating Putin, a non-smoking judo black belt, as his
successor.  The government last year banned alcohol sales between 11
p.m. and 8 a.m., as well as drinking alcohol in public places.
In July, it outlawed beer advertising on television, radio,
billboards and Internet and from January 1, kiosks won’t be able
to sell beer.  The average Russian, including women and youths, drank 77
liters (20.3 gallons) of beer, 9 liters of spirit and 7 liters
of wine in 2011, Euromonitor data shows. One in five Russian men
die from harmful use of alcohol, the Geneva-based WHO says.  “We are used to smoking, drinking, eating a poor diet and
doing little sport and then falling ill, and expect to be
operated on or take pills to get better,” Nikolai Gerasimenko,
deputy head of the lower house of parliament’s health committee,
said in an interview. “That’s got to stop.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  