-- Qatar Should Revise Media Law to Allow Criticism, HRW Says
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-10-30T11:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/qatar-should-revise-media-law-to-allow-criticism-hrw-says.html
A Qatari draft media law enshrines a
double standard on free expression and the emirate’s ruler
shouldn’t approve it unless penalties for criticism of Qatar or
neighboring states are removed,  Human Rights Watch  said.  The imprisonment of Qatari poet Muhammad al-Ajami, who
faces charges of “inciting the overthrow of the ruling
regime,” provides further evidence of Qatar’s double standard
on freedom of expression, the New York-based rights group said
in an e-mailed statement today. Qatari officials have not made
clear the basis for the charges against al-Ajami, who has been
jailed since November 2011, the group said.  Al-Ajami had praised the wave of popular uprisings in the
Arab world, including the one in  Tunisia . In a poem called
“Tunisian Jasmine,” he wrote “We are all Tunisia in the face
of repressive coteries,” and criticized “all Arab
governments” as “indiscriminate thieves,” HRW said.  Qatar is the financial backer and home base of Al Jazeera
television, which has covered the Arab uprisings and been
praised for contributing to the free exchange of information in
the Arab world.  Human Rights Watch  said the draft law would “force Qatar-
based journalists to practice the self-censorship that
characterizes the state of journalism” in the  Persian Gulf .  ‘Drop All Charges’  “If Qatar is serious about providing regional leadership
on media freedom it should remove the problematic provisions
from its draft media law and drop all charges against Muhammad
Ibn al-Dheeb al-Ajami that solely relate to his exercise of free
speech,” said  Joe Stork , the group’s deputy  Middle East 
director.  The Shura Council, Qatar’s legislative body, approved the
bill in June, and it now needs approval by Emir Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani.  While the measure would scrap criminal penalties for media
law violations, it prohibits the publication or broadcast of
information that would “throw relations between the state and
the Arab and friendly states into confusion” or “abuse the
regime or offend the ruling family,” according to HRW.
Violators would face financial penalties of up to 1 million
riyals ($275,000), it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  