-- Rand Gains as Risk Appetite Increases After Sandy Makes Landfall
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-10-30T14:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/rand-gains-as-risk-appetite-increases-after-sandy-makes-landfall.html
The rand rallied amid speculation
damage from Atlantic superstorm Sandy will be less severe than
anticipated, boosting demand for riskier assets.  The rand gained as much as 0.6 percent and traded 0.5
percent stronger at 8.6321 per dollar as of 3:30 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
climbed one basis point to 6.70 percent.  Sandy, now termed a post-tropical cyclone, is diminishing
in strength as it moves inland. The storm came ashore at 8 p.m.
 New York  time yesterday and drove floodwaters to life-
threatening levels in a region with 60 million residents.  Stocks (MXEF) 
and  commodities  rallied today and the dollar dropped against all
but one of its 16 major counterparts as demand for the safety of
the U.S. currency receded.  “The worst of the storm is over, and people are realising
the world isn’t coming to an end,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief
dealer at Johannesburg-based Bidvest Bank,  South Africa ’s
biggest chain of money-changers, said by phone. “Everybody is
happy to pile on a bit of risk, and the rand is benefiting from
that.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials advanced
0.1 percent, rebounding from a three-month low. Metals and other
commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports,
according to government data. South Africa’s benchmark stock
index climbed for a second day.  The rand also gained after South Africa’s Treasury said it
plans to meet bond investors in the U.S. and  Europe  next week,
fueling speculation it plans to sell a foreign-currency bond.
The meetings are “part of the normal briefing Treasury does
every year” after presenting the mid-term budget, spokesman
Jabulani Sikhakhane said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg’s
questions.  “It focused the market’s attention on the fact that the
Treasury will be out there to try and sell our bonds,” De
Vleeschauwer said.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  