-- TransCanada Quarterly Profit Falls on Lower Gas Transport
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-10-30T20:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/transcanada-quarterly-profit-falls-on-lower-gas-transport.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the company that
proposed the Keystone XL oil pipeline, said third-quarter profit
fell 4.4 percent as it transported less natural gas and had
maintenance at some  power plants .  Net income dropped to C$369 million ($369 million), or 52
cents a share, from C$386 million, or 55 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
one-time items, per-share profit was 2 cents less than the 52-
cent average of 14  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “In the third quarter, our base businesses continue to
perform well, despite challenges of weak demand and soft gas and
power prices in our commodity exposed business,”  Russ Girling ,
TransCanada’s chief executive officer, said on a call with
analysts today. Outages at the company’s Bruce Power and
Sundance A power plants hurt results, Girling said.  A gas glut in  North America  that cut profits for producers
and sent prices to a 10-year low also affected TransCanada as
more of the fuel remained in storage. Natural gas prices
averaged $2.893 per million British thermal units in New York
during the quarter, down 29 percent from a year earlier. The
futures have recovered after reaching a 10-year low on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  in April.  TransCanada will continue to be affected by low natural gas
and power prices and high gas storage levels “until we see a
recovery in the macro natural gas environment and a
normalization of weather patterns,” Donald Marchand, chief
financial officer, said on the call.  Building Keystone  Unit 4 of the Bruce Power nuclear plant was shut for
maintenance in August, work that’s expected to conclude by the
end of the year. Power production resumed at Unit 1 and 2 of the
plant this month. The Sundance A plant will remain out of
service until the fall of 2013, TransCanada said.  Sales rose 4.1 percent to C$2.13 billion, missing the
average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  TransCanada fell less than 1 percent to C$44.74 at the
close in Toronto.  In August, TransCanada started building the southern
portion of its 1,661-mile (2,762-kilometer) Keystone XL line,
renamed the $2.3 billion Gulf Coast  pipeline project , after the
U.S. rejected the full line earlier this year. The company re-
applied to build a revised portion of the Keystone XL through
 Nebraska , according to its website.  Mainline Conversion  TransCanada said yesterday it will join with a unit of
 PetroChina Co. Ltd. (857)  to build a C$3 billion pipeline project to
ship oil from oil-sands projects in northern  Alberta  to
Edmonton.  The company’s results were “slightly below expectations,”
and shares could come under pressure, said Pierre Lacroix, an
analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. in Calgary, in a note.  “All eyes remain focused on key upcoming events, such as
the outlook for Keystone XL and the Canadian mainline,” he
said.  The company is “actively pursuing” a potential conversion
of part of its mainline  gas pipeline  to carry oil from Alberta
to eastern  Canada , Girling said on the call.  The project may cost C$5 billion or more for the conversion
of gas-compression facilities to pumping plants and work to
confirm pipeline integrity and would initially ship light oil to
Canadian and U.S. refineries in the east, Alex Pourbaix,
TransCanada’s president of energy and oil pipelines, said. The
company will decide in early 2013 on the project, which would
carry between 500,000 and 1 million barrels a day, he said.  The line may export crude to Europe and  Asia , Girling said,
declining to comment on “confidential” discussions around a
potential coastal link for the line that ends in  Montreal .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  