-- Treasuries Futures at 2-Week High as Market Set to Reopen
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-10-30T18:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/treasuries-gain-as-hurricane-sandy-looms-bonds-closed.html
Treasury futures traded near a two-
week high as cash bond markets prepared to reopen tomorrow after
closing due to the risk posed by tropical cyclone Sandy.  Trading volumes slowed before the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association recommended the market in dollar-
denominated fixed-income securities in the U.S reopen after
being shut since Monday noon. A report showed a gauge of U.S.
house prices  climbed  by the most in more than two years in the
12 months ended in August.  “The hurricane is a marginally negative for risk markets,
and that provides a marginal bid for safe assets,” said  Andy Richman , who oversees $12 billion as a director of fixed-income
in  West Palm Beach ,  Florida , for SunTrust Bank’s wealth and
investment management division. “The economy is getting
slightly better, but we still have slow growth and plenty of
headwinds from Europe to the fiscal cliff that are keeping
uncertainty in the market and a bid for safety.”  Ten-year contracts for December delivery traded at 132
21/32 at 2:46 p.m.  New York  time after rising to 133 2/32, the
highest level since Oct. 16. The 10-year Treasury note yield was
at 1.72 percent at yesterday’s close.  Trading volume  was 348,127 contracts yesterday, compared
with a daily average of 854,650 contracts this month through
Oct. 26, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ten-year futures contracts climbed from 131 1/8 at the end
of last year and are down from a record-high 135 1/2 reached on
July 25, the data showed.  Pimco’s View  Andrew Balls , London-based head of European  portfolio
management  at Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, said he favors the five- to 10-year
part of the Treasury yield curve on bets the  Federal Reserve 
will continue to support the economy through stimulus measures.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
rose 2 percent from August 2011, the biggest year-to-year gain
since July 2010, after rising 1.2 percent in the year to July,
the group said today in New York. The median  forecast  of 25
economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a 1.9 percent gain.  CME said trading of interest-rate futures and options
including Treasuries, Eurodollar and Federal funds products will
resume normal trading hours, including remaining open today on
both the floor and the Globex platform.  Sandy, now termed a post-tropical cyclone, drove
floodwaters to life-threatening levels in a region with 60
million residents and stopped the U.S. presidential race eight
days before Election Day. President  Barack Obama  and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  are tied among likely voters in the
latest national poll by the Pew Research Center.  Fiscal Cliff  Lawmakers in the Republican and Democratic parties are
seeking to avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, the more than $600
billion of federal spending cuts and tax increases that will
automatically take effect at the start of next year unless
Congress acts.  “The potential for disappointment and concern around these
fiscal issues means that we could see a short-term rally in
Treasuries,” Pimco’s Balls said on Bloomberg Television’s “The
Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua . “Our strategy is to look for
income in the five- to 10-year part of the curve. We think the
Fed will continue to support the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  