-- Romanian Leu Extends Rally to Longest in 15 Months on Funding
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-10-30T15:44:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/romanian-leu-extends-rally-to-longest-in-15-months-on-funding.html
Romania ’s leu rallied for a seventh
day against the euro, its longest winning streak since July
2011, after the central bank lowered funding for lenders to
limit money supply.  The currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 4.5350 per euro by
5 p.m. in Bucharest, the highest on a closing basis since Oct.
2. Today’s advance extended gains over the seven days to 0.9
percent, the best among central and eastern European currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on 2018 euro-denominated bonds rose
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.35 percent.  The central bank tightened a cap on lending to commercial
banks to 4 billion lei ($1.1 billion) yesterday, compared with 6
billion lei on Oct. 8. Bids totaled 15.9 billion lei in the
weekly auction of repurchase agreements. The leu gained 2.5
percent in August after the bank engaged in a similar tactic to
support the currency.  The leu’s appreciation has “picked up steam after the
central bank’s announcement,” Mihai Patrulescu, a Bucharest-
based senior economist at UniCredit Tiriac Bank SA, wrote in a
note today. “Tighter liquidity conditions appear to be a fairly
important signal for the market.”  The leu, which has gained 0.2 percent this month, may come
under pressure as Romania holds parliamentary elections on Dec.
9. The country’s governing coalition backing Prime Minister
Victor Ponta will go head-to-head with the opposition party,
which supports President Traian Basescu, who was reinstated in
August after a Constitutional Court invalidated an impeachment
vote due to lower-than-required turnout, easing the country’s
political turmoil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  