-- Romney Weakens Yen as Fed View Widens U.S.-JGB Gap: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-10-30T06:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/romney-weakens-yen-as-fed-view-widens-u-s-jgb-gap-japan-credit.html
Presidential Candidate  Mitt Romney ’s
criticism of U.S. monetary easing is helping drive Treasury
yields higher relative to Japan’s, weakening the yen.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold two-year
Treasuries instead of similar-maturity Japanese notes climbed to
21 basis points on Oct. 25, the highest since April 5, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. A  similar gap  between the U.S. notes
and German bunds rose to an eight-week high of 26 basis points.  The yen slid to a four-month low last week on prospects the
 Bank of Japan (8301)  will ease policy, after the Federal Reserve
unveiled a third round of so-called quantitative easing last
month. The BOJ increased asset purchases today. Romney’s pledge
to replace Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke when his term expires in
January 2014 is helping push Treasury yields higher, drawing
funds into dollar assets, according to Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Bank Ltd. and Daiwa Securities Co.  “The market has started to price in the possibility that
Romney will win the election and U.S. monetary easing will be
terminated earlier than planned,” said Yoshitsugu Fujita,
assistant vice-president of global markets in New York at
Sumitomo Mitsui Trust. “Such speculation is lending support to
the dollar against the yen.”  Two-year Treasury yields have gained 10 basis points to
0.29 percent since reaching a 10-month low on July 23. The two-
year rate in  Japan  has been little changed at 0.1 percent during
the period, almost  matching  what banks charge each other for
overnight lending in money markets. The yield gap between the
two countries was at 19 basis points today.  BOJ Easing  The yen depreciated to 80.38 per dollar on Oct. 26, the
weakest since June 25, and is poised for a 2.1 percent decline
in October, the biggest monthly slide since March. The currency
traded at 79.33 as of 3:08 p.m. in Tokyo, up 0.6 percent from
yesterday’s close, after the BOJ expanded its asset-purchase
fund by 11 trillion yen ($139 billion) to 66 trillion yen.  It was the second monetary easing by the central bank in
two months. The BOJ will increase buying of Japanese government
bonds and Treasury bills by 5 trillion yen each, the central
bank said in a  statement  today.  The yen’s rate is still stronger than the 82 level at which
Japanese exporters say they can break even, according to an
annual government  survey released  in February. Honda Motor Co.,
the nation’s third-largest automaker, yesterday joined Nintendo
Co. and Sony Corp. in citing the strong yen when cutting
earnings forecasts.  ‘Neutral Range’  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn said
his company may have to move away from Japan to survive as the
strong yen diminishes the nation’s competitiveness.  “If the exchange rate is high, we move out,” Ghosn said
in  Tokyo  today. The yen’s “neutral range” is 100 to the
dollar, he said.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Mori Hills REIT
Investment Corp. hired banks for a sale of three-year and five-
year notes, according to a statement yesterday from SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc., which will manage the offering together with
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. and Mizuho
Financial Group Inc.  The Treasury of New South Wales registered to sell as much
as 300 billion yen of Samurai bonds, according to a filing with
Japan’s Finance Ministry. The registration takes effect Nov. 6
and is valid for two years.  Japanese corporate bonds have handed investors a 1.43
percent return this year, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Samurai notes, which are yen-denominated
securities sold in Japan by overseas borrowers, gained 4.25
percent while company debt worldwide returned 10 percent,
according to the data.  Industrial Slump  Japan’s industrial production fell the most since last
year’s earthquake and tsunami, data showed today, bolstering the
case for the central bank to add to easing. Output declined 4.1
percent in September from the previous month, when it dropped
1.6 percent, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo. The drop exceeded
all forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. A
separate report showed unemployment unchanged.  The yen has depreciated 5.2 percent this year, the most
among peers in Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
Record overseas acquisitions by Japanese companies including
Softbank Corp. and Marubeni Corp. have helped drive the currency
lower. Domestic corporations sold yen to make $103 billion in
overseas mergers and acquisitions this year, the most in
Bloomberg data going back to 1987 and 13 percent above the $91.3
billion total for 2011.  Money Printing  Softbank, Japan’s No. 3 mobile phone company, agreed Oct.
15 to buy a 70 percent stake in Sprint Nextel Corp. of Overland
Park,  Kansas , for $20.1 billion. Marubeni said in May it would
purchase Gavilon Group LLC, the third-largest U.S. grain
merchandiser based in  Nebraska , for $3.6 billion.  Romney has said that printing more money comes at a higher
cost than its intended benefits to the economy. The Republican
candidate has pledged to cut corporate and individual taxes,
while Obama said on Oct. 25 that his rival’s plan has been tried
before, and “it didn’t work.”  A Gallup poll of registered voters released Oct. 26 showed
the race between Obama and Romney in a dead heat. The poll of
about 3,050, which has a margin of error of two percentage
points, showed 48 percent of respondents would vote for Obama
and 48 percent for Romney if the election were held that day.
The election is on Nov. 6.  Presidential Returns  Returns on U.S. fixed-income assets have averaged 6.5
percent throughout Obama’s term, surpassing the 4.6 percent
during the previous four years under George W. Bush, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Fed unveiled a plan on Sept. 13 to buy $40 billion of
mortgage debt every month in a third round of quantitative
easing, or QE, after $2.3 trillion purchases of bonds from
December 2008 and June 2011.  “Tax reductions by Romney are seen as being stimulative
for the economy,” said  Yuji Kameoka , chief currency strategist
at Daiwa Securities in Tokyo, Japan’s second-biggest brokerage.
“I expect those measures to generate expectations for higher
Treasury yields and a stronger dollar.”  Bernanke is unlikely to seek another term even if Obama is
re-elected, according to a person close to the chairman who
declined to be identified.  Japan’s benchmark 10-year note  yield  slid one basis point
to 0.76 percent today, near the nine-year low of 0.72 percent
reached July 23. Bond futures reached as high as 144.36, the
most since Aug. 7. The central bank buys securities ranging from
government bonds to corporate debt to real-estate investment
trusts to achieve a 1 percent annual goal.  Asset Purchases  The BOJ’s monetary easing has so far had a limited effect
on the yen as the central bank has trailed the Fed in injecting
funds into the economy. The BOJ’s holdings of assets acquired
through monetary easing have increased by 44 trillion yen, or
$553 billion, since the beginning of U.S. quantitative easing.  All but one of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
expected the BOJ to increase asset purchases at its policy
meeting today. The so-called  core inflation  rate excluding fresh
food has never been above 1 percent for more than a year since
1993.  “People in the currency market are measuring the central
banks’ willingness for monetary easing by their balance
sheets,” said  Daisaku Ueno , a senior foreign-exchange and
fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities in Tokyo, a unit of Japan’s biggest financial group
by market value. “A Romney win will cause the dollar to
appreciate against the yen by encouraging anti-QE3 sentiment
within a strengthened Republican Party.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  