-- Roosevelt, Morgan Backed Indian Epic Now Going for $1.8 Million
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-10-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/roosevelt-morgan-backed-indian-epic-now-going-for-1-8-million.html
Photographer Edward Curtis (1868-
1952) built sandcastles with Teddy Roosevelt’s kids, challenged
J.P. Morgan in his den and worked as second cameraman on “The
Ten Commandments.”  All that was small beer compared with “The North American
Indian,” his 20-volume photographic and written record of what
then was a rapidly declining culture. Yet he died 60 years ago
forgotten by all but a few.  In “ Short Nights of the Shadow Catcher ,” Timothy Egan
traces the remarkable arc of a poor boy in the Pacific northwest
who developed an uncommon talent for shooting people with a
camera.  Already on his way to becoming the “premier portrait
photographer in the U.S.,” Curtis also had been shooting nature
and Indians around  Seattle  in his mid-20s when a chance meeting
changed his life. He rescued a party of climbers on Mount Rainer
and made a strong impression on two famous men among them.  Through C. Hart Merriam, cofounder of the National
Geographic Society, Curtis got invited to be official
photographer on a scientific expedition to  Alaska . George Bird
Grinnell, founder of the Audubon Society and an expert on Plains
Indians, also made the Alaska trip and conveyed to Curtis “a
sense of urgency about the passing of so much that was original
to the continent.”  On a subsequent trip, to the Blackfeet Nation in  Montana ,
Grinnell pushed Curtis to consider making a book from the many
Indian photos he was taking, and so arose “a plan to photograph
all intact Indian communities left in North America.”  Pulitzer Prize  Egan, a Seattle native, shared in a Pulitzer Prize for a
 New York Times (NYT)  series on race and won a National Book Award for
his Dust Bowl history, “ The Worst Hard Time ” (2006). That book
and others he has written about the western U.S. show how
attuned he is to large-scale loss.  He describes how millions of acres of prairie grass that
anchored the soil of the High Plains was plowed up to plant
grain, and how drought turned the exposed soil to dust that rose
in huge storm clouds reaching as far east as New York while many
broken farmers fled west in search of new land. He tells much of
this by finding decades later several plains families, still
living witnesses who had held on.  In “ The Big Burn ” (2009), Egan reveals the small and
large players who fought the biggest forest fire ever to hit the
U.S. or used it to argue for conservation.  1910 Inferno  The opening chapter mesmerizes with a 1910 town’s view of
an inferno, starting from an opening line better than most
novels offer: “Here now came the fire down from the Bitterroot
Mountains and showered embers and forest shrapnel onto the town
that was supposed to be protected by all those men with faraway
accents and empty stomachs.”  Both books are remarkable pieces of journalism and suggest
why Egan would appreciate the efforts Curtis expended to give
shape and voice to the remnants of another beleaguered group.  In photographing, researching and writing his first two
volumes -- the text included language, rituals, customs, music
and more -- Curtis soaked up most of the money his portrait
studio generated and spent years away from home. Even when
Morgan agreed to bankroll the project -- a scene Egan recreates
with persuasive sharpness -- Curtis continued to take only
expense money, no salary.  Midway through the project, he was “facing bankruptcy and
a failed marriage,” while his debts exceeded $50,000 and “he
had less than $150 in the bank.” He pushed on, and after 33
years, the completed 20 volumes “contained more than 2,200
original pictures, almost 4,000 pages of text, including
transcriptions of hundreds of songs and dozens of languages.”  1929 Crash  The monumental task was completed shortly after the 1929
stock crash. The country’s attention was elsewhere. Egan writes:
“When the final volume of the Indian work had been printed in
1930, Curtis faced the only thing worse than a bad review:
silence.”  I emphasize the trials Curtis endured partly to highlight
the man’s persistence. Egan’s book is also a catalog of joyous
discovery as Curtis, with his charm and bribes, broke down
reluctance and recorded not just the uncommon faces and sites
his lens captured -- and the Egan book includes many exquisite
Curtis photos -- but much about Indian life the tribes had never
revealed.  And the beauty of the West: Captured in photos that
inspired John Ford’s great oaters, it is recreated again in
Egan’s prose as his research took him “to nearly every tribal
homeland that Curtis had gone to.”  Apache Myth  In one triumphal moment, Curtis photographed “a deerskin
scroll holding symbols of the Apache creation myth.” He
discovered and preserved so much that could have been lost
otherwise, as Egan did on the High Plains.  Curtis was rediscovered in the 1970s. In the past decade,
complete 20-volume sets have sold for as much as $1.8 million.
So there have been many books about the shutterbug, but Egan’s
keen sense of place, people and history makes “Short Nights of
the Shadow Catcher” an exceptional marriage of author and
subject.  “Short Nights of the Shadow Catcher: The Epic Life and
Immortal Photographs of Edward Curtis” is published by Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt (370 pages, $28). To order this book in North
America, click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art and  Scott
Reyburn  on auctions.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 