-- S. Korea Output Rises for First Time in Four Months on Carmakers
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-10-30T23:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/s-korea-output-rises-for-first-time-in-four-months-on-carmakers.html
South Korea ’s industrial production
rose for the first time in four months as stronger sales of cars
and electronics helped offset the effects of a cooling global
economy.  Output rose 0.8 percent last month from August when it
dropped a revised 0.9 percent, Statistics Korea said today.
The median estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 1.5 percent rise. Production rose 0.7 percent
from a year earlier.  “Demand both overseas and at home is still weak but it
seems the worst has passed, with exports to major markets
declining at a much slower pace,” said Lee Sung Kwon, an
economist at Shinhan Investment Corp. in Seoul. “Things should
improve sooner or later.”  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest carmaker, and
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the biggest maker of mobile phones,
reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates in the third
quarter. The resilience of exporters highlights the prospect for
the economy to rebound after expanding at the slowest pace in
three years in the three months through September.  The won appreciated 0.4 percent to 1,091.50 per dollar
yesterday in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi Index rose 0.4 percent.  China Demand  Hyundai said Oct. 25 it will probably beat its full-year
sales forecast as  deliveries  climb 8.2 percent in the fourth
quarter, led by demand in  China . Samsung said Oct. 26 that
operating profit from telecommunications more than doubled as
its Galaxy brand devices widened their lead over Apple Inc.’s
iPhone.  South Korea’s current-account surplus widened to the second
biggest on record in September after exports increased from the
previous month, Bank of Korea director-general Kim Young Bae
told reporters yesterday in  Seoul .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  