-- Sandy Knocks Out Cable, Telephone, Wireless in 10 States
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s ,   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-10-31T20:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sandy-knocks-out-cable-phone-service-to-1-million-in-new-york.html
Sandy, the Atlantic superstorm that
ravaged the East Coast, knocked out cable or phone connections
to more than 1 million customers in the New York area and
weakened wireless service from  Virginia  to  Massachusetts .  About one-fourth of mobile-service transmitters failed in
an area stretching from the coast of the northeastern U.S.,
where Sandy came ashore on Oct. 29, to inland West Virginia,
Federal Communications Commission officials said in Washington.  “This was and still is a devastating storm, with a
substantial and serious impact on our country’s communications
infrastructure,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said yesterday
on a conference call.  Communications outages could grow as blackouts last longer
than backup power supplies, and as snow and floods take their
toll, Genachowski said. The FCC monitored outages in 158
counties in 10 states and the  District of Columbia , and the
percentage of cell sites not working today had dropped “roughly
three or four percentage points” from the 25 percent out of
service yesterday, David Turetsky, chief of the agency’s Public
Safety and Homeland Security Bureau, said on a conference call.  New Yorkers went to great lengths to stay connected. At a
Duane Reade pharmacy at 34th Street and Eighth Avenue, visitors
unplugged the lights on a Christmas tree to recharge their
mobile phones in the outlets. One man ducked into an unmanned
Chase branch on 60th Street near Lexington Avenue to plug in a
phone at the end of a line of ATMs.  ‘Really Random’  Wi-Fi-equipped businesses, such as  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  cafes,
served as an oasis for New Yorkers without power. At 73rd Street
and Amsterdam Avenue, Columbia University grad student Jonathan
Wiener was sitting on the ground outside a Starbucks yesterday,
using the shop’s network to upload photos for a live blog of the
storm.  “I had it until last night around midnight and it went
out,” the 25-year-old said. “We still have certain channels of
cable. It’s really random. And no Internet.”  Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S. mobile provider,
contended with flooding in the lower end of Manhattan. The
company has been pumping water out of its network system
facilities and has brought in large portable generators to power
the buildings in an effort to restore services, Jeffrey Nelson,
a company spokesman, said in a statement.  Still, 94 percent of cell sites were running and call-
switching and data centers were functioning normally, Verizon
Wireless spokesman Torod Neptune said.  Lobby Flood  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the majority owner of the
wireless carrier, posted a  picture  showing the lobby of its
headquarters building at 140 West St. in lower Manhattan awash
in roiling water. Fiber and copper lines in the basement of the
building were inundated, contributing to service outages, and
employees who normally report to the building worked from other
sites, Bill Kula, a Verizon Communications spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  It wasn’t known how many total customers were without
either land-line voice, Internet or television service from the
flooding, which also struck Verizon facilities in Queens and on
Long Island, Kula said.  AT&T Inc. (T) , the second-biggest carrier, was working through
disruptions in hard-hit areas including  New York City  and  New
Jersey , where flooding, power loss, transportation and debris
all pose challenges, according to a statement.  “You can assume this is a massive, 24/7 effort on our
part,”  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Sprint Disruptions  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  experienced service disruptions in the
New York area, as well as parts of  Pennsylvania  and New England,
said Crystal Davis, a spokeswoman for the third-largest U.S.
mobile carrier.  “We are under some unusual constraints given the nature of
the storm, the flooding and the difficulty gaining access to the
sites,” said Davis in an interview.  T-Mobile USA Inc.’s network in Washington is more than 90
percent operational, while New York City is at more than 80
percent, the fourth-largest U.S. mobile carrier said in a
statement.  “Restoration work continues in the harder-hit areas,” T-
Mobile said.  Free Roaming  T-Mobile and AT&T said they will share coverage to allow
roaming between their networks for no extra charge for customers
with compatible phones in the storm region.  In areas where there is no power, many cell tower sites are
equipped with backup generators that have fuel to last between
48 hours and 72 hours, mobile-phone companies said. In areas
that are accessible, portable generators can be installed for
another 48 hours of service.  About 1.8 million cable customers were left without cable
service in metropolitan  New York , Long Island and the lower
Hudson Valley, James Denn, a spokesman for the New York State
Public Service Commission, said in an e-mail today. About 36,000
customers lacked cable service in other New York localities,
including Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Rochester and Syracuse,
he said.  Emergency calling services were “largely intact,” Denn
said in an e-mail. Genachowski, the FCC chief, said “a very
small number” of 911 emergency call centers weren’t working. He
didn’t say where they were.  Cable Outages  Sandy caused “widespread” service interruptions for
customers of  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , primarily due to power
outages, said  Jim Maiella , a spokesman for the cable company in
Bethpage, New York.  At Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable
company, most service disruptions were tied to commercial power
interruptions, said Jenni Moyer, a spokeswoman.  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  had no significant damage to its network and expected
to reconnect customers as power returned, said  Alex Dudley , a
spokesman for the New York-based company.  The storm knocked out power to about 8 million homes and
businesses in the Northeast, including about 2.5 million
customers in New Jersey and 2 million in New York, according to
the U.S. Energy Department.  The power went out for Ivan Smith, a lawyer who lives in
New York City’s Chelsea neighborhood, at about 9 p.m. on Oct.
29. His office near  Wall Street , meanwhile, was flooded, he
said.  “We’re down probably for the rest of the week,” he said.
“My cellphone went down. People are texting me and calling me,
and I can’t respond.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Faughnder in New York at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  