-- Sandy Threatens Coastal New York, New Jersey Home Damage
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-10-30T18:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sandy-threatens-coastal-new-york-new-jersey-home-damage.html
Sandy, the largest tropical system
measured in the Atlantic on record, threatened damage to as many
as 95,000 homes in coastal  New York  and New Jersey valued at
about $40 billion, according to a CoreLogic Inc. estimate today.  Most of the damage was probably caused by flooding rather
than wind, because the storm pushed a 13-foot (4-meter) surge of
water ashore in  Manhattan  and elsewhere, potentially undermining
homes’ structural integrity while inundating their interiors,
said Tom Jeffrey, chief hazard scientist for CoreLogic, a real
estate information service in  Irvine , California.  “There isn’t a whole lot you can do about water, but
building codes and design can make wind damage less of a
problem,” Jeffrey said in a telephone interview. “Not all the
properties are total losses, but we’re probably looking at
significant numbers.”  The Atlantic superstorm barreled through Pennsylvania after
leaving 8.11 million electricity customers without power in 17
states and  Washington , D.C., and causing floods, destruction and
death. Sandy’s damage will be greater than the approximately $15
billion caused by last year’s  Hurricane Irene , Jeffrey said.
Before Sandy made landfall yesterday, CoreLogic estimated $88
billion in coastal-area housing was exposed to damage.  CoreLogic analyzed single-family residential values in ZIP
codes exposed to potential storm damage, not commercial real
estate or multi-family apartments, Jeffrey said.  Construction Demand  The damage is likely to stimulate demand for construction
jobs and materials, especially in areas where insurance will
cover the cost of rebuilding, he said.  “It’s the most adverse way you ever want to see positive
growth,” Jeffrey said. “But a high percent of damaged
properties are going to be repaired.”  The high water probably affected properties beyond areas
where flood insurance is required and that would leave some
owners stuck with repair bills, unless government assistance
programs are created, Jeffrey said.  It will take more research to determine whether storms of
the magnitude of Sandy and Irene may become more common because
of  climate change , a conclusion that would affect insurance
rates and building codes, he said.  “It’s impossible for scientific studies to point
conclusively to say this is proof,” Jeffrey said. “It’s
opening the door for more scientific research.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  