-- Sandy to Cost Luxury-Car Dealers Needing Northeast U.S. Sales
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-10-30T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sandy-to-cost-luxury-car-dealers-needing-northeast-u-s-sales.html
Luxury-car brands such as  Honda
Motor Co. (7267) ’s Acura and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz will take a
disproportionate hit from  Hurricane Sandy , with as much as 25
percent of U.S. sales coming from cities in the storm’s path.  “The last week of the month is typically a big week in
terms of new vehicle sales,” Larry Dixon, senior analyst for
the National Automobile Dealers Association, based in McLean,
Virginia. “Everyone’s trying to finish off the month on a high
note. We might see October sales down just a bit from what
everybody had anticipated.”  The  New York ,  Washington  and Philadelphia markets account
for a quarter of Acura’s U.S. sales, 24 percent of Mercedes-
Benz’s and 23 percent for Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Volvo
Cars, according to auto researcher Edmunds.com.  States affected by the hurricane, the biggest-ever Atlantic
Ocean tropical storm, are home to 4,751 dealerships selling new
cars, according to data compiled by the auto dealers’ group.
Dealers increase sales at the end of the month and automakers
report sales monthly at the beginning of the following month.  Those dealers may lose the last three days of October sales
as Sandy pummels the Eastern seaboard, keeping prospective car
buyers home.  Honda, Toyota  Honda is the most popular brand in New York, and in
Washington it’s  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , according to Edmunds.  October is usually one of the slowest months for auto
sales, with seasonally-adjusted sales about 1 percent lower than
in September, Dixon said.  Sales of cars and light trucks in October may accelerate to
a 14.8 million annualized rate, taking into account seasonal
adjustments, according to the average estimate of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg this week and last week. The pace was 13.3
million a year earlier and 14.9 million in September, according
to researcher Autodata Corp.  September’s sales rate was the best since March 2008,
before a global credit crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Chicago at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  