-- Sandy Batters New York With Hurricane-Force Wind Gusts
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-10-30T09:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sandy-batters-new-york-with-hurricane-force-wind-gusts.html
Sandy, the largest tropical storm
system on record, made landfall along the coast of southern  New
Jersey , battering  New York  with hurricane-force wind gusts.  The powerful wintry storm came ashore near Atlantic City at
8 p.m. New York time yesterday and by 9 p.m. the U.S.  National
Hurricane Center  said it was receiving reports of hurricane-
force gusts over Long Island and New York metropolitan areas.
Sandy is no longer a hurricane because it’s drawing energy from
temperature differences and not the ocean, making the transition
to a superstorm that may push a wall of water ashore in the
Northeast and lash the East with wind, rain and snow.  Sandy was centered about 90 miles (145 kilometers) west of
Philadelphia, moving west-northwest at 15 miles per hour with
maximum sustained winds of 65 mph, down from 75 mph earlier, the
Hydrometeorological Prediction Center said in an  advisory  issued
at 5 a.m. New York time. It’s forecast to move across
 Pennsylvania  and pass into New York state later today.  Rains of as much as 12 inches are soaking the mid-Atlantic
states, and 3 feet (0.9 meters) of snow may fall in the
Appalachians. A flood gauge in New York City’s Battery Park, at
the southernmost end of  Manhattan , registered 13.46 feet as of
8:30 p.m. The  National Weather Service  said the modern record
was 10.02 feet in September 1960 during Hurricane Donna.  Sandy’s winds had stretched to about 1,100 miles from end
to end yesterday, the hurricane center said. A wind gust to 90
mph was reported at Islip, New York, and to 89 mph in Surf City,
New Jersey, according to the hydrometeorological center.  Storm Tides  Tides along the coast will be near their peak when the
storm goes ashore, which may mean record amounts of water
washing onto land, according to  Jeff Masters , co-founder of
 Weather Underground  in Ann Arbor,  Michigan .  “These may be the highest storm tides ever recorded going
back a century,” Masters said yesterday. “We’re looking,
potentially, at a very expensive disaster for New York City.”  Sandy is so large that the storm will impact the East Coast
from Maine to Virginia, according to Masters.  “The timing certainly matters, but the location isn’t that
important because some of the strongest winds are quite a ways
removed from the center,” he said. “It’s a superstorm, it’s
aptly named in terms of its size, its low central pressure, the
weird angle it’s taking, the lateness of the season.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  