-- U.S. Insurers Slump as Trading Resumes After Sandy
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-31T13:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sandy-insurer-cost-may-reach-15-billion-air-worldwide-says-1-.html
U.S. property  insurers  declined on
the first trading day in New York after Atlantic superstorm
Sandy lashed the U.S. and a risk modeling firm said the damage
could cost the industry as much as $15 billion.  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the largest publicly traded U.S. home
insurer, dropped 1.3 percent to $39.62 at 9:44 a.m. in New York.
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  slipped 0.9 percent and
Travelers Cos. dropped 1.3 percent.  The storm will probably cost insurers $7 billion to $15
billion, AIR Worldwide said yesterday, an estimate that accounts
for physical damage to property, business-interruption coverage
and additional expenses for displaced residential policyholders.
The higher figure would make Sandy the  third costliest  U.S.
hurricane, after Katrina, which caused more than $40 billion in
losses in 2005, and 1992’s  Hurricane Andrew .  “Sandy’s diameter was nearly twice the size of other
massive hurricanes including Katrina,” said Tim Doggett,
Boston-based AIR Worldwide’s principal scientist, in a statement
yesterday. The size “allowed the storm to interact with an
approaching disturbance in the jet stream that resulted in
severe weather across a wide swath of the eastern U.S.”  The costs may lower book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, by 2 percent for the property-casualty industry,
with a reduction of as much as 5 percent at companies with a
high concentration of risk in the hardest-hit areas, according
to Keith Walsh, an analyst at Citigroup Inc.  Declines today provide an opportunity to buy shares of
Northbrook, Illinois-based Allstate, AIG and RenaissanceRe
Holdings Ltd., the Bermuda-based insurer, said Josh Stirling, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. All three companies are
scheduled to announce third-quarter results this week.  The insurers will probably beat analysts’ expectations
“and this provides an immediate catalyst likely to help reverse
negative momentum in the stocks,” Stirling said.  RenaissanceRe fell 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  