-- Sandy Shutdowns Lower Nuclear Output by Most Since 2003
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-10-30T15:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sandy-shutdowns-lower-nuclear-output-by-most-since-2003.html
Hurricane Sandy shut down at least
three nuclear reactors in the Northeastern region, sending U.S.
nuclear-power output lower by  the most  since 2003.  Generation nationwide declined by 6.4 percent to 69,640
megawatts, or 68 percent of capacity, the biggest slide since
Aug. 15, 2003, according to U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
data compiled by Bloomberg. Output was  17 percent lower  than a
year ago with 28 of 104 nuclear reactors offline.  Sandy, the Atlantic superstorm that came ashore in southern
 New Jersey  late yesterday and blacked out southern  Manhattan ,
shut  Entergy Corp. (ETR) ’s  Indian Point  3 reactor, Constellation
Energy Group Inc.’s Nine Mile Point Unit 1 and  Public Service (PEG) 
Enterprise Group’s Salem 1 plant. With a combined capacity of
2,820 megawatts, the units account for about 11 percent of the
total in the Northeast.  Indian Point 3 and Nine Mile 1 are located in  New York ,
while Salem is situated in New Jersey.  The 1,025-megawatt Indian Point 3, located about 27 miles
(43 kilometers) north of  New York City , tripped offline at 10:41
p.m. yesterday when the connection between a generator on site
and another off site was lost, according to a company statement.
Indian Point 2 continued to operate at full power.  Electrical Disturbance  “If the generator has no place to send its power, it shuts
down automatically and by design to protect itself from
electrical damage,”  Jerry Nappi , an Entergy Corp. spokesman,
said in an e-mail today. “At Indian Point yesterday, the river
level and wind had no impact on plant operation. There were also
no issues with debris in the river.”  Nine Mile Point 1, a 621-megawatt reactor near Oswego, New
York, was automatically shut down when a lightning pole was
blown over into electrical components, Jill Lyon, a
Constellation spokeswoman, said by phone today.  Off-site power was restored at about 3:30 a.m., though Unit
1 still remains offline, she said. There is no timeline for
restart and  unit 2  continues to operate at 100 percent of
capacity.  Public Service manually shut down its 1,174-megawatt Salem
1 reactor near Wilmington,  Delaware , when four of the station’s
six water circulating pumps became unavailable because of the
storm, Joe Delmar, a company spokesman, said today. The
circulating pumps use the Delaware Bay/River to condense steam.  There is no estimated time for restart of Unit 1, Delmar
said, noting that Unit 2 is offline for refueling. Public
Service suspended all refueling work on Oct. 28 as  Hurricane
Sandy  approached the U.S. East Coast.  ‘Biggest Challenge’  “The biggest challenge overnight was waves hitting the
circulating water systems at both stations,” Delmar said in an
e-mail responding to questions today. There was “lots of river
grass and debris,” he said.  The 1,061-megawatt Hope Creek 1 unit, also operated by
Public Service and located near Wilmington, is stable and
operating at full power, Delmar said.  The three shutdowns were the biggest declines in nuclear
power in the  Northeastern region , where generation dropped 24
percent to 13,835 megawatts, according to commission data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the region’s  lowest production 
level since 1998 as nine reactors are offline.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, can increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 43 days in 2011, according to
the  Nuclear Energy Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  