-- SAP Loses Sybase’s Chen After Gaining Blueprint for Deals
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-10-30T16:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sap-loses-sybase-s-chen-after-gaining-blueprint-for-deals.html
SAP AG (SAP)  is losing a top executive
from Sybase Inc., the largest acquisition in the German software
company’s history, after fully integrating the maker of mobile
applications for business management.  Sybase Chief Executive Officer John Chen will step down
tomorrow after 15 years at the Dublin, California-based software
maker, which was taken over by SAP in 2010 for $5.8 billion. The
57-year-old Hong Kong native helped expand SAP’s customer base
from back offices to iPad wielding salespeople who need access
to corporate data while on the go.  “It’s time for me to relinquish the ownership of this
franchise,” Chen said in a joint interview with SAP co-CEO  Bill McDermott  yesterday. “I always thought about this like marrying
off your daughter. You know it’s the right thing to do, you just
want to hold on a little more -- but it’s time to move on to
other challenges.”  Sybase was McDermott and co-CEO Jim Hagemann Snabe’s first
major purchase to outmaneuver  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in mobile software
and gain a foothold in databases, a market dominated by its
archrival. The deal also provided a blueprint for Walldorf,
Germany-based SAP’s more recent acquisitions to expand into
cloud computing: SuccessFactors Inc. and Ariba Inc.  SAP, which aims to double sales of mobile software to 220
million euros ($285 million) this year, will probably maintain
100 percent revenue growth from mobile programs for “the
foreseeable future,” McDermott said. Sales from the real-time
database software Hana and from the cloud will also double for
years to come, he said.  Turnaround Expert  The world’s biggest maker of business-management software
aims to exceed 20 billion euros in  revenue  by 2015, compared
with 14.2 billion euros last year.  Chen took the helm at Sybase in 1998, during a fourth
consecutive year of net losses, and shifted the company’s focus
to mobile technology from its legacy as a database maker. When
SAP bought it, Sybase had been turning a profit for seven years.  In an e-mail to employees today, Chen recounted how
research firm Gartner Inc. predicted a 70 percent probability
for “Sybase’s death” at the time hejoined the company. Under
his watch, Sybase’s market value rose from a low of $362 million
to the $5.8 billion valuation paid by SAP, he said.  Ambitious Targets  “Sybase was a very successful company on a standalone
basis, but John had the temperament to see the dream of scaling
the important idea of mobility to literally millions of people -
- that’s where SAP came in,” McDermott said. With the addition
of cloud software and real-time analytics, “we think we’ve got
the nexus of forces, and a lot of that came through the Sybase
acquisition and John’s leadership.”  Following Chen’s departure, SAP plans to expand the reach
of Web-based mobile applications to small and medium-sized
enterprises in  countries  such as China and  Brazil , McDermott
said. It will also tie the fast Hana database software into more
mobile programs to allow customers to perform data analyses
instantly while outside of their offices, he said.  The 2012 mobile revenue target “looks very ambitious,”
New York-based Nomura analyst  Rick Sherlund  wrote in a note last
week after SAP reported  third-quarter  software revenue that
topped estimates.  SAP rose 1.4 percent to 56.27 euros at the close of trading
in Frankfurt, bringing the stock’s gains this year to 39 percent
and valuing the company at 69 billion euros.  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle is up 21 percent in the same period.  Alternative Positions  Chen, who said he had explored alternative positions within
SAP before deciding to leave, never joined the parent company’s
top management. By contrast, SuccessFactors founder Lars Dalgaard became a member of the executive board following the
acquisition, while Ariba CEO Bob Calderoni was invited to the
software maker’s global management board.  SAP’s decision to subsume the Sybase brand under its own
marque and handing strategic responsibility to Sanjay Poonen
left Chen largely with overseeing the integration process, said
Joshua Greenbaum, an analyst at Enterprise Applications
Consulting in Berkeley,  California .  “As the company has been blended into SAP, John Chen has
moved to the background,” Greenbaum said.  Chen, who has served on former U.S. President  George W. Bush ’s export council and is also a board member at  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , didn’t disclose the financial details
of his departure. In 2009, before Sybase was sold, his
compensation totaled $9.3 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. SAP doesn’t report remuneration for non-board
members.  Chen said he hasn’t decided what to do next, with options
ranging from founding a start-up to running “a large company,”
he said.  “It’s going to be in technology, I don’t have any other
skills,” Chen said. “I’ve been working hard until this point
and I’d now like to take a look at things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  