-- SAS Lifts Profit, Seeks $900 Million in Cuts, Disposals
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-10-30T13:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sas-lifts-profit-seeks-900-million-in-cuts-disposals.html
SAS Group (SAS) , the No. 1 Nordic airline,
said third-quarter profit doubled and that it’s completing plans
to sell 3 billion kronor ($450 million) of assets and cut the
same amount from costs. The stock rose the most in 14 months.  Pretax profit totaled 568 million kronor as passenger
revenue increased 9 percent and unit costs were reduced by 6
percent, Stockholm-based SAS said today in a statement. That
compares with earnings of 276 million kronor a year earlier.  SAS, which hasn’t posted an annual  profit  since 2007, is
seeking to deepen a savings program that already aims to shave 5
percent from costs and boost earnings by 5 billion kronor in
2012 and 2013. Chief Executive Officer Rickard Gustafson said
Aug. 8 that more jobs may go beyond 300 already being cut, while
asset disposals could include a check-in and baggage-handling
unit, a person familiar with the situation said yesterday.  “This is absolutely crucial for SAS’s survival,” said
Louis Landeman, a senior credit analyst at Danske Bank Markets
in  Stockholm . “The company has higher costs than many of its
competitors and they simply must boost savings.”  Pension Deal  SAS, struggling with high fuel costs and competition from
carriers including Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA, rose as much as 22
percent to 7.15 kronor, the biggest intraday gain since Aug. 17
last year, and was trading up 14 percent at 1:52 p.m. local
time. That pares the stock’s decline this year to 16 percent.  “SAS has for some time signaled the need for significant
further efficiency improvements in order to secure its long-term
competitiveness,” the carrier said, adding that the coming plan
will “fundamentally address” long-term spending and business
flexibility and seek a union deal to pare the size of an equity
write-down in 2013 stemming from pension accounting changes.  The board of the Scandinavian Airlines-parent will decide
on the cost cuts in the “near future,” the statement said.  SAS, part-owned by the Swedish, Norwegian and Danish
governments, said it’s in talks with banks to extend 4.7 billion
kronor of credit lines expiring in June and that the new savings
plan “is an essential part of the negotiations.” While the
dialog has been constructive, lenders are concerned about the
history of  losses , the person familiar with the situation said.  Other European airlines are also cutting costs. Regional
No. 1  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group is eliminating jobs, merging units
and boosting no-frills flights to head off a fourth straight
annual loss. The plan helped pare its second-quarter operating
loss by more than 50 percent to 66 million euros ($86 million).  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , the European No. 2, is seeking to
save 1.5 billion euros through 2014 via its Score reorganization
program, which entails the elimination of 3,500 administration
posts and as many as 1,000 catering jobs.  Both companies are due to publish third-quarter earnings
figures tomorrow. SAS is scheduled to release more detailed
earnings data on Nov. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  