-- Scene in D.C.: Boss’s Daughter Rides, Duval Cheers Horses
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-30T17:03:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/scene-in-d-c-boss-s-daughter-rides-duval-cheers-horses.html
Horses have taught  Boeing (BA)  Chief
Executive Officer W. James McNerney something about business:
how to “be patient.”  He and his wife, Haity, took in the 54th annual  Washington
International Horse Show  on Saturday night for the $100,000
president’s cup grand prix.  Sponsored by Boeing for three years, the six-day show
featuring junior and seasoned riders is one of the most
prestigious equestrian events in the world. U.S. Olympian Reed
Kessler, 18, and her mare Cylana took the top prize.  Bruce Springsteen ’s daughter, Jessica, riding her gelding,
Vindicat W., placed 10th. Actor  Robert Duvall , an avid horseman,
watched from the stands.  In the Fidelity Investments Club, McNerney dined on beef
tenderloin and mashed potatoes with Gerry Parsky, a former
Assistant Secretary of the  U.S. Treasury  and chairman of
Aurora Capital, where he oversees $2 billion in assets.  His wife, Robin Parsky, a trustee of the U.S. Equestrian
Team Foundation, presented Kessler with her award.  They were
joined by Duberstein Group CEO Kenneth Duberstein and his wife,
Jacqueline.  Blue Angel  McNerney’s horse Zafira competed in the speed classes;
Parsky’s Blue Angel is currently competing in Europe.  In the Acela Club, Belgian Ambassador Jan Matthysen and his
wife, Agnes, were following Belgian twin riders Olivier and
Nicola Philippaerts.  Other expats in the house included British Olympian Nick
Skelton and Australian horse whisperer Guy McLean.  Backstage in the stables, McLean reflected on equine
virtues. Horses “don’t care about your bank balance,” he said.
“Anyone can be a king on top of a horse. You have to earn their
respect.”  Boeing assisted with the distribution of as many as 5,000
tickets to the show made available through the military tickets
program.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 