-- Serbia Vows Kosovo Solution as Clinton Urges Peace Push
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-10-31T07:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/serbia-to-seek-peaceful-solution-to-kosovo-prime-minister-says.html
Serb Premier  Ivica Dacic  vowed to
seek peace with Kosovo as U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged Balkan leaders to improve relations two decades
after they were engulfed by ethnic warfare.  Dacic, who met Clinton and European Union Foreign Policy
Commissioner  Catherine Ashton  yesterday in Belgrade, said his
willingness to seek a compromise by the end of his term is part
of a commitment to securing the start of talks to become the
third former Yugoslav republic to join the EU.  Making an agreement with the breakaway province is a key
step in  Serbia ’s goal of joining the 27-nation EU, which it
needs to help tie its economy deeper to the rest of Europe after
the bloody civil wars of the 1990s stunted the region’s
transformation from communism. EU President  Herman Van Rompuy 
said Sept. 4 the country needs to improve its ties with Kosovo,
while the European Commission said on Oct. 10 that Serbia hasn’t
made enough progress to start entry talks.  “We are committed to resolving all outstanding issues”
with Kosovo “peacefully because generations after us do not
deserve to have this problem unresolved,” Dacic said yesterday.
“Serbia will do what is necessary to fulfill the criteria to
get the date for the start of EU accession talks.”  Balkan Tour  Clinton and Ashton are on a joint U.S.-EU Balkan tour “to
express our joint commitment towards Serbia,” Ashton said
yesterday.  “Serbia has made significant progress towards its European
future and has become a candidate country” in March, she said.  Milica Delevic, a former chief of the EU Integrations
Office and now the head of the Serbian Parliament’s committee
for EU integrations, said differences can be settled, securing
the country’s future in  Europe .  “In a world laden with political and economic
difficulties, this dialog is seen as a problem that can be
resolved, possibly propelling the EU enlargement to the
Balkans,” Delevic said.  The two will travel today to Kosovo and neighboring
 Croatia , which is scheduled to join the EU on July 1, 2013. They
began their Balkan tour in Bosnia-Herzegovina, whose government
this month received criticism from the trading bloc.  Commission Findings  The country’s consensus over European integration was lost
and authorities failed to follow through with overhauling its
institutions including the judiciary, the European Commission
said Oct. 10.  Dacic, a former aide to the late strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , who led Serbia during the Balkan Wars, said
yesterday’s meetings contained no ultimatums for Serbia, such as
a demand for recognition of Kosovo as an independent nation.  “The EU isn’t forcing us to do what we can’t, which is to
declare Kosovo’s independence, but what we can do is to
definitely make visible and sustainable progress in our dialog
with Pristina,” Kosovo’s capital, Dacic said.  Clinton, who was First Lady when former President  Bill Clinton  led a military campaign to oust Serbia from Kosovo in
1999, acknowledged that dialog between the two sides “doesn’t
require of Serbia the immediate recognition of Kosovo.  ‘‘It does, however, call for the two governments to move
forward with practical agreements that serve the everyday
security and economic interests of all the people of Serbia and
Kosovo,’’ Clinton said.  Independence Declaration  Kosovo declared independence in 2008, a move that was
recognized by the U.S. and 22 of the EU’s 27 members. Serbia,
which sees Kosovo as the cultural cradle of their nation, has
vowed never to accept its independence.  Dacic’s political survival rests on how far he is willing
to go to satisfy EU demands and not look soft on  Kosovo , said
political analysts including Vladimir Todoric of the Belgrade-
based New Policy Centre.  Popular support in Serbia for EU membership fell, according
to a Sept. 18-25 survey by the Belgrade Centre for Security
Policies, with overall backing for the EU path down by 2
percentage points to 47 percent, while opposition to the EU rose
10 percentage points to 35 percent.  About 100 activists of two nationalist organizations held a
peaceful demonstration in central Belgrade before Clinton’s
visit to protest ‘‘snatching Kosovo away from Serbia,” the
state news service Tanjug reported.  About 4,000 Serbian police officers were dispatched to the
streets of Belgrade during the visit, which also included a
meeting with President  Tomislav Nikolic , another former
Milosevic ally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  