-- Shanghai, Beijing Lure Investors as 2nd-Tier Cities Sour
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-31T10:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/shanghai-beijing-lure-back-investors-as-second-tier-cities-sour.html
Real estate investors and developers
are abandoning a two-year foray into  China ’s provincial cities
and switching back to  Shanghai  and Beijing, where offices are
fuller, rents are higher and home prices are stabilizing.  Of the $34 billion of direct investment in commercial real
estate in 2010 and 2011 combined, 20 percent went to China’s 50
biggest second-tier cities, according to Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.,
up from 5 percent in the prior two years. That percentage for
second-tier cities may decline in the “immediate future,”
according to  Michael Klibaner , China head of research for the
world’s second-biggest commercial realtor.  A three-year building boom, fueled by government stimulus,
has pushed up office vacancy rates in second-tier cities such as
Chongqing and Chengdu to almost 40 percent, while rising land
prices have squeezed homebuilders’ profit margins. Investors and
developers are refocusing on Beijing and Shanghai, where prime
offices are close to full occupancy and rents are on par with
cities such as  New York  and Sydney, according to Cushman &
Wakefield Inc.  “In a world of uncertainties, the best investment is the
one that produces stable rents,” said Albert Lau, head of China
at property broker Savills Plc. “When the whole world gets
riskier, when financing is harder, if the market is difficult,
you’d rather buy some good stuff rather than gamble.”  China’s economy  expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, a seventh-straight quarterly slowdown, as
 Europe ’s debt crisis crimped exports and the government’s
property crackdown cooled domestic demand.  Cheaper Land  The capital Beijing, the financial center of Shanghai and
the two southern business centers of Shenzhen and Guangzhou are
ranked as first-tier cities, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics. The second tier includes provincial capitals, while
the third includes smaller cities.  In the wake of the 2008 credit crisis, developers and
investors were lured to inland cities by cheaper land and rising
incomes. China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao , who is set to hand over
power in March after a once-in-a-decade leadership transition
that begins next month, has sought to curb property speculation
in Shanghai and Beijing. That encouraged developers to seek
opportunities elsewhere, where property policies were more
relaxed.  China has over the past two years raised down-payment and
mortgage requirements for home buyers, imposed a property tax
for the first time in Shanghai and Chongqing, increased building
of low-cost social housing and placed home-purchase restrictions
in about 40 cities. Home prices have risen about 155 percent
nationwide since reforms that privatized the country’s housing
market in 1998.  ‘More Advantages’  Monthly prime office rents in Beijing and Shanghai are 690
 yuan  ($110) and 563 yuan per square meter, according to Cushman
& Wakefield. That compares with 284 yuan in Nanjing, the capital
of eastern Jiangsu province, which is the most expensive among
China’s second-tier cities, according to the broker. One square
meter equals about 10.8 square feet.  Fantasia Holdings Group Co. (1777) , a Shenzhen-based developer,
paid about 779 million yuan to buy Huawanli Investment, which
holds a 17,138-square-meter site in Beijing’s central business
district, according to a statement to the Hong Kong Stock
exchange on Oct. 24. It plans to develop a business complex on
the land, executive director Lam Kam Tong said by e-mail.  Fantasia plans to expand to first-tier cities such as
Beijing and Shanghai, Lam said, citing better prospects for
commercial properties in the biggest cities.  “There are more advantages than disadvantages to develop
in first-tier cites compared with smaller ones,” he said.
“With the high value-added development model, it can bring in a
relatively higher gross margin to the company.”  Empty Offices  In the western city of Chongqing, four largely empty office
towers bearing names of the country’s biggest financial
institutions, including China Life Insurance Co., the biggest
insurance company, stand side-by-side along the  Yangtze River .  Completed last year to anchor the city’s new Jiangbeizui
business district, the skyscrapers with 150,000 square meters of
prime  office space  stemmed from the central government’s 4
trillion yuan stimulus program in 2008 to revive the country’s
economy. Today, about 85 percent of that office space is empty.  “Once the expectation of healthier market conditions take
hold in the second-tier cities, you’ll see more interest in
those assets,” Jones Lang LaSalle’s Klibaner said. “The
fundamental of the markets is more attractive in tier-one cities
now.”  ‘Less Visibility’  Offices in Beijing and Shanghai were more than 95 percent
occupied at the end of the second quarter, New York-based
 Cushman & Wakefield  said. The six highest vacancy rates in the
country -- all in second-tier cities -- ranged from 16 percent
to 38 percent, according to estimates from the broker.  “In China’s second-tier cities we see less visibility on
price and growth of the local office markets,” said Daan Van Aert, head of strategic real estate at APG Investment Asia Ltd.,
a subsidiary of APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV, which manages
about 314 billion euros ($411 billion) for the largest Dutch
pension fund. “The returns at this stage don’t really seem to
justify the risks for institutional investors.”  Residential Property  Preference for China’s biggest cities also applies to
residential real estate.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) ,
the biggest Chinese developer listed in Hong Kong, is now
putting more resources back to first-tier cities after expanding
in smaller inland ones in the past six years, according to the
company.  Land prices climbed faster than home values in some less
wealthy cities in the past two years, pressuring developers’
profit margins, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Developers always wanted to have land in major cities,
but the major cities’ land supply is limited,” said Jinsong Du,
a Hong Kong-based Credit Suisse property analyst. “Therefore,
they were forced to expand to smaller cities in order to
continue to grow.”  Home prices  in China’s second- and third-tier cities have
fallen more than in major cities this year, led by the eastern
city of Wenzhou, where prices of new homes were down 15.5
percent in September from a year ago. Prices in Beijing fell 0.5
percent, while those in Shanghai declined by 1.6 percent.  Going Inland  Developers that maintained or increased activities in the
first-tier cities have outperformed peers that ventured inland.  “Under such a tough market environment, the strategy of
developing high-quality residential projects in the core area of
major mainland cities is correct,” China Overseas’ Chairman
Kong Qingping said in August in a company statement after it
posted 18 percent interim profit growth.  The state-owned developer rose 54 percent this year, the
best performer among Chinese builders on the  Hang Seng Index .
Its portfolio covers 33 Chinese cities, as well as  Hong Kong  and
Macau. In February, it committed $40 million with APG and ICBC
International Holdings Ltd. for the first close of a fund to
invest in new residential property developments.  Evergrande, Sunac  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd., China’s biggest
developer by sales volume, posted a 21 percent decline in
underlying profit in the first half after the company sold fewer
apartments in less affluent cities. Contracted sales of the
Guangzhou-based developer fell 21 percent in the first six
months to 35 billion yuan. Its sales from first-tier cities
represent 1.2 percent of revenue.  Sunac China Holdings Ltd. (1918) , the developer part-owned by U.S.
private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, revised up its sales
target for this year to 30 billion yuan from 22 billion yuan as
the company’s focus on major cities, including Beijing, Shanghai,
Tianjin and Chongqing, pays off.  “I never believed smaller cities would have better
developments than Beijing and Shanghai,” Sunac Chairman Sun Hongbin told reporters in Hong Kong in August.  China’s home prices won’t rise sharply for the rest of the
year because developers are still facing tight  cash flow , which
will prevent them from cutting prices, Sun said.  “Building in small and medium-sized cities shouldn’t be a
long-term strategy; the internal demand of such cities is
smaller than big ones,” said Kenny Wu, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at JI-Asia Research Ltd. “Developers swarmed into those
smaller cities before for quick turnover and land-bank size, but
development of those cities is unsustainable in a downturn
economy.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  