-- Sharp Jumps on Report of Tie-Up Talks With Apple, Google
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-10-30T08:41:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/sharp-jumps-on-report-of-talks-with-apple-google-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753)  rose to the highest in
more than three weeks in Tokyo trading after  Kyodo News  said the
maker of liquid-crystal displays is in talks with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to form partnerships.  Sharp rose 6.2 percent to 172 yen, the highest level since
Oct. 5. The stock has plunged 74 percent this year, the biggest
percentage loss on the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.
Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Osaka-based Sharp, declined
to comment on possible partnerships reported by Kyodo.  The maker of Aquos TVs said earlier this month it’s
considering raising funds after securing 360 billion yen ($4.5
billion) of  funding  from its lenders. The 100-year-old inventor
of mechanical pencils put up its headquarters and some plants as
collateral as the Apple  supplier  struggles for survival after a
record loss last year.  “If the report is true, then it’s a positive for Sharp as
it would lead to better utilization of factory capacity,” said
 Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays Plc.  Japan’s largest maker of LCDs seeks to jointly develop
tablet computers and supply its panels to the U.S. companies,
the newswire reported late yesterday, without saying how it got
the information. Sharp is also in talks with some domestic
companies to supply its new displays, it said.  With  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Sharp seeks to jointly develop a micro-
processing unit, Kyodo News said. Sharp is already negotiating
with  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  to
spur sales, the report said. Sharp is probably asking Apple,
Intel, Google, HP and Microsoft to invest when its earnings and
share price recover, Kyodo News reported. Nakayama denied Sharp
is talking to the companies for investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  