-- Shorters Get Sharp Shock as Ailing TV Maker Gains
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-10-30T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/shorters-get-sharp-shock-as-ailing-tv-maker-gains.html
Investors who placed record bets
that  Sharp Corp. (6753) ’s shares had further to fall have been caught
out by a 20 percent rally since the Japanese display maker’s
stock hit a 38-year low this month.  The number of shares held in Japanese  margin-trading 
accounts that profit if Sharp falls rose to 35.6 million
yesterday, the most since Japan Securities Finance Co. began
reporting daily data in August 1997. Short-interest, a measure
of bets that the stock will decline, climbed to 84.6 million
shares last week, the highest ever, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg. The stock, which jumped 6.2 percent
yesterday, is up 20 percent since Oct. 17, when it closed at 143
yen, the lowest since 1974.  Shares have rallied amid speculation the 100-year-old
inventor of mechanical pencils will forge alliances with major
customers that include Apple Inc. Sharp may post a net loss of
296 billion yen ($3.7 billion) in the year ending March 2013,
according to the  average estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company has already put up its Osaka headquarters
and some factories as debt collateral after its credit ratings
were cut to junk.  “It’s a tough short,” Yashwant Bajaj, a Singapore-based
 fund manager  at Juggernaut Capital Management Pte, said.
“Sometimes equity investors get fixated on the financial
situation of the company and don’t really focus on what made it
a decent quality company when things were better. What the
company has is pretty good technology.”  Apple, Google  Sharp jumped 6.2 percent to 172 yen yesterday. The company
is in talks with Apple, Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. to
jointly develop tablet computers and supply display screens to
the U.S. companies,  Kyodo News  reported on Oct. 29, without
saying where it got the information. Miyuki Nakayama, a
spokeswoman for Sharp, declined to comment on the report and
options trading.  Sharp, already a  supplier  of panels for Apple’s iPads,
needs to win new customers to help stave off losses from its LCD
business.  Global TV  shipments fell 8 percent to 51.6 million
units in the quarter ended June 30 from a year earlier, a second
straight quarterly decline, DisplaySearch said Sept. 11.  None of the 22 brokerages covering Sharp that are  tracked 
by Bloomberg have a buy rating, with 13 recommending sell and 9
telling investors to hold the stock, the data show. At least
seven brokerages have downgraded ratings for the stock since the
company predicted a second year of annual losses on Aug. 2.  “Short selling may be piling up as people aren’t expecting
good results to come out,”  Naoki Fujiwara , chief fund manager
at Shinkin　Asset Management Co., which oversees about $6.6
billion. “With declining panel prices, slumping TV sales, and
slowing European economy, people are expecting its earnings will
be tough.”  Debt Load  The company may report tomorrow a loss of 71 billion for
the quarter ended Sept. 30 after posting a 138 billion loss in
the previous three months, according to the average of three
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp needs to repay 565 billion yen of  debt  in 2013 and
130 billion yen the following year, data compiled by Bloomberg
News show.  The maker of Aquos TVs secured 360 billion yen of funding
from its lenders last month after pledging to cut 18 percent of
its workforce and sell overseas plants as well as U.S. solar
developer Recurrent Energy LLC, people with knowledge of the
proposal said Sept. 26.  Standard & Poor’s  said Oct. 1 the loan
that must be repaid by June 2013 leaves Sharp dependent on
short-term debt.  ‘Colossal’ Losses  “For this year, maybe Sharp is going to avoid bankruptcy
as they’ve got some short-term financing,” Amir Anvarzadeh, a
Singapore-based manager for Asia equity sales at  BGC Partners
Inc. (BGCP) , said by phone yesterday. “The question mark is whether
the company is going to generate enough  cash flow  to stay
afloat. The losses are going to be colossal.”  Speculation that the worst may not be behind Sharp pushed
the number of shares held in Japanese  margin-trading accounts 
that profit when the stock falls to more than twice the level of
those that make money if it gains, according to data from Japan
Securities Finance as of yesterday. Investors could be betting
on a scenario where a white knight fails to ride to the
company’s rescue, Juggernaut Capital’s Bajaj said.  Foxconn Technology Group founder Terry Gou, who agreed in
March to invest 67 billion yen for a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp,
sought to renegotiate the deal as the shares tumbled to a record
low after the company predicted a second consecutive year of
losses in August. Sharp plans to continue collaboration with
Foxconn even without the investment from the Taiwanese
manufacturer, President Takashi Okuda said Sept. 14.  “Sharp must find an investor within this year,” said
 Mitsushige Akino , who helps oversee about $626 million in assets
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in  Tokyo . “In this
volatile global economy, you don’t know what will happen a month
ahead. The company isn’t showing a V-shaped recovery even after
a huge loss. We can’t expect a cyclical recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  