-- Shrinking Chemical Fleet Boosts Stolt as Dow Cuts Jobs: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-10-30T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/shrinking-chemical-fleet-boosts-stolt-as-dow-cuts-jobs-freight.html
The chemical-tanker fleet is poised
to contract for the first time in at least 17 years, boosting
earnings for Stolt-Nielsen Ltd. just when Dow Chemical Co. and
DuPont Co. are cutting jobs and closing plants.  The combined capacity of the fleet will drop 1 percent next
year, according to ABG Sundal Collier Holding ASA, an investment
bank in Oslo whose data starts in 1996. Shares of Stolt-Nielsen,
which operates the most chemical tankers, will rise 33 percent
in the next 12 months and those of Bergen, Norway-based  Odfjell
SE (ODF)  will almost double, based on the averages of estimates from
10 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  While the International Monetary Fund predicts growth will
accelerate in 2013, Dow Chemical, the largest U.S. producer,
said business conditions are the worst since the recession as it
cut 2,400 jobs. DuPont said it is eliminating 1,500 positions.
Shipping analysts are bullish because they say cargoes track
global growth and the tanker industry’s shrinking capacity
contrasts with a glut in most of the rest of the merchant fleet
hauling everything from coal to oil.  “The Dow headline gave me chills, but when you look at the
market, there’s still strong underlying industrial demand for
chemicals,” said Ole Stenhagen, an Oslo-based analyst at SEB
Enskilda whose recommendations on shipping equities returned 32
percent in the past three years. Chemical-tanker owners
refrained from ordering too many ships when most of the rest of
the industry were “acting out their death wish,” he said.  Largest Shipbroker  Rates for chemical tankers across 23 trade routes averaged
$70.65 a metric ton since the start of January, 4.4 percent more
than last year’s record $67.70, according to London-based
Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest shipbroker. That contrasts
with a 55 percent slump in returns for the largest crude-oil
carriers and a 40 percent decline for ships hauling coal, iron
ore and grain.  Stolt-Nielsen (SNI) , which operates 154 tankers from London, will
report a 37 percent gain in net income to $99.8 million for next
year, according to the mean of eight analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Its shares dropped 13 percent to 104.50 kroner in
Oslo this year and will reach 138.80 kroner in 12 months, the
average of five  predictions  shows.  Odfjell, operating 99 vessels, will narrow its net loss to
$20.9 million for 2013 from $81.8 million this year, the mean of
six estimates shows. Shares of the  company  declined 48 percent
to 18.80 kroner this year and are projected to reach 36.98
kroner in 12 months.  Refined Fuels  Chemical tankers, 550-foot-long vessels, carry more than
500 products including alcohols for solvents, aromatics for
paints and sulfuric acid for insecticides. Some ships in the
fleet of about 4,000 tankers also carry refined fuels such as
gasoline and diesel. Other owners include Oslo-based Eitzen
Chemical ASA and St. Helier, Jersey-based Triton, an investment
company managing about $5.1 billion of assets.  Global sales of basic chemicals reached about $2.2 trillion
in 2011 and demand is tied to world economic growth, according
to Bloomberg Industries analysts led by Jason Miner in Skillman,
New Jersey. The IMF expects the world economy to expand 3.6
percent in 2013, from 3.3 percent this year.  Actual growth may turn out to be lower than that because
the Washington-based group already cut its forecast twice since
July, most recently by 0.3 percentage point on Oct. 9. The 17-
nation euro area will contract through the first half of next
year, the average of 25 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  China , the engine of world growth, has slowed
for seven consecutive quarters.  Third Quarter  Cargo volumes weakened across all trade routes in the third
quarter, Niels Stolt-Nielsen, chief executive officer of the
company, told analysts on a conference call Oct. 4. He still
forecast rising freight rates because fewer new vessels are
joining the fleet. Jens Gruner-Hegge, a spokesman for Stolt-
Nielsen, and Margrethe Gudbrandsen, a spokeswoman for Odfjell,
declined to comment.  Ship owners are also contending with rising fuel costs,
their single biggest operating expense. The price of so-called
bunkers jumped 11 percent to $629.86 a metric ton since the end
of June and is heading for a record annual average, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports.  Returns from hauling chemicals are beating those from
carrying crude oil and coal because owners limited orders for
new vessels before the global recession. Orders for new chemical
ships peaked at 25 percent of existing capacity four years ago,
compared with 48 percent for oil tankers and 74 percent for dry-
bulk carriers, according to data from IHS Inc., an Englewood,
Colorado-based research company.  Shipping Capacity  That reflects the cost of the ships and the fact the
industry is controlled by fewer owners than other parts of the
merchant fleet, said Erik Folkeson, an analyst at Swedbank First
Securities in Oslo. Building a new chemical tanker costs about
$660,000 a ton, compared with $260,000 a ton for a Capesize dry-
bulk carrier, Clarkson data show. Stolt-Nielsen and Odfjell
control a combined 29 percent of capacity, according to
Odfjell’s annual report.  The seaborne trade is being boosted by where the chemicals
are being produced and consumed. The U.S. exports about $129
billion of chemicals a year, or almost 11 percent of the global
market, according to Cefic, a European industry group based in
Brussels.  Germany  is the second-largest shipper, with sales of
about $128 billion. China buys $149 billion of cargoes a year,
or almost 12 percent of the worldwide total.  Raw Material  U.S. producers have the advantage because natural gas, one
of the main raw materials for producing chemicals, averaged 34
percent less in  New York  trading this year. Costs slumped as
production was boosted by the extraction of hydrocarbons from
shale formations. Naphtha, an alternative feedstock for the
industry, averaged about 0.7 percent more in  Europe  this year.  “If you look at how dismal it is for oil tankers, dry bulk
and containers, the chemical-tanker market is one of the few
segments where you’re finished with the order book” for new
ships, said Petter Narvestad, an analyst at Fondsfinans ASA in
Oslo whose recommendations returned 12 percent in the past year.
“Yes, the world economy is slow, but it’s going to come back at
some point and then earnings are going to come up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  