-- Simon, Brookfield Say Sandy Caused Minimal Building Harm
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-10-30T19:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/simon-brookfield-say-sandy-caused-minimal-building-harm.html
Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the
largest mall owner in the U.S., and  Brookfield Office Properties
Inc. (BPO)  said Atlantic superstorm Sandy appears to have caused
minimal damage to their properties.  Brookfield’s World Financial Center and One Liberty Plaza
in lower Manhattan “fared well” in the storm and the
buildings’ power is on, said Andy Willis, a spokesman for
Toronto-based Brookfield Asset Management Inc., Brookfield
Office’s largest  shareholder . Damage was minor at Simon’s malls
and outlet centers in New York and other areas hit by the storm,
said Les Morris, a spokesman for the Indianapolis-based company.  Sandy churned across  Pennsylvania  today after blacking out
much of southern Manhattan and leaving a trail of flooding,
death and destruction along the East Coast. Economic damages
from the storm may total as much as $20 billion, with $5 billion
to $10 billion of that insured, according to Eqecat Inc., an
Oakland, California-based provider of catastrophic risk models.  In lower  Manhattan  along the East River in the Water Street
area, most of the buildings have “water infiltration in lower
levels,” said Jim Rosenbluth, managing director for crisis
management at Cushman & Wakefield Inc., the New York-based
commercial property broker and manager.  ‘Historic’ Levels  “The real issue it appears was historic flood levels in
the New York harbor area,” Rosenbluth said in a telephone
interview from Tysons Corner,  Virginia . It’s too early to tell
which properties in the area were affected, he said. “We are
assessing the buildings in lower Manhattan at this time.”  Silverstein Properties Inc. said it also was evaluating the
storm’s impact.  “It appears that we have not sustained any lasting damage
to our existing properties or at our World Trade Center
buildings currently under construction,” the company said today
in an e-mailed statement. “There was some degree of flooding
affecting the below-grade areas of the buildings. We are working
closely with the Port Authority and our contractors to pump that
water out.”  Seven World Trade Center is staffed and running with
emergency power, the company said. Once power is restored to
lower Manhattan, it expects to fully resume operations.  55 Water  At 55 Water St. in lower Manhattan, an office building with
almost 4 million square feet (372,000 square meters), power will
not be restored for at least a few days, said David Bronner,
chief executive officer of the building’s owner, Retirement
Systems of  Alabama , based in Montgomery. The building
experienced flooding in its lobby and sublevels.  Bronner said he has no estimates of damage yet.  “We currently have five pump trucks on their way to the
building, three are from  Cleveland  and two from D.C.,” Bronner
said. “They should be on site sometime early tomorrow morning
and hopefully we’ll get clearance from the city and we’ll start
pumping the water out of the sublevels. That will then give us a
chance to see the damage.”  Properties in areas with less damage are starting to
operate again. Simon Property’s Roosevelt Field mall in Garden
City, New York, and Rockaway Townsquare in Rockaway, New Jersey,
are scheduled to be open today, Morris said. The company’s
Woodbury Common Premium Outlets center in Orange County, New
York, north of Manhattan will be closed today, he said.  Taubman Malls  Malls owned by  Taubman Centers Inc. (TCO)  suffered minimal
damage, such as fallen trees and wrecked signs, said Karen MacDonald, a spokeswoman for the Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-
based company. Taubman malls in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and Short
Hills, New Jersey, are closed today, and the center in Short
Hills is without power, she said.  Properties owned by  Washington Real Estate Investment
Trust (WRE) , a Rockville, Maryland-based owner of office buildings,
shopping centers and apartments in the Washington area, didn’t
have any major damage, Chief Financial Officer William Camp said
in an e-mail. Buildings owned by  First Potomac Realty Trust (FPO) , an
office and industrial landlord with properties in Washington,
 Maryland  and Virginia, also escaped significant damage, said
Vikki Kayne, a spokeswoman for the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  