-- Singapore Sees Below-Potential Growth as Price Pressures Persist
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-10-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/singapore-sees-below-potential-growth-as-price-pressures-persist.html
Singapore ’s economy will grow at
below-potential levels for a second year in 2013 even as a tight
labor market and rising costs of goods and services add to
inflationary pressures, the central bank said.  The island’s pace of growth “slowed discernibly” in the
past two quarters, and external demand is expected to remain
“tepid and volatile” next year, the  Monetary Authority of
Singapore  said in a twice-yearly review today.  Gross domestic
product  may increase 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent this year, it
said, reiterating a previous forecast. It didn’t give a
prediction for 2013 growth.  “While the global economy should be relatively less
volatile next year, its growth momentum is unlikely to pick up
significantly as the deleveraging process in the advanced
economies will be protracted,” the monetary authority said.
“As such, Singapore could see its second consecutive year of
below-potential growth in 2013.”  The central bank, which uses its  exchange rate  to manage
 inflation , unexpectedly held off from slowing the currency’s
appreciation this month even after the economy contracted last
quarter. The  International Monetary Fund  this month cut its
projections for global expansion this year and next, saying it
sees “alarmingly high” risks of a steeper slowdown.  Singapore’s GDP fell an annualized 1.5 percent in the three
months through September from the previous quarter, the Trade
Ministry said Oct. 12. The city-state avoided falling into a
technical recession after second-quarter GDP data was revised to
show the economy grew 0.2 percent.  Car Permits  The central bank said earlier this month it will maintain a
modest and gradual appreciation of the local dollar, joining
Asian nations from  China  to  Malaysia  in limiting monetary
stimulus as they guard against price risks even as fiscal
austerity in the euro area weighs on the world economy.  Rising costs of car permits, higher housing rentals and a
labor market that is near full employment may fuel price
pressures even as imported inflation will “generally be
benign” amid an appreciating currency, the central bank said.  Consumer price gains will average more than 4.5 percent in
2012 and will be in a 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent range next year,
it predicted, maintaining previously announced forecasts.  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait and home to one of the world’s
busiest container ports, has remained vulnerable to fluctuations
in overseas demand for manufactured goods even as the government
boosts the financial services and tourism industries to reduce
reliance on  exports .  “While external demand is expected to remain tepid and
volatile, the ramp-up in supply capacity on the domestic front
should support growth,” the central bank said in the
Macroeconomic Review today.  Job Creation  The government has made it more expensive for companies to
hire overseas workers by raising levies, increasing salary
thresholds and requiring better educational qualifications for
some categories of foreigners.  “The  labor market  is expected to remain tight in the
coming quarters as a result of continued strong  job creation  in
the domestic-oriented sectors and constraints on the supply of
both local and foreign workers,” the monetary authority said.
“Overall job creation will continue at a firm pace” in the
second half of 2012 and into 2013, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  