-- Hotel Recovery Hurt as Sandy Causes Cancellations, Damage
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-10-30T19:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/slow-u-s-hotel-recovery-further-challenged-by-superstorm.html
Revenue growth at U.S. hotels,
already hurt by slowing traveler demand, will be hampered
further by Sandy, the superstorm that blacked out much of
southern  Manhattan  and flooded areas along the East Coast.  Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  and real estate
investment trusts including  Host Hotels & Resorts Inc. (HST) , owner of
the Westin  New York  Grand Central, and Hilton Times Square
landlord  Sunstone Hotel Investors Inc. (SHO)  are among the companies
that probably will be most affected by Sandy because of their
properties in the U.S. Northeast, said Nikhil Bhalla, a senior
lodging analyst at FBR & Co. in Arlington, Virginia.  Room-revenue growth was “generally soft through the first
three weeks of the month,” before Sandy hit, Bhalla said in an
e-mail. “So I expect results for the last week of October to be
notably soft.”  Sandy came ashore in southern  New Jersey  at 8 p.m. local
time yesterday.  New York City  hotels in lower Manhattan,
including the New York Marriott Downtown and the W New York
Downtown, were closed. Those operating in the city, such as the
Four Seasons on 57th Street in Manhattan and  New York Marriott
Marquis  in Times Square, prepared guests by handing out bottled
water, flashlights and safety information and planning
entertainment for stranded visitors.  U.S. revenue per available room, an industry measure of
occupancy and rates, probably will grow 5 percent to 5.5 percent
in the fourth quarter, Bhalla said. Before Sandy, he was
expecting growth of 6 percent. The East Coast cities of New
York,  Boston  and  Washington  account for about 10 percent to 12
percent of U.S. lodging revenue, he said.  Starwood Closures  Starwood, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based hotelier whose
properties include the St. Regis New York, has 36 properties in
and around the city, and 19 hotels in the Boston area, according
to its website.  The company yesterday closed the W New York Downtown as
part of the city’s mandatory evacuation and shut the  Le Parker
Meridien  after a crane on the One57 residential development
nearby partially collapsed, threatening several adjacent
buildings, according to Nadeen Ayala, a Starwood spokeswoman.  “Some other hotels through the region experienced outages
of power and telephone services but are using back-up generators
and systems,” Starwood said today in an e-mailed statement.
“In a few cases, guests are being relocated to other Starwood
hotels.”  Lost ‘Steam’  Starwood shares last week fell to a three-month low after
the company forecast earnings below analysts’ estimates. A
recovery in demand has “lost its steam,” Chief Executive
Officer Frits van Paasschen said on an Oct. 25 conference call.  Kenneth Cruse, president and chief executive officer of
 Aliso Viejo , California-based Sunstone declined to comment on
the impact of Sandy. Gregory Larson, an executive vice president
at Bethesda, Maryland-based Host Hotels, the largest U.S.
lodging real estate investment trust, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment.  The storm’s economic toll is poised to exceed $20 billion.
The total would include insured losses of about $7 billion to $8
billion, said Charles Watson, research and development director
at Kinetic Analysis Corp., a hazard-research company in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland .  “Hotels typically are well-insured for these types of
events,” Bhalla said. “The issue is that their insurance
premiums will go up after such an event, so it will hit their
margins a bit in the quarters to come.”  Atlantic City  In  Atlantic City , casinos sustained only minor storm damage
and could reopen on 24 hours’ notice, according to Anthony Rodio, president and chief executive officer of Las Vegas-based
 Tropicana Entertainment Inc. (TPCA)  Damage was more significant to the
city’s boardwalk and streets, which are lined with debris, said
Rodio, who also heads New Jersey’s casino trade association.  “Atlantic City fared pretty well compared to the
communities north and south,” he said. “I don’t think any of
the casinos sustained any significant damage. It’s not nearly
the devastation I’ve seen in some of the other parts of New
Jersey.”  Rodio said it was too early to assess the financial impact
on casino operators.  “There’s going to be a financial blow,” he said. “But
it’s a one-time occurrence.”  Roof Damage  Some of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR) ’s Atlantic City
properties suffered extensive wind damage to their roofs, said
Gary Thompson, a spokesman for the Las Vegas-based company.
Local teams were working as quickly as possible to complete
damage assessments, he said. Caesars is the largest casino owner
in Atlantic City with four properties: its namesake resort,
Harrah’s, Bally’s and Showboat.  Starwood closed its Sheraton in Atlantic City to guests as
part of the city’s evacuation order. The property is being used
as a staging area for emergency workers, the hotelier said
today.  Manhattan hotels have been accommodating travelers along
with employees of firms such as Morgan Stanley and UBS AG that
are putting up some workers who are unable to commute. Such
business may help counter the impact of cancellations by out-of-
town travelers, according to  David Loeb , a Robert W. Baird & Co.
analyst in  Milwaukee .  ‘Displaced Residents’  “Often we see a pick-up in demand immediately after these
events -- from displaced residents, insurance adjusters,
construction-trades people,” Loeb said. “It is way too early
to tell if revenues will be materially impacted, as it will
depend on how things offset each other. Business travel to the
east will be canceled, for sure, but people will likely check
into hotels with power while their homes have none.”  Marriott’s  New York Marriott Downtown  and the Ritz-Carlton
New York in Battery Park are closed because of the mandatory
evacuation of low-lying areas of New York City, said Kathleen
Duffy, spokeswoman for  Marriott International Inc.’s (MAR)  hotels in
New York City. Water flooded the Marriott Downtown and rose as
high as the lobby entrance’s doorknob, she said today.  “As I was on the phone with the general manager at 8 p.m.
yesterday, I heard him say, ‘Here it comes,’” Duffy said.  Marriott has had cancellations at its hotels in the city,
including a dinner “for several hundred” people, Duffy said.
The company’s New York hotels that remain open are more than 80
percent occupied with stranded guests, recovery crews and
travelers arriving ahead of this Sunday’s marathon, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  