-- Softbank Embraces Junk as Sprint Boosts Debt: Corporate Finance
-- B y   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-10-31T05:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/softbank-embraces-junk-as-sprint-boosts-debt-corporate-finance.html
Softbank Corp. (9984) , the first supplier
of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and iPads to Japanese buyers, expects
its credit rating to be cut to junk as the country’s biggest
purchase of a foreign company more than doubles borrowing.  The extra yield over government debt that investors demand
to hold Softbank’s 1.1 percent bonds due 2016 jumped fourfold to
1.65 percentage points after the company said Oct. 12 it’s in
talks to buy a 70 percent stake in  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  for $20.1
billion, according to  Japan  Securities Dealers Association
prices on Bloomberg. Relative yields on Softbank’s global peers
narrowed in that period.  Softbank will increase its net debt to 3.9 trillion yen
($49 billion) with the takeover of the third-biggest U.S.
wireless carrier. Moody’s Investors Service said it may lower
the Tokyo-based company’s rating, currently on the cusp of
speculative grade, by at least one level because “the addition
of new debt is unlikely to offset the initial benefits” of the
acquisition.  “Our ratings will be lowered, but they will recover,”
Yoshimitsu Goto, Softbank’s head of finance, said in an
interview in his  Tokyo  office on Oct. 26. “We do these deals
assuming our  cash flow  and corporate value will rise. Our credit
ratings will go even higher as repayment proceeds.”  Overseas Expansion  Softbank’s purchase of the stake in Sprint Nextel will help
the 31-year-old Japanese company expand beyond its home market
while giving its loss-making U.S. counterpart more financial
backing as it upgrades the infrastructure of its networks.  The acquisition will make Softbank the fifth most-indebted
publicly traded company in Japan, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Toyota Motor Corp. ranks highest in the data, which
exclude banks and insurers, with 9.1 trillion yen of net debt.  Softbank’s deal will be financed by loans, and banks
already have committed 1.6 trillion yen in bridge financing
secured by shares in the U.S. company. The bank debt may be
refinanced in the  bond market  later, Goto said.  Moody’s placed Softbank’s  Baa3 rating  on review for a
possible downgrade on Oct. 15 because of the amount of debt
Japan’s third-largest mobile phone company is taking on. In
terms of Softbank’s business, Moody’s said the takeover
presented “uncertain operating synergies” because both
companies will continue to operate in their home markets and use
different technology.  Softbank Penalized  Downgrading Softbank would penalize the Japanese company
compared with the rating firms’ treatment of its European
rivals, according to Mana Nakazora, the chief credit analyst at
BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo, who based her assessment on
telecommunications companies’ leverage ratios.  The ratio of Softbank’s net debt to earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization will deteriorate as
a result of the merger to 2.7 times from 1.4 now, Nakazora
estimated.  That’s still better than  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Spain ’s biggest
telecoms provider, at 3.1 times and with a Moody’s rating of
Baa2, she said.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,  Italy ’s main phone company,
already has a debt-to-Ebitda ratio of 2.7 times and is rated
Baa2, according to Nakazora. Even so, a Softbank downgrade is
inevitable, she said.  Standard & Poor’s  placed Softbank’s BBB rating, two levels
above junk, on “CreditWatch Negative” on Oct. 16, citing “the
debt-financed acquisition cost and weaker cash flow generation
of Sprint Nextel.” The New York-based firm said it expects to
downgrade Softbank to the BB category, or its three highest
speculative-grade ratings, when the takeover is completed,
probably in mid-2013.  ‘Upgraded Again’  Japan Credit Rating Agency Ltd. in Tokyo ranks Softbank at
A, five levels above junk.  “After a few years, Softbank will be upgraded again,”
said Nobumasa Mizutani, the chief  investment adviser  at Japan
Credit Advisory Co., a hedge-fund advisory firm in Tokyo.  The yield premium on Softbank’s 45 billion yen of 2016
bonds widened to 165 basis points on Oct. 19, the most since
they were issued in January 2011, JSDA prices on Bloomberg show.
The spread was 43 basis points on Oct. 11, before the Tokyo-
based company confirmed the merger talks, and has since fallen
back to 158 basis points.  The extra yield on notes offered by global telecoms
companies tightened eight basis points since Oct. 12 to 145,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Software Distributor  Softbank President Masayoshi Son, Japan’s second-richest
man, founded the company in 1981 as a distributor of computer
software. By 2006, he had transformed it into a fully fledged
phone-service provider similar to  Nippon Telegraph & Telephone
Corp. (9432)  by acquiring Japan Telecom Co. and the Japanese unit of
 Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   “With today’s announcement, I’m prepared to see the
ratings of Softbank lowered,” President Masayoshi Son said in a
presentation on Oct. 15.  Softbank raised 1.45 trillion yen through the sale of
asset-backed debt in September 2006 to fund its purchase of the
Vodafone unit. The notes were repaid using cash flow generated
by the unit.  Following the Vodafone merger, S&P and Japan Credit Rating
placed Softbank on review for a cut, and Moody’s put it on watch
for upgrade. In the end, none made any ratings change.  While Softbank then had lower ratings than the Vodafone
unit, it’s now graded above Sprint Nextel, which is rated B1 by
Moody’s, four levels into junk status, and an equivalent B+ at
S&P. Moody’s placed the U.S. company’s rating on review for an
upgrade because of the takeover while S&P put it on
“CreditWatch Positive.”  Good, Bad  “A good-credit company is buying a bad-credit company,”
Softbank’s Goto said.  The 3.9 trillion yen of debt that Softbank will have after
the takeover compares with 7.3 trillion yen as of June 30 for
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the owner of the nuclear reactors at
Fukushima which were destroyed in the March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami, and 1 trillion yen for  Sharp Corp. (6753) , the maker of Aquos
TVs that’s facing back-to-back annual losses, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tokyo-based Tepco is rated B1 by Moody’s, four levels below
Softbank, and B+ by S&P, five steps lower than the phone
company. Osaka-based Sharp is graded at BB+ by S&P, two levels
below Softbank, and BBB by JCR, three steps lower.  Softbank’s Son said on April 26 he was abandoning the
company’s zero net-debt target and that he will consider “a
proper balance between growth strategy, reward for shareholders
and cutting of net interest-bearing debt.”  Foreign Currency  Softbank’s Ebitda was 1 trillion yen in the year through
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The merger
will increase net debt from 1.45 trillion yen, according to the
Oct. 15 company presentation.  Within a year, the majority of Softbank’s borrowing for the
takeover will be refinanced with domestic syndicated loans, and
the remainder from bonds, Goto said. A smaller portion of the
debt may be funded in the overseas markets, including in dollars
and euros, he said.  “From a borrower’s point of view, Japan’s financial
environment is globally very profitable,” Goto said. “The
Japanese loans market is the most advantageous.”  The  average rate  for new loans by domestic banks declined
5.4 basis points to 0.989 percent in August, according to the
latest data from the  Bank of Japan. (8301)  Margins for U.S. dollar-
denominated loans signed in August globally averaged 357 basis
points, while those for euro-denominated facilities were 444
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  Increased revenue after the acquisition will help Softbank
to raise its rating again, Goto said. The operator plans to
repay the debt with its own cash flow, and won’t use that of
Sprint Nextel, he said.  Softbank’s  shares , after touching a 16-month high of 3,335
yen in Tokyo on Sept. 19, plunged to 2,200 yen on Oct. 15. The
stock was at 2,540 yen at 2:02 p.m. today in Tokyo.  “We are going to explain the strategy we have taken to
debt investors,” Goto said, adding that he plans to start
meeting with bondholders twice as often as he does now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  