-- South Korean Yield Curve to Steepen as Economy Rebounds
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-10-30T05:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/south-korean-yield-curve-to-steepen-as-economy-rebounds.html
The yield gap between  South Korea ’s
three- and 10-year bonds will widen from the smallest difference
in four years as a rebounding economy makes rate cuts unlikely,
according to Dongbu Securities Co. and Bank of America Corp.  The  spread  was 19 basis points today after reaching 17
basis points on Oct. 17, the least since October 2008, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Shin Dong Jun, chief fixed-income
strategist at Dongbu, forecast the gap will expand to 35 basis
points in three to six months as longer-dated yields rise, while
Albert Leung, a Hong Kong-based fixed-income strategist at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, said on Oct. 24 it could “easily”
reach 30 basis points in the next couple of months.  The economic outlook is brightening as demand strengthens
in South  Korea ’s two biggest export markets. Investment and
retail sales in China picked up in September and U.S.  consumer
spending  rose by the most in seven months, official data show.
The Bank of Korea cut its benchmark interest  rate  to 2.75
percent on Oct. 11 after gross domestic product grew in the
third quarter at the slowest pace since 2009.  “Even if we take into account that the pace of economic
recovery will be slow, the current yield curve is too flat,”
Dongbu’s Shin said in an interview in Seoul yesterday. “The
worst is over for Korea as the Chinese economy seems to have
reached a bottom, and data is showing improvement in the U.S.”  Yields Rebound  South Korean bond yields rebounded as rate-cut bets receded
after the central bank’s last policy meeting. The yield on the
3.25 percent securities due June 2015 rose six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.78 percent as of 2:30 p.m. today in
 Seoul  from Oct. 10. The rate on the 10-year notes advanced seven
basis points to 2.98 percent over the period. Shorter-dated debt
is typically sensitive to changes in interest rates, while
longer-term bonds are more affected by inflation.  South Korea’s current-account  surplus  widened to $6.07
billion last month on increased exports of cars and electronics,
the central bank said today in a statement. That was the second-
biggest monthly excess on record.  The Asian nation’s GDP  increased  1.6 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 2.3 percent in the
preceding three months, official figures showed last week. The
central bank will probably leave interest rates unchanged
through 2013, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Tighter Spread  Economic growth in  China , South Korea’s biggest export
market, is forecast to quicken to 7.7 percent this quarter from
a three-year low of 7.4 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Consumer
spending in the U.S., the world’s largest economy, rose 0.8
percent last month after advancing 0.5 percent in August, a
Commerce Department report showed yesterday in  Washington .  South Korean 10-year government bonds yielded 126 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries yesterday, compared
with a gap of 219 at the beginning of June, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The tightening  spread  makes the Asian notes less
attractive, Bank of America’s Leung said.  “It looks like the  Bank of Korea  may be done with rate
cuts for now,” he said. “At the current level, front-end bonds
are more attractive than the back-end.”  South Korea’s full-year inflation rate will be 2.3 percent
this year and 2.7 percent in 2013, the central bank forecast
earlier this month. Consumer prices rose 4 percent last year,
official data show.  ‘Bottomed Out’  Economists predict official reports to be released this
week will signal  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy is starting to
turn around. Industrial output rose 1 percent in September, the
most in three months, according to a Bloomberg survey before
data tomorrow. Exports decreased 0.7 percent in October from a
year earlier, compared with drops of 2 percent in September, 6
percent in August and 8.7 percent in July, a separate survey
showed before figures due Nov. 1.  “If the economy bottomed out in the third quarter as
expected, speculation of further monetary easing will quickly
fade, helping normalize the abnormally flat yield curve,” Kim Youngsung, the Seoul-based head of fixed income at Samsung Asset
Management Co., which oversees 119 trillion won ($109 billion)
of assets, said in a Oct. 26 interview. “We’re not adding
longer-dated bonds to our holdings at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  