-- South Africa Inflation Risks Balanced as Growth Slows
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-31T06:19:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/south-africa-inflation-risks-balanced-as-growth-slows.html
South Africa  faces slower economic
growth as mining strikes erode investor confidence, while
inflation risks are balanced, the  Reserve Bank  said.  Higher food and oil costs, combined with a weaker rand, are
adding to price pressures, though that’s being offset by benign
demand pressures, the central bank said in its Monetary Policy
Review released in Pretoria yesterday.  “Growth risks remain skewed to the downside while
inflation risks appear fairly evenly balanced,” the bank said.
“Recent volatility in the mining sector and a weaker secondary
sector suggest lower output growth for the economy as a whole in
the third and likely fourth quarters of 2012.”  The Reserve Bank kept the benchmark  repurchase rate  at 5
percent, the lowest level in more than 30 years, on Sept. 20
after a surprise cut in July to stimulate  Africa ’s largest
 economy . The bank has lowered its growth forecasts this year as
strikes spread in the gold and platinum industry, while raising
inflation projections.  Consumer prices  rose 5.5 percent in
September from a year earlier, staying inside the bank’s 3
percent to 6 percent target band.  “For the last two meetings, we have seen risks to the
inflation outlook evenly balanced,” Brian Kahn, an adviser to
Governor  Gill Marcus  and a member of the Monetary Policy
Committee, said in Pretoria yesterday. “It’s hard to say what
we’re more concerned about,” he said, referring to inflation
and growth risks. “We’re clearly concerned about both,” he
said.  Wage Settlements  A weaker rand threatens to boost inflation, adding to risks
from rising global food and fuel prices, according to the
report. While pressure from wages had moderated in 2011, recent
increases offered to striking mineworkers have made the outlook
“uncertain,” it said.  Inflation is forecast to average 5.1 percent in the third
quarter and 5.2 percent next year, the central bank said.  Strikes that began at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine in August
and spread to shafts owned by  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  have cost the economy 10.1 billion rand ($1.17
billion) in lost output this year, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Oct. 25. Lonmin ended a six-week illegal strike
by giving workers increases of as much as 22 percent.  “Recent high wage settlements in the mining sector could
set a precedent for wage settlements more generally,” the
report said. “Greater stability in the wage and industrial
relations environment would boost confidence and prove
supportive of growth across the economy in coming months.”  Rating Downgrades  The strikes have shaved off 50 basis points from this
year’s economic growth rate, National Treasury Director General
Lungisa Fuzile said on Oct. 26. The government is forecasting
2.5 percent expansion this year.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service have
lowered South Africa’s credit rating, citing slower growth and
pressure on the government to boost spending to tackle a 25
percent unemployment rate. Since the Moody’s downgrade to Baa1
on Sept. 27, the rand has declined 4.8 percent against the
dollar, the worst performer of the 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. The rand lost less than 0.1 percent to 8.6483 per
dollar by 7:53 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The currency may come under pressure as the current-account
deficit widens, the central bank said. The shortfall on the
 current account , the broadest measure of trade in goods and
services, widened to 6.4 percent of GDP in the second quarter,
the biggest in almost four years.  Factors that boosted the deficit this year, such as rising
imports and higher dividend payments, may moderate in coming
months, Chris Loewald, head of research at the central bank,
said in  Pretoria  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  