-- Korea Best in Asia on Investor Confidence in Economy
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-10-31T09:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/south-korea-best-in-asia-as-investors-show-confidence-in-economy.html
Kang Man Soon wept on the day 15
years ago that she gave her gold wedding ring to the government,
joining the millions who donated heirlooms to boost South
 Korea ’s reserves during the Asian financial crisis.  “We just couldn’t let the country go bankrupt after all
the sacrifices and hard work to save it from Japanese colonial
rule and civil war,” said Kang, whose husband fulfilled a
promise to replace the gold band by giving her a one-carat
diamond ring this year for her 60th birthday. “The economy is
much bigger and stronger now and our cars and products and pop
songs are famous around the world.”  Since the 1997-1998 slump, South Korea has ridden economic
crises better than most advanced economies. The stock market has
risen fivefold, led by  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , which now makes
almost a quarter of the world’s mobile phones, and  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380)  and its affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  are the most profitable
of the six biggest global automakers. With growth this year set
to beat Asia’s other wealthy nations, the three biggest credit
rating companies upgraded South Korea’s debt, citing the ability
to weather shocks better than its peers.  “It’s this expensive lesson we learned that made us
prepare so well for the next crisis,” said Kwon Dae Young, who
was in charge of injecting foreign capital into banks at the
finance ministry in 1997. “Korean companies now have much
healthier balance sheets and the government is backed up well
with a solid amount of foreign exchange reserves.”  Bright Spot  With Japanese exporters hampered by a strong yen,  Europe 
encumbered by debt, and U.S. unemployment hovering near 8
percent, South Korea’s resilience offers a bright spot in the
developed world. The International Monetary Fund forecasts
Asia’s fourth-largest economy will grow 2.7 percent this year,
compared with 2.2 percent in  Japan , 1.8 percent in Hong Kong and
2.1 percent in  Singapore .  “I think South Korea will probably grow by around 4.8
percent over the next decade, which means it will continue to
see its GDP per capita rise notably and relative to other
developed countries, especially Japan and European countries,”
said Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management.  Gross national income per capita was $20,870 last year,
compared with Japan’s $45,180 and Hong Kong’s $35,160, according
to World Bank data.  South Korea’s resilience has given it the status of a safe
haven in the bond market, where investors held 88.3 trillion won
of local currency debt at the end of last month, double the
amount in 2009, data from the nation’s financial regulator show.  Rising Won  South Korea’s won has appreciated 5.7 percent this year to
1,090.70 per dollar as of today’s close in Seoul, the third-best
performer among Asia’s 11 most-used currencies. The won will
strengthen another 1 percent by the end of the third quarter of
2013, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The currency is “structurally undervalued” said  Eric Stein , a Boston-based portfolio manager at Eaton Vance
Management, which oversees $198 billion. “It will slowly but
surely continue to appreciate.”  Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings boosted South Korea’s rating between late August and
September, with all three citing strong fiscal fundamentals and
room to respond to external shocks. The Bank of Korea has $322
billion of foreign exchange reserves, the world’s seventh
largest, compared with a low of $20.4 billion at the end of
1997.  While opposition lawmakers have called for more public
spending, the government on Sept. 25 released a budget proposal
for 2013 that would reduce the fiscal deficit to 0.3 percent of
gross domestic product, the smallest in six years.  Chaebol Base  Underpinning the nation’s industrial success are the
chaebol, large, family-controlled conglomerates held together by
a network of crossholdings. Their size, government support and
access to capital have made many world leaders -- Samsung, for
example, in mobile phones and flat screens,  Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. (009540)  in shipbuilding.  “Korea has a number of advantages over other countries
such as a large domestic market and economies of scale that will
help the tech sector and the rest of the economy grow,” said
 Alaistair Chan , a Sydney-based economist at Moody’s Analytics
 Australia . “I think Korea is quite well placed in the near to
medium term to weather slow global growth.”  This year, Hyundai’s Elantra was voted North American car
of the year at the Detroit Motor Show, while Samsung’s Galaxy
smartphones helped it end Nokia’s 14-year reign as the biggest
maker of mobile phones, according to shipment estimates by
industry researchers including Strategy Analytics.  Gangnam Style  Samsung, whose annual sales are the equivalent of 13
percent of gross domestic product, reported record profit that
beat analysts’ estimates on Oct. 26. Industrial production rose
in September for the first time in four months, a sign economic
conditions are improving while global uncertainties persist,
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said in a statement today.  Nor is South Korea’s rising global audience confined to the
products of its manufacturers. Rap sensation Psy’s “Gangnam
Style” became the most-liked video in Youtube history, while
this year’s Golden Lion, the top prize at the Venice Film
Festival, went to Kim Ki Duk’s “Pieta,” about a loan shark and
a woman who turns up in his life, claiming to be his mother.  That’s a long way from where the country was in July 1997,
when the collapse of the Thai Baht precipitated a domino effect
across six Asian countries, including South Korea. By December,
the government was forced to accept a $57 billion bailout led by
the IMF to avoid sovereign default.  IMF Crisis  “The IMF crisis changed everything,” said Kim Nyeon Jae,
41, who heads a derivatives trading team at Korea Investment &
Securities Co. in  Seoul . “I was lucky as I got a job just
before the outbreak. Most of my friends graduating later had to
stay idle for years. It was a nightmare. Every morning started
with news that a company went bust or fired workers.”  Resentment toward the IMF and its demands for austerity --
in South Korea the slump is still called “the IMF crisis” --
fueled resentment against foreign companies.  “The gas station I used to work for refused to sell fuel
to customers driving foreign cars,” said Moon Jeong Hyeok, now
a 31-year-old office worker in Seoul. “We loathed people who
drove BMWs and Mercedes when the country was so debt-ridden.”  Kwon, the former finance ministry official, says that in
November 1997 he poured $3.6 billion into local banks in a
single day. At around the same time, he remembers telling then-
President elect Kim Dae Jung that South Korea’s reserves would
be depleted in two months.  Sleepless Nights  “Companies went bankrupt, people lost their jobs and
policy makers had months of sleepless nights,” he said. “The
experience of ‘97-’98 helped us set up the capital flow
management that we have now.”  The government campaign to raise reserves saw 3.5 million
Koreans donate 227 tons of gold, valued at $2.2 billion,
according to the former Financial Supervisory Service Governor
Kim Yong Duk’s book, “The Asian Financial Crisis and the New
International Financial System.”  “I still get startled sometimes when I hear ‘IMF’ on
television,” said Kang, a mother of three, who is planning to
take a cruise in Europe with her husband next year.  South Korea’s financial restructuring after the crisis has
been supplemented by further steps since 2010 to smooth hot
money flows that often cause sharp swings in the won. The
Finance Ministry capped banks’ currency forward positions and
imposed a levy on non-deposit foreign-currency liabilities held
by domestic and foreign banks. It revived a tax of as much as 14
percent for foreigners on interest income from treasury bonds,
as well as a 20 percent levy on capital gains from their sale.  Fast Internet  Behind the nation’s industrial growth and revival from the
1997 slump is an education system that rose from having few
domestic teachers at the end of Japan’s 1910-1945 occupation to
ranking second in the world in reading, fourth in mathematics
and sixth in science in the latest  Programme for International
Student Assessment  report. The country has the highest average
 Internet connection speeds  in the world.  While the intensive education system and powerful chaebol
have increased South Korea’s industrial might, they have also
fostered divisions in the society that are now being highlighted
by political candidates as the country prepares for Dec. 19
elections to replace President  Lee Myung Bak . Ruling New
Frontier Party candidate Park Geun Hye, 60, whose father helmed
South Korea as a dictator for 18 years, leads the polls,
promising to tackle a widening wealth gap while creating jobs in
the technology and software industries.  More Welfare  The opposition Democratic United Party’s Moon Jae In, 59,
wants an expanded welfare state as well as stronger regulation
of the chaebol, which he says stifle competition and innovation
from small and medium-sized businesses. Independent candidate
Ahn Cheol Soo, 50, a software mogul, advocates expanding the
budget for services such as childcare and health.  The nation’s richest 20 percent earned 7.86 times more than
the bottom 20 percent last year, the biggest margin since
Statistics Korea began publishing the data in 2006.  South Korea also has one of the world’s fastest aging
societies, with a working-age population that will begin to
contract by 2016, curbing growth by as much as 1.7 percentage
points to 2.5 percent by 2050, according to a Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc report.  Even so, South Koreans are far better off than at the end
of the Korean War, when per capita income was less than $100.  “When I was young, we were so poor that I spent hours a
day searching for pine mushrooms and catching snakes,” said An
Sun Hyun, 59, who owns a home-decoration business. “Everyone
was hungry all the time. Now my son is having a life the
president of the country back in the 1970s would be jealous of.
Sometimes I think South Korea is a totally different country.”  Nuclear North  The war ended in 1953 without a peace treaty, and South
Korea has developed as a nation under threat. North Korea
conducted nuclear tests in 2006 and 2009. Tensions escalated
further in 2010 with the sinking of the South’s warship Cheonan,
which killed 46 sailors, and the shelling eight months later of
a South Korean island that killed four people.  Kim Jong Un, who took power in North Korea last year after
the death of his father, is “an unpredictable ruler,” Army
General James Thurman, commander of U.S. forces in South Korea,
said earlier this month. The levels of poverty that remain in
the North are a reminder of how far the South’s economy has
grown. Should the two halves reunite, the merger with an economy
that is about one-fortieth its size would drag down the South’s
gross domestic product by as much as 6.6 percent a year for a
decade, according to the Korea Institute of Public Finance.  Gucci Enclave  Within striking distance of North Korea’s long-range
artillery is Gangnam, the high-class district of Seoul made
globally famous by Psy, whose name is Park Jae Sang. The former
rice paddies now contain the country’s most expensive real
estate with streets filled with luxury brands like Louis
Vuitton, Prada and Gucci.  “One of the big challenges is how to keep growing and
create more decent jobs,” said Kim at Korea Investment &
Securities, who lives in a three-bedroom riverside apartment in
Mokdong, about 20 minutes away from Gangnam.  “When I was young, my parents bought me new clothes once a
year and I had to share them with my brothers,” he said. “Now,
I’m sending my daughter to an expensive kindergarten and private
classes and buying her whatever she wants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  