-- Standard Chartered Says Profit Grows by Less Than 10%
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-10-30T16:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/standard-chartered-operating-profit-grows-by-mid-single-digits.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which paid
$340 million to settle a regulator’s claim it broke Iranian
sanctions rules, said operating profit in the first nine months
rose by a “mid-single digit” rate as growth in  Asia  slows.  Revenue grew at a “high single-digit rate, maintaining the
trajectory” of the first half, the London-based bank said in a
statement today. The lender forecast full-year revenue growth of
at least 10 percent in August.  “Management reference signs of slower growth in Asia,
suggesting potential downside risk to revenue growth in 2013,”
Cormac Leech, a banking analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London ,
wrote in a note to clients today. Leech has a buy rating on the
stock.  Standard Chartered (2888) , which gets most of its revenue in Asia,
is seeking a ninth consecutive year of record net income,
opening branches and hiring in Africa, India and China, where
economies are outpacing Europe and the U.S. The bank plans to
double revenue at its African business within five years and add
950 people to its consumer-banking unit, it said Oct. 9.  ‘More Expenses’  “ Standard Chartered  is still our top pick if we are to
invest in international banks,” said Lewis Wan, Hong Kong-based
chief investment officer at Pride Investment Group Ltd., which
manages $300 million. “I don’t have doubts on the expansion
strategy or the management quality of the bank. My biggest
concern is the bank’s anti-money laundering issue as that may
incur more expenses.”  Standard Chartered fell or 0.9 percent, to 1,483.5 pence in
London, valuing the lender at 35.6 billion pounds ($57.2
billion).  Standard Chartered in August was accused by  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the New York Department of Financial Services,
of helping Iran launder about $250 billion in violation of
federal laws, keeping false records and handling lucrative wire
transfers for Iranian clients. The bank sent them through its
New York unit in so-called U-turn transactions with client names
omitted to hide their provenance, Lawsky said. The bank settled
the probe on Aug. 14, a day before it was due to defend itself
to the regulator.  ‘Constructive Dialog’  “At this stage all we can say is we are in active and
constructive dialog with all the other agencies,” said Finance
Director Richard Meddings. “We would hope to get that finished
and completed by the year end, but it’s not wholly in our power
to do that.”  The bank is in discussions with the U.S. Federal Reserve,
Office of Foreign Assets Control, the  Department of Justice  and
the  New York  District Attorney’s Office, said Meddings.  Revenue growth in the first nine months “continued to be
impacted by the strength of the  U.S. dollar  against Asian
currencies,” according to the statement today. The wholesale
banking business in Singapore has slowed and consumer banking
operations in  Korea  were “muted,” the bank said.  “It’s quite likely we will not be double-digit” revenue
growth for the year, said Meddings. “If you look at that on a
constant currency basis, we are traveling at good double-digit
growth rates.”  The company’s operating profit will be reduced by the fine,
said the bank. Operating profit for the year to date grew at
“mid single digit, or at a double-digit rate excluding the N.Y.
DFS settlement,” the bank said.  Worst Performer  The bank has gained 5.7 percent in London trading this
year, making it the worst performer among Britain’s five biggest
banks. The company is the first of the banks to report results
for the third quarter, with Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-
largest, scheduled to follow tomorrow.  Standard Chartered said in August first-half net income
rose 11 percent to $2.86 billion. The bank is set to meet its
full-year target for “double-digit” growth in revenue and
earnings per share, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Sands  said at
the time.  Standard Chartered reported in February its eighth annual
record earnings as 2011 net income rose 12 percent to $4.85
billion. About three-quarters of its profit comes from corporate
banking led by  Michael Rees , which includes trade finance,
payment processing and some investment-banking activities such
as merger advisory and equities. Its consumer banking unit is
overseen by Steve Bertamini.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  