-- Storm’s Damaging Winds Challenge Property Recovery: Mortgages
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y ,   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n ,   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-10-30T18:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/storm-s-damaging-winds-challenge-property-recovery-mortgages.html
The U.S. real estate  recovery  that’s
gained strength this year faces a setback from flooding and
property damage inflicted by  Hurricane Sandy , the biggest
tropical gale to hit the Atlantic seaboard.  The storm battered homes in Eastern coastal states that
account for about one out of every five U.S. real estate sales
and threatened inland areas with flooding and blackouts. Lenders
put transactions on hold and companies like Coastline Realty in
Cape May, New Jersey, pulled in their for-sale signs to prevent
the wind from turning them into projectiles.  “We’ll definitely see lower numbers in new sales and new
applications,” said David Stevens, president of the Mortgage
Bankers Association. “We do expect to see lenders put a freeze
on properties across the northeast on the shoreline until they
can be inspected and assessed for damages.”  Sandy, about 1,000 miles wide, prompted warnings of life-
threatening storm surges from Virginia to Massachusetts, emptied
the streets of the nation’s largest cities, paralyzed mass-
transit systems and lashed the area with gales, rain and even
snow. U.S. airlines grounded 9,500 flights and U.S. stock
trading is closed through today in the first back-to-back
shutdowns for weather since 1888. Losses may total as much as
$20 billion, with $5 billion to $10 billion of that insured,
according to Eqecat Inc., an Oakland, California-based provider
of catastrophic risk models.  Property Damage  Almost $88 billion of homes in seven states were at risk of
damage, according to a report by CoreLogic Inc., a mortgage
software and data firm in  Irvine ,  California . New York had $35.1
billion of property in harm’s way, New Jersey had $22.6 billion,
Virginia had $11.3 billion, and Massachusetts had $7.8 billion.
Maryland, Delaware and  Pennsylvania  had a combined $11 billion
of property at risk, CoreLogic said.  A fire tore through more than 50 homes today in a Queens
beach community that suffered heavy flooding, the New York Times
reported. On 57th Street in  Manhattan , a crane on a 90-story
residential building under construction partially collapsed and
was dangling over the street. The storm has accounted for 16
deaths, according to the Associated Press.  The storm may also adversely affect commercial properties
and securities linked to their debt. New York accounts for 13.2
percent of property loans contained in commercial-mortgage
bonds, according to Standard & Poor’s. Loans in  Virginia  make up
4 percent of deals, while mortgages in Pennsylvania account for
3.4 percent, S&P said yesterday in a note to clients. Debt on
New Jersey properties are 3.1 percent of outstanding bonds.  ‘Adequate Insurance’  “Given the magnitude of the storm there will be some
impact on performance but more so on smaller properties, to the
extent there is structural damage to the property and they
require significant capital expenditures,” said Deutsche Bank
AG debt analyst Harris Trifon. It won’t lead to any significant
increase in delinquencies, he said, because most properties
should have adequate insurance.  Still, the storm, which forced the cancellation of fixed-
income markets, means Wall Street also had to put on hold about
$3 billion of commercial mortgage bond sales that included loans
to shopping malls, hotels and office buildings.  The U.S. housing market has been recovering this year. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities rose 2
percent in August from a year earlier, the biggest gain since
July 2010, the group said today in New York. The median forecast
of 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey projected a 1.9 percent
increase.  Sales Price  The U.S. median sales prices in September rose to $183,900,
up 11 percent from a year earlier, according to the National
Association of Realtors. Home sales that month reached an
annualized pace of 4.75 million, up 11 percent from a year ago.
Pending home sales edged up in September for the 17th
consecutive month on a year-over-year basis.  The storm’s central barometric pressure was lower than that
of the 1938 hurricane that devastated homes in New York and New
England. Flooding from Sandy was reported along the coast from
Martha’s Vineyard in  Massachusetts  through New Jersey. The storm
submerged Plymouth Rock, the landmark in Massachusetts
traditionally represented as the place where Pilgrims first
stepped onshore in the New World in 1620.  ‘Perfect Storm’  “I have never seen a storm this large in regards to wind
flow,” said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist at Hometown Forecast
Services Inc. in Nashua, New Hampshire. “So many bad things had
to come together all at once. It is going to make the ‘Perfect
Storm’ look small. It’s remarkable what an impact this is going
to have.”  The “Perfect Storm” struck the U.S. East Coast in October
1991. It later became the subject of a book by Sebastian Junger
and a movie starring George Clooney.  Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Bank of America Corp. and Wells
Fargo & Co. told property managers to make sure their foreclosed
homes were secured, David Benham, co-owner of Benham Real Estate
Group, a property management company based in  Charlotte , North
Carolina, said in a telephone interview.  “They told us to do what we can in terms of the building
but keep ourselves safe,” said Benham, whose company manages
2,000 bank-owned homes nationwide. Their assignments start with
boarding up windows and doors, he said. They expect to complete
field reports, including photos, within five days showing damage
from the weather, he said.  Freddie Authorizes  Freddie Mac said today in a statement that it has
authorized servicers to suspend foreclosure proceedings for up
to 12 months on mortgages it owns or guarantees in states
affected by the storm. Also, the McLean, Virginia-based company
said it will permit some on-time borrowers to defer mortgage
payments for up to a year, will waive the assessment of late
fees against borrowers with storm-damaged homes and will not
report delinquencies caused by the disaster to credit bureaus.  Over the long run, the storm could worsen blight on
properties in the  foreclosure  pipeline where owners don’t have
the resources -- or the intention -- to maintain the property
and the loan servicers don’t have full legal responsibility for
maintaining the property, Chris Whalen, senior managing director
at Tangent Capital Partners LLC, said during a telephone
interview from New York.  There’s a “floating inventory” of abandoned or delinquent
properties not available for sale that has been growing in
states like New York and New Jersey, where the foreclosure
process takes longest, Whalen said.  Facing Seizure  About 20,000 New Jersey properties facing foreclosure or
already repossessed by banks were in Sandy’s path in the
counties of Burlington, Camden, Gloucester, Salem, Ocean,
Atlantic, Cape May, Cumberland,  Daren Blomquist , RealtyTrac vice
president, said in a telephone interview.  More than 50,000 New York foreclosures were threatened in
New York City’s five boroughs and the counties of Ulster,
Dutchess, Westchester, Suffolk, Nassau, Rockland, Putnam,
Orange, Greene, Columbia, he said.  In  Connecticut  3,055 homes in foreclosure could be affected
in New London, New Haven, Middlesex and Fairfield counties,
Blomquist said.  The storm closed many courthouses where lenders pursue
foreclosures, another wrench in a process that takes an average
of 1,072 days to complete in New York, the longest process among
U.S. states. Foreclosures take an average of 931 days in New
Jersey, second-longest, and 661 days in Connecticut, the sixth
longest, according to RealtyTrac.  Foreclosure Pace  At the current pace of foreclosures, the pipeline of homes
with seriously-delinquent mortgages would take 495 months --more
than 41 years -- to work through in New York and 425 months in
New Jersey, the longest of any states, according to  Lender
Processing Services Inc. (LPS)   “The magnitude of the damage is not yet known, but none of
this can be good for the prospect of getting the foreclosure
crisis behind us,” said David Dunn, an attorney with  Hogan
Lovells  in New York.  The Hamptons, on the eastern tip of New York’s Long Island,
lost electricity yesterday afternoon, according to Judi Desiderio, president of Town and Country Real Estate in East
Hampton. Owners and buyers who plan to live there during
hurricane season should factor in the approximately $50,000 cost
of having a generator as part of the price of owning property,
she said.  Another necessity, she said, is “a bunch of friends who
live nearby so you can have a hurricane party.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 