-- Studies Find Cancer Comes in More Shades Than Pink
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-10-30T22:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/studies-find-cancer-comes-in-more-shades-than-pink.html
Once again, we have suffered through
a full month of pink, pink and more pink, all in the name of
“breast cancer awareness.” What once was a health-related cause
has become the feel-virtuous-and-buy-stuff season wedged between
back-to-school and holiday gift giving.  Products from  Pilot pens  to  KitchenAid mixers  to “Totally
Pink Mad Libs” come in breast-cancer-awareness versions.
National Football League players hit the field wearing uniforms
with clashing pink trim. During the second presidential debate,
the candidates’ wives both wore shocking-pink dresses, and, for
the third, President  Barack Obama  sported a pink breast-cancer
wristband. Nobody wants to seem less than enthusiastic about
fighting breast cancer, so pink has replaced autumnal orange as
the color of the season.  But all this pink reinforces a common fallacy -- one that
used to drive me crazy after I was given a diagnosis of breast
cancer in 2007. Back then, people inevitably offered their
sympathy by telling me how their mothers or sisters or aunts or
wives or best friends or colleagues or neighbors had had breast
cancer. Everyone assumed what the pink ribbons teach us: that
breast cancer is a single disease. Appreciating the good wishes,
I stifled the urge to respond, “Probably not the kind I have.”  Different Diseases  Five years ago, oncologists had already long understood
breast cancer as several different diseases that, based on their
underlying molecular behavior, react differently to different
treatments. (My own cancer was HER2-positive, an aggressive form
found in about a quarter of breast-cancer patients and
responsive to  Genentech Inc.’s (ROG)  biologic  Herceptin .)  Now we have  even more reason  to understand breast cancer as
multiple diseases.  An  enormous study  published last month in the journal
Nature analyzed samples from 825 breast-cancer tumors, using
five different tests to find mutations in different aspects of
their genetics. Researchers crunched the resulting data to
classify the cancers into four general types: Luminal A, Luminal
B, HER2-enriched, and basal-like. (They also identified a fifth
type, dubbed normal-like, but didn’t have enough samples to
adequately study it.) Given its underlying genetics, each type
might be susceptible to a specific treatment approach.  The study refines the way oncologists understand the
different versions of the disease. The biggest news was that the
basal-like cancers had more in common with the most common
ovarian cancer, called serous, than with other types of  breast
cancer .  Breast cancer isn’t just more than one disease, it turns
out. Some “breast cancer” doesn’t seem unique to breasts.  The study is the latest to emerge from the  Cancer Genome
Atlas project , or TCGA, a seven-year effort funded by the
 National Institutes of Health  that is cataloging genetic
abnormalities in at least 20 different cancer types. The atlas
had already included analyses of  serous ovarian cancer ;
glioblastoma, the most common form of  brain cancer ;  colorectal
cancer ; and lung squamous-cell carcinoma, the second-most-common
form of  lung cancer .  This research is accelerating a change in how oncologists
define and treat cancers: not just by their site in the body but
by their underlying molecular commonalities.  New Regimens  “If a certain subset of ovarian cancer appears to have the
molecular commonalities of one type of  lung cancer , a specific
type of endometrial cancers and another subtype of breast
cancer, then it may not matter where they came from when it
comes to the practical question of how to treat them,” says
 Christopher Benz , a practicing oncologist at the University of
California-San Francisco’s Carol Franc Buck Breast Care Center
who worked on the study. “We should probably be treating them
very similarly because the pathways that drive them are very
similar,” says Benz, who worked on the breast-cancer study.  For patients with hard-to-treat cancers, the new
understanding suggests new types of regimens. Perhaps, for
instance, drugs used to treat ovarian cancer could fight basal-
like breast cancers.  But defining cancers by genetic characteristics also upends
all the institutional structures of cancer treatment, from the
way clinics are organized and charities are defined to how drugs
are developed and tested -- and the size of the markets they can
eventually reach.  “I don’t know of any patient who goes to an EGFR clinic,”
says  George W. Sledge Jr ., a professor at the Indiana University
School of Medicine and the former president of the  American
Society of Clinical Oncology . He is referring to epidermal
growth factor receptor, a molecule associated with several
cancers. Instead, patients go to clinics that specialize in
colorectal, lung or head-and-neck cancers.  That is because drugs aren’t the only treatments involved.
Surgeons and radiation oncologists develop special expertise in
particular parts of the body, as do radiologists and
pathologists.  Some molecular receptors also behave differently in
different organs, so a treatment that works in one part of the
body may not work in another.  Defining cancers by molecular characteristics thus means
introducing a sort of matrix management into diagnosis and
treatment -- adding another dimension to the existing
categories, rather than replacing them.  That could prove to be as simple as a chart or computer
program that lets oncologists easily match the genetic profile
of each patient’s cancer to the right treatment. Or, if
determining treatments turned out to require complex judgments,
it could lead oncologists to specialize by molecule, or group of
molecules, as well as by organ. In that case, the tensions for
which matrix management is famous in business would find new
medical incarnations.  Brand Identities  As for charities, right now they are eager for cures and
happy to see anything that might speed up treatments. “I think
they’ll be willing to adopt newer approaches,” Benz says.  But new disease definitions do threaten the brand
identities of the cancer-fighting groups that define their
causes by body part. They may find it hard to maintain patient
solidarity as diagnoses and treatments fragment -- especially if
people with different versions of, say, breast cancer have very
different experiences and prognoses. If breast cancer is really
a bunch of different diseases, some of which have more in common
with other cancers than with each other, maybe they don’t all
belong under the same pink umbrella.  It isn’t hard to envision the competition for resources
getting nasty. If one type is common but already has some
reasonably effective treatments, while another is rare and
intractable, where should scarce dollars go: toward improving
existing treatments for the many or finding hope for the few?  To make matters even more complicated, the more closely
researchers look at the molecular biology, the more fragmented
the cancers become. “As we subdivide these cancers by their
molecular abnormalities,” says Benz, “we end up with a large
number of what we call orphan diseases, because there aren’t
just two or three or even four breast cancers. There are four
basic types but many subtypes within those primary types.”  Identifying subtypes offers a chance to design increasingly
effective treatments. But, as we will explore in my next column,
these new definitions of cancer types may demand new approaches
to  drug development .  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax initiatives on
California’s ballot  and on why  you shouldn’t read too much into
the jobs report ; Clive Crook on why  Obama is the least bad
choice for the U.S. ;  Peter Orszag  on a  tax refund  that could
 solve the fiscal-cliff impasse;  Part three of A. Gary Shilling’s
series on who loses when the  Fed keeps interest rates low ; Tim
Judah on the  rise of the far-right party Svoboda in Ukraine .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  