-- Supreme Court, LNG, BBHollywood: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-30T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/supreme-court-lng-bbhollywood-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Supreme Court raised
questions about the multibillion-dollar trade in goods outside
authorized distribution channels, hearing arguments in the case
of a graduate student sued for selling foreign-edition textbooks
in the U.S. at discount prices.  The copyright dispute may restrict the so-called gray
market, with ramifications for publishers, retailers,
entertainment companies, manufacturers and consumers. Retailers
that offer gray-market products, led by  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and Costco
Wholesale Corp., are seeking limits on copyrights. The motion
picture, music, software and publishing industries say the gray
market illegally undercuts their U.S. sales.  The high court case, argued yesterday, concerns Supap
Kirtsaeng, who was ordered to pay  John Wiley & Sons Inc. (JW/A) 
$600,000 for importing the publisher’s copyrighted textbooks
from his native Thailand and selling them in the U.S. for a
profit.  Allowing copyright holders to sue over such importations
would give them “endless, eternal downstream control” over
sales of their goods, Kirtsaeng’s lawyer, E. Joshua Rosenkranz,
told the court.  “Your reading is, essentially, once a copy is sold
anywhere, the copyright owner loses control of distribution
everywhere,” Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  told Rosenkranz.  Justice  Stephen Breyer  asked Wiley & Sons’ lawyer,  Theodore
Olson , whether a ruling for the publisher would mean that
someone who bought a Toyota that included copyrighted sound and
global-positioning systems couldn’t sell the car without getting
permission from the copyright holders.  Olson said that in some cases an implied license, or “fair
use” doctrine, would protect people.  Gray-market products are genuine goods that retailers
acquire through unauthorized channels to exploit the lower
prices manufacturers sometimes charge overseas. Imports of those
products to the U.S. cost makers as much as $63 billion in sales
a year, according to a 2009 Deloitte LLP analysis conducted for
 Bloomberg News .  The case poses a question that deadlocked the  Supreme Court 
4-4 in a 2010 clash between Costco and Swatch Group AG’s Omega
unit over discounted watches.  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in that case and now
stands to cast the deciding vote.  The case is Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, 11-697, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  LNG Energy Solutions Accused of Infringing Marlin Gas Patent  LNG Energy Solutions LLC , a project of the  Idaho National
Laboratory ,  Rice Energy , and R-V Industries Inc., was sued for
patent infringement by Marlin Gas Transport Inc.  The suit, filed Oct. 24 in federal court in Tampa,  Florida ,
accused LNG of Cannonsburg, Pennsylvania, of infringing patent
6,953,045. That patent, issued in October 2005, covers a system
for the delivery of compressed natural gas.  Marlin Gas of Whiteland, Indiana, said LNG is making,
using or selling infringing gas delivery systems. This alleged
infringement had deprived Marlin of sales it would have
otherwise made, and profits it would have earned, the company
said in its pleadings.  It asked the court for an order barring further
unauthorized use of its patented technology, together with money
damages, and asked that those damages be tripled to punish LNG
for its actions. Additionally, it seeks awards of attorney fees
and litigation costs.  LNG didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case is Marlin Gas Transport Inc. v. LNG Energy
Solutions LLC, 8:12-cv-02431-EAK-TGW, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  Dow Chemical Fights Off Challenge to $61.7 Million Nova Verdict  The U.S. Supreme Court left intact a $61.7 million verdict
won by  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  in a patent fight with Nova Chemicals
Corp. over the plastic used in grocery bags.  The justices yesterday rejected an appeal by two Nova units
found to have infringed patents held by Dow, the largest U.S.
chemical company. The patents cover polymers that are thinner
and stronger than conventional plastic.  Nova, owned by Abu Dhabi-based International Petroleum
Investment Co., argued unsuccessfully that Dow had transferred
the patents to a holding company and no longer had the legal
right to enforce them.  The award has grown with interest, and Dow has said it will
seek additional damages for infringement in later years and in
 Canada .  A federal jury in Wilmington,  Delaware , sided with Dow in
2010, and the federal appeals court that handles patent cases
upheld the verdict. Dow is based in Midland,  Michigan .  The case is Nova v. Dow, 12-243, U.S. Supreme Court
(Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Hollywood Chamber Tells Brooklyn Brothers ‘BBHollywood’ Not OK  Brooklyn Brothers , a New York-based ad agency, is the
target of a cease-and-desist letter after it posted an image of
the iconic “Hollywood” sign on its website, altered so it now
reads “BBHollywood,”  according to  the  Hollywood Reporter .  Jeff Lotman, chief executive officer of Los Angeles-based
 Global Icons  licensing agency, said he’s consulted with legal
counsel because the sign is in apparent violation of the
licensing rights of his client, the  Hollywood Chamber of
Commerce , the newspaper reported.  Brooklyn Brothers is headed by Guy Barnett, who told the
Hollywood Reporter that “BBHollywood” isn’t a logo, and was
intended as “a fun visual” to get his fledgling company known.  Delta Lambda Phi Sues Gay-Oriented Group for Infringement  A gay-oriented Greek letter fraternity sued a student group
founded at the  University of California , Santa Cruz, for
trademark infringement.  The suit, filed in federal court in Eugene, Oregon, Oct. 24,
pits Washington-based  Delta Lambda Phi  National Social
Fraternity against Delta Lambda Psi. According to court papers,
the Washington-based group was founded in 1986 and presently has
30 chapters across the U.S. It has several pending applications
filed in 2012 to registered “Delta Lambda Phi” and “DLP” as
trademarks.  The association of the Greek letter Lambda with gay rights
issued began in 1970, when the Gay Activists Alliance of New
York selected the letter as a symbol of liberation,  according to 
the website of Lambda GLBT Community Services. Among the other
organizations that make use of the symbol are New York-based
 Lambda Legal  and the  Lambda Youth Project  of Hayward,  California .  According to court papers, the California group began using
Delta Lambda Psi in 2005.  The website of the Oregon chapter  of
Delta Lambda Psi proclaims the organization to be “an all-
inclusive, queer Greek frarority.” The website says Delta
Lambda Psi is neither a fraternity or sorority.  The Washington group -- Delta Lambda Phi -- said the public
is likely to be confused because the two names are so similar
and to assume, falsely, that the two organizations are
affiliated. Both groups “serve the interests of the gay,
bisexual, transgender, progressive and related communities at
colleges and universities, as well as alumni,” the Washington
group said in its pleadings.  It asked the court to bar Delta Lambda Psi from using marks
“confusingly similar” to the Washington group’s trademarks,
and for an award of money damages and profits derived from the
alleged infringement, in addition to attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Delta Lambda Psi’s website is no longer operational and a
message seeking comment and sent through the organization’s
Facebook page wasn’t returned immediately.  The case is Delta Lambda Phi National Social Fraternity v.
Delta Lambda Psi, 6:12-cv-01912-AA, U.S. District Court,
District of Oregon (Eugene).  Trademark Related to Noble Laureate to Bring Fortune to Engineer  Chinese author Mo Yan’s winning the  Nobel Prize  in
literature for his “Red Sorghum Clan” has meant a bonanza for
a Beijing engineer who registered “Mo Yan Zui” as a trademark
for liquor in 2006, 21st Century Media’s MorningWhistle.com
website r eported .  The engineer said he is selling the trademark for 10
million Chinese  yuan  ($1.6 million), which is 10,000 times what
he paid to register the mark, according to MorningWhistle.com.  Mo, who is the first Chinese to win the Nobel prize for
literature, is suddenly so popular that sales of his books have
doubled, and his publisher is planning an initial public
offering, MorningWhistle.com reported.  The author’s announced plan to enter the wine business is
what created the interest in the engineer’s trademark, according
to MorningWhistle.com.  Yelp Sued by Village Voice Publisher Over ‘Best of’ Trademark  Yelp Inc., operator of the social networking user-review
site, was sued for trademark infringement by the publisher of
the Village Voice newspaper.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in
 Arizona  Oct. 25, San Francisco-based Yelp is accused of
infringing Village Voice Media Holdings LLC’s “Best of”
trademarks. The Voice said it has been using these marks since
1979, and registered them with the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office.  The Phoenix-based publisher objects to Yelp’s use of “Best
of Phoenix,” “Best of  San Francisco ,” “Best of Miami,” and
similar terms on its Web pages. To no avail, the Voice said it
sent Yelp a cease-and-desist letter on Sept. 18.  Yelp’s use of these phrases causes confusion in the
marketplace, and unfairly piggybacks on the fame and goodwill
the Voice has developed for its trademarks, the company claims
in its pleadings.  The Voice claims it will be damaged by “a loss of reader
loyalty, advertising sales and profits” if Yelp continues to
use “Best of” phrases.  It asked the court to bar Yelp’s use of “best of,” and
for awards of money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  Yelp declined to comment on the lawsuit, according to
spokeswoman Rachel Walker.  The case is Village Voice Media Holdings LLC v.  Yelp Inc. (YELP) ,
2:12-cv-02285-MHB, U.S. District Court, District of Arizona
(Phoenix).  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 