-- NAB’s Clydesdale Joins Bank of England FLS as Total Rises to 30
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-30T12:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/u-k-banks-can-tap-66-billion-pounds-in-fls-plan-boe-data-show.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s
Clydesdale was among 17 new lenders that joined the Bank of
England’s program aimed at boosting credit to companies and
households.  Data published today by the central showed that 30 lenders
with 1.33 trillion pounds ($2.14 trillion) of loans outstanding
to non-financial companies and individuals as of June 30, have
signed up to the Funding for Lending Scheme. Based on FLS rules
allowing banks to borrow 5 percent of their stocks of loans,
that means they can tap the Bank of England for an initial 66.3
billion pounds.  Clydesdale, based in Glasgow, was the largest new lender in
the FLS, with loans of 33.2 billion pounds. The second biggest
was Co-Operative Bank Plc, with 31.8 billion pounds. The new
total compares with data on Sept. 25 showing 13 banks with loans
of 1.21 trillion pounds had signed up. The  Bank of England 
published today’s list after processing more applications.  The program, designed with the U.K. Treasury, allows banks
to borrow at cheaper rates for as long as four years. It is
aimed at reducing the cost of borrowing and is the latest in a
series of measures introduced to help the economy fend off
contagion from the turmoil in the euro area. Banks have been
able to borrow treasury bills from the Bank of England since
Aug. 1, and the central bank had said its new lending plan could
boost credit to companies and households by at least 80 billion
pounds.  Under the FLS, a bank can initially borrow treasury bills
valued at 5 percent of outstanding loans, plus any expansion of
lending during a reference period from that date to end-2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  