-- Huaneng Discount Widens as NDFs Climb: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-30T21:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/huaneng-discount-widens-as-ndfs-climb-china-overnight.html
Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) ’s
U.S.-listed stock is trading at the biggest discount in four
months versus  Hong Kong , where the stock surged yesterday on
prospects an economic rebound will lift electricity consumption.  China ’s largest power producer climbed to a three-year high
on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, while  Hurricane Sandy  forced
the shutdown of U.S. equity markets and trading in Huaneng’s
American depositary receipts for the past two days. Forward
contracts on the yuan strengthened for the fourth time in five
days, after the currency climbed in  Shanghai  on speculation its
trading band may be widened.  Growth in Chinese power consumption will rebound in the
last three months of 2012 as the nation recovers from a seven-
quarter slowdown, the China Electricity Council said yesterday.
Consumption climbed 4.8 percent in the year to Sept. 30, while
Beijing-based Huaneng said last week third-quarter net income
soared 757 percent. U.S. markets resume today after the first
shutdown for consecutive days due to weather since 1888.  “Huaneng benefits from a pickup in China’s power
consumption as the economy recovers,” Michael Ding, lead
portfolio manager of the China Regional Fund at U.S. Global
Investors, which oversees $2.2 billion of assets, said by phone
from San Antonio yesterday. “Coal prices are expected to stay
low going forward, which will give Huaneng the potential for
further gains.”  Trading Band  Thermal coal prices in China dropped 18 percent last
quarter from the previous three months,  Helen Lau , an analyst at
Uob-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd., wrote in an Oct. 19 note. Aluminum
Corp. of China Ltd., known as Chalco, said yesterday it swung to
a loss in the third quarter, while net income in the period for
PetroChina Co. trailed the median analyst estimate.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan
strengthened 0.15 percent to 6.3505 per dollar yesterday in  New
York , a 1.7 percent discount to its rate in Shanghai. The
currency added 0.05 percent to 6.2405 yesterday.  The People’s Bank of China may widen the range the yuan’s
allowed to trade within to 2.5 percent from 1 percent either
side from its daily fixing rate after the  U.S. presidential
election  and the Communist Party congress next month, said  Lu Zhengwei , chief economist at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai,
according to a China Daily report.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares gained 0.2
percent to 2,062.35, rising for the first time in four days. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies traded in
Hong Kong fell 0.8 percent to 10,458.26.  Faster Growth  Growth in Chinese industrial output will be faster this
quarter than in the previous three months, helping the nation
achieve its 7.5 percent economic expansion target,  Zhu Hongren ,
chief engineer at the Industry and Information Technology
Ministry, said Oct. 25. Industrial production accounts for about
75 percent of the nation’s electricity use.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. declined 1.3 percent last week to
94.30 on Oct. 26, its most recent day of trading.  ADRs of Huaneng, each representing 40 ordinary shares,
gained 4.1 percent last week in New York to $31.39 as of Oct.
26. That implies a 3 percent gap after the company’s 1.6 percent
advance in Hong Kong and is the biggest discount since June 15.  Chalco, the nation’s largest producer of aluminum, said
yesterday that it expected to lose money this year after
reporting a fourth consecutive quarterly loss as overcapacity
and slowing demand weigh on prices. Its ADRs have risen 1
percent this year to $10.91 in New York as of Oct. 26.  Aluminum Glut  The company posted a third-quarter net loss of 1.08 billion
 yuan  ($173 million) compared with net income of 555 million yuan
a year earlier, according to a filing. Sales fell to 37.1
billion yuan from 41.6 billion yuan.  Average aluminum prices in  London  sank 20 percent in the
three months to Sept. 30 from a year earlier as the slowing
global economy curbed demand amid an industry glut. Chalco last
month dropped its C$925 million ($926 million) takeover bid for
SouthGobi Resources Ltd., which mines coking coal in  Mongolia ,
deferring diversification plans as profit margins shrank.  ADRs of PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil producer,
gained 5.6 percent this month to $136.43 by the end of last
week. The ADRs are 2.1 percent below its shares in Hong Kong,
the widest  discount  in a week. One ADR represents 100 underlying
shares in the company.  China Petroleum  PetroChina’s third-quarter profit fell 33 percent to 24.9
billion yuan ($4 billion) from 37.4 billion yuan a year earlier
because of refining losses and the cost of importing natural
gas, the company said in a statement yesterday. That missed the
27.3 million-yuan mean of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income was the lowest third-quarter profit in at
least five years.  Net income at  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , Asia’s
biggest oil refiner, fell 9.4 percent to 18.3 billion yuan for
the same quarter, the company said on Oct. 28. That result beat
analysts’ estimates.  The price target for  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  was lowered by 11 out of 13
analysts after the owner of China’s most-popular online search
engine forecast sales in the fourth quarter will  increase as
much as 42 percent to 6.35 billion yuan, below analysts’ average
projection of 6.41 billion yuan. The Beijing-based company’s
ADRs have lost 2.6 percent this month to $113.84 as of Oct. 26.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  Inc., the biggest
private educational service provider in China, reported lower-
than-estimated profit growth on Oct. 29 for the three months
ended Aug. 31. The company’s sales forecast of at least $165
million for the following quarter compared with the $169.4
million  average estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  ‘Exonerated and Vindicated’  The Beijing-based company said on Sept. 30 that a special
committee of independent directors, set up in July, had found
“no significant evidence” to support allegations by short
selling firm  Muddy Waters  LLC that New Oriental misled investors
about its schools network.  “We feel exonerated and vindicated by the findings of the
Special Committee refuting and discrediting Muddy Waters’
allegations,”Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Michael Yu
said in the Oct. 29 statement. The company will seek to improve
“the profitability of our operations through increasing
learning center utilization and strict headcount and expense
controls.”  ‘Right Strategies’  New Oriental added a net 62 learning centers in the period
between June and August, with the majority of them located in
China’s smaller second- and third-tier cities, according to the
statement. Sales from the new openings grew an “impressive” 35
percent, while rapid expansion had a negative impact on net
income, the statement cited Yu as saying.  The first half of New Oriental’s 2013 fiscal year starting
September “could be the worst period, and with the right
strategies the business could improve starting in the second
half and beyond,” Tian X. Hou, the founder of T.H. Capital LLC
wrote in a report yesterday. She maintained her buy
recommendation on the company while decreasing the price goal to
$20 from $22. At least another three analysts cut their  12-month
price estimates  for New Oriental yesterday.  China Eastern Airlines Corp (CEA) , the nation’s second-largest
carrier, said yesterday net profit fell 20 percent to
2.63 billion yuan because of foreign-exchange losses and
slowing demand for  air travel . Air China Ltd.’s net income
tumbled 16 percent to 3.17 billion yuan in the third quarter, it
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  