-- UBS Raises Profitability Target as Ermotti Shrinks Bank
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-10-30T10:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/ubs-plans-10-000-job-cuts-raises-profitability-goal-after-loss.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
boosted its profitability goal and announced plans for about
10,000 job cuts as Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  moved
to shrink the investment bank and focus on wealth management.  UBS will seek a return on equity, a measure of
profitability, of at least 15 percent starting in 2015, compared
with a previous goal of 12 percent to 17 percent, the Zurich-
based bank said today. It will reduce staff by more than 15
percent to about 54,000 over three years to help save an
additional 3.4 billion Swiss francs ($3.6 billion).  Ermotti is overhauling the bank as Swiss capital rules,
among the strictest in the world, make it difficult for UBS to
compete with firms like Deutsche Bank AG in activities such as
fixed-income trading. UBS will retreat from those businesses at
the investment bank and rely more on its wealth management unit,
the world’s second largest, to boost  returns  for shareholders.  “They’re admitting that they’re not a bulge-bracket
investment bank and will never be, which is sensible considering
the new  capital requirements ,” said  Florian Esterer , a  fund
manager  at MainFirst Schweiz AG in Zurich. “UBS is returning to
the business model of a classic private bank.”   Bulge-bracket securities firms are those that traditionally 
arranged the biggest portion of corporate and government 
financings because of a dominating market presence in sales 
and trading.  Shares Rise  UBS  jumped  as much as 7 percent in Swiss trading, and was
up 5.1 percent to 13.79 francs by 11:51 a.m. That follows a 7.3
percent gain yesterday. The stock is  up  23 percent this year,
compared with a 16 percent gain in the  Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS) , which tracks 38 companies.  The bank posted a net loss of 2.17 billion francs in the
third quarter, compared with a  profit  of 1.02 billion francs a
year earlier, after booking a pretax impairment charge of 3.1
billion francs related to goodwill and other non-financial
assets associated with the investment bank. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg estimated UBS would report a 439 million-franc profit.  Deutsche Bank,  Europe ’s largest bank by assets, posted a 3
percent increase in third-quarter net income today to 747
million euros ($964 million), helped by a surge in revenue from
trading bonds and stocks.  The reorganization at UBS will result in charges of 3.3
billion francs over the next three years. That total includes
about 500 million francs in the fourth quarter, which will
probably lead to a net loss for the period, UBS said. Return on
equity will average in the mid-single digits next year and in
2014, the bank said.  Orcel Role  Andrea Orcel , co-CEO of UBS’s investment bank since July,
was named sole head of the unit as part of the shakeup. Carsten Kengeter, 45, co-chief with Orcel, 49, will resign from UBS’s
 executive board  and take charge of winding down assets the bank
plans to exit.  Ermotti said Kengeter has a “very important role” in the
revamp and he has confidence he will stay to see his task
through. He will be taking “a few hundred people” from the
investment bank with him to work on the wind-down. Ermotti
declined to say whether the reorganization will result in
departures of business heads.  UBS will trim  risk-weighted assets  by about 100 billion
francs by the end of 2017 as it shrinks the fixed-income
businesses of the investment bank. The bank will lower risk-
weighted assets at the fixed-income unit by 80 billion francs
from 110 billion francs. Of these, about 30 billion francs will
come from credit businesses and 40 billion francs from rates,
UBS said.  The investment bank will keep its advisory business, as
well as equities, foreign exchange and precious metals, and will
maintain facilitation capabilities in rates and credit. Equity
allocated to the unit will drop to 35 percent next year from 65
percent currently.  On Leave  UBS is putting about 100 traders at the fixed-income unit
in  London  on special leave today, a person briefed on the plan
said. The traders are being sent home on full pay as the
consultation process for their departure begins, the person
said, asking not to be identified as the details are private.  The employees were informed of the move as they entered
their offices this morning, the person said. An official from
UBS in London declined to comment.  Total job losses at the investment bank may total “north
of 5,000,” Ermotti said today.  After the revamp, the investment bank is expected to
contribute about 20 percent to the group’s pretax profits, UBS
said.  Wealth management , consumer banking and asset management,
which will be contributing 80 percent, had annual average pretax
earnings of 5 billion francs over the past two years.  Change ‘Necessary’  “Change is necessary for the entire banking industry,”
Ermotti, 52, said in a memo to staff today. “By acting now we
are getting ahead of our competitors and reshaping our business
so that it can deliver sustainable results over the long term.”  UBS’s investment bank has suffered past lapses that shook
the company. Losses during the subprime crisis forced UBS to
seek a bailout from the Swiss government in 2008 to help it spin
off toxic assets. Last year a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading led to the exit of former CEO  Oswald Gruebel , 68.  Wealth management posted a 32 percent drop in pretax profit
to 600 million francs in the third quarter, while the retail and
corporate unit saw earnings decline 40 percent to 409 million
francs. The year-earlier figures for the businesses benefited
from the sale of assets. Earnings at wealth management Americas
jumped 58 percent to 219 million francs and asset management
climbed 57 percent to 124 million francs. Wealth management
units attracted 12.3 billion francs in net new funds from
clients.  ‘Profitable Franchise’  The investment bank posted a pretax loss of 2.87 billion
francs compared with a 2.1 billion-franc loss a year ago, when
results included a loss from unauthorized trading.  UBS’s Basel III common equity ratio rose to 9.3 percent
from 8.8 percent in the second quarter.  The reorganization is “the most significant step yet for
the industry, which could be positive for other players,
although we would expect other banks to also re-evaluate their
business models,” Credit Suisse analysts led by Amit Goel said
in a note yesterday. “The benefit UBS has over some peers is
another more profitable franchise, for Barclays and Deutsche
Bank there is less room to maneuver.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) , scheduled to publish earnings tomorrow, may
say third-quarter pretax profit rose 25 percent as revenue from
the fixed-income arm of its securities unit jumped, a Bloomberg
survey of analysts showed.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said last week it plans to cut costs
by an additional 1 billion francs by the end of 2015 after
posting a 63 percent drop in  net income  to 254 million francs,
in part because of a 1.05 billion-franc pretax accounting charge
related to the bank’s own debt.  ‘Capital Return’  The revamp “further strengthens our view on UBS’s ability
to pay material dividends,”  Kian Abouhossein , a London-based
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said before today’s release. He
forecast the bank may pay a dividend of 65 centimes a share for
2013, implying a dividend yield of 5.3 percent.  UBS, which paid its first  cash dividend  in five years for
2011, amounting to 10 centimes a share, said it plans in the
future to pay out more than 50 percent of earnings to
shareholders, depending on its capital needs. The bank aims to
achieve the 13 percent Basel III common equity ratio in 2014.  “Once we achieve this target, we’ll immediately implement
a capital return policy,” Ermotti said.  The bank is accruing a dividend for this year and doesn’t
rule out making a payout to shareholders even in the likely
event of posting an annual loss, Ermotti said. A final decision
on the dividend will be made at the end of the year, he added.  Staffing Cuts  Personnel reductions will amount to more than 15 percent of
the 63,745 people the bank employed at the end of September.
About 2,500 of the job cuts will be in Switzerland, where the
company employed more than 23,000 people at the end of last
year, and the rest will mainly come from London and the U.S.,
Ermotti said. UBS is adding to 3,500 global job cuts it
announced last year to save 2 billion francs in annual costs.  UBS will cut about 2,000, or 28 percent, of about 7,200
front-office staff at the investment bank, and will make
proportional cuts in the supporting functions, he said. Other
divisions won’t see front-office job reductions beyond natural
fluctuations, he added.  UBS also plans to make investments totaling 1.5 billion
francs over the next three years to help all its businesses
compete and gain market share, the bank said. The bank will
“forcefully compete in every area” it chooses to be in,
Ermotti said, adding that concrete decisions on investments
haven’t been made yet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  