-- UBS Said to Place About 100 Fixed-Income Traders on Leave
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-10-30T11:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/ubs-said-to-place-about-100-fixed-income-traders-on-leave.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is putting about 100 traders
at the fixed-income unit in London on leave today as
 Switzerland ’s largest lender shrinks its investment bank, a
person briefed on the plan said.  The traders are being sent home on full pay as the
consultation process for their departure begins, the person
said, who asked not to be identified as the details are private.
The employees were informed of the move as they entered their
offices this morning, the person said. An official from UBS in
London declined to comment.  UBS, based in Zurich, boosted its profitability goal today
and announced plans for about 10,000 job cuts as Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Ermotti  scales back the investment bank to focus
on  wealth management . Ermotti, on a conference call, described
job losses as “painful consequences” of the reorganization.  “As we work through this process, we will ensure that
every affected employee will be supported and treated with
care,” said Ermotti, 52.  UBS is in the midst of retreating from capital-intensive
investment-banking businesses such as fixed-income trading to
rely more on its wealth management unit, the world’s second
largest, to boost returns for shareholders.  Two Dimensions  The  investment bank  will keep its advisory business, as
well as equities, foreign exchange and precious metals, and will
maintain some capabilities in rates and credit. About 2,000, or
28 percent, of about 7,200 front-office staffers will be cut at
the division globally, and total reductions at the unit will be
“north of 5,000,” Ermotti said.  Delivering on targets will be the best way to keep morale
up for the remaining staff, he said.  “There are two dimensions: there is a dimension of the
people that are affected and a dimension of the ones that
survive,” Ermotti said. “What we’re doing now is basically
creating clarity about our strategy: what we are, and what we’re
not. The best retention plan is to have a business that is
successful and sustainable.”  To contact the reporters responsible for story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  