-- Ukraine Stability Lures Investors, Europe Ambitions Fade
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-10-30T09:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/ukraine-stability-lures-investors-europe-ambitions-fade.html
Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s probable victory in parliamentary elections sparked
a rally in the nation’s debt and equities as investors focus on
political stability over fading hopes of closer European ties.  Ukraine’s dollar Eurobond due 2017 climbed today, cutting
the yield to the lowest level since it was sold in July, and
credit-default swaps narrowed for a second session after partial
results suggested Yanukovych’s ruling party won more votes than
rivals in a ballot monitors deemed unfair.  The government, which trumpets stability and economic
growth among its successes, had wanted the election deemed
democratic to thaw a planned Association Agreement with the
European Union. Investors were attracted by continuity in the
former Soviet republic where the Orange Revolution helped
overturn Yanukovych’s presidential ballot win in 2004.  “The good news is that political instability has been kept
to a minimum and we haven’t seen a lot of protests,”  Liza Ermolenko, an emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in London, said yesterday by phone. “The markets have been
pretty happy about this.”  Ukraine’s 2017 Eurobond rose, cutting the yield 23 basis
points to 7.11 percent by 11:10 a.m. in the capital, Kiev.
That’s the biggest decline since Oct. 16.  Stocks, Hryvnia  The benchmark Ukrainian Equities  Index (UX)  was down 1.4 percent
to 862.74 after rising 6.2 percent yesterday. The hryvnia
declined 1.3 percent to 8.1803 per dollar.  The cost of insuring Ukraine’s government debt for five
years using credit-default swaps dropped 67 basis points this
month to 638, reflecting an improved perception of risk. The
swaps cost 849 basis points at the end of last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After expanding 5.2 percent last year and 4.7 percent in
2010, gross domestic product will contract in the second half
because of lower prices for steel, Ukraine’s main export earner,
Erste Bank AG and HSBC Holdings Plc have predicted.  Ukraine’s authorities face “some difficult decisions at a
time of weak growth,” Gillian Edgeworth, a London-based
economist at UniCredit, wrote yesterday in an e-mailed note.
Before the 2015 presidential elections, Yanukovych has time “to
put in place measures to at least improve his chances of keeping
the economy on a relatively stable path.”  Monitors’ Verdict  Yanukovych’s Party of Regions had almost a third of party-
list votes and was leading in almost half of the 450-seat
legislature’s 225 single-mandate constituencies, partial results
showed.  State media favored the governing party in election
coverage, while campaign financing was opaque, administrative
resources were abused and opposition candidates imprisoned, the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in  Europe  said.  The elections “were characterized by a tilted playing
field,” OSCE mission chief Walburga Habsburg Douglas told
reporters yesterday in Kiev. “Considering the abuse of power
and the excessive role of money in these elections, democratic
progress appears to have reversed.”  The verdict suggested no boost to ties with Europe, which
nosedived after ex-Premier Yulia Tymoshenko was jailed for seven
years in 2011.  ‘All Shortcomings’  The observers’ remarks will be analyzed and “all
shortcomings” will be taken into account to improve electoral
laws and practices, Foreign Minister Kostyantyn Gryshchenko said
in a statement.  The Party of Regions garnered 31.68 percent of votes,
compared with 24.23 percent for opposition groups united under
Tymoshenko, with 88.62 percent of ballots counted in party-list
voting as of 11:19 a.m. in Kiev, the Central Electoral
Commission said on its website.  Heavyweight titleholder Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR won 13.49
percent of ballots, the Communists, Yanukovych’s current
coalition partner, received 13.84 percent and the nationalist
party Svoboda had 9.63 percent. Ukraine Forward, for which
soccer star  Andriy Shevchenko  campaigned, didn’t meet the 5
percent parliamentary entry threshold, the figures showed.  The Party of Regions was leading in 116 single-seat
constituencies, with the Tymoshenko-led opposition winning 43
races, according to the Central Electoral Commission’s website.  “The election results allow us to state that the essence
of Ukraine’s domestic and foreign policy won’t change,”
Gryshchenko said.  The International Republican Institute, which sent a
delegation to Ukraine to observe more than 160 polling stations,
said that while the elections were held “in an orderly
manner,” they featured an “uneven” playing field.  “Ukraine continues to fall short in ensuring voters a
campaign in which candidates have an equal opportunity to be
heard and they can be confident that their individual votes
count,” it said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “After
more than 20 years of independence, Ukraine still faces
significant obstacles to its democratic development.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  