-- UN Greenhouse Gas Credits May Drop Close to Zero, Orbeo Says
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-30T11:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/un-greenhouse-gas-credits-may-drop-close-to-zero-orbeo-says-1-.html
United Nations emission credits may
drop close to zero this year before a possible rebound after
2015, according to Orbeo.  Projects and investors with UN greenhouse-gas credits known
as Certified Emission Reductions are selling them as quickly as
possible, said Dorothy Denis, senior manager at Orbeo, also
known as Solvay Energy Services.  “We see people are dumping CERs,” Denis said today at a
conference in Bangkok. “It may be bad by the end of the year.
We think prices may fall close to zero.”  The price of CERs for December has plunged 85 percent in
the past year because of an oversupply of credits. It’s possible
that prices could rise to 10 or even 20 euros ($13 to $26) a
metric ton after 2015 if some carbon markets are linked as part
of a global agreement, Denis said. Still, the outlook for demand
and prices is unclear, she said.  December credits advanced 4.1 percent to 1.01 euro a ton on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  at 10:27 a.m. Offsets
may stay low for about three years, Edward Immanuel, senior
manager of carbon and sustainability at Asia Carbon Global, said
today at Bangkok conference.  “We don’t see any spike in the credit price in the next
three years unless there are policy changes on the demand
side,” Immanuel said. “So better sell it now.”  The supply of CERs in the eight years through 2020 will be
about 7.1 billion tons, according to Jacopo Visetti, director
and head of trading and carbon finance at AitherCO2, a London
broker. Demand may reach 1.8 billion tons, 74 percent of which
will come from compliance with the European Union carbon market,
Visetti told the conference. About 20 percent of demand will
come from buyers in  Australia  and  South Korea , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  