-- Forint Bond Yields Drop First Day in Four on Interest Rate Cut
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-30T16:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hungary-rate-cut-bets-rise-to-two-month-high-before-decision.html
Hungary ’s three-year bond yields
fell for the first time in four days after the central bank cut
its benchmark rate for a third consecutive month to help pull
the country from recession.  The yield on three-year government debt dropped six basis
points to 6.288 percent, after rising 30 basis points in the
previous three sessions. Hungary’s currency appreciated 0.3
percent to 284.2 per euro by 4:20 p.m. in Budapest, after
sliding to the weakest since Oct. 5 yesterday.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the two-week deposit rate
by a quarter-point to 6.25 percent, still the European Union’s
highest, matching the forecast of 16 of 18 economists in the
poll. Two forecast no change. The four policy makers appointed
by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s lawmakers outvoted central bank
President Andras Simor and his two deputies in the past two
months to help boost economic growth even as inflation
accelerated.  “With the latest activity data suggesting that the economy
remains mired in recession, we think the four external Monetary
Council members once again voted to cut rates today,”  William Jackson , a London-based analyst at Capital Economics, wrote in
an e-mailed report.  Simor said a “narrow” majority backed today’s vote to
cut, over a proposal to keep the main rate unchanged. The
meeting’s minutes will be published on Nov. 14.  Bailout Concern  Hungarian assets weakened in the second half of October on
concern the country won’t obtain an international bailout. The
 International Monetary Fund  and Hungary disagree on the type of
financial assistance required, chief negotiator Mihaly Varga
said yesterday, almost a year after the Cabinet made a request
for support.  “Financial vulnerabilities and a lack of progress towards
an IMF deal mean that there is limited room for further
easing,” Jackson wrote.  Forward-rate agreements used to bet on  interest rates  in
three months fell 11 basis points to 5.88 percent. The FRAs
traded 66 basis points below the Budapest Interbank Offered
Rate, which is fixed daily at 11 a.m. and hasn’t incorporated
today’s monetary easing.  “The majority of the monetary council will vote for
further interest rate cuts whenever the actual market sentiment
is not pronouncedly bad,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based
economist at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , wrote by e-mail
after today’s vote.  Emerging-market stocks rose for the first time in three
days as commodities gained, with the benchmark MSCI  Emerging
Markets  index advancing 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  