-- Hungary Retail Debt-Sale Plan Risks Draining Bank Deposits
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-10-31T11:33:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hungary-retail-debt-sale-plan-threatens-to-drain-bank-deposits.html
Hungary ’s plan to add euro bonds to
household debt offerings while aid talks stall risks starving
local banks of deposits and may prolong the second recession in
four years, policy makers and investors in Budapest said.  The Cabinet will offer at least 60 billion forint ($272
million) worth of the three-year euro-denominated debt directly
to citizens, paying euro-area inflation plus 2.5 percentage
points, the state debt agency said on Oct. 11. That would amount
to a yield of 5.2 percent, based on last year’s data, while the
average rate on euro deposits for two years or more was 2.09
percent at the end of August, the central bank said.  Hungary, which already offers residents Treasury bills and
inflation-linked forint bonds, is diversifying debt financing to
manage the highest debt level in the European Union’s east as
International Monetary Fund aid talks remain deadlocked.
Channeling funds from  bank deposits  to the budget may hurt local
banks, said Viktor Szabo at Aberdeen Asset Management, as
corporate lending fell the most among the EU’s east since 2008.  “This is going to have a crowding-out effect because it’s
going to drain foreign-currency deposits at local banks,” said
Szabo, who helps manage $9.3 billion at Aberdeen in  London .
“It’s not going to be positive as it’s already expensive for
banks to get foreign-currency funding.”  Hungarian corporate credit volumes as of July plunged 20
percent from 2008 levels, according to an Oct. 16 presentation
by central bank President Andras Simor, who warned of a
“creditless economy.” Corporate credit volume in  Poland ,
 Romania  and Bulgaria rose 15 percent in the period, Simor said.  Government Response  The lack of corporate lending in Hungary is the result of
banks’ strategy to lower their loan-to-deposit ratios by cutting
credit, and not because of the government debt sales to savers,
officials, including Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  and Antal Rogan, the ruling Fidesz party’s parliamentary group leader,
have said this month.  “Banks stopped lending already, deleveraging is going on
in Hungary,” Orban said on Oct. 17.  Hungary sold 37.5 billion forint in  government bonds  at an
auction today, 7.5 billion forint less than planned, as
borrowing costs rose. The sale included 7.5 billion forint in
10-year debt, the  lowest  amount sold for that maturity at
auctions this year after demand plunged, according to data from
the Debt Management Agency.  Lowered Forecast  The Cabinet cut its gross domestic product forecast earlier
this month to a  contraction  of 1.2 percent, compared with a
previous growth estimate of 0.1 percent, and expects the economy
to grow 0.9 percent in 2013 versus an initial projection of 1.6
percent. The potential growth rate is near zero,  Mihaly Varga ,
the minister in charge of aid talks, said on Oct. 16.  Hungary’s economic performance will be the weakest in both
2012 and 2013 among non-euro EU nations, according to the bloc’s
latest projection published in May.  The country already  raised  355 billion forint in retail
local-currency debt, compared with an original target of 36
billion forint, according to debt agency data. The agency may
decide to increase the amount of retail euro-denominated bonds,
depending on demand, Laszlo Andras Borbely, deputy head of the
debt agency, said on Oct. 11.  The offerings are shrinking local bank deposits at a time
when foreign-owned parents tell their units in Hungary to rely
on domestic savings for credit expansion. Plunging profitability
prompted parent banks to cut funding by 36 percent since the end
of 2008,  Fitch Ratings  said Oct. 16. The company rates Hungary’s
sovereign credit non-investment grade.  Higher Demand  “Crowding out foreign-currency deposits from local banks
would be negative for cross-currency basis and depress banks’
profitability further,”  Eszter Gargyan , an economist at
Citigroup Inc. in Budapest, said in a note on Oct. 11. She said
demand may be “much higher” for the euro-denominated bond than
the debt agency’s projection.  OTP Bank (OTP)  Nyrt., Hungary’s No. 1 lender with a 29.5 percent
market share, competes with foreign banks including  KBC Groep
NV (KBC) ,  Bayerische Landesbank ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Intesa SanPaolo
SpA (ISP) ,  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   Banks are cutting lending after being stung by Orban’s
policy of squeezing lenders to plug budget holes and as European
regulators step up pressure on banks to boost capital buffers.  Most recently, the Cabinet this month backtracked on a
pledge to halve a special bank tax in 2013 and doubled the rate
of a planned financial transaction tax to 0.2 percent to plug
budget holes and avoid a cut in EU funds. Orban has rejected IMF
recommendations to ease the burden on banks, saying lenders
needed to pay their “fair share.”  Posting Losses  Domestic lenders turned unprofitable for the first time in
13 years in 2011 as the ratio of household and corporate bad
loans rose to almost 20 percent and banks were forced to take
losses on foreign-currency mortgages.  Households had local-currency savings of 2.57 trillion
forint at the end of August, the lowest level since February
2011, while they had 9 billion euros in euro-denominated bank
deposits, according to central bank  data .  “In the past one and a half years we have seen no increase
in household savings, while the state exerts a crowding-out
effect and this could damage the financial system in the long
term,” central bank Deputy Governor Julia Kiraly  said at an
Oct. 16 conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  