-- Hungarian Parliament Alters Election Law, Stirs Protests
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-10-30T10:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hungarian-parliament-alters-election-law-stirs-protests.html
Hungary ’s parliament voted to
tighten the election law amid opposition protests claiming these
changes curtail people’s basic right to vote.  Lawmakers voted 262-84 late yesterday to amend the
constitution to allow citizens to vote in general elections,
referendums and European parliamentary elections only if they
register in advance. Opposition parties and civic groups say the
registration process limits citizens’ basic rights and tilts the
playing field in favor of the ruling Fidesz party that dominates
the chamber. It was the second change to the constitution since
it came into force in January.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban, Hungary’s most powerful
premier since the end of communism after winning parliamentary
majority in 2010, dismantled independent organizations,
nominated party appointees to public institutions, forced judges
into retirement and curtailed the rights of the Constitutional
Court as he seeks to consolidate his authority. Orban’s
policies, including the nationalization of private pension fund
assets and enshrining tax laws in the constitution requiring a
two-third majority to change them, curbed investments.  The Socialist Party, the largest opposition group in
parliament, views the registration as a “needless limitation of
election rights” and will turn to international forums once
approved by the parliament, Zsolt Molnar, a Socialist politician
said in a video posted on the party’s  website  yesterday.  During the vote, representatives of the green LMP party
showered blue slips of paper onto government benches in
parliament, alluding to the “blue ballot” elections of 1947
that were rigged by the Communist Party.  The constitution now stipulates that Hungary’s permanent
residents have to register in person or electronically and those
without permanent residence through the post or the Internet at
least 15 days before elections.  The Fidesz party rejected opposition criticism that the
registration process would favor it in elections or that it
would lead to lower turnout, Gergely Gulyas, a Fidesz
politician, said in an interview with public radio station
 InfoRadio  on Sept. 26.  The poll by the Median agency said nearly 80 percent of
Hungarians oppose the registration, according to a Sept. 14-18
survey of 1,200 adults. Also 75 percent of those asked believe
the process infringes democratic principles.  “The mandatory registration process is simply an austerity
package against free and fair elections,”  Gordon Bajnai , former
prime minister, said Oct. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  