-- Hungary Cuts Rates for Growth Amid EU’s Highest Inflation
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-10-30T15:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/hungary-cuts-rates-as-recession-trumps-eu-s-highest-inflation.html
Hungary cut its  main interest rate 
for a third month and may consider further easing as concern
about a recession outweighs the European Union’s fastest
inflation and fading chances of obtaining international aid.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  reduced the  two-week deposit rate 
by a quarter-point to 6.25 percent, still the EU’s highest,
matching the forecast of 16 of 18 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Policy makers had a “narrow majority” for the cut over
a proposal for no change, MNB President  Andras Simor  said.  The bank pressed ahead with the third quarter-point cut
since August as policy makers focused on a deepening recession
rather than on price growth. The moves have polarized the
Monetary Council, with the four non-executive members outvoting
Simor and his two deputies on the past two occasions.  “With the latest activity data suggesting that the economy
remains mired in recession, we think the four external MPC
members once again voted to cut rates today,” William Jackson,
a London-based economist at Capital Economics Ltd., said in an
e-mail. “Financial vulnerabilities and a lack of progress
toward an IMF deal mean that there is limited room for further
easing.”  The forint, the world’s best-performing currency this year
as investors bet on an IMF deal, strengthened 0.3 percent to
284.28 per euro by 4:05 p.m. in Budapest today. It has weakened
1.6 percent against the euro since the Origo news website
reported on Oct. 26 that the IMF doesn’t plan to restart talks.
The IMF the same day confirmed  Hungary  has no date to continue
talks, which Premier Viktor Orban requested in November.  More Cuts  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond has
risen 33 basis points in the past week to 6.97 percent today. It
fell 11 basis points from yesterday, when the yield reached the
highest since Oct. 10. The cost of insuring Hungary’s bonds from
default rose to 273.34 basis points, a one-week high, yet still
significantly lower than the 386.35 basis points a month ago.  “The council will consider a further reduction in interest
rates if data in the coming months confirm that the improvement
in financial-market sentiment persists and the medium-term
outlook for inflation remains consistent with the 3 percent
target,” the Monetary Council said in its statement.  The improvement in risk assessment over the past month
“probably carried the day” in today’s rate decision, trumping
concerns for the inflation outlook,  Akos Kuti , a Budapest-based
analyst at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt., said by e-mail. The forint
may “test” the 286 to 288 per euro level, he said.  Stimulus Benefits  Hungary has benefited from the stimulus of central banks
such as the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank,
easing debt financing pressure as investors hunt for higher-
yielding assets. The government is sticking to its conditions
for accepting any aid and “life goes on” if no deal is signed,
negotiator Mihaly Varga said yesterday.  The improvement in Hungary’s risk assessment was mainly
caused by the ECB flooding markets with liquidity and other
international developments, Simor told reporters today, adding
that the Monetary Council was divided on the risk outlook.  Hungary reaching an agreement with the IMF and the European
Union is “crucial” for a “sustained” improvement in country
risk levels and for a reduction in government bond yields, the
Monetary Council said.  The central bank is cutting rates even as the  inflation
rate  rose to 6.6 percent in September, the highest since July
2008, from 6 percent in August. Policy makers target 3 percent
inflation. MNB staff last month forecast that with a main
interest rate of 6.75 percent, the inflation goal would only be
reached in the second half of 2014.  Weak domestic demand will “dominate” the medium-term
inflation outlook, with cost shocks having “no adverse effect”
in the mid-term, the Monetary Council said in its statement.  The government this month cut its forecast for  gross
domestic product  to a contraction of 1.2 percent this year from
0.1 percent growth. The Cabinet predicts an expansion of 0.9
percent in 2013, compared with a previous estimate of 1.6
percent, according to the updated outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  