-- United Says Boeing Delays Next 787 Dreamliner Delivery
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-10-30T19:26:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/united-says-boeing-delays-next-787-dreamliner-delivery.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
the first North American customer for  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new 787
Dreamliner, said the planemaker has delayed its next delivery of
the jet with no new schedule in place.  United, which picked up its first 787 on Sept. 24, was to
have received the second one in time for it to enter service
along with the first on Nov. 4, said Christen David, a
spokeswoman for the Chicago-based carrier.  “We were informed that the second one is not ready for
delivery as scheduled due to unexpected delivery delays from
Boeing,” David said in a telephone interview today. “We
believe subsequent aircraft could be delayed as well.”  The 787 is the world’s first airliner made chiefly out of
composites instead of traditional aluminum, making it more fuel-
efficient and able to provide bigger windows and better air
quality for passengers. The jet was 3 1/2 years late when it
entered service in 2011, after Boeing struggled with the new
materials and manufacturing processes.  Boeing is “working diligently to complete United Airlines’
next 787s for delivery,” said Tim Bader, a spokesman for the
Chicago-based planemaker. “Final closeouts continue on the
United airplanes, but are taking a few days longer than
anticipated.”  The carrier was supposed to take delivery of five 787s this
year and executives reiterated those plans last week on an
earnings conference call with analysts and investors. Boeing
informed United of the delay to the second plane on Oct. 26,
David said.  United still plans its first flight for paying passengers
with the first 787 jet on Nov. 4, with a trip from Houston to
 Chicago , that will include Chief Executive Officer Jeff Smisek
and other executives and employees.  The carrier will swap in a 777 for the flights the second
787 was going to perform and is offering refunds for passengers
who had booked flights specifically to be on the Dreamliner,
David said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  