-- Valero Idles Nebraska, Indiana Ethanol Mills on Poor Margins
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-10-30T21:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/valero-idles-nebraska-indiana-ethanol-plants-on-poor-margins.html
Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , the third-
biggest U.S. ethanol producer, idled its distilleries in Albion,
Nebraska, and Linden, Indiana, until it’s profitable for the
plants to produce the fuel.  The mills each have capacity to produce 120 million gallons
of the fuel, annually, and were shut earlier this year because
of the poor margins before San Antonio-based Valero restarted
them in September.  “They’ll restart once margins improve to a point where
it’s economically feasible to run them,”  Bill Day , a company
spokesman in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail.  Corn is the main ingredient for the alternative fuel in the
U.S., with one bushel distilling into at least 2.75 gallons of
ethanol. The worst U.S. drought in 56 years scorched crops for
the grain and has boosted prices 15 percent this year.  Denatured ethanol for November delivery advanced 2.8 cents,
or, 1.2 percent, to settle at $2.413 a gallon today on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Futures have gained 9.5 percent this
year.  Bunge-Ergon Vicksburg LLC plans to idle its Mississippi
ethanol distillery by Nov. 30 because of high corn prices.
 Abengoa SA (ABG)  shut its plant in Madison, Illinois, this month and
 Biofuel Energy Corp. (BIOF)  said last month that it closed its mill in
Fairmont, Minnesota.  Ethanol  production  in the U.S. has fallen 17 percent this
year to 801,000 barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 19, Energy
Department data shows.  Three of Valero’s ethanol plants are operating at reduced
rates until margins improve, Gene Edwards, Valero’s chief
development officer said on a conference call today with
analysts and investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  