-- Veolia Rises After Denying Plans to Raise Capital: Paris Mover
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-30T09:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/veolia-rises-after-denying-plans-to-raise-capital-paris-mover.html
Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the French
water utility trying to sell assets and cut debt, rose the most
in two weeks after saying it’s not planning a capital increase.  Veolia gained as much as 2.3 percent, the most since
Oct.17, and was 12 cents higher at 7.65 euros at 10:16 a.m. in
Paris. The shares slumped to a record yesterday after  La Lettre
A  reported it needed a minimum of 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion), which would have diluted shareholder stakes.  “Veolia denies any plans for a capital increase,” the
Paris-based utility said yesterday in a statement after the
market had closed. The company asked the regulator to “open an
inquiry into this dissemination of false information.”  Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot pledged to cut debt
to less than 12 billion euros by the end of 2013 with asset
sales from 14.7 billion euros at the end of June. Frerot offered
a 70 euro-cent a share dividend this year and next, down from
1.21 euros. The chief executive is nearly one year into what he
said would be a two-year “profound transformation” of the
utility.  “The company does not face any tough bond repayment
obligations” nor does it have covenant linked with debt or
credit lines, Julien Desmaretz, an analyst at Bryan,Garnier &
Co., wrote in a note today. The denial is “reassuring” because
a capital increase on a scale described in the report would have
been “much too harmful given the potential benefits.”  Speculation about Veolia’s talks with rival Suez
Environnement on a possible tie-up and a legal conflict with
Electricite de France SA has surfaced since former CEO  Henri
Proglio  resigned from the board this month. Proglio ceded his
position at the helm of Veolia to head EDF and was reported by
the French press to have later tried to garner support for
Frerot’s ouster. Frerot has since made management and board
changes.  Veolia and Suez Environnment have denied a merger is
planned. EDF said last week it had sued Veolia over the right to
own half of their Dalkia energy-services business. Veolia said
it will “strongly oppose” EDF’s suit as it’s without merit,
according to a statement on Oct. 26.  Veolia is due to report third-quarter earnings  Nov. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  