-- Vietnamese Musicians Jailed Amid Crackdown on Dissent
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-31T07:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/vietnamese-musicians-jailed-amid-crackdown-on-dissent.html
Vietnam jailed two musicians for
spreading anti-state propaganda, widening a crackdown on
criticism of the government as it grapples with an economy
that’s poised to grow at the slowest pace in 13 years.  The Ho Chi Minh City People’s Court yesterday sentenced Vo
Minh Tri to four years in prison and Tran Vu Anh Binh to six
years for composing or editing songs critical of the government,
said Tran Vu Hai, Tri’s lawyer. The U.S. yesterday called on
Vietnam to release Tri, who was cited in a public  petition  to
President  Barack Obama  seeking to tie an expansion of trade with
Vietnam to the release of imprisoned human rights advocates.  Vietnam has jailed bloggers, journalists and activists it
accuses of spreading anti-government propaganda as a fragile
banking system, inefficient state-owned firms and corruption
weigh on  economic growth . Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung
signaled this month that Vietnam may struggle to meet a growth
target of 5.2 percent this year, the slowest pace since 1999.  “The jailing of the two musicians suggests the regime is
moving to contain anti-government sentiment,” Giulia Zino,
senior Asia analyst at Bath, U.K-based risk consultancy
Maplecroft Ltd., said in an e-mail yesterday. “This is a strong
warning from the government that public dissent will not be
tolerated as the party prepares to enact economic reforms to
address public and investor discontent with an underperforming
economy.”  ‘Insecure’ Government  Dung and Communist Party head Nguyen Phu Trong apologized
to the nation this month for mismanaging state-owned enterprises
and corruption. Vietnam’s central bank, battling the highest
level of bad debt in  Southeast Asia , said yesterday it completed
a plan to tackle non-performing loans and will present it to the
Communist Party’s Politburo.  The  finance ministry  said today it’s seeking National
Assembly approval to raise its 2013 target for domestic bond
sales by as much as 33 percent to finance additional spending.  “You’re looking at a government that is increasingly
insecure,”  Phil Robertson , deputy Asia director at  Human Rights
Watch , said by phone. “It is concerned about the economy and
that the legitimacy of a growing economy is now at risk because
of crony capitalism. The government is very concerned about the
various different strands of opposition or unhappiness with the
government somehow combining into a larger dynamic.”  Wealth Gap  Tri’s two songs, entitled “Where is My Vietnam?” and
“Who Are You?” highlight the growing wealth gap in the country
and urge citizens to “rise up” against invaders and “cowards
who sell the country,” a reference to the nation’s conflict
with China over disputed territory in the  South China Sea .  Binh, 38, and Tri, 34, also allegedly displayed the flag of
the former Republic of  Vietnam  and posted photos and video of
the flag on the Internet, online newspaper VietnamNet reported.
They were also accused of disseminating anti-state leaflets, it
said. The Republic of Vietnam governed the southern region of
the country until 1975.  Vietnam’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Luong Thanh
Nghi confirmed the sentences yesterday in a statement and said
the trial was “conducted publicly, in accordance with
procedures that comply with the law.”  The U.S. said it was “deeply troubled” by the
convictions. The U.S. last month called for the release of three
bloggers who were jailed Sept. 24 for as long as 12 years.  “The Vietnamese government should release this musician,
all prisoners of conscience and adhere to its international
obligations immediately,” Christopher Hodges, a spokesman for
the U.S. Embassy in  Hanoi , said yesterday, referring to Tri,
who’s also known as Viet Khang. “This conviction is the latest
in a series of moves by Vietnamese authorities to restrict
freedom of expression.”  Two Songs  Both Tri and Binh will serve two years’ probation at the
end of their prison terms, said Nghi, the foreign affairs
spokesman. They were convicted under Article 88 of the  criminal
code , Tri’s lawyer said, which allows for a maximum penalty of
20 years in jail.  “To my knowledge, under many governments and regimes, we
haven’t seen people going to jail for composing songs,” Hai
said. “It’s regrettable that a Vietnamese court jailed someone
for composing two songs.”  Binh allegedly composed or edited 11 songs with anti-state
content and posted them on a blog he managed, VietnamNet
reported. Tri was found guilty of composing two songs, according
to Hai.  Premier Dung on Sept. 13 ordered a crackdown on blogs that
have attacked his leadership, fueling speculation that political
tensions were intensifying as economic growth slows. Vietnam has
more bloggers and Internet dissidents in detention than any
other country except  China  and  Iran , according to Reporters
Without Borders.  “Restricting free speech in the immediate term will
further tarnish the government’s reputation and ultimately risks
undermining regime stability and the business environment,”
said Zino, the Maplecroft analyst.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  