-- London Waterloo’s Forgotten Eurostar Platforms Poised for Return
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-06-26T13:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/virgin-rail-reprieve-can-t-stem-stagecoach-slide-london-mover.html
London Waterloo , Britain’s busiest
rail terminus, could get a 25 percent boost in platform capacity
as train company  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC)  seeks to revive facilities
mothballed since Eurostar Group Ltd. ended services in 2007.  Stagecoach’s South West Trains, the sole operator at
Waterloo since Channel Tunnel expresses moved three miles north
to a rebuilt St Pancras hub, is aiming to simplify the relaying
of track needed to link the five platforms with domestic routes.  Waterloo, which serves a swathe of southern  England 
including the original Surrey “stockbroker belt,” is operating
close to capacity after attracting 100 million passengers in the
year through April 2012. An agreement to expedite links to the
extra platforms is likely to be secured via Stagecoach’s accord
with Network Rail Ltd., which manages Britain’s rail tracks and
major stations, Chief Executive Officer Martin Griffiths said.  “There are 1,800 train movements in and out of Waterloo
each day, so opening up the old international platforms isn’t
easy,” Griffiths said in an interview. “But I’m quite confident
that there’s a plan near that could see it delivered without the
complexity that has been the working assumption for many years.”  The two-year temporary alliance with Network Rail could be
extended and deepened, with upgrades at Waterloo incorporated in
a revised franchise under which South West Trains would serve
the station through 2019, the CEO, without providing details.  ‘Complicated Matrix’  With 19 working platforms in addition to the former
Eurostar facilities, which were served by lines that crossed
over the domestic tracks via a bridge before heading toward the
link to the Channel Tunnel, revamping the station’s approaches
is likely to be both costly and disruptive to timetables.  “It’s a complicated matrix of track,” Griffiths said. “But
we’re very tight for capacity and we need to see it.”  Stagecoach’s accord with Network Rail is unique in Britain,
where train operating companies have been kept separate from
infrastructure work since the industry’s privatization in the
1990s. Griffiths said the relationship has led to “joined up
management” and operational improvements and should be broadened
to include capital projects, not just day-to-day maintenance.  Waterloo’s platform 20, one of those served by Eurostar, is
adjacent to the main station and should be linked to the network
next year, Griffiths said. Trains will most likely run to
Windsor in the Thames Valley, according to Network Rail, which
said it’s also working on the “challenge” of incorporating
platforms 21 to 24 to add capacity at a station with one-quarter
more passengers than its nearest challenger,  London  Victoria.  Virgin Slide  The potential gain in platforms won’t translate directly
into a 25 percent traffic boost, since the ability of trains to
access Waterloo is ultimately governed by the number that can
clear the terminus’s neck, the pinch-point before tracks divide
to enter the station, at any one time, Network Rail said.  Stagecoach shares  rose as much as 5.3 percent, the most in
six months, and were trading 3.9 percent higher at 311.30 pence
as of 2:18 p.m. in London after the Perth, Scotland company said
pretax profit rose 8 percent to 219 million pounds ($336
million) in the 12 months ended April 30, excluding items.  Earnings from  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Rail Group, in which
Stagecoach has a 49 percent stake, fell 38 percent to 9.8
million pounds after tax as sales rose 2.8 percent, according to
a statement. That implies a profit for Virgin Trains as a whole
of almost 20 million pounds, and revenue of 901 million pounds.  Griffiths said margins at Virgin Rail have been clipped
since it began operating the London-Scotland West Coast
franchise under a simplified management contract in December,
earning a fee equal to 1 percent of sales. Virgin is in talks
with the U.K. Department for Transport to agree more lucrative
terms for the period through 2017, while taking on greater risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  