-- Vonn Won’t Abandon Ambition to Race in Men’s Downhill
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-10-30T15:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/vonn-won-t-abandon-ambition-to-race-in-men-s-downhill.html
Lindsey Vonn  moved a step closer
to her goal of racing against men today as the U.S. Ski and
Snowboard Association wrote to the sport’s ruling body asking it
to consider the request.  Olympic downhill champion Vonn approached the International
Ski Federation (FIS) in early October with the request to
compete in a men’s World Cup downhill on Nov. 24 in Lake Louise,
 Alberta . Vonn, the most successful ski racer of her generation
with 53 World Cup wins, has won the women’s race there nine
times.  In a letter to FIS President Gian Franco Kasper, the U.S.
Ski and Snowboard Association “petitioned the FIS Council to
consider her request to ski a men’s race at some point in her
career,” USSA said in a statement on its website today.  The council is scheduled to meet on Nov. 3 in  Switzerland .  “Lindsey Vonn achieved great success in sport due to her
continual quest for new challenges in alpine ski racing,” said
USSA President and Chief Executive Officer Bill Marolt, who is
also a FIS vice president and a member of its council.  “As a national ski association within FIS, we have the
highest respect for Lindsey’s accomplishments and appreciate the
opportunity to support Lindsey by engaging in this discussion
with FIS,” Marolt added.  “Everything is completely open,” Kasper said in an
interview on Oct. 26 in Soelden,  Austria  at the start of the
alpine  World Cup  season. “But I am not very optimistic.”  ‘Complicated’  FIS women’s race director Atle Skaardal told reporters in
Zurich this month that Vonn’s request was “complicated”
because the women’s event at Lake Louise takes place a week
after the men’s. Under the world body’s rules, no one can ski
on a race course a week prior to competition.  Colorado resident Vonn last week said in an interview,
also in Soelden, that she’d made the request to test herself
against the men because she beats them in training and wants
“to try to push the limit.”  She said she’d try to race men next year, should her
request be turned down for this season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  