-- Who Loses When Fed Keeps Interest Rates Low?
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-10-30T22:30:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/who-loses-when-fed-keeps-interest-rates-low-.html
I’m amazed that Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben Bernanke  has emphasized the beneficiaries of low
interest rates and has never bothered to mention the losers.  Nor, to my knowledge, have key administration officials or
members of Congress. Yet interest rates close to zero are
causing considerable distortions and, for many, outright harm.  Think about savers who are receiving trivial returns on
their bank and money-market accounts. Those returns would be
negative if fund managers weren’t waiving fees. Furthermore,
free checking accounts are disappearing. Banks and thrifts,
facing low interest earnings, have increased the size of the
required balance on checking accounts that pay no interest to
$723, on average, up 23 percent in the last year.  The average fee on non-interest checking accounts jumped 25
percent to $5.48 per month, also a record. The percentage of
non-interest checking accounts that are free of charges dropped
to 39 percent from 76 percent in 2009.  Many savers also are deserting money-market funds for the
safety of accounts covered by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. This is shown by the collapse in M2 velocity of money. The
ratio of M2 to gross domestic product indicates that money is
just sitting in accounts, despite returns that are almost zero
in nominal terms and distinctly negative returns in real terms.  ECB Rate  In addition, the  European Central Bank  announced in July
that it would cut its deposit rate for banks to zero and its
benchmark lending rate to 0.75 percent. With rates this low,
managers of European money-market funds totaling $60 billion
have closed their funds to new investors. Many were already
offering returns of less than 1 percent.  Will Americans be discouraged by low interest-rate returns
and save less, or will they save more to reach lifetime goals?
I believe the latter, which is one more reason why I expect the
household-saving rate to climb back to more than 10 percent. At
the same time, low interest returns in conjunction with volatile
stock and huge losses on owner-occupied houses are forcing many
vastly undersaved  baby boomers  to work well beyond their
expected retirements; another distortion. Sure, better health
care for seniors and increasing life spans are also factors, but
the percentages of men and women over 65 and in the  labor force 
are rising rapidly. And as senior citizens retain their jobs,
there are fewer openings for younger people and less advancement
for those in between.  The Fed intends to keep short-term  interest rates  close to
zero through 2015, and probably longer as deleveraging keeps the
economy subdued and unemployment high. So what can savers do?
Hope for deflation, which will push real interest rates from
negative to positive?  Banks are also suffering because of close-to-zero interest
rates, even though financial institutions are paying next to
nothing on deposits, which continue to swell as savers stampede
for liquidity and safety. One serious problem is the relatively
flat yield curve. It is anchored by zero federal funds rates on
the short end and pushed down for longer maturities, at which
banks normally lend, by declining Treasury yields.  Bank yields on assets are in a distinctly downward trend,
which will no doubt persist as the Fed continues to keep short
rates at zero. U.S. banks also have considerable exposure to the
sovereign-debt troubles in  Europe . Of their total foreign
exposure, 24 percent is in the  euro zone ; 44 percent if the U.K.
is included. European banks are in considerable danger because
of their large holdings of such government debt.  Insurers Hit  Insurers, too, have been hurt by low interest rates,
especially life-insurance companies whose cash-value policy and
annuities are basically  savings accounts  with insurance
wrappers. Insurers largely invest in bonds, mortgages and
related securities, and declining yields on their portfolios are
forcing them to cut benefits, design less generous policies and
raise prices where competition allows. These conditions will
last for years as maturing, higher-yield securities are replaced
by lower-earning obligations.  Pension funds, especially vastly underfunded state and
local defined-benefit plans, are probably the most severely hurt
by chronic low interest rates. Corporations have been shifting
to 401(k) and other defined-contribution plans and away from
defined-benefit pensions, but the latter are uncomfortably
underfunded, especially with low interest rates and muted
investment returns in prospect. One study found that 42
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may have to
contribute at least $250 million each this year to make up for
pension-funding shortfalls.  Corporate defined-benefit plans estimate their future
returns on investments, and the median expected rate of return
for S&P 500 company plans has dropped to a still very optimistic
7.8 percent from 9.1 percent a decade ago. Furthermore,
factoring in current low interest rates on their bond holdings,
their expectations for stock returns are often unrealistic.
 General Mills Inc. (GIS) ’s pension plan needs a 13.6 percent gain on
stocks and alternative investments to meet its 9.5 percent
overall target, and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  requires a 15.6 percent
gain to reach the 7.6 percent return target for its plan as a
whole.  Then there is the discount rate used to determine the
present value of future corporate pension benefits. This is
based on the yield on corporate bonds over the past two years,
which, of course, has been falling. So the rising present value
of future liabilities must be offset by even higher investment
returns -- which is quite unlikely -- or benefit cuts, which is
almost impossible. Otherwise, corporations must contribute more
to the plans, cutting into profits.  General Electric Co. (GE) 
reported that its compensation expenses in 2011 rose by $7.4
billion because its discount rate fell to 4.2 percent at the end
of 2011, compared with 5.3 percent at the end of 2010.  Pension Plans  Chronic low interest rates leave defined-benefit pension
plans, corporate and public, in the U.S. and elsewhere, with
tough choices. They need to reduce asset-return targets and
discount rates to more realistic levels, but that means more
contributions and/or reduced benefits. Cutting pension benefits
is always difficult, especially when employers are restrained by
public and private union contracts.  The only other alternative is to increase returns, so
pension plans have joined the zeal-for-yield crowd. And this
often involves increased risks that may not be fully understood
by those plan sponsors. The list of alternative-investment
classes includes real estate, private equity, developing-country
stocks and bonds,  hedge funds  and commodities. But returns,
especially adjusted for risk, may be disappointing.  In “The Hedge Fund Mirage: The Illusion of Big Money and
Why It’s Too Good to Be True,” Simon Lack writes that if all the
money that has ever been invested in hedge funds, now about $1.7
trillion, “had been put in Treasury bills instead, the results
would have been twice as good.” I can’t argue with him as 30-
year Treasuries have been my favorite investment, since October
1981, when rates were 15 percent and I stated, “We’re entering
the bond rally of a lifetime.”  Hedge funds initially performed well by taking advantage of
arbitrage opportunities and other market disconnects, but most
of those holes are now filled, and as Lack observes, hedge funds
are finding it hard to find enough good investments to absorb
all the investor money that is pouring in.  (In Part 4, I’ll look at how the zeal for yield is pushing
investors further and further out on the risk spectrum.)  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the third in a five-part series.
Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  tax initiatives on
California’s ballot  and on why  you shouldn’t read too much into
the jobs report ; Clive Crook on why  Obama is the least bad
choice for the U.S. ;  Peter Orszag  on a  tax refund  that could
 solve the fiscal-cliff impasse;  Part one of  Virginia Postrel ’s
series on  missteps by breast-cancer charities ; Tim Judah on the
 rise of the far-right party Svoboda in Ukraine .  To contact the writer of this article:
Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  