-- Dollar Weakens as Safety Demand Eases After Sandy Makes Landfall
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-10-30T21:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/yen-strengthens-against-dollar-after-boj-adds-to-monetary-easing.html
The dollar fell the most in almost
two weeks against the euro amid speculation damage from tropical
cyclone Sandy will be less severe than earlier anticipated,
damping demand for safer assets.  The U.S. currency dropped against all but one its 16 major
counterparts as European shares rallied. The euro strengthened
after a Spanish report showed the economy contracted less in the
third quarter than the central bank estimated last week. The yen
rose against the dollar as the  Bank of Japan (8301)  added less monetary
stimulus at a policy meeting than some economists predicted. The
pound advanced as U.K. retail sales increased.  “Looking at the storm, we’re getting a little bit of
people pulling back from risk-off positions where they would’ve
been buying U.S. dollars,” Andrew Busch, a global currency
strategist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “There was also a total muff last night with the
Bank of  Japan  extending their quantitative easing.”  The dollar weakened 0.4 percent to $1.2959 per euro at 5
p.m. in New York after losing as much as 0.6 percent, the most
since Oct. 17. The U.S. currency declined 0.2 percent to 79.63
yen after falling to 79.28 yen, the least since Oct. 22. The
euro advanced 0.2 percent to 103.18 yen.  Cyclone Sandy came ashore in southern New Jersey at 8 p.m.
New York time yesterday and drove floodwaters to life-
threatening levels in a region with 60 million residents. U.S.
equity and bond markets were shut for a second day today, with
both expected to open tomorrow.  Forint, Krone  The Hungarian forint gained versus all 31 of its major
counterparts after the Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced the  two-week
deposit rate  for a third month amid concerns about economic
growth.  The currency rose 1 percent to 218.77 per U.S. dollar and
appreciated 0.6 percent to 283.52 euros.  Norway’s krone rose for a third day against the dollar
before the central bank holds a policy meeting tomorrow. The
Norges Bank will keep its  key rate  at 1.5 percent, according to
all 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The krone rose 0.7 percent to 5.732 per dollar and gained
0.2 percent to 7.428 per euro.  The Norwegian currency has strengthened 3.3 percent in the
past three months, the second-best performer after the euro of
the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The greenback has depreciated 2.4
percent.  Expecting ‘Worst’  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, fell 0.4 percent to 79.94. The Stoxx Europe
600  Index (SXXP)  of shares rose 0.9 percent. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures were little changed from the Oct. 26 close.  “It was a case of pricing in the worst and we don’t seem
to have seen the extremes of what could have occurred in the
last 24 hours, so markets have just taken a little bit of that
negativity off the table,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in  London .  The benchmark dollar gauge could rise to the 80.65-to-80.75
area, then to 81.00, which would be its highest level since
Sept. 7, Niall O’Connor, a New York-based technical analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note to clients today. Breaking
the 79.65-to-79.70 support area would shift the Dollar Index
downward, he wrote. Support refers to an area where orders to
buy may be clustered.  The euro appreciated against most of its major peers as
Spain’s National Statistics Institute said gross domestic
product declined 0.3 percent in the three months through
September. That compared with the Bank of Spain’s estimate on
Oct. 23 of a 0.4 percent contraction.  ‘Minimum Expansion’  The yen rose to a one-week high against the dollar after
the BOJ expanded its asset-purchase program by 11 trillion yen
($138 billion) to 66 trillion yen at a policy meeting in  Tokyo .  Fifteen economists forecast the BOJ to add 10 trillion yen
to its 55 trillion yen program that buys assets such as
government bonds, real estate investment trusts and stock funds,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. Four saw it increasing
purchases by as much as 20 trillion yen.  “The 10 trillion-yen increase was seen as a minimum
expansion, and the failure to reach 15 trillion yen is very
disappointing for markets,” said Yunosuke Ikeda, head of Japan
foreign-exchange research at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo.  The pound rose for the first time in three days against the
dollar after a report showed an  index  of U.K. retail sales
climbed to a four-month high in October, damping speculation the
Bank of England will boost monetary stimulus.  GDP Strength  The data followed a report last week showing Britain’s GDP
expanded 1 percent in the third quarter, as the nation emerged
from a double-dip recession.  “The GDP number was strong enough to rule out further
monetary stimulus at the November BOE meeting and some of that
is in the price for sterling already,” said  Valentin Marinov ,
head of European Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “More resilience from upcoming U.K.
data releases would help sterling consolidate.”  The pound gained 0.3 percent to $1.6073 after falling to
$1.5914 on Oct. 23, the weakest level since Sept. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  