-- YIT Slumps Most in Two Months as Crisis Hurts Maintenance Unit
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-10-30T14:45:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-30/yit-slumps-most-in-two-months-as-crisis-hurts-maintenance-unit.html
YIT Oyj (YTY1V) ,  Finland ’s biggest
residential developer, fell the most in two months in Helsinki
trading as the recession in the euro area hurt the profitability
of its maintenance business.  “In central  Europe , there are fewer projects and price
competition is tougher,” Chief Executive Officer Juhani Pitkaekoski said in a phone interview. “The market for large
projects has changed.”  YIT fell as much as 2.9 percent, the most since Aug. 22.
Shares in the Helsinki-based construction company dropped 1.7
percent to 14.85 euros at 4:08 p.m. in the Finnish capital with
a volume 25 percent above the three-month average, making it
today’s biggest decliner in the  OMX Helsinki 25 index .  The operating profit margin in YIT’s central European
building services unit declined to 2.6 percent in the third
quarter from 3.7 percent a year earlier, the company said in a
statement. Building services includes the design and
installation of heating, plumbing and safety systems.  The 17-member euro area contracted 0.2 percent in the
second quarter from the prior period as the debt crisis
undermined sentiment among companies and consumers.  Sweden 
offers the most improvement potential in a 40 million-euro cost
savings plan from 2013, YIT said today.  “Revamping big business units always takes time,
unfortunately,” Pitkaekoski said. “We’re a bit behind in
profitability improvements in Sweden.”  YIT’s third-quarter net income of 46.3 million euros beat
by about 20 percent the 39.1 million-euro average estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Construction accounted for about
three quarters of the 68.4 million-euro operating profit in the
quarter, driven by Finnish and Russian housing demand, YIT said.  “Russia as a whole was an extremely good result,” Sauli Vilen, an analyst at equity-research company Inderes Oy said by
phone. “The company is finally starting to meet the
expectations there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  