-- ANA, JAL Said Set to Start Battery Fixes of Grounded 787
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-04-22T12:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/ana-jal-said-to-plan-to-start-787-repairs-after-fixes-approved.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  has begun repairs on the
787 Dreamliner to fix a battery fault that grounded the fleet
for three months as it enters talks with airlines to resume
deliveries and meet a full-year production target.  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , the biggest 787 operator, started
repairs this morning at four airports around Japan, Ryosei Nomura, a spokesman, said by telephone from Tokyo.  Japan
Airlines Co. (9201)  has also started fixing the batteries, according to
a person familiar with plan, who declined to be identified as
the information isn’t public.  The global fleet of 49 Dreamliners was grounded worldwide
on Jan. 16 after lithium-ion batteries on two separate planes
overheated and melted, causing flights to be canceled and
cutting revenue at the operators. Boeing has dispatched about
300 personnel on ten teams to airlines to install the fix over
five days while preparing the handover of new 787s.  “We are starting to have detailed conversations with all
of our customers about delivery timing,” Larry Loftis, Boeing
787 vice president and general manager, told journalists in
 London . “We don’t have specific dates right now.”  Deliveries will resume “within weeks,” Loftis said.
Production of 787s, which had reached 5 aircraft per month when
the fleet was grounded in January, is now reaching seven. Loftis
said there are no reasons 2013 production targets will not be
met, including an output level of 10 787s per month.  Small Cost  The cost of the modification is “fairly small,” Loftis
said, while declining to specify what the total cost of the
grounding will be. Boeing, the world’s largest aircraft maker,
reports first-quarter earnings on Wednesday.  ANA and JAL are waiting for approval from the U.S. Federal
Aviation Administration and  Japan ’s Civil Aviation Bureau before
they can restart flights. ANA expects to complete repairs on its
787s next month.  “Pilots will be able to fly the planes soon after studying
the changes to the manual,” said Toshikazu Nagasawa, a director
at the Air Line Pilots’ Association of Japan, which has about
4,500 members. “The biggest problem will be getting passengers
to fly on the planes.”  The airlines received service bulletins on repairs from
Boeing after it last week won approval from the FAA for the
787’s redesigned battery system. The FAA said it will issue a
directive this week to let flights resume once the battery fixes
are made.  Approval Required  Both airlines still need permission from Japan’s Ministry
of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism before they can
fly the planes. The ministry’s Civil Aviation Bureau is in its
final stages of the Dreamliner probe, Shigeru Takano, the
agency’s director in charge of air transport safety, said last
week in  Tokyo .  Japan will wait until after a two-day U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board hearing on the JAL 787 battery fire
starting tomorrow before making a decision on the resumption of
flights, Takano said by telephone today in Tokyo.  Boeing engineers will arrive in  India  on April 24, after
the work in Japan, to apply the fix for Air India Ltd., which
expects to resume 787 services by May 15 at the latest, Rohit Nandan, the company’s chairman, said today in New Delhi.  LOT Polish Airlines SA,  Europe ’s first operator of the jet,
said Boeing engineers will implement the battery fix for its two
787s in Addis Ababa next month. The carrier, which has demanded
compensation from Boeing, expects to receive a third 787 next
month with plans to resume service in the summer, it said in an
e-mailed statement.  Adding Weight  The battery fix adds about 150 pounds of weight to a 787.
Boeing has begun exploring design enhancement to the fix to cut
weight as well as production and maintenance costs, Loftis said.  British Airways (IAG) , Thomson Airways and  Norwegian Air Shuttle (NAS) 
SA, among the next European recipients of 787s, said they’re
awaiting new delivery dates from the aircraft maker. “We remain
in contact with Boeing about our delivery schedule but have no
dates to announce at this stage,” London-based International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, parent of British Airways, said
by e-mail.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the only U.S. carrier
with Dreamliners, called the FAA’s move a “good step forward.”
The airline is selling seats for Dreamliner flights starting May
31 for domestic routes including Houston-Denver, and is
targeting June 10 to begin new service between Denver and Tokyo.  Unknown Knowns  “We are mapping out a return-to-service plan, and we look
forward to getting our 787s back in the air,” Christen David, a
spokeswoman for the Chicago-based carrier, said last week.  The 787 will still be allowed to travel as far as 180
minutes from the nearest airport, enabling it to be used on
over-ocean routes, FAA spokeswoman Laura Brown said last week.
Loftis said an effort to extend that to 330 minutes, cut short
by the grounding, will resume.  Neither the FAA nor the NTSB has determined what caused the
battery faults that sparked a Jan. 7 fire on a JAL 787 in  Boston 
and forced an emergency landing by an ANA jet in Japan nine days
later.  “It is possible we will never know the specific root
cause,” Loftis said, adding that the upgrade now being
installed should cover all eventualities.  Boeing’s reworked battery includes more protection around
the cells to contain overheating, a steel case to prevent any
fire from spreading and a tube that vents fumes outside the
fuselage.  The Dreamliner is the only large commercial jet equipped
with lithium-ion batteries as part of its power system.  GS Yuasa
Corp. (6674)  makes the batteries, which are part of an electrical power
conversion system built by  France ’s  Thales SA. (HO)   United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s aerospace unit supplies the system, which
uses enough electricity to power 400 homes.  Airbus SAS abandoned lithium-ion batteries for its A350,
the direct rival to the 787, after Boeing encountered problems.
Airbus plans first A350 deliveries next year.  Boeing efforts to identify the battery fix, which has
required more than 200,000 hours of engineering work, have not
affected work on the 787-9, a larger model, or other development
programs, Loftis said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  