-- Thatcher’s Grip on U.K. Tories Undiminished by Her Death
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-04-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/thatcher-s-grip-on-u-k-tories-undiminished-by-her-death.html
More than two decades after she
left office, Margaret Thatcher’s death this month provided a
reminder of the difficulties she continues to create for those
who succeeded her as leader of Britain’s Conservative Party.  Prime Minister David Cameron is finding that his newest
rank-and-file lawmakers, inspired by policies Thatcher pursued
in the 1980s, are defying him as they bid to stop him yielding
too much to his Liberal Democrat coalition partners. Cameron,
the fifth Tory leader since 1990, based his appeal to voters
before the 2010 election on a softening of the confrontational
politics the Tories had developed.  Nearly half of the Tories now in Parliament won their seats
for the first time in 2010. The memory of her arguing in their
teenage years for deregulation, lower taxes and against European
integration led them into politics. Her record of three election
wins contrasts with Cameron’s failure to win a parliamentary
majority in 2010, forcing him into coalition with the Liberal
Democrats, and encourages them to defy him on issues such as the
European Union.  “Thatcher is by far the most electorally successful person
they’ve had in living memory,” Byron Criddle, co-author of The
Almanac of British Politics, said in an interview. “The 2010
intake is more Thatcherite and more rebellious than their
predecessors.”  Commons Revolts  In the two largest rebellions by Conservatives in the House
of Commons against his government, a majority of those defying
him have come from the newest lawmakers. According to Philip Cowley, a professor of politics at Nottingham University who
specializes in parliamentary revolts, almost all of the 2010
intake who have yet to be promoted by Cameron to be ministers or
aides have voted against the government at some stage.  It’s an unprecedented situation, because new members of
Parliament have historically been reluctant to defy their party,
Cowley says. Brooks Newmark, who until September was a
government whip, responsible for Tory party discipline, found
that with the 2010 new arrivals, things were different.  “They’re all children of Thatcher and are a distinct and
different group from the rest of the party,” Newmark, a
lawmaker since 2005, said in an interview. “There’s an
instinctive loyalty not just to her but to her instincts and
beliefs. A lot of them have no difficulty disagreeing with the
leadership, which hasn’t happened in the past. Unlike previous
intakes, who seemed to be very grateful for the leadership
getting them in, they didn’t feel that.”  ‘Varied Backgrounds’  Nadhim Zahawi, 45, was one of the 2010 cohort who helped
organize a revolt that defeated government plans to introduce
elections to the upper House of Lords. A Kurd, his family fled
Saddam Hussein’s  Iraq  shortly before Thatcher came to power in
1979.  “One of the biggest things she did, which reflects in the
2010 intake, was open the doors of the Conservative Party to
people of varied backgrounds,” Zahawi said in an interview.
“The generation that’s come in in 2010 grew up with Thatcher as
leader of the party. A lot of them owe their seats to her
opening up the party. When I saw that a grocer’s daughter can
become leader of the Conservative Party, a family like mine,
settling in their new home, felt that if we work hard, we could
achieve something.”  This wasn’t the only way in which she inspired him. An
older generation of Tories, including Cameron, were working in
politics in 1992, when, two years after being deposed as leader,
she encouraged Tories to vote against her successor as Tory
prime minister, John Major, over the creation of the EU in its
current form. The rebels came close to bringing down his
government.  ‘Stand Up’  “She was right,” said Zahawi. “Sometimes when you see
the dangers and the consequences of what can happen because of a
mistake the government is making, you’ve got to stand up and be
counted.”  This kind of view is reinforced by the manner in which Tory
candidates get selected to fight for parliamentary seats,
according to Criddle. “You can’t get selected unless you’re
pretty sensitive about Thatcherite issues,” he said. “There
are a lot of middle-aged, euro-skeptic, mildly racist people in
local Conservative associations.”  Adding to Cameron’s difficulties is that his own wealthy
background and education at a leading private school, Eton,
contrast sharply both with Thatcher’s and with that of many of
his new lawmakers.  “Although Thatcher ended up sounding like a duchess, she
was socially mobile,” said Criddle. “There are a lot of
similar people who came into Parliament in 2010.”  Another lawmaker elected for the first time in 2010 was
Robert Buckland. The 44-year-old joined the party in 1985. At
the time he was a teenager in South Wales, where miners were on
strike. He said Thatcher’s death was an opportunity for the
party to unify.  “It reminded Conservatives that we are a family of people
with different strands, but we’ve got far more in common with
each other than anyone else outside our party,” he said. “As
individual Conservatives, we should look within ourselves to
make sure we have the grit and the purpose and the clarity of
what we want to achieve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  