-- Australia Sees Wider Deficit as High Currency Hits Revenue
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-04-22T00:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/australia-sees-wider-deficit-as-currency-hits-revenue-swan-says.html
Australia  has lost A$7.5 billion
($7.7 billion) in revenue since the October mid-year budget
review due to its strong currency and lower terms of trade,
worsening its budget position, Treasurer Wayne Swan said.  “We’ve been hit in Australia with a high dollar, lower
terms of trade, which has had a dramatic impact upon the
profitability of companies and prices more generally in the
economy,” Swan said in an interview on the Australian
Broadcasting Corp.’s ‘Insiders’ program yesterday. That’s caused
“a sledgehammer to revenues in the budget since the mid-year
update of something like A$7.5 billion.”  Prime Minister Julia Gillard, whose ruling Labor party is
trailing the Liberal-National coalition in opinion polls ahead
of Sept. 14 national elections, has pledged to restrain spending
before the May 14 release of the annual budget. Australia faces
years of deficits due to tax shortfalls and declining prices for
resources, an independent think tank said today.  “Turning these problems around is an alarming task but not
impossible,” Grattan Institute Chief Executive John Daley said
in the report. “It will require tougher choices than those
governments have made over the last decade. Even in good times
it is hard for governments to run a surplus.”  Australia’s state and federal governments may post combined
deficits in the next decade of about 4 percent of gross domestic
product, or about A$60 billion a year, the report said. Extra
spending on health is the biggest cost, it said.  Three Speeds  Mining regions in Australia’s north and west are thriving
on Chinese demand while manufacturers and retailers in the south
and east struggle under the strength of the local currency.
Australia’s economy is now moving at three different speeds, a
separate report released today said.  “Increasingly Australia’s state and territories appear to
be breaking into three distinct groups,”  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  said in its “State of the States” report today
authored by economists including Craig James. “The key mining
economies of Western Australia and the Northern Territory are
performing strongly and are firmly fixed at the top of the
economic leader-board.”  The Australian Capital Territory, New South  Wales , Victoria
and Queensland are in the mid-tier, with each having
“particular strengths but also areas where it could be
performing better.”  “For the bottom grouping of states -- Tasmania and South
Australia -- joint action by the federal government and the
individual state governments will probably be necessary to lift
economic momentum and overall performance,” the report said.  Difficult Choices  A “dramatic” writedown in state revenue means the
government will have to make “some very difficult choices,”
Swan said yesterday in his weekly economic note, without being
specific.  The budget deficit was A$23.6 billion for the first eight
months of the financial year, already A$5.7 billion wider than
earlier projected, primarily due to reduced tax revenue and
higher personal benefit payments, according to Treasury figures
released on April 12.  In its October  mid-year  review, the government forecast a
budget surplus of A$1.08 billion in the 12 months ending June
30. It recorded a A$44 billion deficit last fiscal year. It had
forecast a deficit of A$17.9 billion for the fiscal year’s first
eight months.  Strong Currency  A strong currency has hurt earnings for industries such as
manufacturing, while an easing of commodity prices lowered the
gains from exports and the nation’s terms of trade. The so-
called Aussie dollar, the world’s fifth most-traded currency,
has appreciated more than 70 percent against its U.S.
counterpart since late October 2008.  “Of course the impact won’t just be in this financial
year, it will also be across the forward estimates,” Swan said
in the ABC interview. “This is one of the reasons why I made
the point at the end of last year that we were unlikely to
return to surplus in 2012-13 because of this hit.”  Gillard this month unveiled a plan to boost education
spending by A$14.5 billion over six years in what she called the
biggest overhaul of school funding in 40 years. Earlier in
April, Swan announced plans to curb tax concessions for wealthy
Australians saving for retirement, seeking spending cuts of
about A$900 million over four years.  Gillard’s minority Labor government narrowed the gap
against the Liberal-National coalition, led by opposition leader
Tony Abbott, in an opinion poll released April 9. Labor rose 3
percentage points to 45 percent on a two-party preferred basis,
while the opposition fell 3 points to 55 percent, according to a
Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper April 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  