-- Austerity on Trial With U.S. Versus Europe Amid New Evidence
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y ,   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-21T23:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/austerity-on-trial-with-u-s-versus-europe-amid-new-evidence.html
Global policy makers and economists
are staging a retrial of austerity as new evidence arises.  Facing another slowdown in the world economy, the U.S. and
 International Monetary Fund  are pitched against the euro area
and U.K. over whether axing budgets and debt is the recipe for
recovery or recession. In academia, professors  Kenneth Rogoff 
and  Paul Krugman  remain at odds.  The dispute, which led to finger-pointing and a fight over
setting new debt targets at weekend talks of finance chiefs in
 Washington , is getting a re-airing as economic data from the
U.S. to  Europe  undershoot estimates. Research co-written by
Rogoff that has been used to justify cuts has come under
scrutiny.  “Delaying necessary adjustments would further aggravate
risks for the prospects of a lasting and fundamentally sound
global recovery,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
told the fund’s 188 member nations. IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  told Bloomberg Television that “for some of
them there’s no reason to rush into up-front, heavily loaded
fiscal consolidation.”  Data this week from U.S. durable goods purchases to the
strength of European manufacturing may show the pain of tighter
fiscal policy as recession-hit European governments keep cutting
to defeat their debt woes and the U.S. deploys across-the-board
federal spending cuts, called sequestration. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index is up more than 9 percent this year, while the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index is down more than 2 percent.  ‘Weak’ Growth  Agreeing that “much more is needed” to reinforce what
they called a “weak” world economy, Group of 20 finance
ministers and central bankers still proved unable to bridge
ideological differences over budgets. A discussion over debt
targets ended with a promise to revisit how to replace 2010
goals most failed to meet before scrapping last year.  A U.S. Treasury official, speaking to reporters after the
meeting, said that the U.S. wanted to avoid hard targets and
convinced participants to keep the focus on addressing issues
such as unemployment in parts of Europe rather than setting
fiscal benchmarks.  Still suffering from more than three years of debt turmoil,
the Europeans defended their push to rein in fiscal positions,
arguing that even with 19 million unemployed it would eventually
prove the best route to recovery and that they were showing
greater flexibility than realized.  Germany’s Push  Schaeuble used the meeting to promote “growth friendly”
deficit-reduction policies he’s pursued at home. His boss,
 Chancellor Angela Merkel , last week said “we always talk about
austerity -- that’s the new word that’s often used -- but forget
that we never talk about the fact that we have to pay back
debt.”  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  told Bloomberg Television in Washington that the
region “will have to continue fiscal consolidation because the
debt levels have increased significantly.” Other measures were
focused on lifting growth and job creation, he said.  Even as  Fitch Ratings  cited the U.K.’s fiscal outlook in
stripping it of its top credit grade, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  similarly rejected pleas from the IMF
to ease up. “We are demonstrating credibility and
flexibility,” he said ahead of data predicted to show his
economy just skirted a triple-dip recession.  Finding Balance  The counter argument, as presented by the IMF in a reversal
from its austerity prescriptions of the 1990s, is economies
should be wary of cutting back too fast for fear it will
backfire in even weaker economic growth and higher debts.  “It’s a question of how much and how quickly,” Lagarde
said.  That view is shared by U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew. Making his G-20 debut, he said stronger European demand is
“critical to global growth” and signaled countries with trade
surpluses such as Germany should do more to ease “austerity
fatigue” elsewhere.  In the case of the U.S., it is committed to “bringing our
deficits down to a sustainable level while building a foundation
to promote economic growth,” Lew said.  European officials found fault in the U.S.’s approach.
European Investment Bank President Werner Hoyer said the
“inability to arrive at decisions and reforms is much worse in
America than it is in Europe.” Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said the fiscal deficits of the U.S. and Japan are “a
source of concern and uncertainty.”  Debt Figures  The divide may be narrower than the rhetoric suggests. The
IMF has pushed cash-strapped countries in Europe’s periphery to
make deep fiscal cuts. Estimates it released last week also
showed spending restraint is slowing in Europe and speeding up
in the U.S.  The Washington-based lender estimates the U.S.’s fiscal
deficit will fall two percentage points to 6.5 percent of gross
domestic product this year. By contrast, the euro-area’s deficit
will shrink by 0.7 percentage point to 2.9 percent.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the
euro-area finance ministers group, said there is a
“misunderstanding” that Europe is “only fixated on
austerity.” Rather, it “can and will” adjust the speed of
deficit reduction, he said, noting as an example that Portugal
may get longer to meet its bailout terms.  Austerity Fatigue  French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  went further,
saying on Bloomberg Television that “it would not be reasonable
to go further into austerity” and “people cannot stand it
anymore.”  As for the U.S., the IMF still wants it to better outline
how to taper its debt trajectory. Its sequestration is also
creating the “opposite of optimal” policy because the country
lacks both the short-term fillip and medium-term retrenchment it
needs, said  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder of Roubini Global
Economics LLC in New York.  The austerity debate is restarting in academia, too. On one
side, economists such as  Harvard University ’s Rogoff and  Carmen Reinhart  have long warned outsized debt can brake growth. On
the other, Nobel laureate Krugman and former U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Lawrence Summers  are among those saying tackling many
fiscal holes can be delayed until economies are stronger and the
immediate focus should be on expansion.  Research Rebutted  Fresh tension was injected last week after economists at
the  University of Massachusetts  at Amherst published a study
critiquing a 2010 paper written by Reinhart and Rogoff which
highlighted an association between measurably slower economic
growth and public debt beyond 90 percent of GDP. Both Rehn and
Osborne have cited the research to justify their strategies.  While Reinhart and Rogoff acknowledged inadvertently
leaving some data out of their calculations, they said it didn’t
change the basic findings. Krugman used his April 19 New York
Times column to say the episode shows “the extent to which
austerity has been sold on false pretenses.”  “Everyone feels the austerity die is cast,” said  Adam Posen , president of the Peterson Institute for International
Economics and a former U.K. central banker. “I don’t see the
differences changing much.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Washington at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  