-- Law Firm Quits Political Intelligence Work After Senator’s Query
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-04-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/law-firm-quits-political-intelligence-work-after-senator-s-query.html
The  law firm  being questioned by a
U.S. senator over whether one of its lobbyists obtained and
shared confidential government information on Medicare rates
will no longer work with so-called political intelligence firms.  Greenberg Traurig  LLP has “concluded that providing
government relations services to an entity in the ‘political
intelligence’ area may lead to misunderstanding and unintended
use of those services, even when compliant with legal and
ethical standards,” Jill Perry, a firm spokeswoman, wrote in an
e-mail. “We will not represent such firms in the future.”  Mark Hayes, a Greenberg Traurig lobbyist, discussed the
possibility of a rate change in an April 1 e-mail sent to Height
Analytics LLC, a Washington-based investor firm that provides
analysis and information about government decisions, a business
known as political intelligence. In turn, Height advised its
clients in a memo that helped boost insurer stocks 45 minutes
prior to the official Medicare announcement.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, is probing
whether government information was leaked. Last week both the
health insurer  Humana Inc. (HUM)  and Height said they were cutting
ties with Greenberg Traurig after Grassley announced he was
reviewing the situation.  According to an e-mail review by Bloomberg, Hayes told
Height that “very credible sources” had said the government
would reduce a payment cut for Medicare Advantage plans like
Humana’s. Grassley has pushed for a law that would require those
who seek profitable tidbits of information to register with the
government.  Height Response  Height has said it did nothing wrong. “Our report was
based on careful and close analysis of the facts, and was solid,
sound research in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations,” Andrew Parmentier, Height’s managing partner,
said in an April 17 statement to the firm’s clients. “Our
analyst made an independent call based on multiple data points
and he was correct on the big issue.”  Greenberg Traurig said it, too, hadn’t found evidence of
any illegal activity.  “The firm and its shareholders had no financial connection
with Height’s activities and Height has acknowledged using a
variety of sources before issuing its alert,” Perry wrote. “We
have found no information that any of our shareholders had
access to any material confidential government information.”  Medicare Advantage Plans  Medicare Advantage plans are those offered by private
insurers with different benefits and costs than the traditional
Medicare health coverage for the elderly and disabled. The
government sets the rates the insurers are paid.  WellCare Health Plans Inc. (WCG) , another Medicare insurer, also
employs Greenberg Traurig. The Tampa, Florida-based carrier is
“following Senator Grassley’s review of Greenberg Traurig
closely, and we are evaluating potential next steps regarding
our future relationship with the firm,” Jack Maurer, a
spokesman, said in an e-mail last week.  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which
oversees the insurance program, has also said it’s reviewing the
situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  