-- Baht Flashes Sell Signal as Prasarn Sees Froth: Market Reversal
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-04-22T07:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/baht-flashes-sell-signal-as-prasarn-sees-froth-market-reversal.html
At least three trading patterns
show  Thailand ’s baht, this year’s best-performing Asian currency,
is poised to fall as policy makers step up warnings that its
rally to a 16-year high is stretched.  The baht’s 2 percent advance this month pushed the 14-day
relative strength indicator to 28, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Iceland’s krona is the only one of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg to have a lower reading and a
level below 30 typically signals a reversal may occur. Trading
envelope and stochastics oscillator indicators also suggest the
baht’s rise has gone too far.  Central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul told reporters
in Bangkok on April 19 that the baht’s advance has started to
move beyond fundamentals, 10 days after he said the rally was
“too fast.” Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan told
reporters today it rose “too much and too quickly.” Finance
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong reiterated his call last week for
the central bank to cut  interest rates  to deter inflows to the
country’s bond market.  “The baht has overshot my expectations,”  Sacha Tihanyi , a
Hong Kong-based senior foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of
 Nova Scotia , which was the second most-accurate forecaster for
Asian currencies over the past year, said in an interview on
April 19. “Should this trend continue unabated, Thai policy
makers will eventually act to take some of the steam out.”  The currency strengthened 1.3 percent last week to 28.67
per dollar, the biggest gain in three months, on speculation the
 Bank of Japan (8301) ’s bond purchases will prompt Japanese pension
funds and insurance companies to turn to  emerging markets  for
higher returns. It touched 28.56 today and on April 19, the
strongest level since a devaluation during the Asian financial
crisis in 1997, and dropped 0.1 percent to 28.71 as of 2:25 p.m.
in Bangkok.  Forecast Weakening  Tihanyi forecasts the baht will slip to 30.4 per dollar
this quarter. The median forecast of 24 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the baht to fall 1 percent to 29 by year-end.
Westpac Banking Corp., the most-accurate forecaster for Asian
currencies over the past four quarters based on Bloomberg data,
predicts the baht will end 2013 at 28.9.  The baht’s 6.5 percent appreciation in 2013 may cause the
government to miss its export growth target of 8 percent to 9
percent this year, Kittiratt said on April 18. Overseas
shipments fell 5.8 percent in February from a year earlier, the
first decline since August, government data showed March 28, and
the Bank of Thailand on April 12 lowered its 2013 export growth
forecast to 7.5 percent from 9 percent.  While ruling out imposing capital restrictions, Prasarn
told reporters on April 9 that the central bank stands ready to
intervene should the currency move against fundamentals.  Prasarn’s comments may “signal policy actions on the way
soon,” analysts at Credit Suisse AG led by  Ray Farris  wrote in
a note on April 19. “FX intervention is probably most likely as
Bank of Thailand has continued to rule out  capital controls .”  Policy Rift  The currency rally is creating a rift between policy makers
as Kittiratt blamed the central bank for holding off on
interest-rate cuts to attract foreign capital. Prasarn has kept
the  benchmark rate  at 2.75 percent since October, the lowest
since April 2011 and compared with a record low of 1.25 percent
set in 2009.  Japan ’s key rate is at 0.1 percent.  Central bankers said in a statement on April 3 after
keeping the rate unchanged for a fourth meeting that they are
ready to adjust policy if needed and are still concerned about
credit growth.  Global funds  bought  a net $2 billion of Thai government
debt this month, taking this year’s purchases to $12 billion,
compared with $31 billion for 2012 as a whole, Thai Bond Market
Association data show. Japanese money managers boosted ownership
of baht-denominated notes by 26 percent in the first quarter to
24.4 billion yen ($244 million), data from the Investment Trusts
Association of Japan show.  ‘Be Careful’  If foreign capital “comes for investment in the real
sector, that’s good,” Kittiratt told reporters in Bangkok on
April 19. “But if it comes to seek short-term benefit in bonds,
we have to be careful.”  Technical indicators watched by traders suggest the baht
move is becoming too extreme.  Trading envelopes show the currency increase over the past
20 days has strayed from its average by more than two standard
deviations, which typically occurs about 5 percent of the time.
When such a pattern last happened for more than three days, in
the period ended March 21, the baht lost 0.8 percent in eight
days.  Stochastics, which measure the price of a security relative
to its highs and lows during a particular period, has fallen
below 30, a territory regarded as showing the baht is overbought.
Stochastics is a technical analysis tool based on momentum
measures often used to identify whether a security’s price is
overbought or oversold.  ‘Correction Phase’  “We are starting to see momentum divergence coming to play
here,”  Niall O’Connor , a technical analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview on April 19. “A
correction phase could develop.”  Technical analysis, popularized by Charles Dow, creator of
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  in 1896, is based on the theory
that a chart of the price of financial assets contains clues
about future movements as history tends to repeat itself.  The Bank of Thailand raised its 2013 economic growth
forecast to 5.1 percent on April 12 from a January prediction of
4.9 percent. The outlook remains slower than last year’s 6.4
percent expansion.  Higher Volatility  “At this moment, demand for the baht has been strong on
the anticipated Japan-led growth and real money flows,” Wee- Khoon Chong, a strategist in  Hong Kong  at Societe Generale SA,
said in an interview on April 19. “The baht appreciation will
reverse at some point as it will hurt some part of the
economy.”  Traders are expecting wider currency swings. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, climbed to 5.39 percent on April 9,
the highest since August, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge rose six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, today to 5.35 percent.  Thailand’s policy makers “will be concerned with the
market being overly skewed in its thinking that the baht is a
one-way bet,” said Scotia’s Tihanyi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  