-- Bernanke to Miss Jackson Hole Symposium on Schedule Conflict
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-21T19:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/bernanke-to-miss-jackson-hole-conference-with-schedule-conflict.html
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will not attend the central bank’s marquee conference
in Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , this year because of a personal
scheduling conflict, a Fed spokeswoman said.  The 59-year-old Bernanke, whose term as head of the central
bank expires in January, has been the keynote speaker every year
since becoming chairman in 2006. The spokeswoman, who asked not
to be identified by name, declined to say whether Bernanke would
address the conference by video or whether Vice Chairman Janet Yellen would speak.  The last three years, Bernanke’s speeches at Jackson Hole
have been closely watched by investors for signs of changes in
policy. This year’s conference has been tentatively set for the
second half of August.  “Many a policy shift has been signaled by the Chairman’s
speech at Jackson Hole, dating back to the Greenspan era,” said
Diane Swonk, chief economist for Mesirow Financial Inc. who has
attended conferences featuring both Bernanke and his predecessor,
Alan Greenspan. “This has made the conference the media and
market mover it has become.”  Signal Seen  In 2010, Bernanke’s remarks were seen as a signal that the
central bank would start a second round of large-scale asset
purchases, or quantitative easing. The purchases began in
November of that year.  In 2011 the central bank embarked on a program to extend
the maturities of assets on its balance sheet, known as
Operation Twist, a month after Jackson Hole. Last year, Bernanke
told the conference that “the costs of nontraditional policies,
when considered carefully, appear manageable, implying that we
should not rule out the further use of such policies if economic
conditions warrant.”  The Fed began QE3, consisting of $40 billion in monthly
mortgage bond purchases, the month after Bernanke spoke. In
December, the Fed added $45 billion a month of Treasuries,
bringing the total size of the program to $85 billion a month.  His absence this year was first reported by Reuters.  Even without Bernanke, “the content of the conference is
always critical given the mix of attendees and speakers,
especially internationally,” Swonk said.  Regional Presidents  Last year’s event attracted 10 of the 12 regional Federal
Reserve Bank Presidents and Yellen. A paper by Columbia
University’s Michael Woodford foreshadowed the Fed’s decision to
make its interest-rate policy contingent on economic conditions.  At the time, the Fed pledged to keep its main interest rate
near zero until a certain date. Woodford said that approach
could inadvertently “reflect pessimism about the speed of the
economy’s recovery.”  “A more useful form of forward guidance, I believe, would
be one that emphasizes the target criterion that will be used to
determine when it is appropriate to raise the federal funds rate
target above its current level, rather than estimates of the
‘lift-off’ date.”  In December, the Fed followed Woodford’s advice, and
announced it would hold the rate near zero until unemployment
fell to 6.5 percent so long as the outlook for inflation did not
climb above 2.5 percent.  The Kansas City Fed’s annual economics symposium was first
moved to Wyoming in 1982 to lure then-Fed Chairman Paul Volcker,
an avid fly fisherman, according to “In Late August,” a
history of the event published by the Kansas City Fed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  