-- Blackstone’s Schwarzman Says China’s Growth Still Rapid for Size
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-21T11:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/blackstone-s-schwarzman-says-china-s-growth-still-rapid-for-size.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Stephen Schwarzman comments on the pace
of growth in  China  and Japan’s steps to stimulate its economy.  Schwarzman spoke in an interview today in Beijing, where he
announced a $100 million donation to set up a Rhodes
Scholarships-like program at Tsinghua University.  On China’s economic growth:  “I think slowing growth in China from a 10 percent level
should not be a surprise, as a country gets bigger it would
become harder to grow at the same very rapid rates as when it
was smaller. I don’t view that as anything unexpected or
unusual. It’s still growing at an extremely rapid growth rate
for a country of its size.”  “I think the first-quarter growth was slightly lower than
what some people expected. I think the faster China grows the
more global growth goes up just because it is the second largest
economy in the world, also because it is the largest consumer of
commodities in the world. So a few tenth of a percent of  growth 
frankly is not really particularly material. I think there is
probably too much emphasis that was placed on 7.7 percent
instead of 7.9. I think you have to step back and have some
perspective of that.”  On transforming China’s economy:  “The Chinese have had pretty remarkable economic growth, a
lot of it is based on infrastructure, growth in housing and
lower than what one might hope for in consumer areas. Chinese
have high level of savings for good reasons. They have to
basically take care of their own retirement and health care but
I think the future will be better served with a more robust
consumer economy and less reliance on infrastructure simply
because it’s more self sustaining. So that would be something
that typically would happen with a country at this stage of
development.”  On  Japan  and the yen:  “Japan’s basically been stuck in a virtually no growth
economy since the 1990s and that’s over 20 years. They are
embarking on a dramatically different approach. I just happened
to have met a lot of people from Japan recently and they are
extremely excited about their own economic prospects as a result
of the changed monetary policy, so on the one hand there are
financial consequences to increasing money in circulation by the
very substantial amount that they are discussing.”  “On the other hand, that announced change had seemed to
capture the imagination of the Japanese people which represents
a major change in attitude which may amplify the success of that
program. There’s no doubt that should result in an increasingly
weak yen but that’s what they want to do.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  