-- Blackstone Chief Starts $300 Million China Scholarship
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-21T19:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/blackstone-s-schwarzman-gives-100-million-for-china-scholarship.html
Stephen Schwarzman , the billionaire
chairman of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , is setting up a $300 million
scholarship for foreign students to attend China’s Tsinghua
University, the alma mater of senior officials including
President Xi Jinping.  Schwarzman, 66, is giving $100 million of his personal
wealth to the Schwarzman Scholars program, which will enroll
students from the U.S. as well as Europe, South Korea, Japan,
India and other nations, according to a statement today. The
program is seeking to raise an additional $200 million and has
commitments for half that amount from sponsors including Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, Boeing Co., Caterpillar Inc. and General
Electric Co.  Schwarzman said he was endowing the program to spur a
greater comprehension of China by the U.S. and other Western
nations, modeling it on a program established in 1902 by Cecil
J. Rhodes at the University of Oxford to facilitate a better
understanding between the U.S. and Europe.  China’s economy  has
grown more than fourfold in the past decade, overtaking Japan as
the world’s second-largest economy and becoming the No. 2
trading partner for the U.S. As economic ties have grown, so
have tensions over human rights, hacking and access for U.S.
companies to China’s market.  ‘Frog’s Eye’  “The American people, as the Chinese proverb goes, are at
risk of having a ‘frog’s eye view of the world’ -- the isolated
perspective of the frog at the bottom of the well,” Schwarzman
said at a ceremony in Beijing announcing the donation. People in
the U.S. know “next to nothing” about China, he told reporters
at a separate briefing.  China is second only to Canada among the biggest U.S.
trading partners, with two-way trade last year reaching $536.2
billion, and the deficit on the U.S. side at $315 billion in
2012, more than any other nation.  While the communist nation had average economic growth of
10.6% in the 10 years through 2011 and 7.8% last year, it
continues to restrict U.S. producers of autos, steel and beef
from gaining access to its markets.  “Some serious problems remain, such as China’s refusal to
grant trading rights for certain industries,” according to the
U.S. Trade Representative’s annual report to Congress on trade
barriers released on April 1.  Cyber Attacks  U.S. President  Barack Obama  told the Chinese president in a
telephone conversation on the day Xi took office last month that
cybersecurity would be a key part of talks between the two
nations. The U.S. has sought to bolster protection of corporate
networks after security firms including Mandiant Corp. traced
attacks against U.S. companies to Chinese sources.  Cyber attacks moved past terrorism to take the top place in
the U.S. intelligence community’s annual list of global threats,
according to a report presented to the Senate Intelligence
Committee last month.  China has said it opposes hacking and that it is a victim
of cyber attacks. Premier  Li Keqiang  said last month at his
first press briefing after taking office that the U.S. should
stop making “groundless accusations.”  The advisory board for the Schwarzman program includes
former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy , ex-U.K. Prime Minister
 Tony Blair  and three former U.S. Secretaries of State,  Henry Kissinger ,  Colin Powell  and  Condoleezza Rice .  Li Daokui , a
former academic adviser to China’s central bank, will oversee
the program.  China Investments  “The rise of China presents both opportunities and
challenges,” Rice said in the statement. “The future of our
countries is intertwined both economically and politically.
There is no better way than through the development of the next
generation of leaders to ensure mutual respect and understanding
going forward.”  Schwarzman, who ranks 163rd on the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index  with an estimated net worth of $7.3 billion, founded
Blackstone, the world’s largest private-equity firm, in 1985
with  Peter G. Peterson . China Investment Corp., the country’s
sovereign wealth fund, paid $3 billion for a 9.4 percent stake
in Blackstone at the time of the company’s initial public
offering in June 2007.  Blackstone, based in New York, opened an office in  Hong
Kong  in 2006 and has since expanded to Beijing and Shanghai as
private-equity firms seek to take advantage of the country’s
rapid growth. In 2009, Blackstone became the first global
private-equity firm to set up a domestic buyout fund in China,
followed by  Carlyle Group  and TPG Inc.  Boeing, BP  Yet making deals for foreign investors has been difficult
amid competition from local funds. The value of China’s private-
equity deals fell 27 percent to $21.9 billion in 2012, the
biggest drop ever. Blackstone investments in the country have
been focused on the property sector since the start of 2011.  Other sponsors of the scholarship are also seeking to boost
business in China. Boeing expects to increase its deliveries to
China by 60 percent this year, the head of its operations in the
country told the  China Daily  earlier this year. More than 120
aircraft will be delivered to the country’s airlines this year,
with single-aisle planes such as the 737 the most popular type,
Marc Allen, president of Boeing China, was cited as saying.  “Collaboration is a bridge that enables the United States
and China to grow and prosper together,” Jim McNerney, Boeing’s
chief executive officer, said in today’s statement. “Boeing
supports the Schwarzman Scholars program because it will help
develop future leaders with global sensibilities and further
strengthen the ties between our two countries.”  Master’s Program  BP Plc (BP/)  will contribute $25 million to the program, which
will see the U.K.’s biggest energy company support 14 fellows a
year, it said today in a separate statement.  BP hopes the program will foster “greater understanding
and more meaningful dialogue between China and the world,”  Iain Conn , managing director of London-based BP and a member of the
program’s advisory board, said in the statement.  The program will support 200 students annually for a one-
year master’s program at Tsinghua in Beijing. A residential
building designed specifically for the scholarship recipients
will be built, with the first group of students slated for 2016,
according to the statement.  Former Chinese central bank adviser Li said the program’s
curriculum would include taking students to “far-flung” areas
and the countryside to learn about the real-life experiences and
thinking of average Chinese people.  Other donors to Tsinghua have included Asia’s richest man,
 Li Ka-shing . John L. Thornton, who retired as president and co-
chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 2003,
provided money for the  Brookings Institution ’s  John L. Thornton
China Center , which has its headquarters in Washington and an
office at Tsinghua.  The Rhodes Scholarships selects 32 Americans each year to
study at Oxford. The first American Rhodes Scholars entered the
English university in 1904, according to the program’s  website .  Blackstone co-founder Peterson started his own
foundation in 2008 with $1 billion to address U.S.
environmental, economic and social problems.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Liu at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  