-- Boston Bombing Hinders Spanish Cooker Maker’s Cash Quest
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-22T15:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/boston-bombing-hinders-spanish-cooker-maker-s-cash-quest.html
The  Boston  Marathon bombing that
killed three people and injured more than 170 may also have
unintended consequences for a Spanish company more than 3,000
miles away.  Fagor Group, which manufactured at least one of the
pressure cookers used to house the bombs, is contending with the
publicity just as it seeks financing, said a person with
knowledge of the company’s situation. Fagor needs about 60
million euros ($78 million) immediately to pay down debt and is
struggling because of Spain’s credit crisis, the person said,
declining to be identified because the negotiations are private.  Based in the town of Mondragon in Spain’s Basque 
region, Fagor sells about 200,000 cookers a year in the U.S.,
with a market share of about 40 percent, according to Elena
Goirizelaia, a spokeswoman for the company’s domestic appliances
unit. Of those, some 50,000 had the same six-liter capacity as
the ones used to make the bombs. The average Fagor cooker costs
about $140.  Investigators on April 18 identified Fagor as the brand of
at least one of the pressure cookers used to hold the
explosives. Both bombs may have been made using pressure cookers
packed with explosives and nails, pellets and other shrapnel to
maim victims, they said.  Brand Reputation  The fact that the bombs were made with Fagor cookers
shouldn’t affect the reputation of the brand “even though
nobody really wants to get involved in anything negative like
that,” according to Victor Conde, a professor of marketing at
Nebrija University in  Madrid .  The suspects -- Tamerlan Tsarnaev, 26, and Dzhokar Tsarnaev, 19 -- are brothers accused of an attack that
transformed America’s most storied road-running race into a
tableau of mayhem and confusion, planting two bombs that
exploded about 10 seconds apart near the finish line of the
Boston Marathon April 15.  Fagor America Inc., the company’s U.S. unit based in
Lyndhurst,  New Jersey , said in an e-mailed statement last week
that it had been contacted by investigators and is cooperating.  “All personnel in Fagor America Inc. are deeply saddened
by tragic events in Boston and share in the suffering of the
victims and their families,” the unit said in the statement.
The company “looks forward to learning about the results of the
investigation once it is complete and made public by the
investigators.”  Logical Coincidence  Given the company’s market share in the U.S., it’s a
logical coincidence that the pressure cookers were made by
Fagor, a company spokesman said.  A search on Wikipedia for Fagor already shows the company’s
link to the Boston bombings. Under “History,” the internet
encyclopedia references the role of Fagor cookers in the attack.  Fagor’s quest for funds has been complicated by the
restrictions on lending by  Spain ’s regional savings banks and so
the company is negotiating with local and central governments
for the loan, the person familiar said. The regional government
leader, Inigo Urkullu, is concerned about the company’s longer-
term future even if it obtains the 60 million euros because of
its importance to the local economy, the person said.  Sales Slump  In Spain, the market for domestic appliances has shrunk by
more than 50 percent since the debt crisis started in 2008 and
earnings are expected to drop this year, spokeswoman Goirizelaia
said, as the country struggles with record unemployment.  Fagor is owned by Mondragon Corporation, a privately held
Spanish cooperative company also based in the Basque country
region that has interests in finance and industry as well as
retail and education. Fagor’s domestic appliances division
employs more than 12,000 people, or about 14 percent of the
corporation’s total staff.  In total, Fagor makes more than 7 million electrical
appliances a year, with plants in Spain,  France ,  Italy ,  Poland ,
 Morocco  and  China , according to its website. Fagor appliances
had annual revenue of about 1.28 billion euros in 2011, which
compares with 14.8 billion euros for the whole corporation.  Founded in 1956, Mondragon is mulling whether or not it
will change its corporate structure in order to attract
investors and is considering selling between 20 percent and 30
percent, the person familiar said.  To contact the reporter on this story
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris in London 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  