-- Boston Says It’s Moving to Reopen Marathon Bombing Site
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2013-04-21T22:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/boston-says-it-s-moving-to-reopen-marathon-bombing-site.html
City officials told Boston
residents and business owners still locked out of their homes
and shops near the site of the Marathon bombing last week that
they’re working to reopen the crime-scene area on Boylston
Street within a few days.  “We’re hoping to give this community back to its people as
quickly as possible” once the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
finishes gathering evidence, Police Commissioner Edward Davis
said at a press conference today with Mayor Thomas Menino and
other members of the administration.  Officials outlined a five-step plan, including cleanup of
biological matter such as blood from the victims; assessment of
the buildings for structural damage sustained in the bombings;
and debris removal, according to John Guilfoil, a spokesman for
Menino. The 12 city blocks originally cordoned off in the wake
of the violence had been collapsed to four blocks by midweek,
according to Boston police.  Insurance companies are being asked to speed claims
processing and banks are cooperating by establishing lines of
credit for those in need, according to Sheila Dillon, director
of neighborhood development. About one hundred local lawyers
have offered to provide pro bono legal work, she said.  Davis offered little new information on the status of the
evidence-gathering at the race’s finish, except to say that
agencies at the scene were cooperating.  “No turf issues, everything is being done properly with an
idea toward justice for the victims,” he said. “I’m confident
that they will put that bomb back together piece by piece.”  The closed Massachusetts Turnpike eastbound off-ramp into
the area could reopen in a few days, Guilfoil said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  