-- Carney Says Next Canada Rate Move Needs Above 2% Growth
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-04-21T15:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/carney-says-next-canada-rate-move-needs-above-2-growth.html
Bank of Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said the timing of interest-rate increases depends on growth
accelerating to more than 2 percent, inflation picking up and
households continuing to ease up on debt accumulation.  In an interview with Global TV, Carney said that while the
Bank of  Canada  hasn’t been explicit about how long the current
pause will last, it has outlined the factors that will influence
the timing of the next move. Canada’s central bank has kept its
 benchmark  borrowing costs at 1 percent since September 2010, the
longest unchanged period since the 1950s.  “First, the economy needs to grow above its so-called
potential rate of growth, so it needs to grow more than 2
percentage points,” Carney said in an interview on Global’s
“The West Block.” “Secondly, you need to see a continuation
of what is becoming a positive evolution of  household debt  and
aspects of the housing market.”  The central bank would also need to see “inflation picking
up a little bit before we would move,” Carney said.  “The next move will likely be a move up in Canada after we
start to establish those conditions for sustainable growth,”
Carney said, according to a transcript of the interview provided
by Global.  The interview was recorded after the bank published its
Monetary Policy Report, where Carney retained his bias to
tighten policy and reduced his growth forecast for this year to
1.5 percent from 2 percent.  The policy report is Carney’s last before he leaves the
bank June 1 to take over the  Bank of England  a month later.
Carney said the importance of the governor’s role at the British
central bank “gets overplayed.”  Committee Decisions  “The core decisions of the Bank of England are made by the
monetary policy committee for monetary policy, financial policy
committee for macro-credential issues,” Carney said. “The
institution is powerful, much more powerful than the
individual.”  Asked about  Europe ’s fiscal crisis, Carney said policy
makers “have to do a lot on the structural side in reforming
the financial system and fixing their finances and fixing their
banks over a number of years.”  Carney said he was “realistically optimistic that they
recognize the scale of the problem,” adding that European
authorities “certainly have the political will to address
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  