-- Graeme McDowell Wins PGA Tour’s Heritage in Playoff Over Simpson
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-04-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/mcdowell-beats-simpson-in-playoff-to-win-pga-tour-s-rbc-heritage.html
Graeme McDowell beat  Webb Simpson 
in a playoff at the RBC Heritage to win what he described as his
first authentic  PGA Tour  title, as his only previous win in the
U.S. came at the 2010  U.S. Open  when he wasn’t a member of
golf’s richest circuit.  McDowell, 33, overcame gusting winds and a four-shot final-
round deficit to get into the playoff at Harbour Town Golf Links
on Hilton Head Island,  South Carolina  yesterday. As McDowell
made par on the first extra hole, Simpson’s birdie putt from off
the green rolled seven feet (2.1 meters) past the cup after
being caught by a wind gust and he missed the par attempt.  “I needed the golf course to play difficult,” McDowell,
who received $1.04 million, said at a news conference. “If it
had been benign, four shots back, one of the two guys goes and
shoots 4- or 5-under par, and it’s all over. I needed the course
to play tough and I got that.”  McDowell, who started the final day four strokes behind
third-round leader  Charley Hoffman , shot a 2-under-par 69
yesterday that included his lone bogey at the 18th hole.
Simpson, the 2012 U.S. Open champion, shot a final-round 71 and
matched McDowell with a four-round total of 9-under par 275.  Simpson’s bogey in the playoff gave McDowell his first win
in a full-field event since the European Tour’s 2010 Andalucia
Valderrama Masters. He’d also won Tiger Woods’s year-ending
invitational event, the World Challenge, in 2010 and 2012.  “The U.S. Open was a special victory, but I wasn’t a PGA
Tour member,” Northern Ireland’s McDowell said. “This is my
first PGA Tour victory as member.”  Luke Donald  and Kevin Streelman tied for third at 7-under
par, one shot better than Jerry Kelly. Hoffman shot a final-
round 77 to tie for sixth place at 5-under.  The PGA Tour next heads to Avondale, Louisiana, for the
$6.6 million Zurich Classic of New Orleans, held April 25-28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  