-- Central Coast Beats Western Sydney to Win A-League Soccer Title
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-04-21T15:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/central-coast-beats-western-sydney-to-win-a-league-soccer-title.html
Central Coast Mariners beat Western
Sydney Wanderers 2-0 to win  Australia ’s A-League soccer
championship for the first time, preventing their opponents from
taking the title in their debut season.  Defender Patrick Zwaanswijk scored his first goal of the
campaign in the 43rd minute, while Daniel McBreen doubled the
lead with a 68th minute penalty in last night’s grand final,
which attracted a sellout crowd of 42,000 at the Sydney Football
Stadium. The Mariners had lost the championship match three
times before yesterday’s success.  “It’s fantastic,” Mariners coach Graham Arnold said in
televised interview. “We had to learn the hard way how to win a
grand final. A few boys have been scarred by grand finals. The
scar is now gone.”  Central Coast joins Sydney FC,  Melbourne  Victory, Brisbane
Roar and Newcastle Jets as  A-League champions  since the
competition replaced Australia’s debt-ridden National Soccer
League in 2005.  The Mariners, based in Gosford about 47 miles north of
Sydney, were beaten by Sydney FC in 2006 and Melbourne two years
later before losing a penalty shootout to Brisbane in 2011.  The Wanderers, who didn’t even have a name or home stadium
a year ago, won 18 of their 27 games to top the regular-season
standings ahead of Central Coast and beat defending champion
Brisbane in the semifinals to reach the title match.  “It’s been a crazy season for us,” Wanderers captain
Michael Beauchamp said at presentation ceremony. “I definitely
don’t think this one game defines our season. We gave it all
right up to the last minute.”  Team Colors  Funded by Football Federation Australia, the Wanderers were
put together in six months after the FFA revoked the A-League
license held by Gold Coast United’s billionaire owner  Clive Palmer  in February 2012. The governing body consulted
communities in western Sydney, Australia’s largest manufacturing
region, to help choose the club’s name, colors and culture.  Former Socceroos defender Tony Popovic was hired as the
inaugural coach in May and the team announced its first three
players the following month. Japanese playmaker Shinji Ono
signed in September, joining former World Cup-winning forward
Alessandro Del Piero of  Italy  and ex-England striker Emile Heskey as so-called marquee players at A-League clubs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  