-- Chechen Conflict Spawned Terrorism With Separatist Jihad
-- B y   K e n   F i r e m a n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-04-21T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/chechen-conflict-spawned-terrorism-with-separatist-jihad.html
The Northern Caucasus region of
Russia has become an incubator of Muslim extremism amid the
convulsions of a separatist conflict in Chechnya that killed
tens of thousands of people, turned hundreds of thousands into
refugees and sent embittered exiles across the globe.  Two ethnic Chechens -- one dead, the other in custody --
are suspects in the April 15  Boston Marathon bombings  that
killed three people and injured more than 170. Dzhokar Tsarnaev
was captured on April 19 after a day-long manhunt and a
confrontation with police in which his brother, Tamerlan, was
killed.  The family’s ancestral home is in Chechnya, and Tamerlan
visited relatives there in 2012 during a half-year stay in
Russia spent mostly in the neighboring republic of Dagestan, an
aunt, Patimat Suleimanova, told reporters. An uncle, Ruslan
Tsarni, also told reporters they were ethnic Chechens.  While Chechen separatists and their supporters have taken
credit for several terrorist attacks in recent years, none took
place outside the borders of Russia. An attack in the U.S. would
be a first, according to Christopher Swift, a professor of
national security studies at Georgetown University in  Washington 
who has studied the insurgency.  “That is a big deal,” Swift said in an April 19
interview. “They haven’t attacked U.S. targets before because
they’ve always been focused on Russia and gaining independence
from Russia. To the extent they’ve ever cared about the United
States, it’s been rhetorical and ideological, but never
operational. This would change that.”  Motivation Unclear  It isn’t yet clear what motivated the Tsarnaev brothers.
Tamerlan spent most of his six months in Dagestan reading the
Koran, according to his aunt, and the FBI said in a statement
that he was brought to its attention two years ago by a foreign
government concerned that he held extremist Islamic beliefs. A
U.S. law enforcement official identified the government as
 Russia .  Yet the FBI said it had found no evidence at that time of
Tamerlan engaging in terrorist activity, and his uncle said he
believed the brothers’ actions had “nothing to do with
Chechnya.” An Islamic rebel group based in the Northern
Caucasus denied any link to the Boston bombings and said its
fight was directed against Russia, not the U.S.  Alvi Karimov, a spokesman for Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov, said last week the brothers “weren’t born, raised,
taught or somehow shaped in the Chechen republic” and that the
roots of their actions were to be found “in the place they rose
and studied -- in the U.S.”  Conflict’s Origins  The Chechen conflict began almost two decades ago as an
attempt by the majority Muslim republic to break away from
Moscow’s control in the backwash of the Soviet Union’s collapse.
The rebellion veered in an Islamic-extremist direction when
Russian troops returned to Chechnya after a brief hiatus in
1999.  “It started as a Chechen nationalist movement, and as the
second Chechen war dragged on, it became a radical Salafist
movement,” said Swift, referring to an ultra-orthodox form of
Islam. “They were democratic Islamists at the beginning, but
the second Chechen War radicalized the rebel movement in
profound and disturbing ways. They came to adopt the ideology of
the global jihad movement.”  The originally secular movement shifted toward Islamic
radicalism when its leaders saw that as a path to support from
the Muslim world in the form of money and fighters, said Svante Cornell, a researcher at Johns Hopkins University’s School of
Advanced International Studies in Washington who has studied the
Caucasus and Central Asia.  ‘Be Cool’  “That some young Chechnyans who were initially motivated
by local concerns got sucked up in global issues that have
nothing to do with the original concerns makes a lot of sense,”
Cornell said in a phone interview. “You know how people who are
trying to be cool in the West wear a Che Guevara T-shirt? To be
cool in Chechnya, you wear a Bin Laden T-shirt.”  The conflict began in December 1994 when Russian army
forces entered the republic to suppress a bid by its political
leaders for independence. After an uneasy truce from 1996 to
1999, it flared again when then-Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
ordered Russian troops back into Chechnya following a string of
bombings in Russian cities that Putin attributed to Chechens.  Estimates of those killed and exiled in the conflict have
varied widely. A 2010  background report  on Chechnya by the
Council on Foreign Relations concluded that “tens of thousands
of Chechens and Russians were killed or wounded in the two wars,
and hundreds of thousands of civilians were displaced.”  Capital Destroyed  The Chechen capital of Grozny was devastated by fighting in
1994-95 and again in the conflict that started in 1999. Russian
forces seeking to dislodge separatists from the city in 1995
used long-range bombing and shelling to attack rebel
strongholds, often leveling surrounding structures as residents
cowered in basements.  The U.S. government has accepted the principle of Russian
sovereignty over Chechnya and the rest of the Northern Caucasus
while criticizing what it says are human rights abuses committed
by Russia and its local partners in suppressing the separatists.  In its annual human rights report for 2012, issued last
week, for example, the State Department said cited reports from
Russian human rights groups that security forces in both
Chechnya and Dagestan were guilty of abducting suspected rebels,
using indiscriminate force to detain people and torturing those
arrested.  Rebel Switched  The republic has been relatively quiescent in recent years
after Kadyrov, once a rebel, switched sides and brutally
asserted control over Chechnya with Russian support. Kadyrov’s
father, Akhmad, who was assassinated in 2004, began the process
of pacifying Chechnya.  At the same time, some separatists turned to terrorism. An
attack by militants on a school in Beslan, North Ossetia,
another republic in the Northern Caucasus, in September 2004
left 350 people dead, half of them children.  Chechen insurgents also carried out an attack on Moscow’s
Dubrovka Theater in October 2002, a hostage-taking that resulted
in 130 fatalities when Russian forces attempted a rescue
operation.  A suicide bombing at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport, the
busiest air hub in Russia, killed at least 37 people in January
2011. A year earlier, twin suicide subway bombings during the
morning rush hour in the Moscow subway killed 40 people.  Chechen militant leader Doku Umarov claimed responsibility
for both the Domodedovo attack and the subway bombings. Russian
authorities have linked Umarov to a foiled plot to attack the
Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics, which they say they uncovered last
year.  Putin, who was elected president of Russia in 2000 in part
on the popularity he gained from unleashing the second Chechen
war, vowed last year to combat Islamic extremists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ken Fireman in Washington at   kfireman1@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli in Washington at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  