-- Cruise’s ‘Oblivion’ Is No. 1 With $38 Million in Sales
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-04-22T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/cruise-s-oblivion-opens-as-top-movie-with-38-million-in-sales.html
“Oblivion,” the Tom Cruise
science-fiction tale, opened as the top weekend movie at
theaters in the U.S. and  Canada , taking in $38.2 million for
distributor Universal Pictures.  The Jackie Robinson biography “42” dropped to second
place with sales of $18 million for Legendary Pictures and
distributor Warner Bros., researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “Oblivion,” about human survival after the Earth has been
devastated by war, was the only movie to open in wide release.
The pace will quicken next month when studios begin releasing
major summer productions, including  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “Iron Man
3,” Paramount Pictures’ “Star Trek Into Darkness” and Warner
Bros.’ “The Hangover Part III.”  The studio expects “Oblivion” to have “a strong
international showing, as Cruise remains very popular in the
international market,” said Paul Sweeney, a Bloomberg
Industries analyst, in a telephone interview. “When these other
large summer blockbusters come out though, there will clearly be
big competition.”  Worldwide sales for the movie were $150.2 million,
according to Hollywood.com.  Alien Scavengers  “Oblivion,” made for about $120 million, was expected to
take in $36.9 million domestically, the estimate of researcher
 Box Office Mojo . In the film, Cruise plays a man who roams a
devastated Earth protecting energy plants from alien scavengers.
Gradually, he learns that he hasn’t been told the complete truth
about the planet’s near destruction and the creatures he fights.
Morgan Freeman, Olga Kurylenko and Andrea Riseborough are
featured in the movie. Universal Pictures is a unit of
Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   The opening was the best of Cruise’s last three films.
“Jack Reacher,” based on the Lee Child’s novels, debuted in
second place with sales of $15.2 million in December and the
musical “Rock of Ages” opened in third place with $14.4
million in June, according to Box Office Mojo.  In “42,” Chadwick Boseman stars as Robinson, the first
black to play Major League Baseball. Harrison Ford plays Branch
Rickey, the Brooklyn Dodgers general manager who recruited
Robinson and helped him deal with the racism of fans and
players. The film, made for $40 million, has taken in $54.1
million since it opened on April 12.  ‘The Croods’  The movie is the first independent production for
Legendary, which is led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Tull and best known for the “Dark Knight” films. The
company, whose financing and co-production agreement with Warner
Bros. expires at the end of this year, is developing three more
on its own, including the action films “Great Wall” and
“Pacific Rim.”  “The Croods,” a 3-D film about a prehistoric family of
cave dwellers, was third with $9.5 million in receipts for
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  The movie, featuring the voices of
Nicolas Cage, Emma Stone and Ryan Reynolds, has taken in $155
million after five weeks in theaters.  The horror-movie spoof “Scary Movie 5” was fourth with
$6.3 million. The film continues the series poking fun at the
genre. The latest version takes on the recent crop of possession
movies by focusing on a couple who are stalked by a demon soon
after they bring their newborn home from the hospital.  The first four films generated $818.2 million in global
ticket sales.  “G.I. Joe: Retaliation,” a sequel to “G.I. Joe: The Rise
of Cobra,” dropped to fifth place with sales of $5.8 million.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films fell 19 percent to
$102 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Sales this
year are down 11 percent to $2.76 billion. Attendance has
declined 12 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 19 and April 20, and estimates for yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  