-- Danske Bank Says Danish Growth Accord Won’t End Economic Slump
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2013-04-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/danske-bank-says-danish-growth-accord-won-t-end-economic-slump.html
A growth accord reached late
yesterday by Danish lawmakers won’t be enough to end the
nation’s economic slump, according to the chief economist at its
largest bank.  Denmark ’s Social Democrat-led ruling coalition entered an
agreement as part of a 17 billion-krone ($2.98 billion) package
of measures including tax deductible home refurbishments and tax 
cuts on soft drinks and beer designed to curb border trade, 
state-owned broadcaster DR said. The accord represents the first
half of the government's growth plan, Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon told DR.  “In the short term, the growth plan will stimulate the
economy, but this isn’t going to have a large effect on the
labor market,”  Steen Bocian , chief economist at  Danske Bank (DANSKE)  in
Copenhagen, said in a note to clients. He estimates that once
the effect of the measures peaks in 2014, only a maximum of
10,000 extra jobs will have been added.  “We’re not looking at large structural changes,” Bocian
said. “The long-term labor-market effect is therefore well
under 5,000 positions.”  Gross domestic product  shrank 0.7 percent in the fourth
quarter from the third as Denmark’s economy suffered its worst
year since the height of the global financial crisis in 2009.
The nation has yet to emerge from a housing crisis that’s sent
property values down more than 20 percent since 2007 and wiped
out more than a dozen regional banks. GDP will grow 0.5 percent
to 1 percent this year, the government estimates.  “The agreement will give the economy, which has stood
still the past two to three years, a little push in the right
direction,” Bocian said. “But it’s not, in isolation, enough
to drag the Danish economy out of its slump.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  