-- Dealers Driving Mercedes Hail Zimbabwe Dollar’s Demise
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-04-22T14:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/dealers-driving-mercedes-hail-zimbabwe-dollar-s-demise.html
Benson Mahenya makes as much as
$10,000 a month as he drives around Harare in a white Mercedes-
Benz dealing in the five currencies that  Zimbabwe  recognizes as
legal tender.  Selling South African rand to Harare’s car-part dealers, he
receives dollars in return and uses them to buy euros from the
city’s hotels. He then sells the European currency to liquor
stores so they can import French and Portuguese wine.  “Different customers want different currencies, depending
on the business they’re in,” Mahenya, 46, said in an interview
in Harare last month. “On a good month I make an excellent
living.”  Mahenya, and traders like him, have sprung up since Finance
Minister  Tendai Biti  abandoned the Zimbabwe dollar in 2009
following hyperinflation that the  International Monetary Fund 
estimates hit 500 billion percent. Under Biti, Zimbabwe stopped
printing money and adopted the  U.S. dollar , the euro, the South
African rand, the Botswana pula and the British pound as legal
currencies.  While the country is still mired in political crisis 33
years into President  Robert Mugabe ’s rule, the move helped end
an economic collapse that decimated the country’s tobacco and
rose export industries and shrank the economy by 40 percent
between 2000 and 2007, according to an IMF estimate.  It also created huge arbitrage opportunities for a new
breed of currency trader.  “I’ll always better the banks,” says Jackson Jere,
sitting on a wooden crate as he haggles with customers ranging
from shop owners to tourists at Harare’s Road Port international
bus terminus.  Dollar Economy  Harare, the capital in the north of the country, has
largely become a dollar economy while in the south, the second
city, Bulawayo, uses rand because of its proximity to  South
Africa . In Harare supermarket goods are often paid for in
dollars while retailers give out change in rand and minibus
taxis also charge in the South African currency. Speculators
profit from arbitrage between the different rates in the cities.  “Bulawayo is closer to the South Africa border, so rand
are both more popular there and cheaper,” said Jere, who deals
in amounts as high as $30,000. “I can buy rand there and sell
the rand for a better price in Harare. I’ll always better the
banks.”  On March 22 Barclays Plc’s Zimbabwe unit was selling 100
rand for $11 at its Borrowdale branch in northern Harare. Across
town in the central suburb of Avondale a branch of Standard
Chartered Plc’s local unit was selling the same 100 rand for
$10.43.  Empty Shelves  Officially there are three exchange rates in Zimbabwe, Dave Mills, managing director of Meikles Africa Ltd.-owned TM
Supermarkets (PVT) Ltd., said in a March 21 telephone interview
from Harare. TM competes with  OK Zimbabwe (OKZ)  Ltd. as the country’s
biggest retailer.  Banks sell currency to general customers at rates set at a
daily level based on international markets while giving their
corporate customers, such as retailers, a range within which
they can trade. Customs rates are set weekly by the government
for import duty purposes.  It’s an “incomparable” improvement from trading before
Zimbabwe dollar was abolished, said Mills, whose company
competes with OK Zimbabwe Ltd. to be the country’s biggest
supermarket chain, said. “Back then shelves were empty and
retail was at a standstill.”  Stores and taxi drivers convert the rand at 10-to-the-
dollar for ease rather than using a market-related rate.  Coalition Government  “Until recently we were using old Zimbabwe dollar notes,
even though they weren’t legal tender. It was like a voucher or
ticket system,” Mike Muparutsa, a minibus taxi-driver, said.
“Now it’s rand coins, but the consumer loses on the exchange
rate.”  The currency reform has brought some semblance of stability
to a country bearing the scars of Mugabe’s economic
mismanagement. Zimbabwe’s central bank began printing money in
2006 to pay a debt to the IMF to stave off expulsion and
continued the practice to meet expenses including infrastructure
payments.  Biti was then brought in as finance minister in 2009 after
the 15-nation  Southern African Development Community  forced
Mugabe and  Morgan Tsvangirai , who is now prime minister, to form
a coalition. Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change won
control of the economic ministries as part of that agreement and
Biti was one of his appointments.  That agreement ended a decade-long recession and political
dispute after a series of violent elections won by Mugabe’s
Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front.  ‘My Benz’  “Having a multi-currency economy with no Zimbabwe dollars
is primarily good news for Zimbabwe because government can’t
print its way out of a deficit,” said  John Robertson , an
 independent economist , in an interview from Harare. “They can’t
just print more if they need it, as was happening in 2008.”  The economy is expanding and most shortages have abated.
Economic growth of 5 percent is being targeted this year, Biti
told reporters in Harare on April 16. Biti and Tsvangirai have
said a return to the Zimbabwe dollar isn’t likely soon.  Still, with no control over the currencies, commerce can be
stymied when enough of the right currency can’t be gathered for
a transaction, said Robertson.  “It boils down to scarcity and extremely tight liquidity,
which has created a very skewed economy,” Robertson said. When
a particular currency is short the buyer has to “pay a
premium.”  That’s a boon to the Mercedes-driving Mahenya, who says he
has no plans to take his currency-trading prowess to the trading
floor.  “The bank would be making fortunes, not me,” said
Mahenya, explaining that he was able to walk into a dealership
and pay cash for his car. “You saw me, you saw my Benz. $33,000
walk-in, drive-out cash.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  