-- Dirce Navarro de Camargo, Brazil’s Wealthiest Woman, Dies
-- B y   A l e x   C u a d r o s
-- 2013-04-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/dirce-navarro-de-camargo-brazil-s-wealthiest-woman-dies.html
Dirce Navarro de Camargo, who
became  Brazil ’s richest woman after inheriting the Camargo
Correa SA industrial conglomerate, has died. She was 100.  Camargo died April 20, according to a spokesman, who asked
not to be identified, citing company policy. He didn’t provide
additional details. Her age was disclosed by an executive close
to the family who asked not to be named because the matter is
private. She controlled a fortune valued at $13.8 billion,
making her the 62nd-richest person in the world, according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  Founded in 1939 by her late husband, Sebastiao Camargo, the
conglomerate has played a key role in developing Brazil’s
infrastructure. It participated in the construction of Brazil’s
capital, Brasilia, in the 1950s. Today, its interests include
publicly traded cement maker Cimpor Cimentos de Portugal SGPS
and Sao Paulo-based  Alpargatas SA (ALPA4) , which manufactures Havaianas
flip-flops.  Camargo’s three daughters -- Regina de Camargo Pires Oliveira Dias, Renata de Camargo Nascimento and Rosana Camargo de Arruda Botelho -- are poised to inherit the family fortune.
They hold an equal share of the Participacoes Morro Vermelho SA
holding company, which controls Sao Paulo-based Camargo Correa,
according to filings with Brazil’s securities regulator.  According to Morro Vermelho’s 2002 incorporation documents,
some of the shares in the holding company were issued in
lifetime usufruct in favor of Camargo, meaning she was their
beneficial owner until her death. The rest couldn’t previously
be sold, transferred or borrowed against by her daughters.  Lemann, Safra  The company spokesman declined to comment on how the
fortune will be split up. The  Folha de S.Paulo  newspaper
reported earlier that Camargo died at her home, without saying
how it got the information.  Brazil’s richest person remains Anheuser-Busch InBev
investor  Jorge Paulo Lemann , worth $21.1 billion. Banker Joseph Safra now ranks No. 2, with a fortune of $11.8 billion.  Dirce Camargo avoided the spotlight to such a degree that
even her age had not been publicly disclosed. She had not
appeared on an international wealth ranking for more than a
decade, and joined the Bloomberg index in August.  Born in 1909, Sebastiao Camargo started out carting sand by
donkey when he was a teenager. He opened a construction business
with two partners in 1939, whose stakes the Camargo family later
bought out. They won government contracts for roads and railways
over the decade that followed, before working to build Brasilia
in the 1950s.  Military Coup  Camargo -- who was awarded an honorary diploma from the
government’s High College of War in 1967 -- expanded the
business into cement during the two-decade military dictatorship
that took power in a 1964 coup. Amid increased state investment,
Camargo took on ever-larger infrastructure projects, including
subway lines in  Sao Paulo , the Trans-Amazonian Highway and the
bridge connecting  Rio de Janeiro  and neighboring Niteroi.  “Brazil’s greatest progress was in the military
government,” Camargo told Folha de S.Paulo in December 1990.  In the 1970s, Camargo pushed deeper into  Latin America .
General Leonidas Pires Goncalves told the Sao Paulo-based oral-
history archive Museu da Pessoa that Camargo once asked him to
secure the assistance of the Brazilian government to mediate a
labor dispute at a project in  Venezuela . Goncalves agreed. When
democracy returned in 1985, the general was named minister of
the army.  Civilian Rule  Camargo’s business continued to prosper under civilian
rule. During the privatization wave of the 1990s, the
conglomerate acquired electricity company  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3) , and
won toll-road concessions that were later bundled together into
publicly traded  CCR SA. (CCRO3)  Sebastiao Camargo led the company until
his death in 1994, when control passed to his wife, Dirce.  Camargo Correa is now managed by professional
administrators, including Chairman Vitor Hallack. The husband of
Camargo’s daughter Regina, Carlos Pires Oliveira, and Renata’s,
Luiz Roberto Ortiz Nascimento, both sit on the board. Rosana’s
husband, Fernando Arruda Botelho, died in an  airplane crash  in
April 2012.  The closely held operation generated $8.6 billion in
revenue in 2011, with about 30 percent of the total coming from
its flagship construction business. Camargo Correa employs more
than 58,000 people.  “Sebastian was daring,” former President  Fernando
Henrique Cardoso  said in a December 2002 address at the Tucurui
dam, one of Camargo Correa’s many projects. “And the results of
his daring are left in concrete in Brazil and abroad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Cuadros in Lima at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  