-- Dubai GEMS Education Obtains $545 Million Loan for Expansion
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-04-21T11:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/dubai-s-gems-education-obtains-545-million-loan-for-expansion.html
GEMS Education Ltd., the Dubai-
based privately owned provider of school education, obtained a 2
billion-dirham ($545 million) loan to refinance investments and
provide funds for  Middle East  and North Africa expansion.  The six-year facility with Islamic and conventional parts
was arranged by  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank (ADIB)  PJSC,  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ) ,
 Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC, (DIB)  and Noor Islamic Bank, the Dubai-based
company said in an e-mailed statement today.  United Arab Bank (UAB) 
participated in the facility.  GEMS Education’s fundraising comes as a rebound in Middle
East economic growth prompts companies to return to the  debt
market  after the global financial crisis cut access. Companies
in the Middle East and North Africa have raised $26 billion via
syndicated loans and bonds so far this year compared with $18
billion in the same period in 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Recently we announced our intention to build 10 new
schools in the U.A.E. over the next two years to meet growing
demand,” GEMS Education’s Chief Operating Officer Dino Varkey
said in the statement. “This new bank facility supports this
expansion plan.”  GEMS Education has seized upon growing demand for private
education since 1980, when Dino’s father and current GEMS
chairman, Sunny Varkey, took over the business his parents
established in 1959 and started opening new schools. At the
time, GEMS operated one school with 300 students. Currently, it
provides education to 130,000 students across four continents.  The company also employs 11,000 people and offers a variety
of curricula -- including American, British, Indian and
International Baccalaureate -- charging fees ranging from $750 a
year to $40,000 a year to serve different income segments. GEMS
Education makes about $500 million in revenue a year and is the
biggest privately owned provider of school education, Varkey
told  Bloomberg News  last month.  The burgeoning private school industry has attracted the
attention of investors. The Abraaj Group, the Middle East’s
biggest buyout fund, bought 25 percent of GEMS in 2007,
restructuring the stake five years later into a three-year
convertible loan instrument, according to Abraaj’s 2011 annual
report. GEMS Education’s operating profit more than doubled
during Abraaj’s holding period, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  