-- Egypt’s Mursi Seeks Consensus as Talks for IMF Loan Inch Along
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-04-21T09:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/egypt-s-mursi-seeks-consensus-as-talks-for-imf-loan-inch-along.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
sought to break a political impasse that has stymied stability
efforts, pledging to reshuffle his Cabinet and stressing the
government wouldn’t embrace policies that harm the poor.  The push is the Islamist leader’s latest effort to strike a
balance between addressing the polarization gripping  Egypt  while
pushing ahead with efforts to restore investor confidence tied
to getting a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan.  The reshuffle, which Mursi said was imminent during an
interview with the Al-Jazeera satellite-television channel
yesterday, was aimed at addressing criticism that his government
has been incompetent. It also comes against a backdrop of
weekend violence in Cairo that saw supporters of the Muslim
Brotherhood organization that fielded Mursi for office clash
with opponents in fighting that left more than 100 wounded.  The president said he was working to ensure the interests
of Egyptians, and that the inability to get the loan was “the
best proof of our refusal to give in to conditions.”  “These programs and these tools that achieve the general
interests are not in accordance with what the IMF wants,” Mursi
said. “I’m not subject to any conditions internally or
externally. The only condition is achieving the interest of the
citizen.”  Critics’ Contentions  Egypt’s challenges in the two years since the uprising that
ousted former president  Hosni Mubarak  hinge as much on turning
around the country’s faltering economy as easing political
tensions. Critics contend that Mursi is ignoring the needs of
the country in favor of improving the Brotherhood’s grip on
power. The clashes on April 19 were tied to a Brotherhood
demonstration in support of purging the judiciary, which has
repeatedly blocked or appeared to undercut Mursi.  Mursi said the cabinet reshuffle would allow the “most
efficient” officials to shepherd the country. The change has
been a key condition of his largely secular, youth activist and
minority Christian critics. Also joining in the complaints have
been some fellow Islamists, indicating consensus may be elusive.  Without an IMF loan, Egypt has relied on funds from
countries such as Qatar as its reserves plunged to $13.4
billion, more than 60 percent below December 2010 levels.  Funds Helpful  Central bank Governor Hisham Ramez said today in comments
carried in state-media, including Al-Ahram, that funds from
friendly nations are helpful in the short-term. Restoring
confidence in the country’s economy and institutions, however,
hinges on an IMF deal, he said.  Qatar earlier this month pledged $3 billion to Egypt,
raising to $8 billion the amount it has proffered since the
uprising against Mubarak. Funds from other nations, including a
deposit by  Libya , aren’t a substitute for an IMF deal, Ramez
said.  The IMF, whose team left Cairo earlier this month without
reaching an agreement on the loan, has signaled that while the
government is taking positive steps, more needs to be done.
Egyptian officials traveled to  Washington  to continue the talks.  “We will not give up, we will not leave the table,” IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  told a news conference
yesterday.  Mursi also requested a $2 billion loan from  Russia  during a
trip there this month that was also aimed at rebuilding ties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  