-- Egypt Court Upholds Vote Suspension as Shuffle Looms
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2013-04-21T14:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/egypt-court-upholds-vote-suspension-as-shuffle-looms.html
An Egyptian court upheld a ruling
suspending a parliamentary election President Mohamed Mursi
sought to begin tomorrow, increasing uncertainty in the country
ahead of a Cabinet shuffle aimed at easing the political
deadlock.  The decision by the Supreme Administrative Court came the
same day the Cabinet announced that Justice Minister Ahmed Mekki
submitted his resignation. Mekki’s replacement will be announced
as part of broader changes in the government, Cabinet spokesman
Alaa el-Hadidi said in an e-mailed statement. New Cabinet
appointments have been a key demand of  Egypt ’s opposition.  The Muslim Brotherhood, the organization that fielded Mursi for office, on Friday held a protest that called for the
purging of the country’s judiciary, which they have said is
biased against them. In his resignation letter, Mekki said both
the opposition and government supporters wanted him to resign or
be fired.  “Opponents of yours have been urging me to resign,” the
state-run  news agency  cited a resignation letter from Mekki to
the president as saying. At the same time, your “supporters
have asked for my firing to realize their goals.”  Judicial Verdicts  The court ruling on the elections by Judge Yahya El-
Dakroury may be seen by Islamists as another decision directed
against the president or his supporters, including earlier
verdicts that led to the disbanding of the Islamist-dominated
parliament’s lower house last year. Muslim Brotherhood spokesman
Ahmed Aref had no official comment on the court ruling.  The ruling also does little to dispel the uncertainty over
a still-elusive $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan
that Egypt sees as key for reviving investor confidence. The IMF
has sought a program of tough austerity measures in exchange for
the loan.  “The dilemma for policy makers is that there will be
elections which are upcoming, and obviously if you implement
austerity measures, those will not get you any votes,”  Giyas Gokkent , group chief economist at the  National Bank of Abu Dhabi
PJSC (NBAD) , said by phone. “That’s the Catch-22 that they find
themselves in.”  Mursi, Egypt’s first democratically elected civilian
president, has struggled to rein in unrest since he took office
last year.  After a lower court struck down his decree setting the
start of the vote for this month, Mursi indicated the elections
could begin in October. The Cabinet shuffle will ensure the most
qualified are shepherding the country ahead, Mursi said
yesterday. It may also be aimed at securing the kind of broad
political consensus that has so far eluded Egypt and stymied
efforts to secure the IMF loan.  The president said he was working to ensure the interests
of Egyptians, and that the inability to get the loan was “the
best proof of our refusal to give in to conditions.”  “These programs and these tools that achieve the general
interests are not in accordance with what the IMF wants,” Mursi
said. “I’m not subject to any conditions internally or
externally. The only condition is achieving the interest of the
citizens.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  