-- Emirates NBD CEO Rick Pudner to Leave Bank by the Year End
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-04-21T13:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/emirates-nbd-chief-executive-pudner-to-leave-bank-by-year-end.html
Emirates NBD PJSC’s (EMIRATES)  Chief Executive
Officer  Rick Pudner  will leave the bank after completing his
term at the end of 2013, the second such departure at  United
Arab Emirates ’ two biggest lenders this year.  Pudner had been with Emirates NBD for more than seven
years, the Dubai government-controlled lender said in an e-
mailed statement today. “He will hand over the role to a new
leader as part of the succession planning process and the
organization’s strategy for change and transformation.”  Pudner’s departure comes after state-controlled  National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the country’s second-biggest lender by
assets, appointed Alex Thursby as CEO earlier this month.
Thursby, who was CEO for international and institutional banking
at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , will succeed
Michael Tomalin, who retires after 14 years in the job.  Emirates NBD was hurt over the last three years as a
property crash in Dubai and slowing economic growth led to a
rise in debt defaults and a surge in loan loss provisions.
Dubai’s economy, the U.A.E.’s second-biggest, is now recovering
as its tourism, trade, retail and transport industries rebound.  Pudner “navigated through the difficult times that most of
the Dubai-based banks, especially Emirates NBD, faced over the
last 4 years,” Murad Ansari, an analyst at Egyptian investment
bank EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said by telephone from  Riyadh 
today. “During his tenure, Emirates NBD transformed from being
a local bank into a regional player, grew at strong pace and
acquired assets domestically as well as internationally.”  The U.A.E., the second-largest Arab economy, has the
biggest banking market in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which also includes Saudi Arabia and Qatar. First-
quarter profit at Emirates NBD may climb 4 percent to 667
million dirhams ($182 million), according to the mean estimate
of five analysts. The bank reports results on April 25.  Pudner joined the bank when it was called Emirates Bank
International PJSC and oversaw its merger with National Bank of
Dubai PJSC in 2007 that created Emirates NBD. He helped the bank
expand in  Saudi Arabia , the biggest Arab economy, where Emirates
NBD has both a retail and investment banking license.  Emirates NBD in December acquired the Egyptian unit of
French bank BNP Paribas SA in a $500 million deal, helping it
enter the most populous Arab country. Emirates NBD is keen to
expand in the Middle East, North Africa,  Turkey  and Islamic
nations in South East Asia and south, the bank said in December.  “The biggest concern with the U.A.E.-based banks over the
last three-four years has been the asset quality deterioration
cycle and our view is that we are at the end of that cycle,”
Ansari at EFG-Hermes, which has a buy rating on the stock, said.
“So, as asset quality numbers and provisions stabilize, we
think that at current valuations, which is significantly below
book value, there is an opportunity for upside on the stock.”  Pudner joined Emirates Bank from HSBC Holdings Plc, where
he was chief executive officer of  Korea . He has also been head
of corporate banking for HSBC in the  Middle East .  Emirates NBD’s shares rose 0.7 percent to close at 4.34
dirhams today, taking gains this year to 52 percent. Dubai’s
benchmark share index has risen 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  