-- Obama to Attend Service for Firefighters Killed in Blast
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r ,   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-04-22T21:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/memorial-service-planned-for-firefighters-killed-in-blast.html
President  Barack Obama  will attend
a memorial service planned for the firefighters who were among
the 14 people killed in last week’s explosion at a fertilizer
plant in West, Texas.  Obama will attend the April 25 service in Waco,  Jay Carney ,
his spokesman, said today. Ten firefighters and emergency
medical personnel, along with two West residents who were
helping to fight the initial fire at the plant, were among those
who died in the April 17 blast. The disaster may be the biggest
loss of life among U.S. firefighters since the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on New York.  The blast injured 200 people, flattened 50 homes and an
apartment complex and closed three schools in the city of 2,800,
which is about 80 miles (129 kilometers) south of Dallas. Three
of West’s fire trucks and an emergency medical service vehicle
were destroyed, according to the Texas Department of Public
Safety.  State and federal investigators have begun excavating a
crater left when Adair Grain Inc.’s West Fertilizer Co. facility
exploded. The U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms has
60 agents and specialists such as engineers and chemists at the
scene, Special Agent Franceska Perot, a spokeswoman, said today
in an interview from West.  “They’ve got a lot of heavy equipment in there to help
move these metal buildings and silos and pieces, huge pieces of
metal that are everywhere,” Perot said. The work could last a
week or more, and weather could cause delays.  Ammonium Nitrate  “Water mixing with certain chemicals in there could be an
issue,” Perot said.  The plant held a stockpile of ammonium nitrate, a
fertilizer so volatile it’s been used by terrorists to build
truck bombs.  The firefighters, including an employee of the fertilizer
plant, were trying to put out the fire and evacuate the
neighborhood when the plant exploded. The accident may be the
biggest loss of life among firefighters since the Sept. 11, 2001
attacks, which killed hundreds of  New York  fire department
personnel, said Wendy Norris, director of the Texas Line of Duty
Death Task Force, a non-profit group that provides assistance to
emergency workers.  Investigators from the fire marshal’s office are preparing
a three-dimensional map of the crater and an inventory of the
chemicals at the plant, Assistant State Fire Marshal Kelly
Kistner said.  Slow Updates  “It is going to be so slow and methodical that the updates
are going to be slow in coming as well,” he said at a press
conference in West.  Residents still can’t return to the homes closest to the
blast scene and part of the town will be without water until
underground pipes can be checked for damage, West Mayor Pro Tem
Steve Vanek said at today at a news conference.  Around West’s business district, restaurants served bottled
water instead of tap water and taped signs to their doors saying
their bathrooms were closed. Portable toilets were set up on
street corners.  Some vehicles sported numbers written in shoe polish on
their windshields, indicating the owners live in the area near
the plant and are allowed past the police cordon that still
restricts travel.  The blast, which injured almost one of every 10 residents
of West, damaged three of the town’s five public schools.  Volunteer Firefighters  “These are the institutions of this town,” said Joann
Williams, 70, who was making a banana-and-fudge ice cream sundae
when her ceiling caved in from the explosion. “The schools and
the firefighters put on big dinners and fundraisers and help
everyone out. It’s a family oriented, close-knit town.”  A largely Catholic community, West traces its roots to
Czech immigrants who settled in central  Texas  to farm wheat and
corn, according to the West Chamber of Commerce website. The
city hosts an annual polka festival and, thanks to Texas
lawmakers, is home to the official state kolache, a fruit-filled
pastry available in the town’s several Czech bakeries.  Descendants of the Czech farmers moonlight as volunteer
firefighters to give back to the community, said Ronnie Sykora,
a former volunteer firefighter, like his father.  “A lot of the guys start when they’re 18 or 20 years old
and spend their whole life there,” said Sykora, whose family
owns the local Ford dealership. “It’s a camaraderie that keeps
them there.”  Costly Rebuilding  The same sense of community will pull the school district
through its crisis, said Marty Crawford, superintendent of
schools.  “It’s going to be an adventure for all of us,” Crawford
said at an April 18 news conference.  Rebuilding promises to be a costly task for the town. West,
which had revenues of $855,000 in 2004, lost an emergency
medical services vehicle as well as the fire trucks in the
blast, said Sergeant Jason Reyes, a spokesman for the Texas
Department of Public Safety. A new fire truck can cost hundreds
of thousands of dollars.  The city hasn’t estimated the cost of replacing its fire
trucks or repairing damaged infrastructure, Vanek said. He
couldn’t immediately provide figures on the town’s annual
budget. West might qualify for block grants from the Texas
Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples
said in a statement.  ‘Selfless Sacrifice’  The West Independent School District listed $13 million in
long-term general-obligation debt as of Aug. 31, 2012 financial
statements. The district’s revenue decreased by almost $4
million last year to $13.3 million as of Aug. 31, documents
show.  Janie Salazar, 57, said her three grandchildren have
excelled in West public schools since the kids moved from  Dallas 
two years ago.  “They love their school,” said Salazar, who cleans houses
in West. “The teachers and everybody are very good and
friendly. They’re great.”  One of the volunteer firefighters who died was an employee
of the fertilizer plant, said Donald Adair, owner of Adair Grain
Inc., in a statement.  “The selfless sacrifice of first responders who died
trying to protect all of us is something I will never get
over,” Adair said.  West’s Firehouse  West’s fire department includes business owners, city
employees and retirees, said Jeff Clark, a machinist at Westex
Custom Fire Apparatus, a West-based company that services and
builds fire trucks. Clark said West firefighters include Marty
Marak, owner of a heating-and-air conditioning business, and
Mayor Tommy Muska.  Clark’s boss, Jimmy Matus, was one of the volunteers who
died.  Muska, a firefighter for 26 years, said it was
“devastating” to lose so many colleagues. “The heart of the
department has been destroyed,” he said.  The department, established in 1894 as West Hose Company
#1, has 33 firefighters, according to its website. Firefighters
collected half of the money to build the firehouse in 2003 with
fundraisers like the Annual West Fire Department BBQ Cook-off.  “People in West are very generous for their churches and
worthy local causes, but for themselves they are very
conservative,” said Georgia Hutyra, president of the History of
West Museum, which is planning a museum in the downtown area to
open next year. “Everybody keeps their places looking nice, but
you don’t see a lot of flamboyant shows of wealth.”  Construction Materials  Vanek said the town has run out of room to store donated
food, water and building materials. He said people should send
cash or gift cards, which can be given directly to people in
need.  Once people’s immediate needs are met, the town will have a
longer-term need for construction materials and cash to help
rebuild, said Jim Gerik, a spokesman for the volunteer group
collecting donations.  Even in good times, small towns have a hard time paying for
heavy equipment such as fire trucks, and West lost three of
them, Gerik said.  “My dad was the fire marshal for 30 years, and I know what
kind of a thing it is to get a new fire truck,” he said. “It’s
a big deal.”  Two local banks were accepting cash donations, and a
website, www.pointwestbank.com, has a dedicated link that
accepts donations to help rebuild the schools and the town.  Sykora, who’s also a deacon at St. Mary’s Catholic Church
of the Assumption, said there was a brotherhood among the
firefighters.  “To see young men we’ve known for so many years, men with
families and children, lose their lives is just a heartbreak,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  