-- Mercedes Pushes Reset in China After Sales Drive Falters
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-04-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/mercedes-pushes-reset-button-on-china-after-sales-drive-falters.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz is
accelerating its dealer expansion in China and streamlining
sales to fix past missteps that have contributed to a growing
gap with Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Audi AG.  “We spent a lot of time looking at what went wrong in the
past,” Hubertus Troska, the newly appointed head of the German
manufacturer’s Chinese operations, said at the Shanghai Motor
Show. “Among the first things, I did was to go out, visit
dealers and do some mystery shopping.”  Mercedes lost the global luxury-car sales lead to BMW in
2005 and ceded second place to  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand in
2011. The Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer shifted Troska
in December from running the Mercedes heavy-truck operation to
overseeing a reorganization of business in China as part of
Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche ’s plan to retake the top
spot in the luxury-car industry.  Mercedes has been lagging further behind Munich-based BMW
and Ingolstadt, Germany-based Audi in global sales in the past
year, mainly because it underperformed in China. Deliveries by
Mercedes in the country rose 1.5 percent in 2012, hampered by a
19 percent drop in December. That compares with Chinese sales
growth exceeding 29 percent at BMW and Audi.  The difference has widened this year, with first-quarter
Mercedes sales in China dropping 12 percent to 45,440 cars and
sport-utility vehicles versus a 7.5 percent gain to 86,224
deliveries for BMW and a 14 percent jump to 102,810 at Audi.  ‘Too Slow’  “Daimler needs to catch up in China, structurally as well
as from a volume point of view,” said Christoph Stuermer, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at IHS Automotive. “They have
significantly fewer showrooms in China than BMW and Audi, and
the dealer organization is too slow in reacting to demand.”  Daimler will show its progress on April 24, when it’s
scheduled to release first-quarter results. Earnings before
interest and taxes are projected to tumble 51 percent to 1.05
billion euros based on the average of seven analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  The German manufacturer earlier this month said it would
update its 2013 targets with its quarterly report after many
auto markets started the year weaker than expected. The company
forecasts higher earnings in the second half than the first,
lifted by new models such as the CLA four-door coupe.  Dealership Expansion  To address its weakness in China, Daimler now intends to
add 75 showrooms there this year, stepping up an earlier plan to
add 50 sales outlets annually in the country, Troska said.
Mercedes currently has about 260 dealerships in China, trailing
the more than 300 at its two main competitors.  The executive also wants to “intensify” sales activities
for existing models and plans to produce the GLA compact SUV in
 China  to target younger drivers. Mercedes is also creating a
single sales operation in China out of two entities that split
responsibility for domestically produced and imported models.  With the new sales structure, “we have a better setup than
before,” Troska said.  Zetsche’s global expansion strategy hinges on bringing out
13 new Mercedes models with no predecessor in the next eight
years. That includes two variants of the flagship S-Class sedan
on top of three versions of the model already on offer.  “It’s highly unlikely that Mercedes will overtake the
competition” in the global luxury-car ranking, said Christian Ludwig, a Dusseldorf-based analyst with Bankhaus Lampe. “Audi
and BMW are not lessening their efforts to grow. They also have
good ideas, are adding new vehicles to the lineup, and plan to
increase their number of outlets in China. And the competition
is well ahead of Daimler in China.”  Missed Expectations  Mercedes is putting seven new or revamped models on sale in
China this year, including the A-Class hatchback and a long-
wheelbase version of the upscale E-Class sedan. The new
generation S-Class, due to roll out in the second half of 2013,
will also be crucial as China is the model’s biggest market.  Daimler operates joint-venture factories in China with
Beijing Automotive Group Co., or BAIC, that build the Mercedes
C- and E-Class cars and GLK sport-utility vehicle. A car-engine
plant will open in Beijing next month.  The German company has agreed to buy a 12 percent stake in
BAIC’s auto division, which is preparing for an initial public
offering in  Hong Kong  by early 2014. The holding will enable
Daimler to expand influence over its Chinese partner and
potentially improve its own fortunes in the country.  “Last year, our business expanded only slightly, and we
lost market share” Zetsche said at Daimler’s annual meeting in
Berlin earlier this month. “We didn’t live up to our own
expectations there last year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
Christoph Rauwald in Shanghai at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  