-- Erotic Duets Spice Dexys for Soaring Comeback in London
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-04-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/erotic-duets-spice-dexys-for-soaring-comeback-in-london.html
Kevin Rowland and Dexys are staging
an audacious comeback.  Last year, Dexys released “One Day  I’m Going to Soar ,” the
band’s first CD since 1985, when it was known as Dexys Midnight
Runners. Now, for nine nights, Dexys is playing through the
album in its entirety at the Duke of York’s, a cozy, all-seated
theater in  London ’s West End.  Rowland, 59, always a great British pop eccentric, is
giving it his thespian best, acting out the lyrics of each song.  He has always been uncompromising. Dexys Midnight Runners
formed in the late 1970s, mixing a classic soul sound with punk
attitude and working-class grit. A change in style (and multiple
changes in the band’s line-up) saw Rowland explore his Irish
heritage. “Come on Eileen” became one of the definitive songs of
the 1980s.  Then there was a period of addiction and living in squats.
A solo venture in 1999 saw him singing a Whitney Houston cover
wearing stockings and a dress at the U.K.’s notoriously rockist
Reading Festival.  These days, Rowland and his eight-piece band appear to be
taking their sartorial inspiration from period theater-land
staples such as “The 39 Steps” or “The Mousetrap.” Rowland is
dressed in a beret and an old-fashioned suit, wide trousers worn
high, a vest under the open necked shirt, two-tone brogues.  Rowland plays himself as a working class Jack the Lad, an
emotionally bruised bruiser, spoiling for a fight, always loving
and leaving the ladies. It is surprisingly successful. His
lyrics have a conversational feel, as if Ken Loach was a
songwriter.  Baritone Heights  His voice swoops from baritone to keening soul heights, his
trademark “crying” sound. It is mostly enough to mitigate the
occasionally hammy acting.  “I’m Thinking of You” politely expresses a most impolite
lust (“I’m thinking of you with your legs crossed; I’m thinking
of you when they’re not”). “Nowhere Is Home” adroitly roots
around Rowland’s attitude to his Irish ancestry.  Two duets with Madeleine Hyland, “I’m Always Going to Love
You” and “Incapable of Love,” provide highlights. Dressed in a
pewter gown with only the most alluringly brief flash of
stocking, she plays the femme fatale who is romanced then
spurned by Rowland.  Music Hall  The loyalty to the album’s track listing is occasionally
misplaced. Weaker songs become weighed down by Rowland’s
wordiness. Touches of 1940’s  music hall  variety soon become
cumbersome rather than quaint. The theater proves to be an
unnecessarily constraining venue for a gig.  The  new album  done, Rowland and his band, which includes
members of the original line-ups, indulge in some of the old
hits. “Come on Eileen” is notably absent. While disappointing,
it doesn’t spoil the show.  The rough edges of “Geno” are ameliorated with a touch of
Caribbean swing. A barnstorming “This Is What She’s Like” makes
it momentarily acceptable for a man in a coral jacket and pork-pie hat to play a sax solo on his knees.  Once again, Kevin Rowland and Dexys make for a most
improbable success.  Rating: ***½.  Dexys play at the Duke of York’s Theatre, 104 St Martin’s
Lane, London, WC2N 4BG, though April 27. Information: +44-844-871-7627 for  http://www.atgtickets.com/venues/duke-of-yorks/   “One Day I’m Going to Soar” is on BMG Records priced about
8 pounds in the U.K. or $14 in the U.S. Download fees vary
across services. For Mark Beech’s interview with the band click
here, and review of the album, click here. Information:
 http://www.dexysonline.com/tour/   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on London theater,
 Jeremy Gerard  on  New York  theater and  Elin McCoy  on wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 