-- Kebede, Jeptoo Win London Marathon Races Amid Increased Security
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-04-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/ethiopia-s-kebede-wins-london-marathon-beating-2011-champ-mutai.html
Tsegaye Kebede of  Ethiopia  and
 Kenya ’s Priscah Jeptoo won the  London  Marathon amid increased
security after the bombing that killed three at the  Boston  race.  Kebede, the 2010 winner, passed Kenya’s Emmanuel Mutai with
a kilometer to go yesterday to win in 2 hours, 6 minutes and 4
seconds. Mutai, the 2011 champion, was about 30 seconds back,
and Ayele Abshero of Ethiopia finished third. The men were on a
record pace for the first half of the race before slowing.  “I had a little pain in my side in the early part of the
race,” Kebede told reporters. “But as time went on, it got
better and better. I could feel myself getting closer and closer
to Mutai and that made me stronger.”  Jeptoo, the Olympic silver medalist, ran away from world
champion and fellow Kenyan Edna Kiplagat with six miles left and
finished on her own in 2:20:15.  Japan ’s Yukiko Akaba was third.  About 35,000 runners took part in the marathon, six days
after two bombs at the Boston Marathon killed three people and
injured more than 175 others. London police added several
hundred officers for the event. Crowds were five to 10 people
deep along some of the route in sunny and bright conditions.
Organizers said more than 700,000 spectators attended the race.  The 26.2-mile (42-kilometer) race began in Blackheath in
southeast London with the start of the women’s elite race and
finished near  Buckingham Palace . Officials held a 30-second
moment of silence before each of the three starts in memory of
the Boston victims, while the runners wore black ribbons.  “After what happened in Boston, I wanted to come down and
support everyone running the London Marathon,” Michele Parsons,
a 38-year-old from  North Carolina  visiting friends in London,
said in an interview “I’m glad it all went well, seeing the
runners wearing the black ribbons was really touching.”  Collision  Olympic women’s champion Tiki Gelana of Ethiopia collided
with a wheelchair participant in the first half of the race, and
fell off the pace.  “The safest thing would be to have the chairs start first
because one of these years a woman is going to have a leg
broken, a career ruined,” Canadian wheelchair athlete Josh
Cassidy, who collided with Gelana, told the British Broadcasting
Corp. “It’s just not worth having this program if the races are
going to suffer.”  In the men’s wheelchair race,  Australia ’s Kurt Fearnley
beat Marcel Hug of  Switzerland , passing six-time champion David
Weir of Britain, who finished fifth. American Tatyana McFadden,
who in Boston, was champion of the women’s wheelchair event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  