-- EU Nations Split Over Transaction Tax After U.K. Files Challenge
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/eu-nations-split-over-transaction-tax-after-u-k-files-challenge.html
European Union efforts to create a
hard-to-escape financial transaction tax are coming under fire
from within the bloc for overstepping the plan’s 11-nation
scope.  Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said he “cannot
exclude” a challenge to the EU’s proposal because of its impact
on his nation and other non-participants. Last week, the U.K.,
home to the EU’s largest financial center, went a step further
and began legal action at the  European Court  of Justice to guard
against future economic damage.  The proposed levy could be collected worldwide as soon as
the start of next year by  France ,  Germany  and nine other EU
nations that have so far signed up, if the effort stays on
schedule. To stop traders from escaping the levy by operating
outside the tax’s zone, the EU plan invokes “residence” and
“issuance” ties to firms in participating nations.  “I’m not sure whether this project of an FTT in  Europe 
will go ahead,” Frieden said at an April 20 panel at
International Monetary Fund meetings in Washington, referring to
the proposed tax by its initials. “The world can only grow if
we have cross-border activities.”  Luxembourg’s renewed skepticism about the transaction tax
follows its decision to begin the automatic exchange of tax data
in 2015, easing its bank-secrecy rules to coordinate with the
U.S. and 25 EU nations. The U.S. also opposes the EU’s
transaction-tax proposal while signing off on an April 19 Group
of 20 nations call that “more needs to be done” to fight  tax
evasion  worldwide.  ‘Patchwork’ Levies  The EU is trying to remedy what it sees as a “patchwork”
of local levies and rein in speculative trading. The
transaction-tax plan would charge a 0.1 percent rate for stock
and bond trades and 0.01 percent for derivatives transactions,
with some exemptions for primary-market sales.  Italy , one of the nations that has signed on to the effort,
also has expressed reservations about the plan’s impact on
secondary-market sovereign bond trading. “Transactions on
 government bonds  must be excluded,” Italian ambassador
Ferdinando Nelli Feroci told reporters in Brussels on April 19.
This is a “red line” for Italy and not up for negotiation,
Feroci said.  The  euro zone  is facing two consecutive years of economic
contraction as it grapples with a sovereign debt crisis that so
far has forced five of its 17 members to seek bailouts.
Transaction-tax opponents say the levy would raise sovereign
borrowing costs and hamper recovery, while proponents say it
would hold the financial sector more accountable for the costs
of crisis cleanup.  France’s Efforts  “We won’t stop our work and we won’t slow it down,”
French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told reporters April 20
in Washington, when asked about the U.K. challenge. The German
Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement it was
“confident” the U.K. challenge wouldn’t succeed.  The EU estimates the tax could raise 30 billion euros ($39
billion) to 35 billion euros a year. To become law, it has to be
approved by the participating nations. The 11 countries that
support the plan are Belgium, Germany,  Estonia , Greece, Spain,
France, Italy,  Austria , Portugal, Slovenia and Slovakia. All 27
EU nations can sit in on the talks and have the option to join.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said the
 Netherlands  could still sign on to the transaction-tax effort if
the proposal is changed to lessen its effect on pension funds.
He also said he was “sympathetic” to the U.K.’s protest of the
tax’s effect on non-participants.  Dutch Conditions  “The Dutch would still like to join that group” of
nations seeking agreement within so-called enhanced cooperation,
he told reporters at an April 20 press conference in Washington.
“Our conditions have not been met.”  The current transaction-tax plan is based on a prior
proposal that failed to win agreement among all 27 EU nations.
When the interested countries won approval to proceed under so-
called enhanced cooperation procedures, the U.K., Luxembourg,
Malta and the  Czech Republic  abstained because of concerns about
how the tax might work.  “We remain confident that this decision was legally
sound,” said Emer Traynor, a spokeswoman for EU Tax
Commissioner Algirdas Semeta, in an e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  