-- Ex-BoCom Head Hu Named Party Secretary of China Development Bank
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-04-21T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/ex-bocom-head-hu-named-party-secretary-of-china-development-bank.html
Hu Huaibang, the former head of
Bank of Communications Co., has been appointed Communist Party
secretary of China Development Bank Corp., according to the
CDB’s website today.  Hu, 57, will take over from Chen  Yuan  who remains chairman
of the world’s largest policy lender, according to the website.  The change is part of a reshuffle of senior bankers and
financial regulators after the annual session of the National
People’s Congress last month that saw Xi Jinping named president
and Li Keqiang replace Wen Jiabao as premier. Hu’s appointment
as CDB party secretary paves the way for him to take over as
chairman.  Chen, 68, who took the helm of the Beijing-based lender in
1998, will help set up a new development bank for the BRIC
countries of  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China as well as South
Africa, Caixin reported April 11, citing people close to CDB
that it didn’t identify.  Bloomberg News reported April 12 that Chen would step down,
handing the reins to Hu, citing two people with knowledge of the
matter. Bocom said in an April 15 stock exchange filing that Hu
had resigned as chairman.  CDB is  China ’s biggest lender in foreign currency, with
$248.2 billion in such loans at the end of 2012. It’s also the
largest lender to so-called local government financing vehicles
that have accumulated at least 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7
trillion) in debt.  Urbanization Drive  CDB, founded in 1994 and wholly owned by the Chinese
government, carries out the state’s policy objectives. Half of
the bank’s lending this year will go towards urban development,
according to a Jan. 29 notice on its website.  The bank, which had  assets  last year of 7.37 trillion yuan,
is the main funder of China’s oil-for-loans program and a
provider of more than $133 billion in lines of credit to the
country’s telecommunications, solar and wind companies.  Hu was named chairman of  Bank of Communications  in 2008. On
his watch the Shanghai-based lender reported 20 percent annual
 profit growth  on average, while its assets almost doubled from
December 2008 to 5.27 trillion yuan at the end of 2012. The bank
also bolstered its capital and deepened cooperation with  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , which owns about 19 percent.  Hu’s appointment may speed up the process of converting CDB
into a commercial lender under a restructuring plan approved in
2007.  Di Weiping, a senior adviser to the bank and former head of
its Hong Kong branch said last week the future of CDB’s reform
is unclear. There is a debate over whether the lender should
become a commercial bank or a development bank with commercial
operations, he said at a conference in Beijing on April 19.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  