-- Congress’s Role in the Texas Fertilizer Explosion
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-21T22:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/texas-explosion-shows-need-to-eliminate-disaster-risk.html
Even though it isn’t yet known what
caused the deadly explosion last week at a fertilizer plant in
West,  Texas , the facility was clearly too dangerous to be
located a few blocks from a middle school, a nursing home and a
50-unit apartment building. The blast killed 14 people, injured
some 200, and damaged or flattened dozens of homes.  The plant was storing about  270 tons  of explosive ammonium
nitrate, a substance sometimes used in bomb-making, as well as
54,000 pounds of anhydrous ammonia, which is poisonous if
inhaled and combustible when exposed to fire. Surely, a buffer
should have existed between these materials and the little town
of West.  Last week we were reminded both of the dangers posed by
chemical plants and of the threat of terrorism in the U.S., and
the conclusion that chemical plants could be a lot safer is
unsettling. But such a conclusion is also inescapable.  Under federal rules passed in the 1980s and 1990s, chemical
plants are obligated to  inform  nearby communities about the
risks they pose; they also have to explain to the Environmental
Protection Agency how they reduce the probability of
catastrophe. The  problem  is that plants aren’t sufficiently
compelled to eliminate that potential in the first place.  An effort to address this problem was undertaken after
Sept. 11, 2001, when EPA chief Christine Todd Whitman asked the
White House  to sponsor legislation  that would compel the use of
inherently safer chemicals and practices at chemical plants.  The George W. Bush administration declined.
Disappointingly, the Obama administration hasn’t taken up the
cause, even though candidate  Barack Obama  promised to establish
new regulations. Congress has likewise failed to pass
legislation along the lines of Whitman’s approach.  What’s frustrating is that there are cost-effective  ways to
improve  safety. Utilities have stopped using dangerous chlorine
gas to sterilize water and started using ultraviolet light
instead. Bleach makers have reduced their need to move huge
quantities of chlorine gas by train by spreading production
among smaller centers.  Although many of the bigger chemical companies have
initiated these changes, hundreds of smaller ones, such as the
West Fertilizer Co., require government urging.  Last July, a collection of environmental groups, labor
unions and public-health advocates  petitioned  the EPA to use its
authority to institute new rules that would drive companies to
make a choice: use safer chemicals, use fewer dangerous ones or
take measures to keep the public safe. In West, Texas,
presumably, such rules could have led the fertilizer plant to
improve fire safety, disperse its chemical stores, move some
distance from the town or all of the above.  Nine months later, the EPA still hasn’t responded to the
petition. EPA spokeswoman Alisha Johnson told  Bloomberg News 
that chemical plant safety was a “high priority.” Putting in
place some needed rules would be a good way to make those words
real.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 