-- Fix Immigration Bill to Reduce Health-Care Costs
-- B y   M a r t a   T i e n d a
-- 2013-04-21T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/fix-immigration-bill-to-reduce-health-care-costs.html
Politicians have seldom talked
about  immigration  reform and health-care costs in the same
breath. With Congress debating legislation to remake the U.S.
immigration system, perhaps it’s time they did.  Since the 1960s, legal immigrants have been able to sponsor
the admission of their parents, siblings and adult children
under a system of preferences intended to facilitate
reunification of extended families.  My  analysis  of immigrant-admissions  data  from the Justice
and Homeland Security departments shows that these family-
reunification policies are having an unintended consequence. At
a time when the U.S. population is growing older, a system that
fails to restrict late-age migration will only add to the costs
of Medicaid and Medicare.  Of course, legal immigrants should be able to bring along
their spouses and dependent children. But  the rules  that also
allow them, after they become U.S. citizens, to sponsor their
parents have produced a rapid increase, over the past three
decades, in the share of legal immigrants who arrive at age 50
or older, especially from countries such as China,  India  and the
 Philippines .  Two processes are at work here. For one, the parents of
naturalized citizens are exempt from the caps that limit how
many immigrants the U.S. accepts each year from a given country.
Sponsors are only required to prove that they can support their
parents at 1.25 times the poverty level -- hardly enough to
guarantee that the parents will have health insurance.  Parents’ Costs  Proponents of family preferences argue that legal
 immigrants  should be allowed to sponsor their parents so that
they can help with child care. If the sponsors take
responsibility for their parents’ health care, that’s fine;
otherwise, taxpayers will end up subsidizing that child care.
Nonworking parents who immigrate to the U.S. contribute little
to the economy, and in many cases the taxpayers will have to
shoulder the burden of their health care as they grow older.  The other process involves siblings and adult children of
legal immigrants, who receive preference in admissions decisions
but aren’t exempt from the annual country caps. With limits on
the number of extended-family relatives who can be admitted each
year, siblings and adult children -- once they are approved --
join a huge backlog of extended-family members waiting to come
to the U.S.  For immigrants from  China , India,  Mexico  and the
Philippines, the wait is extraordinarily long -- 10, 15 or even
20 years. These family members age as  they wait  for a visa, and
they arrive in the U.S. with fewer productive years ahead of
them. Unless sponsors are required to purchase health insurance
for them, like sponsored parents, many will become a drain on
the economy as they suffer the infirmities of age.  The proposed immigration  overhaul  addresses only part of
the problem by imposing an age cap of 30 on married children of
U.S citizens. But the legislation doesn’t change the rules for
sponsoring parents.  My  research  shows that every 100 legal immigrants from Asia
admitted from 1996 to 2000 sponsored almost 400 relatives by
2009, of whom one-quarter were age 50 or older. The vast
majority of immigrant seniors are parents of naturalized
citizens. If visas for these people aren’t restricted, then
Congress should strengthen enforcement-of-support requirements
for sponsored parents by enforcing those requirements currently
on the books.  Medicaid Access  The Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility
 Act  of 1996 required sponsors to sign a legally binding
affidavit promising to support their family members so they
don’t become public charges. A five-year moratorium on
immigrants’ access to means-tested benefits simply delays
taxpayers’ liability for publicly funded Medicaid.  Other countries recognize and address the problem
explicitly.  Australia  discourages sponsorship of parents by
limiting the annual number of admissions for them; by imposing
high visa costs with no guarantee of admission; and by insisting
on a $42,000 deposit to help defray social costs for the
majority of sponsored parents.  In the formula it uses to weigh potential immigrants
against one another,  Canada  subtracts points for applicants
above a certain age.  Congress could adopt one of these solutions, or could
require that legal immigrants buy lifelong health insurance for
their older extended-family members before they are allowed in
the country.  According to a recent  study  by  AARP , almost 9 million
adults ages 50-64 lacked health insurance -- an increase of 3.7
million since 2000. If the Affordable Care Act requires citizens
to purchase health insurance, it seems only fair that new
immigrants should be bound by the same rules.  Particularly in a period of tight fiscal constraints and an
aging population, Congress needs to consider whether we can
still afford policies designed in the 1960s, at the end of the
baby boom, when the newly enacted Medicare and Medicaid programs
didn’t cost nearly as much as they do today.  We should base our decisions about family visas on evidence
about the costs of late-age migration rather than on sentimental
ideas about reuniting extended families.  (Marta Tienda is a professor of sociology and demography in
the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at
Princeton University. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Marta Tienda at  tienda@princeton.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 