-- G-20 Eyes Stimulus Fallout Even as Japan Bond Buying Praised
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a ,   C y n t h i a   K i m   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-04-21T19:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/g-20-eyes-stimulus-fallout-even-as-japan-s-bond-buying-endorsed.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs pledged
to stay alert to any fallout from easy monetary policies even as
they backed the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s plan to buy more than 7 trillion
yen ($70 billion) a month of bonds.  In a nod to concerns that stimulus in one economy often
creates challenges elsewhere and could fuel asset bubbles, the
G-20 officials meeting in Washington heightened their commitment
to being “mindful of unintended negative side effects stemming
from extended periods of monetary easing.”  While a sliding yen drew fresh complaints from  South Korea ,
its 20 percent decline against the dollar in the past six months
wasn’t enough to stop G-20 officials from backing new BOJ
measures aimed at delivering 2 percent inflation in two years.
Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda emerged from the talks
saying he was emboldened to press ahead with his campaign to
defeat 15 years of deflation.  “Winning international understanding gives me more
confidence to conduct monetary policy appropriately,” Kuroda
told reporters after the meeting. “We will continue our
qualitative and quantitative easing for the next two years.”  The yen fell to 99.98 per dollar in early Asia trading, the
weakest level in about four years. The drop helps exporters such
as  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) , the Japanese automaker with the highest
proportion of exports, and  Sony Corp. (6758) , which gets 70 percent of
its revenue outside the country. Still, an excessive decline
could fuel trade tensions.  Boosting Demand  Although the G-20 reiterated a February vow to avoid
“competitive devaluation,” it didn’t single Japan out for
criticism and said the central bank’s plan to double its
monetary base is “intended to stop deflation and support
domestic demand.” It still advised Japan to craft a medium-term
plan to restore fiscal order.  South Korea Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said in
Washington there is a “lot of impact from the falling yen” on
his nation’s economy and urged advanced nations to prepare for
an orderly exit from quantitative easing and low interest-rate
programs.  Rodrigo Vergara, president of Chile’s central bank, said in
an interview that he’s worried monetary expansion will “produce
complacency and stunt structural change.”  Defending his country’s strategy, Japanese Finance Minister
Taro Aso said the yen’s fall is a “byproduct” of policies
aimed at ending the “slow-motion death” of deflation and that
the G-20 understands that.  Fresh Risks  Although the spotlight fell on currencies, the
 International Monetary Fund , which held its spring meetings
alongside the G-20 gathering, last week said loose monetary
policy could inflate credit bubbles, threatening a fresh round
of financial crises.  The policies were put in place following the 2008 financial
crisis and subsequent global recession and tepid recovery. Major
central banks such as the U.S. Federal Reserve cut  interest
rates  to record lows and boosted their  balance sheets  by buying
assets. The debate now is whether to extend or begin trimming
the aid.  The IMF plans a study on how best to unwind stimulus, said
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde , who called the current
support programs “appropriate.”  “It is necessary to be on alert for unintended
consequences of monetary accommodation over an extended
period,” Swedish Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said in
Washington. “It may encourage risk taking and amplify economic
imbalances, not only in advanced countries.”  EU ‘Difficulties’  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann also welcomed the
discussion of the risks associated with “ongoing expansive
monetary policies” and warned they are “no cure-all for the
economic difficulties we’re currently facing.”  Still, Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , who coined
the term “currency war” in 2010 to describe the negative
spillover of rich nation stimulus on  emerging markets , praised
Japan’s efforts to end deflation as a “daring move” worth
celebrating.  More stimulus may be pending. Having said April 4 that the
bank stands ready to cut interest rates if the euro-area economy
deteriorates, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
acknowledged there hasn’t been “any improvement” since.
Weidmann and ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen both said
the ECB could cut its 0.75 percent benchmark interest rate if
the data show a need for it. Council member Klaas Knot said in
an interview that the economic “risks are on the downside.”  The G-20 statement made no mention of the Chinese  yuan ,
although it repeated countries are committed “to move more
rapidly toward more market-determined exchange rate systems.”
People’s Bank of  China  Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said in
Washington the nation would further exchange-rate reform.  The yuan had its biggest weekly gain in six months last
week after the central bank signaled plans to widen a trading
band that’s been limiting appreciation since October. U.S.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew reiterated China’s adjustment
“remains incomplete and more progress is needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Washington  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Washington at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Washington at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  