-- Growth Probably Picked Up in First Quarter: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-04-21T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/growth-probably-picked-up-in-first-quarter-u-s-economy-preview.html
The biggest gain in U.S.  consumer
spending  in two years probably helped the world’s largest
economy accelerate in the first quarter and housing made further
progress, economists said reports this week will show.  Gross domestic product rose at a 3.1 percent annual rate
after expanding at a 0.4 percent pace in the final three months
of 2012, according to the median forecast of 67 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Commerce Department data due
April 26. Sales of new and previously owned houses climbed,
other reports may show.  The expansion picked up as rising stock prices and home
values boosted household wealth, helping Americans weather an
increase in the  payroll tax . Recent data indicate the strength
may not be sustained as the reduction in take-home pay begins to
pinch and across-the-board cuts in planned federal spending
start to weigh on the job market and corporate investment.  “It was a catch-up after a very weak quarter,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in  New York . Now,
“momentum is slowing.”  The GDP report may show  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy, grew at a 2.8 percent
annual rate, the strongest since the first quarter of 2011,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Purchases advanced at
a 1.8 percent rate from October through December.  The lagged effect from a 2 percentage-point increase in the
payroll tax at the start of the year may take a toll this
quarter, economists said. The economy will cool to a 1.5 percent
pace, before accelerating to an average 2.4 percent rate in the
last six months of 2013, a separate Bloomberg survey showed.  Auto Sales  Automobile purchases remain a bright spot. Cars sold at an
average 15.3 million annualized rate in the first quarter, the
most since the same period in 2008, according to figures from
Ward’s Automotive Group.  “The only negative real headwinds we see are higher taxes
and potentially lower  government spending ,” Kurt McNeil, vice
president of U.S. sales and service at Detroit-based  General
Motors Co. (GM) , said on an April 2 conference call. “Everything
else seems to be pretty positive,” he said, mentioning jobs,
housing and stock market performance.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index has climbed 9 percent this
year.  The real-estate market continues to improve as borrowing
costs near a record low help buyers, figures from the National
Association of Realtors in Washington may show tomorrow.  Home Purchases  Purchases of  previously owned  homes rose for a third month
in March, increasing 0.4 percent to a 5 million annualized rate,
the highest level since late 2009, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. The last time sales exceeded a 5 million pace was
November 2009, when first-time homebuyers rushed to take
advantage of a temporary tax credit.  New home sales , due from the Commerce Department on April
23, climbed 1.2 percent to a 416,000 annual pace, the median
forecast in the Bloomberg survey shows.  Business investment, another contributor to growth, is
poised to cool as the so-called sequestration, or $85 billion in
automatic budget cuts that started on March 1, take hold.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years fell
3 percent in March after a 5.6 percent jump in February that was
the biggest since September, according to the Bloomberg survey.
Still, orders for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft -
- a proxy for future business investment in items like computers
and engines -- rose 0.3 percent, economists projected. The
Commerce Department figures are due April 24.  Railroads Improve  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the largest East Coast rail carrier, on April 16
reported first-quarter earnings that topped analysts’ estimates.  The economy “is still gradually recovering,” said  Michael Ward , chief executive officer of the Jacksonville, Florida-based
company, said in a statement. “At the same time, we are
prepared for the economy to accelerate and have great confidence
in the long-term outlook for the business.”  Rounding out the week, a report on April 26 may show the
Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer
 sentiment  declined to a five-month low of 73.5 in April from
78.6 a month earlier, according to the median forecast. The
preliminary April reading was 72.3.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  