-- Gunmaker Sale Needs a Background Check
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2013-04-21T22:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/gunmaker-sale-needs-a-background-check.html
What with the terrorist attack in
 Boston , the deadly explosion at a fertilizer plant in  Texas  and
the  inane vote  against  gun control  in the U.S. Senate, you may
have missed the news late last week about  Stephen Feinberg . The
reclusive co-founder of the buyout firm Cerberus Capital
Management LP is attempting one of his most daring and ill-
conceived deals of all time: trying to buy Freedom Group Inc.,
one of the world’s largest gun manufacturers, from his own
company.  Yes, that’s the same gun maker that Cerberus said it would
sell in the wake of the Dec. 14 massacre at Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown,  Connecticut  -- an announcement
that got Cerberus a lot of positive publicity.  Have you no shame, Mr. Feinberg? Forget for the moment that
one of Freedom Group’s Bushmaster rifles was used in the rampage
that killed 20 innocent schoolchildren and six adult staff
members. And forget that your father, Martin, lives in Newtown.
You cannot possibly believe that any bid that you and your group
of investors concoct for Freedom Group could ever be deemed fair
to the other investors in the company who are not also trying to
buy it. (Cerberus owns the vast majority of Freedom Group;
Feinberg controls Cerberus.)  No matter what measures the board of directors of Freedom
Group adopt to legitimize a bid from Feinberg -–- setting up a
special committee of outside people to evaluate it, or using it
as merely a “stalking horse” to bring other bidders to the table
(both of which have been suggested) –-- there will be no
avoiding the perception among the minority shareholders of the
company and the investors in Cerberus that Feinberg is trying to
steal it in a non-arms-length transaction.  This is simply an unacceptable turn of events, and is
probably indicative of what Feinberg should have known all
along: As one headline-grabbing random massacre follows another,
it’s not easy to sell a company that manufactures products that
kill human beings.  It was a poor decision by Feinberg -- a big-game hunter and
former Army sharpshooter -- to buy the various companies that
constitute Freedom Group in the first place. He is only
compounding his difficulties by trying to purchase the company
back from his other investors now that it looks like the auction
to sell Freedom Group isn’t going well.  It’s one thing, say, for  Michael Dell  to try to take
private his public company, Dell Inc., along with other private-
equity investors; it’s quite another thing for Feinberg to try
to buy out his Cerberus investors. In the former, there are many
safeguards to prevent Michael Dell from buying the company on
the cheap (although at least one large Dell shareholder,
Southeastern Asset Management, is claiming otherwise). Michael
Dell has agreed not to vote his millions of shares -- meaning
that most of the minority shareholders will have to approve it -
- and also to roll them into the equity of the new company that
is buying his old one at a modest discount to what other
shareholders would get. And a special committee of the Dell
board of directors asked Evercore Partners Inc., the investment-
banking boutique, to try to find a higher offer than what Dell
has proposed.  Anything can be negotiated, of course. So it’s quite
possible that Freedom Group will put in place a special
committee to consider Feinberg’s bid and other safeguards. It is
also possible that the other, non-Feinberg investors in Freedom
Group and Cerberus might prefer his cash –-- $1 billion seems to
be the number floating around, though that seems high based on
about $120 million in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization -- to a failed auction in which
they continue to own the company and get stuck with an illiquid,
unsalable investment. The California State Teachers’ Retirement
System, which had a $750 million investment in Cerberus at the
end of September 2012, said on April 17 that it hadn’t seen the
details of Feinberg’s proposal but was keeping an open mind.  The whole thing stinks. Feinberg has an unresolvable
conflict of interest, no matter what he says or what the Freedom
Group board concocts to paper it over. He should withdraw his
offer, and Lazard Ltd. -- which has been hired facilitate a sale
-- should redouble its efforts to find an independent third-
party buyer for whatever price can be fetched. If that price is
deemed too low by existing shareholders, then there is also my
preferred option: melting down the company’s $200 million
inventory of weapons, and constructing monuments to the horror
of gun violence in places such as Newtown; Aurora,  Colorado ;
Blacksburg,  Virginia ; and, come to think of it, on the floor of
the  U.S. Senate .  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  