-- Icelanders Fast to Forgive as Pre-Crisis Powers Woo Voters
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-04-22T10:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/icelanders-are-fast-to-forgive-as-pre-crisis-powers-woo-voters.html
While Icelanders have a long
history of sagas, they’re quick to forgive.  Polls show voters are set to back the same parties that
helped  Iceland ’s banks dominate the economy before their 2008
collapse triggered the worst recession in six decades. Support
for the Progressive and Independence parties was 29.5 percent
and 24.6 percent, respectively, according to the average of four
polls released last week. Icelanders vote on April 27.  While the government of Social Democratic Prime Minister
Johanna Sigurdardottir, which took over in 2009, has won praise
from the  International Monetary Fund  and debt rating companies
for its handling of the crisis, voters are still struggling to
make mortgage payments. In response candidates are outbidding
each other with promises of debt writedowns and tax cuts,
measures they say will be paid for by bank creditors.  “Like  Bill Clinton  sarcastically said: ‘It’s the economy,
stupid,’” Jon Gunnar Axelsson, a deputy principal at Fellaskoli
in Fljotsdalsherad in east Iceland, said in an interview. He
plans to cast a blank ballot. “People vote with their wallets.
After the catastrophe Iceland has been going through, everything
will still be a mess in four years’ time.”  Government Support  The Social Democratic Alliance and Left Green Party
coalition stands to lose by a landslide, garnering a combined
support of 21 percent, the polls last week showed.  Sigurdardottir took over from the Independence Party-led
government of former Prime Minister Geir H. Haarde, which was
ousted amid a wave of street protests after the country’s three-
largest banks defaulted on $85 billion. While the economy is
once again expanding, it still faces a number of hurdles.  Since 2008, Iceland has relied on  capital controls  now
blocking as much as $8 billion in offshore kronur holdings from
being offloaded. The government and central bank have yet to
design a roadmap for exiting the controls as they try to avoid a
new currency crisis. The turmoil in 2008 sent the krona plunging
as much as 80 percent against the euro in the offshore market.
Even the official onshore rate dropped close to 50 percent.  The inflation caused by krona losses to date has crippled
households. With more than 80 percent of private debt linked to
consumer prices, Icelanders are more vulnerable to currency
swings than borrowers elsewhere. Households owe domestic lenders
about 1.43 trillion kronur ($11.3 billion) in loans indexed to
inflation. They’ve struggled to keep up debt payments as price
gains hover close to 4 percent.  ‘Grand Promises’  Unemployment, though lower than at the height of the
turmoil, is still about five times pre-crisis levels. The
jobless rate was 5.3 percent in March.  “It’s tempting in the environment we’re in, where there
are a lot of people that have it bad and owe a great deal and
are facing difficulties, to give them grand promises,” Gunnar
Helgi Kristinsson, a professor in political science at the
 University of Iceland , said in a telephone interview.
“Especially when someone else has started the bidding.”  The island emerged from an IMF-backed rescue program in
2011 and has since returned to international  capital markets 
with two U.S. dollar bond sales. In January, it won a court
battle against the U.K. and the Netherlands, freeing it from as
much as $2.6 billion in damages for not honoring depositor
claims stemming from failed Landsbanki Islands hf.  The Progressive Party, one of the pre-crisis architects
of Iceland’s financial deregulation, is now leading the way in
pledging bigger writedowns on bank creditor debt to help
protect household savings. The party says it will use the 450
billion kronur of domestic-currency assets held by creditors in
Iceland’s failed banks to reduce consumer mortgages.  Seizing Assets  Lars Christensen,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s chief  emerging markets 
economist and one of the first to predict Iceland’s 2008
meltdown, said in an interview last week that plans to hurt
investors will probably backfire on the fragile economy.  While there’s a need to ease  household debt , “paying for
that by seizing the assets of foreign investors such as the
creditors of the failed banks isn’t the way to do it. Some of
those assets belong to friendly investors who wanted to invest
in the Icelandic economy, such as Scandinavian pension funds. If
their assets are seized, the international investor community
won’t soon forget that.”  Sigmundur David Gunnlaugsson, the leader of the
Progressives, said in an interview last month that Iceland’s
foreign exchange balance is a matter of “huge concern” that
he’ll address if elected. He says he’ll enact measures that will
help Iceland shed its image as an emerging market economy.  Not Acceptable  Bjorn Steinbekk, a Reykjavik-based businessman, said the
current coalition has failed to deliver on its promises to
households.  “I don’t think the Progressive Party can live up to all
its promises, and their history is tainted with protecting
interests and plotting behind the scenes -- as is the case with
so many others,” he said. “However, four years is a long time
and the yield from those four years is far from acceptable.”  The Independence Party once ruled by Haarde, who has since
been tried for economic mismanagement, has also vowed to
alleviate households’ financial pain. In February, the party
said it will prioritize cutting households’ reliance on loans
linked to consumer prices. The party also wants to cut taxes to
stimulate growth.  Missing Vigor  “What’s missing more than anything in Iceland today is
growth and vigor in the economy,” party Chairman  Bjarni Benediktsson  said in a March 12 interview. “To get that growth
going, we need to eliminate the uncertainty that has been
clouding our fundamental economic sectors, and also better the
operational conditions of these companies with tax changes. We
want to simplify again the tax system and lower taxes.”  Iceland is now outgrowing most of  Europe . The economy
expanded 1.6 percent last year and will grow 1.9 percent this
year, the IMF estimates. The euro area will shrink 0.3 percent
this year, according to the Washington-based fund.  The  Social Democrats  over the weekend warned over the
perils of an opposition victory, saying it will probably halt
talks on joining the European Union. The country has put on
hold talks that started in 2010 on EU accession. Polls show EU
membership is opposed by a majority of Icelanders.  Lovebird Courtship  “Bjarni and Sigmundur are like lovebirds in courtship
these days and seem bent on reviving the cooperation of the
Independence Party and Progressive Party,” Social Democratic
Alliance Chairman Arni P. Arnason wrote in an online chat in
newspaper DV yesterday. “We need power to have an impact on
government formation.”  The economic turmoil has spurred new parties seeking to tap
voter dissatisfaction, including the Pirate Party and a group
called A Bright Future, which favors entering the European
Union. The two parties are backed by about 7.3 percent and 7.9
percent of voters, on average, according to the polls last week.
A party needs 5 percent to get seats in parliament.  The new political movements appeal to voters disappointed
by both the current and former governments. Helgi Sigurvin
Steindal, a librarian at the Akranes Public Library, said the
Independence Party and the Progressives left “a pile of mess”
the last time they were in power.  “I still wouldn’t vote for the Left Green Party or the
Social Democratic Alliance,” said Steindal. “If it weren’t for
the Pirates, I would probably vote for A Bright Future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 