-- Islanders Win, Move Up to Sixth Place in NHL East Playoff Race
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-21T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/islanders-win-move-up-to-sixth-place-in-nhl-east-playoff-race.html
The  New York  Islanders defeated
Winnipeg 5-4 in a shootout to take sixth place in the National
Hockey League’s Eastern Conference and prevent the Jets from
overtaking the New York Rangers in a race for the last playoff
spot.  The Toronto Maple Leafs beat the Ottawa Senators 4-1 last
night to clinch their first playoff berth since 2004. The Leafs
are in fifth place and the Senators fell to the seventh spot in
the Eastern Conference.  At MTS Centre in Winnipeg, Brad Boyes and John Tavares
fired goals in the shootout to give the Islanders the win.  “Good two points for us,” Islanders coach Jack Capuano
told reporters. “It was loud, it was a great atmosphere and it
was one of the quickest games I’ve been involved in, so it was a
track meet for sure.”  The Islanders (24-16-5) hold sixth place in the conference
with 53 points, moving one point ahead of the Senators. The
Rangers (23-17-4), who didn’t play last night, have 50 points,
one ahead of the ninth place Jets (23-19-3). The top eight teams
in each conference make the playoffs.  The Rangers have four games remaining, including tonight’s
contest against the New Jersey Devils, while the Islanders and
Jets each have three games remaining.  Frans Nielsen gave the Islanders a 1-0 lead four minutes
into the game and Zach Bogosian tied the score six minutes later.
Josh Bailey restored the Islanders lead, 2-1, before the end of
the first period.  Matt Martin gave the Islanders a 3-1 lead in the second
period before Kyle Wellwood scored two goals in three minutes to
tie the game 3-3.  The Islanders had a 4-3 lead in the third period on Michael Grabner’s goal until Bryan Little scored for the Jets on a
power-play with two minutes left to force overtime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net 
NI ISLANDERS
NI NY
NI CANADA
NI NHLJETS
NI NHLRANGER
NI NHL
NI SPORTS 