-- Israel Approves ‘Open Skies’ Agreement as Strike Halts Flights
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-04-21T12:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/israel-approves-open-skies-agreement-as-strike-halts-flights.html
Israel ’s Cabinet today approved an
agreement with the European Union meant to increase competition
in air travel, defying a protest strike that crippled local
carriers’ outgoing flights.  The Cabinet vote was the first major test of the new
government’s declared resolve to introduce greater competition
to Israel’s concentrated economy and lower the cost of living.
High housing and food prices fueled mass protests nearly two
years ago, and Finance Minister Yair Lapid took up the
protesters’ cause in his recent campaign for parliament.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu lauded the “Open Skies”
accord, which will let carriers on both sides fly to more
destinations.  “The purpose of the reforms we approved today is to lower
the prices of flights to and from Israel and to increase
incoming tourism,” Netanyahu told the weekly Cabinet meeting in
Jerusalem, according to a text message from his office.  Airline and union officials said the agreement would crush
the local aviation industry, and thousands of workers went on
strike at 5 a.m. today.  Israel’s national carrier,  El Al Israel Airlines (ELAL)  Ltd.,
canceled departing flights, as did two smaller local airlines,
Israir Airlines & Tourism Ltd. and Arkia Israeli Airlines Ltd.,
said Israel Airports Authority spokesman Ofer Lefler.  El Al Sinks  El Al shares sank as much as 10.2 percent and were trading
down 8.1 percent, the most since Dec. 17, at 0.533 shekel, as of
3:04 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  Israel’s national Histadrut labor federation had urged the
government to delay today’s vote and begin negotiations to
protect workers’ rights.  “Implementation of the agreement in its current form could
have serious, irreversible and fatal consequences for Israel’s
airline industry and for tens of thousands of workers and their
families,” Histadrut chairman Ofer Eini said in an e-mailed
statement.  Israel and the EU initialed the agreement in July. It could
go into effect as early as next year, or be implemented
gradually over five years to let local airlines prepare for the
industry’s “new competitive structure,” the Finance Ministry
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  