-- Jailed Egypt Steel Mogul Shuns Buyout After $4 Billion Fines
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-04-22T13:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/jailed-egypt-steel-mogul-rejects-buyout-after-4-billion-fines.html
The daughter of jailed Egyptian
businessman Ahmed Ezz said her father is rejecting offers for
his steel company after courts under the new Islamist government
fined him $3.8 billion and sentenced him to 44 years in prison.  “We’ve been approached by everybody who is anybody in the
 steel industry  globally and entertained a lot of investment
bankers looking at the idea” of a sale, Afaf Ezz, a former
London-based  Morgan Stanley (MS)  metals and mining M&A banker who’s
under a travel ban in  Egypt , said in an interview in Cairo.
“The company is ready for expansion mode.”  Ezz, held in the same high-security Tora jail outside Cairo
where former President  Hosni Mubarak  is imprisoned, is among
several prominent Egyptian businessmen being probed for his
dealings under the former regime. The sale of investment bank
EFG-Hermes Holding to Qatar’s QInvest has been delayed amid
legal cases against co-chief executive officers Yasser El
Mallawany and Hassan Heikal, while Nassef Sawiris’s  Orascom
Construction Industries (OCIC)  is being investigated over taxes.  During the 18 days of revolt before Mubarak stepped down
two years ago, Ezz’s company headquarters were burnt down, he
was banned from travelling and had his assets frozen. He was
jailed on Feb. 17 and shares a cell with three former regime
members, Afaf said. Ezz, 54, has a 66 percent stake in the
company.  Courts have fined him a total of about 26 billion pounds
($3.8 billion). His 44-year prison sentences includes a 37-year
term handed down on charges he improperly acquired state-run
metal producer Al Dekheila in 1999.  Denies Charges  Shares of Ezz Steel dropped 1.8 percent to 9.45 Egyptian
pounds at the close of trading in Cairo, valuing the company at
5.13 billion pounds.  Ezz denies all the charges and has started the appeal
process against the decisions, Mohammed Tanweer El-Rafie, his
lawyer, said in an e-mailed statement to  Bloomberg News . Mahmoud
El-Hifnawy, the public prosecutor’s spokesman, wasn’t
immediately available to comment when contacted by Bloomberg.  “The main misconception is that Dekheila was a national
treasure that Ezz stole,” said Afaf, who studied at the  London
School  of Economics. “In reality it was a struggling company
with a cash flow crisis that was bought from international
investors.”  As a Mubarak ally and member of the National Democratic
Party secretariat, Ezz built the company into the largest steel
producer in the  Middle East  and North Africa through a two-
decade acquisition and building spree that boosted output to 5.8
million tons from 250,000 tons. It also has a $1 billion
expansion plan to increase production to 7 million tons.  Future Direction  That’s now on hold as the company awaits more clarity on
Egypt’s future direction, Kamel Galal, the company’s head of
 investor relations , said in an interview. Even so, sales are
increasing, rising about 12 percent in 2011 as unregulated
homebuilding intensified after the revolution, he said. The
construction of a $500 million direct-reduced iron plant is 80
percent complete and the company may start a second, he said.  Steel prices increased 20 percent in Egypt in 2011, Galal
said. Demand for steel is strong because 65 percent of the
country’s 83 million people are under the age of 25, he said.  Companies like Ezz, Orascom and EFG-Hermes Holding
flourished when Egypt’s economy averaged growth of about 7
percent in the three years through 2008 as tax cuts and state
asset sales attracted foreign investment of as much as $13.2
billion a year under millionaire ministers like Rachid Mohamed Rachid.  Rachid Fine  Rachid paid a 15 million-pound fine last month to overturn
a 15-year sentence in absentia for squandering public funds in
connection with a steel license granted to Ezz.  While Paul Chekaiban replaced Ezz after he resigned as
chairman in May 2011, Afaf said her role has been increasing
over recent months. Afaf said she returned to Cairo in 2010 to
gain more corporate experience after working as a banker.  “I’ve been getting more involved now, the last few
months,” she said. “It’s more of a managerial, coordination
role because the problem today is that the legal case is such a
big part of what the company is facing and this also bears on my
family.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  