-- JPMorgan Sonia Signals More QE as Fitch Cuts Rating: U.K. Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-04-22T10:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/jpmorgan-sonia-signals-more-qe-as-fitch-cuts-rating-u-k-credit.html
U.K. money markets are indicating
 Bank of England  policy makers will step up efforts to stimulate
growth by buying another 80 billion pounds ($122 billion) of
bonds, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  JPMorgan, one of 21 banks that trade directly with
Britain’s debt agency, based its calculations on indications of
future borrowing costs known as Sonia rates. Bets on further
stimulus helped push two-year government note yields to 0.24
percent from this year’s high in January of 0.48 percent,
leaving them about the same as  U.S. rates . In  Germany , the euro
area’s struggling economy has helped propel similar-maturity
yields to 0.02 percent.  Record-low central-bank interest rates and 375 billion
pounds of debt purchases have failed to revive the U.K. Fitch
Ratings downgraded the nation on April 19, citing the “weaker
economic and fiscal outlook.” Policy makers defeated Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King ’s push to expand stimulus at three
straight meetings as the Monetary Policy Committee grappled with
a trade-off between growth and inflation risks.  “There is a need for the Bank of England to do something
given the weak backdrop from the euro area and what we see in
the U.K., where the economy isn’t significantly recovering,”
said Francis Diamond, a fixed-income strategist at JPMorgan in
 London . The money market rates indicate “a degree of forward
looking quantitative-easing expectations. Our in-house model
suggests the current level implies around 80 billion pounds of
additional QE.”  Rate Expectations  Traders use derivatives based on the sterling overnight
index average, or Sonia, to protect against future changes in
 interest rates . The contract for next March was at 0.254 percent
at 11:30 a.m. London time, below the Bank of England’s  benchmark 
of 0.5 percent, based on Tullett Prebon Plc data. JPMorgan says
this difference is due to market expectations for a fresh cash
injection because the Bank of England has proved reluctant to
cut its  base rate  since March 2009.  Minutes of policy makers’ April 4 meeting published last
week showed King,  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles  voted to add 25
billion pounds to the asset-purchase program and were overruled
by the remaining six policy makers on the MPC. For the majority,
medium-term inflation expectations have “drifted upwards” and
more easing may exacerbate this, the minutes said.  ‘Strong Case’  In a sign that King’s view may be gaining sway, policy
maker  Martin Weale  said after the minutes were released last
week that easing inflation pressures may reduce the barrier to
more stimulus.  The five-year  break-even rate , a gauge of market inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
conventional and index-linked bonds, narrowed to 3.03 percentage
points today from a high of 3.31 percentage points on April 11,
the most since July 2008.  “I would agree with what the sterling money market is
implying,” said Robin Marshall, a director of fixed income at
Smith & Williamson Investment Management, which oversees about
$20 billion. “The MPC may not vote for more stimulus now, but
there is a strong case for renewing it. For me, it’s a matter of
when and not if.”  Marshall said he’s adding to his gilt holdings, based on
the view that the Bank of England will expand asset purchases.  The central bank’s bond-purchase program is designed to
support the economy by lowering borrowing costs and encouraging
investors to seek higher-yielding assets. It helped push the
 yield  on 10-year gilts to a record low of 1.407 percent in July.
The rate was at 1.69 percent today.  Inflation, Unemployment  The benefits for the economy are less clear. A report on
April 25 will show Britain  narrowly avoided  falling into an
unprecedented triple-dip recession in the first quarter,
economists said. Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the
period after a 0.3 percent decline in the fourth quarter,
according to the median of 37 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in March from a year ago,
according to an April 16 report, and the Bank of England
forecasts that inflation will accelerate to around 3 percent by
the middle of the year. Its target is 2 percent.  The  unemployment rate  based on International Labour
Organization methods climbed to 7.9 percent in the three months
through February, from 7.8 percent, a report the next day
showed. Joblessness rose at the fastest pace in more than a year
and pay growth slowed to 1 percent, the least since records
began in 2001. U.K.  retail sales  fell 0.7 percent in March,
another report showed last week.  Fitch Downgrade  “Something needs to happen to support the economy,” said
 Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotiabank in London, which is
another primary dealer of gilts. “The Bank of England may also
look for other alternative tools to do that, but I would not
rule out more QE given we have no growth.”  Fitch cut the U.K. by one level to AA+ from AAA last week
as it lowered its 2013 growth forecast to 0.8 percent, saying
Britain’s debt would climb to 101 percent of gross domestic
product in the fiscal year 2015-2016. It became the second firm
to strip Britain of its top rating after Moody’s Investors
Service did so on Feb. 22.  Standard & Poor’s  has a negative
outlook on the U.K., indicating it may follow.  Investors often disregard changes in ratings. The 10-year
gilt yield has fallen 45 basis points since the Moody’s
downgrade.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its U.K. 2013 economic
outlook last week -- forecasting 0.7 percent growth -- and said
the Bank of England should consider increasing stimulus.  Osborne’s Advice  The IMF also said Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  may need to ease the pace of budget cuts. Osborne
rejected the IMF’s plea, telling reporters in  Washington  on
April 19 that he had already put in place policies to support
the British economy.  The U.K. isn’t the only country where some policy makers
have suggested more accommodation may be needed to stimulate the
economy. The  Bank of Japan  earlier this month announced
unprecedented stimulus to pull the country out of a deflation
quagmire. Three regional Federal Reserve bank presidents -- James Bullard ,  Narayana Kocherlakota  and  Jeffrey Lacker  -- said a
further decline in U.S. inflation below the Fed’s 2 percent goal
may signal a need for more stimulus.  JPMorgan forecasts that the Bank of England will expand its
quantitative-easing program by 50 billion pounds in August and
Diamond said it’s unlikely the central bank will be able to do
much more, even as money markets signal a greater amount.  “The scope for a huge amount of further QE is quite
limited,” he said. “Some MPC members are questioning how
effective it is and they are possibly looking for a more
effective tool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  