-- Kuwait Energy Group May Sign Afghan Exploration Accord in June
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2013-04-21T13:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/kuwait-energy-group-may-sign-afghan-exploration-accord-in-june.html
A group including  Kuwait  Energy
Co., a privately owned oil and natural-gas company, may sign an
agreement in early June for two exploration blocks in northern
Afghanistan, Chief Executive Officer Sara Akbar said.  “It’s in the government’s hands, we’ve almost negotiated
all the terms with the government but there’s a whole process
that goes in Afghanistan,” Akbar said in an interview in Kuwait
today. Kuwait Energy is part of a group including Turkey’s
state-owned TPAO and Dubai-based  Dragon Oil Plc (DGO)  that submitted
bids in November for the exploration and production agreement,
which is part of the 2012 Afghan-Tajik Phase 1 tender.  Kuwait Energy is still planning to sell shares in London
and is waiting for the right moment, Akbar said.  “There is a huge discount in the value for companies
operating in the  Middle East  so I think until things settle a
little bit in the Middle East, I don’t think we will get the
value that we are looking for,” she said.  Kuwait Energy, which posted 29 percent increase in profit
last year, sees growth in 2013 through developing its operations
in Yemen,  Egypt  and Iraq, according to Akbar. It is also
building on its relations with Libya with a view to entering
that market, she said.  “This year it will be a better year, except I see there is
pressure on the oil price,” Akbar said. “So production will be
up, but I don’t know about the oil price.”  Kuwait Energy, which also operates in Oman,  Ukraine ,
 Latvia , Russia and Pakistan, has a current daily production of
17,966 barrels of oil equivalent. The company plans to drill 16
exploration wells and 56 development wells this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  