-- Nestle’s Nespresso Growth Hit by Swiss Contender Migros: Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-04-21T22:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/nestle-s-nespresso-growth-hit-by-swiss-contender-migros-retail.html
In kitchens across Switzerland, a
supermarket retailer is staking a claim on the world’s biggest
food company’s growth, one coffee capsule at a time.  The popularity of knock-off coffee pods sold by Migros, the
second-biggest retailer in a country with a population smaller
than  New York  City, contributed to a slower start to the year
for sales of single-serve Nespresso, said  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s investor
relations chief Roddy Child-Villiers. Nespresso has been among
the fastest-growing major brands at Nestle over the past decade.  Migros’s capsules, on sale since May, probably squeezed
Nespresso’s quarterly sales  growth  to 8 percent, the slowest
pace in the brand’s history, according to Jon Cox, an analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich. Nespresso faces increased
competition throughout  Europe  as food companies seek to tap the
expanding $8 billion single-serve segment of the global coffee
market. Nestle has sued rivals after they introduced capsules
compatible with Nespresso machines.  “The introduction by a big competitor locally is
meaningful and local legal cases have so far not gone Nestle’s
way,” Cox said. Migros’s entry could result in “flat sales”
this year for Nespresso in Switzerland, which Cox estimates
accounts for about one-fifth of Nespresso’s annual revenue of 4
billion Swiss francs ($4.3 billion). The country is Nespresso’s
second-biggest market, according to Kepler.  Slowest Growth  The maker of Nescafe and Dolce Gusto posted the slowest
first-quarter sales growth since 2009 and said April 18 that
full-year revenue growth will be at the lower end of its
forecast, amid a slowdown at the unit that includes Nespresso.
Revenue was also hit by the destruction of a factory in  Syria 
and as demand for frozen food and weight-loss products slipped.  Nestle’s price-to-earnings  ratio  fell below rival
Unilever’s this month as the shares slipped ahead of its sales
report. The company now trades at 19.6 times earnings while
Unilever, based in Rotterdam and London, at 19.9 times in Dutch
trading. Nestle stock  dropped  3.1 percent last week.  Migros, whose annual profit last year was about 7 percent
of Nestle’s, began selling five flavors of Cafe Royal capsules
that fit in Nespresso machines last year. Migros priced the
capsules at 30 centimes a serving for the first three weeks,
then raised the price to 38 centimes. Nespresso capsules start
at 50 centimes each in  Switzerland .  Capsule Contest  Cafe Royal’s lower prices and wider distribution -- Migros
has 556 stores -- appeal to price-conscious Swiss coffee lovers
who don’t want to schlep to one of Nespresso’s 22 shops. And
Cafe Royal’s look and taste even beat Nespresso in a June survey
of 130 coffee drinkers conducted by  Kassensturz , a Swiss
consumer journal. Monika Weibel, a spokeswoman for Migros, based
in Zurich, said sales of the capsules are “above our
expectations.”  “People appreciate the very good quality and the
availability in the stores,” Weibel said in an e-mail. Some
customers have complained about the capsules not slotting into
Nespresso machines, so “small adjustments were made and now
they fit perfectly.”  Nestle is building a new Nespresso factory in Switzerland,
and has unveiled more blends to keep users coming back.  Key Market’  “Competition is not new for Nespresso,” spokeswoman Diane
Duperret said in an e-mail. “Switzerland remains a key market
for the company, and Nespresso continues to have significant
growth potential.”  New Nespresso boutiques in Manor AG, Switzerland’s biggest
department-store chain, “have increased our proximity to
consumers,” Duperret said. She declined to provide sales
figures for the new locations, the first of which opened in May
2012. Nespresso has added a new permanent blend, dubbed Linizio,
to replace a discontinued line, and has offered two new limited-
edition varieties.  Nestle sold its first single-serve espresso for machines
that don’t need cleaning in Switzerland  27 years ago . Since
then, Nespresso has won customer loyalty and expanded into about
60 countries by offering quality coffee in an easy-to-use
machine -- the company deems only about 1 percent of the world’s
coffee supply to meet its standards.  George Clooney  Nespresso also cultivates an exclusive image for the brand
through ads featuring actor  George Clooney , and boutiques that
boast tasting salons in locations such as Paris’s Champs-
Elysees.  That approach has made Nespresso one of Nestle’s fastest-
growing and most profitable brands. In 2010, Nespresso accounted
for about 15 percent of Nestle’s growth, Nomura analyst  David Hayes  has previously estimated. This year, the brand may account
for about a 10th of the 5.12 billion-franc increase in sales
expected by analysts.  Nestle stopped reporting sales details for Nespresso midway
through last year due to “the competitive environment,” Chief
Financial Officer Wan Ling Martello said at the time. That
environment has gotten much more crowded: in 2010 Sara Lee Corp.
and Ethical Coffee Co. both introduced knock-off capsules
compatible with Nespresso machines. Last year, Sara Lee spun off
its coffee business into a new company,  D.E Master Blenders 1753
NV (DE) , which agreed to be bought by Joh. A. Benckiser on April 12.  The competition includes former Nespresso executives like
Ethical Coffee Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Gaillard, who
is a former chief of Nespresso, as well as Eric Favre, the
inventor of the capsules, who owns a company that makes
competing machines.  Nespresso faces 20 competitors “in Switzerland alone,”
Nespresso spokeswoman Duperret said. All of them are battling
for a bigger slice of a single-serve coffee market that’s
growing about 24 percent a year globally, according to data
tracker Euromonitor, compared with 4 percent growth for the
broader coffee sector.  For the moment, at least, the Migros ones are finding fans,
in part because of Nestle’s success.  “I really enjoy the Migros ones, just as much as
Nespresso!” read one post on English Forum, an online community
for English-speaking Swiss residents. “The ease of access is
nice -- sometimes the lines at Nespresso are killer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  