-- New Zealand Leader Key’s Popularity Decline in Opinion Polls
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-21T22:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/new-zealand-leader-key-s-popularity-decline-in-opinion-polls.html
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key’s popularity dropped as he begins the partial sale of state
assets and faces claims of failing to monitor the nation’s
intelligence services, according to two opinion polls.  Key was preferred prime minister of 39 percent of voters
polled by Colmar Brunton for  Television New Zealand , down from
44 percent in February, the broadcaster said on its  website . His
support in a Reid Research  poll  for TV3 fell to 37.6 percent
from 41 percent.  The incumbent  National Party  head is comfortably ahead of
his nearest rival, Labour Party leader David Shearer, who
attracted 15 percent support in the TVNZ poll and 10 percent in
the TV3 survey. A general election isn’t due until the fourth
quarter of next year.  “The government faces lots of challenging issues,” Key
told TVNZ’s Breakfast show today. “When you’re prime minister,
you deal with those issues and sometimes the public’s perception
of them will be good and sometimes they’ll be bad.”  The government last week opened an offer of as much as 49
percent of Mighty River Power Ltd., the first in a program of
asset sales aiming to reduce debt and help return the budget to
surplus by 2015.  Key last week said he will introduce legislation to improve
oversight of the Government Communications and Security Bureau
after revelations the agency illegally spied on  New Zealand 
citizens.  Support for Key’s National Party also fell. It attracted 43
percent backing in the TVNZ poll and 49.4 percent in the TV3
poll. Key told TVNZ the party’s internal polling had it at 47
percent.  Labour and its main alliance partner the  Green Party 
together had 49 percent in the TVNZ poll and 43 percent in the
TV3 survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  