-- Nigeria Phone Rule Toughens Turf Battle for MTN, Airtel
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-04-22T16:42:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/nigeria-phone-rule-toughens-turf-battle-for-mtn-airtel.html
Mobile-phone users in  Nigeria  will
be able to change service providers and retain their numbers
under new rules from today, increasing competition between
companies including  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)   The new regulations are among a series of measures
introduced by the  Nigerian Communications Commission  to help
deliver more benefits to consumers, Reuben Muoka, a spokesman
for the NCC, said in a phone interview from Abuja, the capital,
on April 19. Rates for calls between different phone companies
were set 40 percent lower from April 1.  “Number portability will further foster competition on
prices and quality of services,” Muoka said. “The reduction of
termination rates followed a study on interconnect cost in the
industry, and it is with this in mind that operators will drop
charges to subscribers.”  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people, had about 155 million telephone subscribers as
of January, according to the NCC. The global system of mobile
communication, or GSM, accounts for 138 million customers or 89
percent of the country’s phone users, followed by the Code
Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, network with 14 million
customers. Fixed lines amount to 2.4 million users.  Price War  “A price war should emerge soon and tighten revenue,”
Akintola Salami, an analyst at Lagos-based  Financial Derivatives
Co. , said in an e-mailed response to questions. Subscribers will
probably benefit, he said.  MTN, based in Johannesburg, is the Nigerian market leader
with 47 million subscribers as of the end of last year,
according to data on the NCC’s website. Nigeria’s Globacom Ltd.
had 24 million users, Mumbai-based Bharti Airtel had 23 million
customers and Abu Dhabi-based  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
known as Etisalat, 14 million users. In an industry with 25
operators, the top four have about two-thirds of the market.  “We have made all the necessary investment in
infrastructure and manpower to make Mobile Number Portability a
reality,” MTN Nigeria Corporate Services Executive Akinwale
Goodluck said in a statement. Parent company MTN declined 3.3
percent by the 5 p.m close in Johannesburg, its biggest decline
for a month.  “Airtel Nigeria has upgraded its facilities to offer
quality services at competitive prices” to those that migrate
to its network, Emeka Opera, a spokesman for the company, said
today by phone from Lagos. “We can accommodate over 25 million
new subscribers to our network.”  Officials at Etisalat and Globacom could not be reached for
comments.  New Entrants  The new pricing system seeks to protect new entrants and
smaller operators and help them compete with the top four, Muoka
said.  While mobile-phone operators in Nigeria face “a reduction
in voice revenue,” there is “an opportunity in data services
to cushion the effect,” Gbenga Adebayo, president of the
Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria, said by
phone from Lagos on April 19.  MTN invested $1.3 billion last year to expand its network
in Nigeria, and Airtel and Etisalat have announced additional
investments to improve their speed and capacity.  Other challenges facing the companies include frequent
power cuts and the sabotage of phone facilities in the country’s
mainly Muslim north, where Islamist militants target
telecommunications companies for helping the authorities to
track them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  