-- Obama-Backed Fan of NHS Tested in Quest to Heal U.K. Care
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-04-21T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/obama-backed-fan-of-nhs-tested-in-quest-to-heal-u-k-care.html
Don Berwick’s admiration of the
U.K. National Health Service didn’t help him among U.S. Senate
Republicans when President  Barack Obama  needed someone to revamp
the Medicare health insurance program three years ago. It didn’t
hurt him this year when U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron needed
someone to recommend remedies for the NHS.  Cameron appointed the Harvard-trained pediatrician to
advise him about making the NHS as harm-free as possible in
response to lawyer Robert Francis’s 13 million-pound ($19.8
million)  probe  of the Mid-Staffordshire health system in central
England. Francis found “appalling” care had led to hundreds of
deaths there between 2005 and 2009, and he made 290
recommendations.  Berwick’s team of U.S. and U.K. specialists met in London
last week. They have until July to report to Cameron and
Secretary of State for HealthJeremy Hunt about “quickly and
efficiently” making the health system safer for patients.  “It could change the whole of the NHS and that’s what
we’ve got to hope for,” said Julie Bailey, who started pressure
group  Cure the NHS . “At the moment, the expectation is that
patients are harmed and that’s got to change.”  Bailey’s 86-year-old mother died at Stafford Hospital in
2007 after a routine hernia operation. Francis looked at the
experiences of more than 900 patients and their families, most
of whom complained about their treatment. He found a 96-year-old
woman was left lying in her own feces, another died because she
wasn’t given insulin and others were left to drink from flower
vases after staff ignored requests for water.  Poor Care  “My inquiries uncovered an attitude which tolerated poor
care of them on the basis that there was nothing that could be
done about it and even more often on the basis that it was the
same as everywhere else,” Francis said at a conference in
 London  April 17.  Substandard care wasn’t confined to Mid-Staffordshire, he
said. Nor has it gone away. As recently as the 2011-2012 fiscal
year, more than 200 people died of bedsores in NHS hospitals, 70
had operations on the wrong body part and 161 had instruments
and swabs left inside them during surgery, Hunt told 400 people
whom Berwick’s committee invited to offer opinions at London’s
Excel Centre on April 16.  Berwick’s task is potentially daunting. The medical system,
run by the Department of Health, is England’s largest employer
with more than  1.4 million workers  and accounts for about 109
billion pounds of the U.K.’s budget.  ‘Major Improvements’  “We’re aiming for a cogent set of actionable
recommendations to the department and the government to
accelerate progress toward major improvements in safety and
quality,” Berwick said in an interview in London.  His success or failure could have lasting implications for
the NHS and for Cameron, whose Conservative Party trails the
Labour Party in polls. A general election is set for May 2015.  As Obama’s administrator of Medicare and Medicaid for 17
months in 2010 and 2011, Berwick said he oversaw about 5,000
employees and a budget of $820 billion. His tenure at the agency
was a limited recess appointment because Obama couldn’t muster
enough Senate support to confirm his appointment. Republican
senators objected to Berwick having extolled the benefits of the
U.K.’s taxpayer-funded universal health system.  Berwick will decide whether to pursue the Democratic
nomination and run for governor of his home state of
 Massachusetts  after incumbent Democrat Deval Patrick steps down
in 2014.  Possible Campaign  Berwick said he is considering, “if I were governor, could
I help, could I get elected and could I weather the rigors of a
campaign?” Lucian Leape, a professor at the Harvard School of
Public Health and member of Berwick’s advisory group, said he
expects his long-time colleague will seek the post.  Correcting flaws in some aspects of the U.K. health
system’s culture is one of their group’s greatest challenges,
Leape said.  “The elephant in the room is how the staff were treated,”
Leape said. “If they were overworked, or under pressure, it’s
no surprise that everything would go wrong.”  Navigating the subtleties of British culture may prove
another obstacle for Berwick. Though he holds an honorary
knighthood from Queen Elizabeth II for his past work with the
NHS, he’s an American who hasn’t had to personally depend on the
U.K. health system.  British Culture  Many Britons wouldn’t send a steak back to the restaurant
kitchen if it wasn’t cooked to their liking, Francis said, much
less raise a ruckus over medical care even though the
consequences might be serious.  “There is that British, rather than American, habit of not
wishing to make a fuss,” Francis said. “People are afraid of
complaining.”  Among Francis’s recommendations are stronger governance and
that a “duty of candor” be required of every NHS worker, with
criminal penalties for those who don’t report unsafe conditions.
Leape, who said that criminalizing health workers’ behavior
creates fear that squelches openness, predicted the duty of
candor may be contentious among panel members.  Leape said Berwick can bring the panel to a consensus.
Whatever they report to Cameron and Hunt must then be
implemented, from hospital executive suites to wards.  “We don’t need another report with 290 recommendations,”
said Liam Donaldson, the former Chief Medical Officer for
 England  and the World Health Organization’s envoy for patient
safety. “It needs to be a short letter of advice.”  Senior ward housekeeper Stephen Parkinson, who works at an
Oxford hospital and heard Berwick speak last week, said it may
be hardest to have an impact on the thousands of workers at his
level where there is absenteeism, routine use of temporary staff
and a lack of motivation.  “I’m at the rock face,” Parkinson said. “This is too far
removed from what I do day-to-day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  