-- Obama Decision on Interrogating Suspect Draws Criticism
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-04-21T16:15:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/obama-decision-on-interrogating-suspect-draws-criticism.html
The Obama administration’s decision
to interrogate the Boston Marathon bombing suspect without first
warning him of his rights has sparked criticism from both sides
of the political spectrum about the best way to prosecute
 terrorism  cases.  Justice Department  officials have said their move to
question Dzhokar Tsarnaev, 19, without reading him the Miranda
warning of his right to a lawyer and to remain silent is a
necessary legal tool in cases of domestic terrorism.  Civil liberties groups said yesterday the tactic raises
concerns about infringing Tsarnaev’s constitutional rights,
particularly as he’s a naturalized American citizen. At the same
time, four Republican lawmakers criticized the administration
for not being tough enough, saying Tsarnaev should be designated
an enemy combatant with no right to counsel.  “These kinds of cases, which are going to be with us going
forward, they’re very difficult because this is all uncharted
territory,” Robert Chesney, a professor of constitutional and
national-security law at the  University of Texas , said in a
phone interview yesterday.  After a week of uncertainty and a manhunt that included
more than 1,000 federal agents, the capture of Tsarnaev swings
the investigation’s focus to the courts. Federal prosecutors are
drafting a criminal complaint and interrogators are preparing to
question the suspect on his knowledge of other plots or
associates, according to federal law enforcement officials who
spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss a continuing
investigation.  Serious Condition  As of yesterday afternoon, Tsarnaev was in serious
condition and unable to communicate, according to Massachusetts
Governor  Deval Patrick .  A team of counterterrorism interrogators with
representatives from the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation,
Central Intelligence Agency, and the Defense and State
Departments is in Boston to question the suspect, a Justice
Department official said.  Questions will focus on possible links to terrorist groups
and associates that may have been involved in the bombing or its
planning, said the official, who asked not to be identified
because the move wasn’t announced. Statements collected during
that period can be used by prosecutors in court.  Military Commission  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , the chairwoman of the Senate
Intelligence Committee, said that while Miranda rights can be
read after the so-called high-value interrogation group
questions Tsarnaev, she “strongly” believes the suspect’s case
shouldn’t be handled by a military commission.  “It would be unconstitutional to do that,” she said today
on Fox network’s “Fox News Sunday,” adding that 435 terrorist
convictions have been obtained under federal law “and maybe a
half-dozen under the military commission.”  For the Obama administration, the decision to invoke the
so-called public safety exception represents something of a
middle ground. It gives interrogators flexibility in questioning
as they work to discover new information about terrorist attacks
while laying the groundwork for a criminal trial.  The Democratic administration has taken a “relatively
apolitical position” in deciding to use the exception in the
Tsarnaev case, said Stephen Vladeck, a national security law
professor at American University in  Washington , D.C. It would
have been a “cave-in” to pursue anything else, he said.  Hinder Investigation  The Republican lawmakers said yesterday the limited period
used to question the suspect before giving the Miranda warning,
estimated to be at most 48 hours, would hinder the
investigation.  Relying on the exception instead of designating Tsarnaev an
enemy combatant “could severely limit our ability to gather
critical information about future attacks from this suspect,”
Senators Lindsey Graham of  South Carolina ,  John McCain  of
Arizona,  Kelly Ayotte  of  New Hampshire  and Representative  Peter King  of New York, all Republicans, said in a statement
yesterday.  “That evidence cannot be used against him in trial,”
Graham said today on CNN’s “ State of the Union ” program.
“That evidence is used to protect us as a nation,” Graham
said. “Any time we question him about his guilt or innocence
he’s entitled to his Miranda rights and a lawyer.”  The exception to the Miranda warning stems from a 1984 U.S.
 Supreme Court  decision that allows law-enforcement officials to
question suspects about threats to public safety before they are
warned of their rights to remain silent and have an attorney
present.  “In practice, the public-safety exception is really
limited,” Vladeck said. “It’s not a sort of get-out-of-
Miranda-free card.”  Exception’s Expansion  Attorney General Eric Holder has pushed for the aggressive
use and expansion of the warning exception in cases that involve
terrorism. Holder and his top aides in 2010 lobbied
congressional lawmakers to pass a law that would codify in
statute flexibility for prosecutors in the interrogation of
terrorism suspects.  With little appetite on  Capitol Hill  to re-enter the
national security law debates that came to define Republican
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, the plan didn’t
advance, according to  Matthew Miller , a former top aide to
Holder.  ‘Can of Worms’  “The reaction from Capitol Hill was that they didn’t want
to open this can of worms,” said Miller, who is now a partner
at Vianovo, a crisis strategy firm.  Holder, along with the FBI, opted to instruct prosecutors
and agents to use the exception when it came to the
“interrogation of an operational terrorist in the United
States.”  The FBI’s guidance to its agents said that because of the
magnitude and complexity of terrorist plots and organizations,
“the circumstances surrounding an arrest of an operational
terrorist may warrant significantly more extensive public safety
interrogation than would be permissible in a criminal case,”
Holder wrote in an October 2010 memo to U.S. attorneys.  Holder’s push has been criticized by civil liberties groups
that say delaying Miranda warnings poses risks to the
constitutional rights of suspects.  “Obama’s Justice Department unilaterally expanded the
‘public safety exception’ to Miranda in 2010 beyond anything the
Supreme Court ever authorized,” Vincent Warren, the executive
director of the Center for Constitutional Rights, a legal
advocacy group that focuses on civil-liberties litigation, said
in a statement yesterday. “Each time the administration uses
this exception, it stretches wider and longer.”  Caution Urged  Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the  American Civil
Liberties Union , urged caution with the exception’s use in
Tsarnaev’s case.  “The public safety exception should be read narrowly,”
Romero said in a statement.  Another wrinkle is Tsarnaev’s status as a U.S. citizen,
which would create challenges in designating him an enemy
combatant, said Benjamin Wittes, a senior fellow at the Brooking
Institution who focuses on national security law and the war on
terrorism. Brookings is a Washington-based public policy
organization.  Tsarnaev became a naturalized U.S. citizen on Sept. 11,
2012, according to two government officials briefed on the
matter. In two previous cases in which the  Bush administration 
designated U.S. citizens enemy combatants, federal officials had
to reverse course after a court ruling and pressure by civil
liberties groups.  ‘Don’t Try’  “The lesson of that for the Bush administration and then
to the Obama administration was basically: ‘Don’t try this
again,’” Wittes said.  It also remains unclear what, if any, relationship Tsarnaev
has with terrorist groups -- a legal requirement for use of the
designation, Wittes said.  Holder’s decision to seek changes on Capitol Hill, and the
FBI guidance that eventually followed, came amid an uproar over
the use of Miranda warnings in the terror arrests of Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab in 2009 and Faisal Shahzad in 2010.  Abdulmutallab, who pleaded guilty to an attempt to bomb a
Detroit-bound airplane on Christmas Day, was questioned by FBI
agents without a  Miranda warning  for about 50 minutes. Shahzad,
who attempted to blow up a car in New York’s Times Square, was
initially questioned with no warning and then waived his rights
for days. Both men were convicted and sentenced to life in
prison.  In both cases, Republican lawmakers criticized the
administration for eventually giving the suspects their Miranda
warnings, even after first invoking the public-safety exception.
The criticism was harsh in Abdulmutallab’s case, because he
didn’t cooperate for several weeks after being given the
warning.  Gaining Information  Abdulmutallab eventually relented and again began
cooperating with law-enforcement officials. The administration
said this shows the success in gaining valuable information
after giving Miranda warnings in both cases.  “History shows that the federal justice system is an
extremely effective tool for gathering intelligence,” Holder
said in a February 2010 letter to Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, regarding Abdulmutallab’s
case.  Abdulmutallab’s detention also bolstered the Justice
Department’s case for its use of the public-safety exception to
Miranda warnings.  Abdulmutallab’s Lawyers  During pretrial hearings, Abdulmutallab’s lawyers asked
that statements be suppressed that were made before law
enforcement officials gave him the warning. The judge in the
case declined and that decision is cited by the administration
as evidence of both its legality and use in terrorism cases.  In Tsarnaev’s case, however, the debate may not matter
because of the large volume of evidence that appears to have
been collected in the five days since the bombing, Vladeck said.  “It’s largely an academic debate, at least in this case,”
he said. “It’s not going to come down to what he may be saying
in this pre-Miranda interrogation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  