-- Runners Take to London’s Streets for Marathon With Added Police
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-04-21T10:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/london-runners-ready-to-run-marathon-as-police-add-officers-1-.html
Almost 40,000 runners took to the
streets today for the London Marathon, six days after two bombs
at the  Boston  Marathon killed three people and injured more than
175 others.  The 26.2-mile (42-kilometer) race began in Blackheath in
southeast London with the start of the women’s elite race and
finishes near  Buckingham Palace . Race officials held a 30-second
moment of silence before each of the three starts in memory of
the Boston victims, while the 37,000 runners were given black
ribbons to wear.  Police presence will be increased with “several hundred
additional officers” deployed along the route, according to the
Metropolitan Police.  “Following the terrible events in Boston, we are providing
additional visible reassurance to the public in what is
naturally a worrying time,” Chief Superintendent Julia Pendry
said in a statement two days ago. “I would stress there is no
change to the threat level to  London  and nothing at this stage
to link the Boston bombings to the London Marathon. Nevertheless
we want to do all we can to help provide a secure environment in
which the runners, spectators and volunteers can enjoy
themselves.”  Winners  Kenya’s Priscah Jeptoo won the women’s event, with
 Australia ’s Kurt Fearnley was champion of the men’s wheelchair
race, and American Tatyana McFadden, who won the Boston
Marathon, was champion of the women’s wheelchair event.  The elite women started at 9 a.m. local time under blue
skies and with a temperature of 5 degrees Celsius (41 degrees
Fahrenheit.) Twenty minutes later the elite male and female
wheelchair participants took to the course.  The elite men and the rest of the field started at 10 a.m.
after the moment of silence held for Boston. It took about 15
minutes for the runners to cross the starting line.  Last year’s race was dominated by runners from  Kenya .
Wilson Kipsang finished ahead of compatriot Martin Lel, a three-
time winner in London, in the men’s race, while Mary Keitany won
for a second time in leading a Kenya sweep of the top three
women’s spots.  In Boston, two bombs exploded near the finish line at the
city’s marathon as recreational runners completed the April 15
race. The blasts occurred about 2 1/2 hours after Lelisa Desisa
of  Ethiopia  won the men’s event.  A 19-year-old suspect, captured hiding in a boat, was in a
hospital with serious wounds as the FBI prepared to question him
about what might have inspired and enabled the attack.  Boston Bombs  Dzhokar Tsarnaev was being treated at Beth Israel Deaconess
Medical Center in Boston for gunshot wounds suffered as he
battled police, authorities said. His 26-year-old brother,
Tamerlan Tsarnaev, the other suspect, was killed as they both
tried to escape the dragnet April 19 shortly after they murdered
a police officer officer for the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology .  Organizers of the London Marathon will make a donation for
every finisher to the fund set up to help victims in Boston.  Officials said 2 pounds for every runner who crosses the
finish line will be donated to The One Fund Boston set up to
raise money after the explosions three days ago. With more than
35,500 runners expected to finish the race, organizers said at
least 70,000 pounds ($107,000) is likely to be raised.  The crowds were five to 10 people deep for parts of the
race as the clear weather and extra protection drew out
spectators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 