-- Orbital Sciences Rocket Launches in Test for Space Delivery
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-04-21T21:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/orbital-sciences-rocket-launches-in-test-for-space-delivery-1-.html
An  Orbital Sciences Corp. (ORB)  rocket
lifted off in its maiden flight as the company prepares to
eventually deliver cargo to the International Space Station.  The Antares rocket launched at 5 p.m. Washington time from
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s Wallops
Flight Facility on Virginia’s Eastern Shore.  “Go baby go,” the Dulles, Virginia-based company said in
a Twitter posting just after liftoff.  The mission is a practice run for Orbital and involves
delivery of a simulated, unmanned supply ship to orbit. It won’t
connect with the space station. If the test is successful,
Orbital may begin regular deliveries to the station as early as
September under a $1.9 billion contract.  “Orbital has to perform well if they want to be
competitive,” William Loomis, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co. in Baltimore, said in a phone interview before the launch.
“As each milestone gets behind them, there’s less risk.”  Orbital is following the success of billionaire Elon Musk’s
Space Exploration Technologies Corp., or SpaceX, which last May
became the first company to deliver cargo to the station.  A planned launch on April 17 was scrubbed about 12 minutes
before liftoff because a data cable prematurely disconnected
from the rocket. An attempt yesterday was delayed because of
wind.  SpaceX Competition  The company also scrapped a planned August, 2012 launch in
part because of faulty fuel valves at the Wallops Island
launchpad, Barron Beneski, an Orbital spokesman, said last year.  The stakes are high for Orbital because any setback raises
the risk that  NASA  could award a greater share of future supply
missions to Hawthorne, California-based SpaceX, Loomis said.  Shares of Orbital have gained 18 percent this year after
falling 5.2 percent in 2012. A successful launch might boost
shares about 5 percent, Loomis, who has a buy rating on the
company, wrote in an April 12 note to clients.  NASA is relying on companies such as Orbital and SpaceX to
supply the  space station  with food and other cargo, after
retiring its shuttle fleet in 2011. It also has agreements with
the governments of  Europe ,  Japan  and  Russia  for the work.  Orbital’s contract with the U.S. space agency includes
eight cargo resupply flights to the station. Closely held SpaceX
has a $1.6 billion contract for a dozen supply missions.  Cargo Ship  In today’s mission, the simulated cargo ship separated from
the rocket about 10 minutes after the launch, according to NASA
officials. It would remain in space for about two weeks before
burning up in the Earth’s atmosphere.  The company plans to demonstrate its cargo-carrying ability
with a flight to the space station in June or July, with regular
supply trips beginning as early as September, Frank Culbertson,
an Orbital executive vice president, said yesterday during a
press conference at the Wallops Island NASA facility.  In those missions, an  Antares (ANT)  rocket would launch Orbital’s
unmanned supply ship known as Cygnus into orbit. The one-way
spacecraft would then navigate to the space station and deliver
about 2 tons of crew supplies, spare parts and science
experiments per trip. It, too, will burn upon re-entering
Earth’s atmosphere.  Orbital’s launch was also a milestone for the NASA
facility, located 157 miles (253 kilometers) from the nation’s
capital. The Antares was the largest rocket launched from the
facility in its 67-year history.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  