-- Osborne Said to Extend Credit Plan as U.K. Weakness Persists
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-04-21T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/osborne-said-to-extend-boe-credit-plan-as-gdp-weakness-persists.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne intends to unveil the second phase of a plan to increase
loans for small companies and consumers because the U.K. economy
remains weak, said a person with knowledge of the plan.  Osborne may extend the Bank of England’s Funding for
Lending Scheme as soon as this week, said the person, who
declined to be identified because the measure hasn’t been
officially announced. The International Monetary Fund, whose
delegation will visit  London  next month for an audit of the
U.K., has called on him to do more to aid the economy.  Osborne’s growth offensive coincides with a renewed test of
his economic stewardship as data due this week shows if the U.K.
has escaped another recession, just days after the country lost
its AAA grade from a second ratings company. On Friday, Fitch
Ratings cut Britain by one level to AA+ and predicted that debt
will peak above 100 percent of  gross domestic product .  “Part of the reason for that is that the U.K. economic
recovery has been weak -- almost nonexistent,” Fitch analyst
David Riley told Sky News yesterday. “The chancellor is caught
between a rock and a hard place.”  Investors often ignore ratings companies, evidenced by a
drop in gilt yields since Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
the U.K. to Aa1 from Aaa on Feb. 22.  While the  median forecast  of 37 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News is for the economy to have skirted a slump and
expanded 0.1 percent in the first quarter, Bank of England
policy maker Martin Weale said on April 18 that he wouldn’t be
surprised if GDP fell. The Office for National Statistics will
release the data on April 25 in London.  IMF Spat  The GDP report follows a week of scrutiny of Osborne’s
policies after he rejected a call from the IMF to rethink the
pace of his budget squeeze.  Osborne said that he has already put in place policies to
support the British economy, hitting back at recommendations
from the IMF’s chief economist, Olivier Blanchard, who last week
called for a “reassessment of fiscal policy.” When asked by
reporters in  Washington  whether he would heed that, Osborne said
that “it depends on whether you agree with the advice.”  “The IMF, which George Osborne has relied upon very
heavily in supporting his proposition, said last week that he
was playing with fire,” former chancellor Alistair Darling,
Osborne’s predecessor, told Sky News. “The big question is, how
long does the present government simply lumber on hoping that
something will turn up?”  BOE Measures  Osborne has been relying on Bank of England measures to aid
the economy during his austerity drive. The FLS program,
introduced last August, allows banks to borrow treasury bills
from the central bank to fund lending. They currently have 18
months to use the facility and as long as four years to repay.
Only banks with access to the bank’s discount-window facility
can use the program, which accepts the same collateral.  The FLS extension might be used by Osborne to show the IMF
delegation that he is taking steps to aid growth without
abandoning his austerity plans. Osborne can also cite a separate
Help to Buy program, where the government underwrites
downpayments on homes, as evidence that he is taking steps to
support the economy.  “The big test isn’t so much what the IMF say, but what the
markets say,” Mark Field, a lawmaker in the governing
Conservative party, told Sky News. “We’ve kept our interest
rates very low and the lesson from 1931, from 1976 is once you
lose market sentiment then really all is lost.”  Local Elections  Pressure on Osborne may persist in the run-up to local
elections on May 2. An analysis by two professors at Plymouth
University in the Sunday Times yesterday suggests the opposition
Labour party will gain 350 local council seats, while the
Conservatives will lose 310 and their Liberal Democrat coalition
partners will lose 130.  “We haven’t really strongly enough communicated the fact
that this government has achieved the things that it set out to
do, which is to get a country living within its means,”
government minister Sayeeda Warsi told Sky News.  An Opinium Research poll in the Observer yesterday
suggested that Labour may also be struggling to attract support.
The party would currently get 35 percent of the vote, one of the
lowest readings since Ed Miliband became Labour leader,
according to the newspaper.  The Conservatives had 29 percent their Liberal Democrat
coalition partners had 8 percent, and the U.K. Independence
Party had 17 percent. Opinium questioned 1,969 adults for the
poll from April 16 to April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Washington at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  