-- Liverpool Fines Suarez for Biting Chelsea’s Ivanovic
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-04-22T11:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/tottenham-beats-manchester-city-to-keep-european-hopes-alive.html
Premier League soccer club
Liverpool fined striker  Luis Suarez  after he bit Chelsea
defender Branislav Ivanovic during a game yesterday.  The Uruguayan bit Ivanovic on the arm during the second
half of Liverpool’s 2-2 Premier League tie with Chelsea at home
in Anfield.  “We’ve taken action to fine Luis for his actions,”
Liverpool managing director  Ian Ayre  said today in a statement
on the club’s website. He added manager Brendan Rodgers had
spoken to Suarez, and that he would be “working with him
further on his discipline.”  Liverpool has asked Suarez to donate his fine to the
Hillsborough Family Support Group, which represents and supports
families that lost members in the 1989 incident that killed 96
Liverpool supporters at Sheffield Wednesday’s stadium. It didn’t
disclose how much it had fined Suarez.  “I think he felt like he let a lot of people down
yesterday,” Ayre said. “We’ll work with Luis -- Brendan
particularly -- on this side of his character in his game.
Hopefully that puts the matter to rest from our point of view
and we’ll wait and see if there’s any further action from the
football authorities.”  The club has also been in touch with its owners, Fenway
Sports Group, about yesterday’s incident.  “I spoke to them last night, and they were happy with the
way we were handling the matter,” Ayre said.  “His behavior is not befitting of any player wearing a
Liverpool shirt and Luis is aware that he has let himself and
everyone associated with the club down,” Ayre had said in a
statement last night. “We will deal with the matter internally
and await any action from the Football Association.”  Also last night, Suarez said in a statement that he was
“deeply sorry for my inexcusable behavior.” The Uruguayan
striker set up the Reds’ first goal and got a yellow card after
his handball gave Chelsea a penalty kick for its second.  “I’ve just spoken to Ivanovic on the phone and I could
apologize directly to him,” Suarez, who was last week nominated
for the Professional Footballers’ Association player of the year
award,  posted on Twitter . “Thanks for accepting.”  Today,  Gordon Taylor , chief executive officer of the PFA,
told the British Broadcasting Corp. that the incident was
“disappointing and embarrassing,” and offered Suarez help with
“anger management.”  Blues defender Ivanovic complained to referee Kevin Friend
that he had been bitten on his right arm by Suarez after they
clashed inside the Chelsea penalty area. After reviewing a
videotape and speaking to Suarez, Liverpool Manager  Brendan Rodgers  said his player’s conduct was “unacceptable.”  Suarez, who yesterday became the first Liverpool player to
score 30 goals in a season since  Fernando Torres , has a history
of controversy.  Biting Ban  While at Ajax, he accepted a seven-game suspension from the
Dutch soccer association after biting PSV Eindhoven player Otman Bakkal on the shoulder during a match in Amsterdam. At the 2010
 World Cup , he was sent off in a quarterfinal after blocking a
goal-bound header with his hand. Ghana missed the resulting
penalty kick, and went on to lose to Suarez’s Uruguay team in a
penalty shootout.  Last season, Suarez was given an eight-match suspension for
racially abusing  Manchester United (MANU)  defender  Patrice Evra  in a
2011 Premier League game.  With former Liverpool manager Rafael Benitez and ex-Reds
striker Torres returning to Anfield yesterday, Oscar gave
Chelsea a 26th-minute lead.  Daniel Sturridge  made it 1-1 in the
52nd before Eden Hazard’s 57th-minute penalty restored the
visiting team’s advantage. Suarez’s header in the seventh added
minute made it 2-2.  Benitez Bemused  “I was disappointed with the late goal conceded,” Benitez
said in comments on Chelsea’s website. “Especially because I
can’t understand why there were six minutes and 45 seconds
stoppage time.”  The result left Chelsea in fourth place, the last of the
 Champions League  qualification spots, one point ahead of
Tottenham and two behind third-place Arsenal.  Tottenham scored three times in seven minutes in a 3-1 win
that left  Manchester City  on the brink of relinquishing its
title.  Manchester City’s defeat at Spurs all but ended its title
defense.  Manchester United , which has a 13-point lead atop the
standings, needs three more points to secure a record-extending
20th league championship and can clinch the trophy as soon as
tonight, when it hosts  Aston Villa .  City took the lead yesterday with Samir Nasri’s fifth-
minute goal, and coasted until  Clint Dempsey  scored in the 75th
minute.  Jermain Defoe  put Spurs ahead four minutes later and
Gareth Bale completed the scoring in the 82nd minute.  “In the first half we didn’t play with confidence, but we
always had the desire to come back into the game,” Spurs
manager Andre Villas-Boas said in a televised interview. “In
the second half everything changed. We found more spaces and we
found the back of the net, deservedly.”  ‘Under Control’  City has 68 points through 33 of 38 matches, five more than
Arsenal, which has played one game more than the rest of the top
five. The top four make the Champions League,  Europe ’s elite
club competition.  “I can’t believe we lost this game,” City coach  Roberto Mancini  said. “We had the game under control, we played well
for 80 minutes. This has been our problem all year.”  Two days ago, Reading and Queens Park Rangers moved to the
verge of relegation. Reading lost 2-1 at Norwich and QPR was
beaten at home by Stoke 2-0 to leave both teams anchored at the
bottom of the standings with 24 points, 10 fewer than Aston
Villa, which is just above the three teams that are relegated to
the second-tier Championship.  In other games, Arsenal beat Fulham 1-0 as both teams
finished with 10 men. West Ham defeated Wigan 2-0, Sunderland
beat Everton 1-0, West Brom drew 1-1 with Newcastle, while
Swansea and Southampton finished 0-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  