-- Paraguay Elects Tobacco Executive Horacio Cartes As President
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-04-22T01:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/paraguayans-vote-for-president-amid-anticipation-for-expansion.html
Tobacco magnate Horacio Cartes was
elected president of  Paraguay  amid agriculture-driven economic
expansion forecast to surpass 11 percent in one of Latin
America’s poorest countries.  Cartes defeated former public works minister Efrain Alegre,
the Supreme Electoral Court said, citing a “substantial”
advantage for the businessman in preliminary voting. As of 8:37
p.m. in Asuncion, Cartes was ahead with 45.9 percent, with
Alegre in second place with 36.9 percent, according to the
commission’s website.  “Today I’m sure the Republic of Paraguay won,” Cartes,
56, told supporters during a victory rally. “The commitment is
to every person in the country.”  The win returns the Colorado Party of former dictator
Alfredo Stroessner to office after voters ousted it from power
in 2008 for the first time in six decades. Cartes’ supporters
are banking on his entrepreneurial skills to sustain and develop
an agricultural boom forecast to spur the fastest growth in
 South America  this year.  Over two decades Cartes has built a business empire that
spans the cigarette, banking, cattle-rearing, and fruit juice
industries. He is also president of Club Libertad, one of the
country’s top soccer teams.  Paraguay is the poorest country in South America after
 Bolivia , with a per capita gross domestic product $6,788 this
year, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The economy of the world’s fourth-largest soybean exporter
will expand 11 percent this year due to a bumper harvest,
according to the IMF. Agriculture accounts for a quarter of the
nation’s $24 billion economy.  Rebuilding Ties  Cartes will also have to rebuild ties with the regional
trade bloc, Mercosur, after Paraguay’s membership in the
organization was suspended last June when lawmakers ousted
Fernando Lugo, a former Catholic priest, as president. Lugo’s
impeachment was so quick that South American leaders likened it
to a parliamentary coup. Mercosur includes Brazil,  Argentina ,
Uruguay and  Venezuela .  After the elections, Argentine President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  used her Twitter account to offer congratulations to
Paraguayans and tell them that “your place is here in Mercosur
with all of us as always.”  Federico Franco, Lugo’s vice president, is leading the
country until the new president takes office on Aug. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  