-- Pimco on Defensive Favors Utilities as Fitch Warns: China Credit
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-04-22T04:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/pimco-on-defensive-favors-utilities-as-fitch-warns-china-credit.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
top debt picks are utility and energy companies that will
benefit as  China  shifts to a consumer-driven economy, while
indebted companies tied to the old export-led model suffer.  “We put our highest conviction in utility and energy
sectors,” Raja Mukherji, Hong Kong-based head of Asian credit
research at Pimco, manager of the world’s biggest bond fund,
said in an e-mail interview on April 12. A shortage of energy
resources and undeveloped distribution networks for consumers
“creates opportunities if we can invest in the future winners
early,” he said.  Utility and energy bonds gained 0.7 percent and 0.8 percent
this year through April 18, the second- and third-worst
performers among 12 Chinese sectors tracked by Bank of America
Corp. That compares with a 2.6 percent return for real-estate
bonds and an average of 2 percent for all dollar-denominated
Chinese debt. Energy bonds handed investors a 37.4 percent
return, topping an index average of 24 percent during China’s
economic slowdown from April 2010 to September 2012.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. cut China’s sovereign ranking this month
and Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook to stable from
positive, citing risks from rising debt loads and the potential
impact on the economy. LDK Solar Ltd. failed to fully pay notes
last week after rival solar panel producer Suntech Power
Holdings Co. defaulted on $541 million of bonds on March 15.  Slowing Economy  Economic growth is slowing amid a crackdown on lending for
property speculation and unprofitable infrastructure projects. A
government report showed last week gross domestic product
increased 7.7 percent last quarter from a year ago, falling
short of the 8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  So-called trust loans jumped 320 percent from a year
earlier to a record 431 billion  yuan  ($70 billion) in March as
borrowers tried to get around curbs on bank funding, central
bank data show. Former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said
April 6 that local governments’ combined debt may have exceeded
20 trillion yuan.  China’s 10-year sovereign bond yield fell nine basis points
this month to 3.45 percent as investors sought safety in
government notes. The  spread  on Chinese dollar-denominated
securities over Treasuries widened 71 basis points to 367 basis
points in the first three months of the year, ending a five-
quarter narrowing run that saw a decline of 551 basis points in
the period, according to the JPMorgan Corporate EMBI China
Blended Spread index. The gap was 368 basis points today.  ‘Stay Defensive’  “We are likely to see a reining in of expansionary credit
policies and a consequent fading in the strength of the economic
recovery,” Mukherji said. “China’s economic leadership is
cognizant of the risks of continuing policies dependent up on
investment and perpetual debt creation.”  Pimco last year predicted China’s economy would expand 6.5
percent to 7 percent in the 12 months to September 2013, “the
new normal with Chinese characteristics.” Banks including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Westpac Banking
Corp. and Nomura Holdings Inc. last week trimmed their growth
forecasts for 2013 to as low as 7.5 percent.  The slowdown complicates challenges for Premier Li Keqiang
as he seeks to switch the economy’s engine of growth to consumer
spending from exports and investments. Investors should avoid
companies with high leverage and business models suited to the
old system, Pimco said in a February report.  “In credit, the key is to stay defensive in an environment
where the absolute compensation for credit risk in terms of
spreads has compressed dramatically,” Mukherji said.  Risks Highlighted  Fitch said April 9 its decision to lower the local-currency
debt rating to match the international rank of A+ was based on
the lack of transparency in the increased borrowing of
localities. While central government debt is low, total
government liabilities, when combined with regional debt, amount
to 49 percent of GDP, a level in line with its rating peers,
said Andrew Colquhoun, Fitch’s Hong Kong-based head of Asia-
Pacific Sovereigns.  “So public finance is not a weakness, but neither are they
a standout strength,” Colquhoun said in an interview last week.
“The kind of risks we highlighted in our research do seem to be
chiming with people.”  The cost of insuring China’s debt against non-payment
climbed three basis points last week to 72, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Yuan Attracts  Even so, Pimco’s co-head of  emerging markets  portfolio
management Ramin Toloui said on April 18 that he favors yuan
assets traded in Hong Kong because of steady returns and low
volatility.  “It’s a good investment in offshore  renminbi  because you
get paid a 2 percent yield,” Singapore-based Toloui said in an
interview. “If you adjust that 2 percent yield by the very low
volatility, it looks even better.”  The yuan rose 0.5 percent this month to 6.1807 per dollar
in  Shanghai , and touched a 19-year high of 6.1723 on April 17.
Three-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in
the exchange rate, is 1.87 percent for the yuan in Hong Kong.  Pimco’s  Emerging Asia Bond Fund (PEABEUI)  returned 2.5 percent in
2013, bringing gains in the past year to 12 percent and beating
73 percent of its global peers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Pimco favors major state-owned oil companies in Asia as
governments are motivated to support this sector to sustain
economic growth, Mukherji said, while not disclosing which bonds
it holds in its fund.  The yield on the 2017 dollar notes sold by China National
Petroleum Corp., the nation’s largest energy producer, fell five
basis points this month to 1.77 percent today, having reached an
all-time low of 1.71 percent on March 4.  “We expect Chinese state oil and gas companies to pursue
more overseas acquisitions, and with government support,”
Mukherji said. “We expect the companies to exhibit faster
growth versus domestic gross domestic product and tap the bond
markets to fund their long-term investment plans.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  