-- Princeton Names Insider Provost Eisgruber as Next President
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-04-21T20:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/princeton-university-names-insider-eisgruber-as-next-president.html
Princeton University  named
 Christopher Eisgruber , a constitutional scholar and provost of
the  Ivy League  school since 2004, as its 20th president.  Eisgruber, 51, takes over on July 1, the Princeton, New
Jersey-based university said today in a  statement . He replaces
Shirley Tilghman, Princeton’s first female leader, who took
charge in 2001.  A Princeton alumnus, Eisgruber is one of three new
presidents in the eight-member Ivy League, all of whom step into
their roles in a few months. Yale University Provost Peter Salovey takes the helm there, and Philip Hanlon, provost at the
 University of Michigan , takes over at Dartmouth College.
Eisgruber will join them in the effort to build and maintain
endowments hit by uneven markets and increased spending, nurture
research programs, integrate online courses into their curricula
and address the ballooning cost of higher education.  “I worry sometimes that this focus on cost, which is
understandable, may lead people to look for cheaper education,”
Eisgruber said in a telephone interview. “High-quality
education is expensive, and it is expensive for a fundamental
reason. Education is dependent on student-faculty engagement,
very good students in contact with very good faculty.”  College Costs  If there are ways to slow down the cost, “it’s an
important thing to do,” he said.  Eisgruber said he wasn’t interested in seeking out the
presidency of other universities. Several elite schools outside
the Ivy League were also looking for new leaders over the past
year, including  Carnegie Mellon University  and the  University of
California , Berkeley.  “I have been associated with Princeton for 34 years,” he
said. “This university has a special part in my heart. My
reasons for wanting to be president of this university had to do
with my attachment to Princeton.”  Eisgruber has all of the qualities the search committee was
looking for in the school’s next president, Kathryn Hall, chair
of Princeton’s Board of Trustees and chief executive officer of
Hall Capital Partners LLC in San Francisco, said in the
statement.  “He has keen intelligence and excellent judgment; he cares
passionately about teaching and research of the highest quality;
he is deeply committed to principles of excellence, equity and
integrity; and he is devoted to Princeton,” Hall said.  Search Committee  Princeton’s 17-member  search committee  began meeting in
October, soon after Tilghman announced she would step down at
the end of the current academic year. The committee included
nine trustees, four faculty members, three students and a staff
member.  As provost, Eisgruber is Princeton’s second-ranking
official and its chief academic and budgetary officer. In the
first semester of the academic year, he taught a freshman
seminar on the Supreme Court and constitutional democracy.  Eisgruber became  provost  when  Amy Gutmann  vacated the job
to become president of the  University of Pennsylvania .  He is the Laurance S. Rockefeller Professor of Public
Affairs in Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School and the University
Center for Human Values. From 2001 to June 2004, he served as
director of Princeton’s Program in Law and Public Affairs.  Rhodes Scholar  After graduating from the university in 1983 with a degree
in physics, Eisgruber became a Rhodes Scholar. He earned a law
degree at the  University of Chicago , where he was editor-in-
chief of the law review. He was a law clerk to Supreme Court
Justice  John Paul Stevens .  Eisgruber taught at  New York  University’s law school for 11
years before coming to Princeton. He is the author of several
legal books. He examined the  Supreme Court  nominating process in
“The Next Justice: Repairing the Supreme Court Appointments
Process,” published in 2007.  His wife, Lori Martin, is a securities litigator with the
firm of  WilmerHale , and they have a 14-year-old son, Danny.  Princeton is the fifth-wealthiest school in higher
education, with an endowment of $17 billion as of June 2012,
according to the National Association of College and University
Business Officers and Commonfund Institute.  The university was the first to replace loans with grants
that don’t need to be repaid in financial-aid packages for
undergraduates. Unlike its Ivy peers, Princeton doesn’t operate
a medical school and has few graduate schools, making its
finances less complicated than a university such as Yale with
 more than a dozen professional schools.   Before taking over as president, Tilghman, 66, was a
faculty member for 15 years. A molecular biologist, she said in
September that she would step down at the end of the school
year. Tilghman said at the time she planned to return to
teaching at the school after a sabbatical.  Alumni of Princeton include three current Supreme Court
justices, Samuel Alito Jr.,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan , and
first lady  Michelle Obama . The school was founded in 1746 as the
College of  New Jersey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in New York 
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  