-- Senate Friendship Born of Tragedy Overcomes Partisanship
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-04-21T15:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/senate-friendship-born-of-tragedy-overcomes-partisanship.html
These days, most dispatches from
 Washington  focus on petty partisanship, posturing, impasses and
a political culture that rewards confrontation.  Here’s a respite: a story of kindness, comity, generosity
reaching across the political divide.  It’s about the two senators from Illinois, Dick Durbin, a
30-year veteran of Congress, and Mark Kirk, a freshman. Durbin
is the Senate Democratic whip; Kirk represents the bluest, or
most Democratic, state of any Republican senator.  Fifteen months ago, at age 52, Kirk suffered a sudden
ischemic stroke while in Illinois; it was serious, and he was in
a coma for a week. After regaining consciousness, he believed he
was in danger of dying and doubted he would return to the
Senate. He endured three operations and strenuous rehabilitation
to learn to walk and function.  Immediately after the stroke, one of the first visitors to
Kirk’s stunned Washington office was Durbin.  “It was such a shock,” the Democratic lawmaker recalls.
“We just wanted to pitch in and help any way we could.”  Durbin “came with his chief of staff and told us they
would do anything to work with us -- legislation, constituent
mail -- to call anytime we needed him,” says Kate Dickens, who
runs Kirk’s Senate office. “He said, ‘I’m your acting senator.’
It was very comforting.”  Joint Statements  Durbin later visited the recovering senator at home, and
they had a lengthy one-on-one conversation. Every commitment was
fulfilled. Press releases were issued  jointly ; they co-sponsored
legislation and undertook collaborative projects in their state.
Their offices worked together closely. The Republican staffers
recall that when questions persisted about whether Kirk would
return to the Senate, it was Durbin who insisted that he would.  Their collaboration got results. Despite the logjam of
judicial appointments, Durbin made sure that a Kirk appointee,
John Tharp, was confirmed as a judge on the U.S. District Court
in Northern  Illinois .  They also worked together on what Kirk calls the “crown
jewel” of Illinois appointments: the replacement of the U.S.
attorney in  Chicago . Patrick Fitzgerald, who resigned from the
post last year, indicted and convicted the previous two Illinois
governors, a Republican and Democrat. It is, to put it mildly, a
politically sensitive post.  Durbin and Kirk, with the help of a bipartisan group of
advisers, submitted four names that were acceptable to both
senators. The president is expected to make his choice soon.  Their relationship had been cordial before. Durbin was
chairman of the campaign of Kirk’s 2010 opponent. After the
election, they agreed to wipe the slate clean.  The trauma of the stroke deepened their professional and
personal bonds, both men said in interviews. “We now have a
close relationship, which I value very much,” Durbin says.  “We put our state ahead of party,” Kirk says.  Displays of personal compassion in politics aren’t entirely
uncommon. Vice President Joe Biden has written about the
kindness he was shown by some colleagues when, shortly after he
was elected to the Senate, his wife and young child were killed
in an automobile accident. In 2003, when the son of Republican
Senator Gordon Smith of  Oregon  committed suicide, one of the
first people to come to his office to console him and talk about
loss was Democratic Senator Ted Kennedy.  Rare Comity  Yet with comity so rare in Washington these days, the
Durbin-Kirk experience is noteworthy. There were others who rose
to support the afflicted senator.  The lawmakers Kirk cites include his “best friend” in the
Senate, Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, and
Representative John Shimkus, an Illinois Republican. Kirk
appreciates the special support from Durbin because they’re from
the same state and because, as a party leader, the Democrat has
clout.  Durbin, 68, is one of the few confidants of President
 Barack Obama  in Congress and one of the most liberal lawmakers,
a staunch supporter of progressive and labor causes.  Yet, unlike many other politicians, he cultivates ties on
the other side of the aisle; politics, he believes, is about
relationships. He persuaded the conservative Florida Republican
Senator Marco Rubio to join the group that was trying to craft
an overhaul of immigration policies. They unveiled their
proposal last week; prospects for eventual Senate passage are
good.  And, to the dismay of some on the political left, he joined
the bipartisan majority on the Bowles-Simpson deficit panel in
supporting a long-range  deficit-reduction plan  that included
cuts in entitlements and  tax increases .  Kirk’s recovery has been slow but steady. He walks with a
cane and is regaining other abilities. He missed all of last
year’s congressional session. He’s back full time now, and fully
engaged. During a recent all-night Senate “vote-a-rama,” there
were 42 roll calls until 5 a.m.; he made them all.  During rehabilitation, he set a goal: When the Senate
convened this year, he was going to walk up the steps to the
Capitol. He told Durbin he would be “thrilled” if he would
join him.  On Jan. 3, Kirk, accompanied by the vice president, Manchin
and Durbin, walked up those 45 steps.  (Albert R. Hunt is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
 Al Hunt  in Washington at   ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 