-- Slovenia NLB Capital Needs Below Fitch Estimates, CEO Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-22T09:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/slovenia-s-nlb-needs-less-capital-than-fitch-estimates-ceo-says.html
Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d.,
 Slovenia ’s largest lender, needs less fresh capital than the 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) estimated by Fitch Ratings, Chief
Executive Officer Janko Medja said.  State-owned Nova Ljubljanska at the end of last year
estimated that it needed 375 million euros, Medja said in an
April 19 interview in the Slovenian capital, Ljubljana. The
lender is working on restructuring its loan portfolio to reduce
the need for new provisions, he said. The bank has “healthy”
liquidity and can still borrow from the European Central Bank if
needed, he said.  “We don’t agree with the Fitch estimate,” Medja said in
his office in the city center. “We want to minimize the need
for fresh capital to reduce the moral hazard question. If there
would be a need, we would still have some leeway to borrow more
from the ECB.”  Slovenia’s second recession in four years is boosting bad
loans at state-owned lenders such as Nova Ljubljanska and  Nova
Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , the nation’s second-largest. The
fourth-smallest economy in the euro area is trying to avoid
becoming the sixth country using the euro to seek a bailout
after international lenders agreed last month to help Cyprus.  Bad Loans  Bad loans at Slovenia’s three largest banks, Nova
Ljubljanska, Nova Kreditna and  Abanka Vipa d.d. , are estimated
to represent 30 percent of their total loans, according to an
April 9 report by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The three lenders need 2 billion euros of fresh
capital, Fitch said on April 5.  Turmoil over the banking industry has shaken investor
confidence in Slovenia, the first post-Communist country to
adopt the euro when it made the switch in 2007. The cost of
insuring Slovenian government bonds against non-payment for five
years using credit-default swaps traded at 345 points at 11:04
a.m. in Ljubljana, compared with 232 at the start of 2013.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek’s month-old administration
pledged to press ahead with a bank-recapitalization plan valued
at as much as 4 billion euros and to step up austerity measures
including tax increases.  Top Priority  The rescue is “the No. 1 priority for the government” and
the funds needed for the overhaul may come from the sale of
state-owned companies, Bratusek said last week.  The lack of recent stress tests on banks makes the figure
stated by Medja questionable, said Andraz Grahek, a managing
partner at corporate finance advisers Capital Genetics in
Ljubljana.  “Without stress tests conducted by an independent
institution and published publicly, the words of the NLB
management carry the same weight as those of Slovenian
politicians,” he said by e-mail today. “The figured argued by
NLB management is too low in any serious stress-testing
exercise, while the Fitch figure should be seen in a dynamic
perspective and seems possible.”  Restructuring Timetable  The bulk of bank restructuring must be done before the end
of the year, Finance Minister Uros Cufer told Bloomberg in an
interview in  Washington  on April 19.  Once the banks are recapitalized, which may cost “close
to” 1 billion euros, the process of transferring assets “can
start very soon” and possibly be finished in the third quarter,
he said.  NLB submitted a restructuring plan with the European
Commission in January and expects to meet with the EU’s
executive arm next month for feedback on cleaning up the bank’s
balance sheets as it deals with “the legacy portfolio from the
past,” Medja said.  While Nova Ljubljanska is a candidate to be sold as part of
the asset-sale plan, that is more likely to happen in 2014 than
this year, Medja said. Slovenia, where the bank conducts most of
its business, must become more attractive as a market before
such a deal, he said.  “If one considers the normal process how a bank sale is
carried through, one would know it’s impossible to sell NLB this
year,” he said. “If one started the process today, the
investor activities including due diligence and everything
cannot be completed before the end of 2014 for NLB.”  Bond Sale  The oversubscription of an April 17 auction of 500 million
euros of 18-month Treasury bills, called at the last minute by
the Finance Ministry, by more than double has boosted the cash-
strapped government’s confidence in raising fresh capital.  A day later, it picked banks to organize international bond
investor meetings on a possible bond sale that would ease
pressure further on the country, wedged between the Adriatic Sea
and the Alps.  The bond sale is “important for the state since it’s a key
element for analysts to assess the country’s risk and its credit
rating and since NLB is owned by the state, the rating of NLB is
tied to that of the sovereign,” Medja said.  Slovenia has a long-term foreign-currency debt rating of
Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service, the second-lowest investment
grade, with a stable outlook.  Its public debt at 60 percent of GDP compares with 57
percent in  Poland , 79 percent in  Hungary  and the EU average of
90 percent, according to European Commission estimates for 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  