-- SMBC Nikko to Add 100 Staff Abroad to Compete With Global Banks
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-04-21T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/smbc-nikko-to-add-100-staff-abroad-to-compete-with-global-banks.html
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. (8316) , the
brokerage unit of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., plans to
add 100 equity and bond sales staff, traders and bankers abroad
within three years to compete with global firms.  SMBC Nikko targets a 25 percent increase in employees in
 Europe , the U.S. and  Asia  outside Japan to 500 by the year
ending March 2016 to bolster trading, underwriting and mergers
advice, Chief Executive Officer Tetsuya Kubo said in  Tokyo .  Japan’s biggest lenders are expanding  investment banking 
abroad at a time when brokerages  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. (8601)  scale back their global ambitions by
eliminating jobs. Sumitomo Mitsui, the nation’s second-largest
bank by market value, probably posted record profit for the year
ended March, analysts’ estimates show.  “We want to chase the lead pack of runners and obtain
major-league deals,” Kubo, 59, said in an April 17 interview.
“SMBC Nikko doesn’t have to be like Goldman Sachs. We won’t
pursue every single line of business, but we’ll go after all
Japan-related work, including cross-border M&A advice, global
equity offerings and Samurai bond underwriting.”  SMBC Nikko plans to hire 1,000 people in total over the
three years, including about 410 university graduates in 2014
and 400 in 2015, to boost retail operations, said Kubo, who
became CEO of the Tokyo-based firm this month.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to end  deflation  have
spurred Japanese  stocks  and weakened the yen, improving
prospects for brokerages and an export-driven economic recovery.
The currency’s 13 percent decline against the dollar this year
won’t deter companies from seeking takeovers abroad, Kubo said.  Abe Lift  “Abe’s policies obviously boosted retail business and will
give us more chances to underwrite public offerings,” he said.
“Japanese companies know they have to expand abroad as the
declining birth rate hinders growth at home.”  Kubo was involved in setting up an alliance with Moelis &
Co., the U.S. investment bank founded by  Kenneth Moelis .
Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit said last year it will invest $93
million in the New York-based firm to strengthen the tie-up on
merger advisory operations.  “Cross-border M&A markets have been the exclusive domain
of foreign banks,” said Kubo. “We’ve sent several SMBC Nikko
bankers to Moelis, and we’ll communicate closely with Moelis
bankers to strengthen the advisory business.”  Sumitomo Mitsui’s rank among financial advisers on global
cross-border mergers and acquisitions rose to 53rd last year
from 111th in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan Ranks  Among advisers on takeovers involving Japanese companies,
Sumitomo Mitsui is ranked ninth this year, the data show. It’s
in fifth place among managers of Japanese equity offerings and
third for bond sales in the country.  The company formed SMBC Nikko in 2011 after its lending
unit bought operations including Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.
from Citigroup Inc. in 2009.  Sumitomo Mitsui is poised to post record annual profit next
month, helped by bond trading and fees. Net income climbed to
693 billion yen ($7 billion) for the year ended March, more than
its 540 billion yen forecast, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 17 analysts.  The potential increase in overseas payrolls at SMBC Nikko
contrasts with a reduction at Nomura, as  Japan ’s biggest
brokerage implements a $1 billion cost-cutting program. The
number of Nomura staff outside of Japan fell to 12,270 in
December, down 733 from a year earlier, company figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  