-- Spain Has EU’s Largest Deficit, Undermining Rajoy Pickup
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-04-22T09:00:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/spanish-slump-with-record-jobless-pressures-rajoy-seeking-pickup.html
Spain ’s budget deficit was the
largest in the European Union last year, underlining the
challenge faced by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  as he is due to
present a new plan to foster a recovery.  The EU’s statistics agency Eurostat today reported Spain’s
deficit widened to 10.6 percent of gross domestic product last
year, ahead of  Greece ’s 10 percent of GDP gap, swollen by the
cost of bailing out its banking system. That compares with 9.4
percent in 2011.  The Spanish premier pledged on April 17 to unveil measures
this Friday to make the euro region’s fourth-largest economy
more flexible and competitive. That announcement will end a week
of reports ranging from an estimate of gross domestic product in
the first quarter to data showing if unemployment reached
another record.  Rajoy is bidding for more time from European Union peers to
reorder public finances as he aims to end a six-year economic
crisis, aided by the  European Central Bank ’s pledge to do
whatever it takes to preserve the euro. International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said last week that the
Spanish government needs more time to reduce its deficit.  “Spain needs another two to three quarters to fully
reassure investors,” said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. “Beyond the ECB’s
support, it must prove the economy’s improvement is structural
and that the bank recapitalization is sufficient to deal with
the increase in non-performing loans.”  Government’s Success  “There is still a lot to do, but over the past year the
government has succeeded in stabilizing the banking system and
reducing the deficit,” said  Jose Antonio Herce , a partner at
Madrid-based consultancy firm Analistas Financieros
Internacionales. Excluding aid to banks the deficit was 7
percent according to the Budget Ministry.  The country “has become cheap for investors, as the
probability of a European aid request is low,” he said.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark  bond has dropped
more than 300 basis points from a euro-era high of 7.75 percent
in July, before ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do what it
would take to hold the single currency together. It was at 4.56
percent at 10:54 a.m. in  Madrid .  Spain last week sold 10-year bonds at the lowest yield
since 2010, completing 43 percent of mid- and long-term funding
needs for 2013. Still, investors demand about 3.4 percentage
points more than to lend to  Germany  for the same maturity.  Record Unemployment  Along with economic measures, Spain’s cabinet will on April
26 approve mid-term budget plans even without receiving an
update from the EU on its 2013 deficit limit, currently at 4.5
percent of GDP. That will follow Thursday’s release of labor
data showing that  unemployment  rose to a record 26.5 percent in
the first quarter, according to the median of six estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Rajoy has signaled that the economy will probably shrink
this year by more than the 0.5 percent he previously forecast.  The Bank of Spain, which predicted a 1.5 percent
contraction in 2013, will this week publish its GDP estimate for
the first three months of the year. Economists forecast a drop 
of 0.5 percent and the seventh quarter of recession. The economy
shrank 0.8 percent in the final three months of last year, the
most since 2009.  Consumer Woes  Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s biggest clothing retailer, missed
analysts’ profit estimates in the last quarter of its fiscal
year as the toughest austerity in 30 years of democracy
undermined its home market.  The Spanish economy is suffering from a persisting credit
drought. Mortgage data to be released on April 24 may confirm
that banks continued to restrict  credit  in February after bad
loans amounted to 10.4 percent of total lending that month.
Banks’ asset quality is vulnerable as the weakness of euro-area
economies including Spain affects as much as 20 percent of non-
bank corporate debt, the IMF last week said in a report.  “Indicators are still pointing to the continuation of a
pretty deep recession,” said  Jonathan Loynes , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “If we see a reescalation of
the euro-zone crisis -- whether due to the Cyprus episode or
 Italy ’s political deadlock -- that could push borrowing costs up
across the region, and Spain would clearly be affected.”  Rajoy will seek to convince investors that such a scenario
can be avoided as he continues to overhaul the economy after
claiming measures to overhaul labor rules improved
competitiveness and helped drive exports to a record.  His plans now include tax changes to help entrepreneurs, a
reorganization of the public administration to make the pensions
system sustainable and regulation changes for energy,
telecommunications and transportation.  “Spain doesn’t look altogether different from the U.K. or
 France ,” said Robert Wood, an economist at Berenberg Bank in
 London . “Of course with debt heading up towards 100 percent of
GDP, big deficits and the economy contracting, bond yields are
bound to be higher than in Germany, but rising up to 7 percent
wasn’t warranted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  