-- Switzerland May Discuss Tax-Information Exchange, Minister Says
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-21T00:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/switzerland-may-discuss-tax-information-exchange-minister-says.html
Switzerland  would be ready to
discuss an automatic exchange of tax information with other
countries if certain transparency conditions are met, Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told reporters yesterday.  Switzerland favors withholding-tax arrangements for non-
resident bank-account holders, rather than the European Union’s
preferred automatic exchange of information model.  “We would be ready to enter into a discussion” on the
automatic information-exchange “if certain conditions are met
and one condition for us being able to imagine at all to have
such a discussion is to disclose the beneficial owners” in all
relevant cases, Widmer-Schlumpf said in  Washington , where she
attended an International Monetary Fund meeting.  Austria and Luxembourg earlier this month announced plans
that bring them more in line with the EU’s position, leaving
Switzerland increasingly isolated and clinging to its bilateral
accords with the U.K. and  Austria , which still shield client
identities.  “Specifically, this means that there would have to be full
transparency at trusts,” Widmer-Schlumpf said, adding her view
was shared by German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble in a
bilateral discussion. “If you don’t know the beneficial owner
in all constructs, then all information exchanges aren’t of much
use.”  Another condition for Switzerland’s approval is to agree on
what types of information are to be exchanged, Widmer-Schlumpf
said. While Luxembourg wants to limit the information exchange
to interest income, others want an extension to all kinds of
asset earnings such as dividends, she said.  “Another necessary discussion concerns reciprocity” and
the U.S. in particular isn’t ready to provide the information it
expects to receive from others, Widmer-Schlumpf said. “We’ve
said that there has to be full reciprocity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  