-- U.K. Must Negotiate for Better Deal With EU, Business Lobby Says
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-04-21T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/u-k-must-negotiate-for-better-deal-with-eu-business-lobby-says.html
The U.K. must renegotiate its
relationship with the European Union, according to a business
lobby group set up to campaign for such changes before the
country’s planned referendum on membership in the bloc.  Business for Britain today published a list of 500
executives from large and small companies backing a mission
statement that endorses the government’s goal of pursuing a
“new deal,” though stops short of specifying an opinion on the
vote. Signatories include the chief executive officers of
 Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  and  Next Plc. (NXT)   The move shows how the terms of public debate on the EU are
evolving before the referendum that Prime Minister  David Cameron 
pledged in January. He proposed then to put the question to a
popular vote by the end of 2017, if re-elected in two years and
once he has negotiated a return of some powers to the U.K.
Cameron has said that he wants the country to remain an EU
member.  “There are those who claim that Britain should supinely
accept its fate without trying to negotiate, and others who say
we should leave the EU tomorrow,” Business for Britain CEO
Matthew Elliott said in an e-mailed statement. “The most
sensible approach -- the one that Business for Britain is
pursuing -- is to build support within Britain to empower our
politicians to go out and get a better deal.”  Signatories include Ian Cheshire, CEO of Kingfisher,
 Europe ’s biggest home-improvement retailer, and Simon Wolfson,
CEO of Next, the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer after
Marks & Spencer Group Plc. Former M&S CEO  Stuart Rose  also
backed the statement along with Richard Burrows, chairman of
British American Tobacco Plc, the maker of Lucky Strikes.  Devolved Powers  “A flexible, competitive Europe with more powers devolved
from Brussels is essential for growth, jobs and access to
markets,” the executives said. “We therefore welcome the
launch of Business for Britain’s campaign for real change in the
EU and urge all political parties to join in committing
themselves to a national drive to renegotiate the terms of
Britain’s membership of the EU.”  Petros Fassoulas, chairman of the European Movement, a pro-
EU campaign group in the U.K., criticized the Business for
Britain agenda.  “It is an illusion to believe that, at a time when the EU
is dealing with issues of an existential nature, its members
should indulge one of their peers in its wish to renegotiate its
membership responsibilities,” he said in an e-mail. “What Mr.
Elliott perceives as an ‘unhappy marriage’ is a series of
contractual commitments the U.K. and its EU partners have made
to each other, voluntarily and with the consent of Parliament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  