-- U.S., Israel Agree on Iran While Differing on Timing, Hagel Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2013-04-21T09:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/u-s-israel-agree-on-iran-while-differing-on-timing-hagel-says.html
U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel
said  Israel  and the U.S. agree Iran must be stopped from
attaining the ability to build a nuclear bomb while differing on
how long it will take Tehran to reach that point.  U.S. plans to sell Israel advanced weaponry, including
transport aircraft, missiles and refueling planes, are a “very
clear signal” about the possibility of an Israeli military
strike against Iranian nuclear facilities, Hagel told reporters
on the plane taking him to Israel, the initial leg of his first
Mideast trip since taking office in February.  “Israel and the U.S. see the threat of Iran in exactly the
same” way, Hagel said. “So I don’t think there’s any daylight
there. When you break down into the specifics of the timing of
when and if Iran decides to pursue a nuclear weapon, there may
well be some differences but generally I believe our
intelligence is generally very close to each other.”  Hagel repeatedly affirmed Israel’s sovereign right to take
military action to stop Iran from acquiring nuclear-weapons
capability, a message that was also the centerpiece of President
 Barack Obama ’s visit to the Jewish state last month.  Week-long Trip  Hagel, who overcame a contentious confirmation process when
several U.S. lawmakers and outside critics questioned his views
on the Jewish state, arrived in Israel today at the start of a
week-long trip to the Middle East that includes stops in  Jordan ,
 Egypt , Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.  The focus of the trip is to reach agreements to sell $10
billion of U.S. weaponry to Israel, Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E.,
according to U.S. defense officials who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity before the deal is announced.  Asked if the U.S. plan to sell Israel advanced weaponry is
a signal to  Iran  that a military strike is a possibility, Hagel
said, “I don’t think there’s any question that it’s another
very clear signal to Iran.”  Israel, like the U.S., questions Iran’s assertion that its
nuclear program is peaceful, designed for energy and medical
uses. Israel has said Iran must be pressured to curb its nuclear
program with a “credible military threat.” The U.S. and Israel
have both said a military option is on the table.  Transport Aircraft  The U.S. plans to sell Israel an unspecified number of V-22
Osprey tilt-rotor transport aircraft, air defense radar and
KC-135 refueling tankers; the U.A.E. will probably buy 26 F-16
jet fighters; and the U.A.E., Israel as well as Saudi Arabia
will also buy precision missiles, U.S. defense officials told
reporters on condition of not being named before the deal is
announced.  The missiles being discussed include an unspecified number
of the U.S. Advanced Anti-Radiation Guided Missile, a new weapon
being bought by the U.S. Navy, the official said. The missile,
made by  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , is capable of attacking ground
radar used by countries fielding sophisticated integrated air
defenses, such as  Syria  and Iran.  If the transaction goes through, it would be the first
foreign sale of the V-22 tilt-rotor made by  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell Helicopter unit. The U.A.E. already ordered
80 F-16s made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  in the late 1990s, and
Saudi Arabia operates a fleet of Boeing-made F-15 jets.  Syrian Situation  Hagel said his visit to the region is also intended to
discuss the situation in Syria, where opposition forces have
been battling Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad’s regime. The Obama
administration continues to debate how to provide military aid
to the rebels.  Secretary of State John Kerry announced the U.S. would
offer more non-lethal aid to Syrian rebels. Hagel and General
Martin Dempsey, Chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, told
lawmakers last week that it was getting harder to distinguish
between moderate opposition groups and those aligned with
radical elements.  Hagel said there were no differences within the Obama
administration about aiding the opposition groups.  “What Secretary Kerry is doing is exploring at the
direction of President Obama new options for enhanced support,
non-lethal support,” Hagel told reporters. “And I support that
and General Dempsey supports that. Those are options are that
should be discussed and explored.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Tel Aviv at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  