-- Yankees Beat Blue Jays 5-3 on Pitcher’s Error in 11; Mets Lose
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-04-21T04:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/yankees-beat-blue-jays-5-3-on-pitcher-s-error-in-11-mets-lose.html
Francisco Cervelli and Vernon Wells
reached home on a throwing error by Toronto Blue Jays pitcher
Aaron Loup, giving the New York Yankees a 5-3 win in the 11th
inning of their Major League Baseball contest.  The New York Mets fell 7-6 to  Washington  last night as the
Nationals’ Bryce Harper hit two home runs at Citi Field in New
York.  At Rogers Centre in Toronto, Wells gave the Yankees a 1-0
lead in the second on a solo home run. Kevin Youkilis added two
more runs on a single to left in the fifth inning before he left
the game in the bottom of the sixth with tightness in his lower
back.  The Blue Jays (7-11) scored three runs in the eighth inning
to tie the game at 3-3 as Rajai Davis hit a run-scoring single
and Melky Cabrera drove in two on his single to center.  In the 11th inning, Loup fielded Ichiro Suzuki’s sacrifice
bunt and then threw it away into left field as he tried to get a
force out on Wells at third.  “I was shocked,” Wells said about Loup trying to make the
play at third. “You know what? You get in the moment and you
make an aggressive play like that, and sometimes it works out.
You look great when it works out, and bad when it doesn’t.”  Shawn Kelley (1-0) pitched a perfect two-thirds inning for
the win and Mariano Rivera allowed one hit and struck out two in
the ninth for his fifth save for the Yankees (10-6).  Loup (1-1) allowed two runs on two hits for the loss.  Harper’s Homers  At Citi Field, Ian Desmond hit a solo home run in the
second and Harper added two runs with his first homer in the
third inning and added a game-winning solo home run in the
eighth.  “He crushed a couple of balls. What a day he had,” said
Nationals manager Davey Johnson about the 20-year-old Harper.  Collin Cowgill and Justin Turner each hit two-run singles
and Daniel Murphy drove in Ruben Tejada in a five-run fourth
inning for the Mets.  Adam LaRoche returned the lead to the Nationals with a
three-run homer in the fifth, while John Buck tied it at 6-6 in
the seventh with a run-scoring double before Harper’s shot in
the eighth.  Tyler Clippard (1-0) walked one and struck out two in 1 1/3
innings and Rafael Soriano picked up his sixth save, walking one
in the ninth for the Nationals (10-7).  Josh Edgin (0-1) gave up Harper’s second home run and
struck out three in 1 1/3 innings for the Mets (8-8).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  