-- Yudhoyono’s Selection for Finance Minister Rattles Market
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-04-22T09:36:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-21/yudhoyono-s-selection-for-finance-minister-rattles-market.html
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ’s decision to opt for an acting finance minister to
replace Agus Martowardojo threatens to cloud the policy outlook
as  Indonesia  struggles to revamp its fuel-subsidy program, step
up infrastructure investment and damp price pressures.  Hatta Rajasa will replace Martowardojo, who is set to
become the next  Bank Indonesia  chief, the government said April
19. Rajasa is chairman of the National Mandate Party, a member
of Yudhoyono’s Democrat Party coalition, and will also remain
coordinating minister for the economy.  The Jakarta Composite  index , which has gained about 16
percent this year and reached a record last week, fell after the
announcement that came an hour before the close of trade on
April 19. Rajasa assumes the role as a government plan to curb
fuel subsidies threatens to boost  inflation  that reached a 22-
month high in March, adding to the burdens of an economy facing
falling prices for its commodity exports including palm oil.  “The decision is quite strange -- it will have a negative
impact on the stock market and the rupiah,” said David Sumual,
an economist at PT Bank Central Asia in Jakarta. “Indonesia
needs a finance minister with a background in macroeconomic and
fiscal policy, as there are so many problems in the economy.”  Indonesia’s benchmark index, which was little changed at
the time of the announcement, closed 0.3 percent lower, posting
its first drop in four days. The measure fell as much as 0.5
percent today before ending little changed. The yield on 10-year
 government bonds  was steady at 5.45 percent, according to prices
from the Inter Dealer Market Association. The rupiah weakened
0.1 percent to 9,719 per dollar, prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg show. The currency has slipped more than 5
percent in the past 12 months, the biggest drop after the yen
among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Tenure  Rajasa’s tenure will end before Yudhoyono completes his
five-year term in 2014, Julian Aldrin Pasha, a presidential
spokesman, said by phone on April 19. Pasha said he doesn’t know
when a new finance minister will be named.  Yudhoyono’s choice of Martowardojo earlier to replace
Governor Darmin Nasution when his term ends May 23, also
received mixed reactions from analysts. Rajasa, whose daughter
is married to the president’s son, has been chief economic
minister since October 2009 and was previously state secretary.  “The dual position can lead to the perception that the
government is not serious about the  finance ministry ,” said
Lana Soelistianingsih, an economist at PT Samuel Sekuritas in
Jakarta. The limited term “adds to the uncertainty.”  Yudhoyono has sought to cut fuel subsidies and allocate
more funds to infrastructure to spur economic growth. The
government limited the use of partially subsidized diesel in
January, after protests derailed plans to raise prices in 2012.  Outsider Pick  A move to raise gasoline and diesel prices or restrict the
use of subsidized fuel would add to inflation, increasing
pressure on the central bank to raise  interest rates . Price
gains quickened to 5.9 percent last month from a year earlier.  Bank Indonesia has held borrowing costs for 14 meetings and
lowered its 2013  economic growth  forecast to between 6.2 percent
and 6.6 percent from a previous estimate of 6.3 percent to 6.8
percent. While gross domestic product has risen above 6 percent
for the past nine quarters, the economy expanded in the three
months through December at the slowest pace in more than two
years as  exports  fell amid a decline in commodity prices.  Palm oil  posted a fourth weekly decline last week, the
longest losing streak since the four weeks ended Dec. 14. Prices
of metals including copper and tin, which the Southeast Asian
nation also exports, have fallen as the  International Monetary
Fund  lowered estimates for Chinese and world growth this year.  Subsidies  Indonesia spent 211.9 trillion rupiah ($22 billion) on fuel
subsidies last year, spurring demand for energy products that
contributed to a record  trade deficit  in October. Containing the
subsidy bill will be a key challenge for the finance minister.
The challenge of Indonesia’s trade deficit caused by oil imports
requires sound and fast response, Rajasa said after the handover
ceremony today.  Delay of structural reforms, especially rationalization of
the energy subsidy regime, is a constraint in Indonesia’s
sovereign-credit quality,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report
this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  