-- 
‘Cowboys’ and ‘Smurfs’ Battle to Tie for Week’s No. 1 Film

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 
2011-07-31T20:48:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/-cowboys-aliens-smurfs-in-tie-for-top-weekend-film-at-36-2-million.html
Universal Pictures ’ “Cowboys &
Aliens” tied with  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s “The Smurfs” as the top movie
in the U.S. and  Canada  this weekend, each with $36.2 million in
ticket sales.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s “Crazy Stupid Love” with  Steve Carell 
collected $19 million to open in fifth place, researcher
 Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement.  “The Smurfs” is the fourth film from Sony to finish atop
the rankings so far this year, following “The Green Hornet,”
“Battle:  Los Angeles ” and “Just Go With It.” “Cowboys &
Aliens” had been expected to open in first place and is the
third offering from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal division to debut
as No. 1.  The tie is “a shocker,” with “Smurfs” exceeding
expectations and “Cowboys & Aliens” underperforming amid
“reviews that were certainly mixed at best,” said Gitesh Pandya, chief executive officer of  Boxofficeguru.com  in an
interview. “For an older, male-skewing film like ‘Cowboys,’
reviews matter.”  The movie, directed by Jon Favreau and based on the graphic
novel by Scott Mitchell Rosenberg, was poorly received by
critics. Of 132 reviews compiled by Rottentomatoes.com, 74 were
negative.  Spielberg Production  “Cowboys & Aliens,” features Daniel Craig as an Old West
gunman who battles space invaders. Craig’s character, Jake
Lonergan, leads a posse of ranchers and outlaws in a fight
against aliens who attacked their town and abducted several
residents. They are aided in the fight by a highly advanced
weapon shackled to Lonergan’s wrist.  Harrison Ford  and  Olivia
Wilde  co-star.  The movie was co-produced by  Steven Spielberg ’s DreamWorks
SKG and Relativity Media LLC.  Combining live action and computer-generated effects, “The
Smurfs” stars Neil Patrick Harris as a  New Yorker  who helps the
tiny, blue creatures after they are forced from their village by
an evil wizard. The picture is based on characters from the late
cartoonist Pierre Culliford.  Pandya of Boxofficeguru.com credits the film’s opening
success to effective promotion by the studio. “They did a lot
of out-of-the-box marketing to make it a summer event film for
kids,” he said. The movie also “has a retro-chic appeal to
it.”  Unprecedented Tie  The box office “tug-of-war” between “Cowboys” and
“Smurfs” will be decided tomorrow when the studios release
their final weekend sales totals, said  Paul Dergarabedian  of
Hollywood.com. “A tie is unprecedented,” he said.  Last weekend’s leader, “Captain America: The First
Avenger,” slipped to third place with sales of $24.9 million,
while “ Harry Potter  and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2,” the
final installment in the films based on J.K. Rowling’s novels,
was fourth with sales of $21.9 million.  The latest Harry Potter movie, the eighth in the series,
has taken in more than $1 billion in global ticket sales and is
the top-grossing film in the history of the Warner Bros. studio,
according to a statement today by Time Warner.  In Warner Bros.’ “Crazy Stupid Love,” Carell is a
straight-laced family man whose life unravels after he discovers
that his wife has cheated on him. A younger man, played by Ryan Gosling, guides him through a world of singles bars and flirting
women.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 25 percent to
$170 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office sales this year have declined 5.6 percent, while
attendance is down 6.5 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for July
29-30 and estimates for today. 