-- 
Thaksin’s Sister Yingluck Shinawatra Becomes First Female Thailand Leader

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-08-05T05:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/thai-parliament-opens-with-thaksin-s-sister-to-become-first-female-leader.html
Thailand ’s Parliament selected
Yingluck Shinawatra as the country’s first female leader after
her election win last month, clearing the way for the King to
endorse the sister of deposed former ruler Thaksin Shinawatra.  Lawmakers voted 296-3 in favor of Yingluck, who put
together a 300-seat coalition in the 500-member parliament after
her Pheu Thai party won a majority in the July 3 vote. Her next
step will be to name a Cabinet, which must present its policies
for a confidence vote  15 days after taking office .  “I will be dedicated and do my best as people have given me
a chance,” Yingluck told reporters after the vote. She said her
party may be able to present the Cabinet list “next week.”  Yingluck, 44, will have to confront the issue of her
brother’s return from a three-year exile -- a move opposed by
the military and which could reignite protests that left over 90
people dead last year. While her clearcut victory has boosted
stocks -- Templeton Emerging Markets Group’s  Mark Mobius  said
today Thailand was “at the top” of his investment list --
Yingluck will also have to find ways to pay for her election
pledges to raise the   minimum daily wage  and boost rice prices
as she inherits inflation near a 32-month high.  “The country’s political challenges remain serious,” said
 Michael Montesano , a visiting research fellow at the Institute
of Southeast Asia Studies in  Singapore . “Yingluck and those
around her will face formidable challenges in managing Thaksin,
the cabinet, the coalition and also in how to treat the Thai
military.”  ‘More Inflation’  Pheu Thai’s campaign promises would cost 2.3 trillion baht
($77 billion), about half involving agriculture and transport
infrastructure projects, Phatra Securities Pcl said in a July 19
 note . “These measures are likely to generate more inflation and
less growth than optimists are inclined to believe,” it said.  The orderly election and transition of power “has
buttressed confidence in the country,” Montesano said. “All
the same, some of Miss Yingluck’s campaign promises are hard to
reconcile with Thailand’s need to fight inflation.”  The planned spending makes rising consumer prices a greater
concern than threats to growth, the central bank said July 27.
Thailand’s inflation held above 4 percent for the fourth
straight month in July because of higher rice, pork, fuel and
electricity prices,  Permanent Secretary  for Commerce Yanyong
Phuangrach said at an Aug. 1 briefing.  Rate Increase  The Bank of Thailand raised rates on July 13 for the eighth
time in a year to 3.25 percent and called for “harmony”
between fiscal and monetary policy.  Pheu Thai won 265 seats while the Democrat party of former
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  won 159.  During her campaign, Yingluck vowed to seek changes to a
constitution written after the 2006 coup that ousted Thaksin on
grounds he failed to respect  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 83. The
constitution established a Senate to which half the members are
appointed and includes a clause that disbands political parties
and bans all executive members for five years if one person
commits election fraud.  Almost a year after Thaksin’s allies won the 2007 election,
the first since the coup, the article was used to disband their
party and oust the government. Yingluck’s victory was the fifth
straight time a party linked to Thaksin has won the most seats
in an election since 2001.  Efforts by the last pro-Thaksin administration to change
the constitution in 2008 were met with seven months of protests
by his opponents, who wore yellow shirts to symbolize their
loyalty to the monarchy. They seized the prime minister’s
offices and stormed Bangkok’s airports as the military ignored
requests from the government to disperse them.  Stock Buying  Investors who pulled a net 26.9 billion baht out of Thai
stocks in the month before the vote have shed their pre-election
jitters, buying 46.3 billion baht of Thai stocks in the past
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark SET Index gained 4.6 percent so far this quarter,
 Asia ’s best performer after Mongolia.  The SET slid 34.61 points, or 3.1 percent, to
1,089.40 at 12:16 p.m. local time. The gauge has fallen 4
percent this week, the first decrease in three weeks.  “Thailand is still right at the top of our list,” Mobius,
executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, told
Bloomberg Television in a telephone interview from  Tokyo , where
he discussed the global stock sell-off.  Phone Company  Thaksin, who founded what became Thailand’s biggest mobile-
phone company, draws his support from poorer Thais in the north
and northeast. His opponents view him as a corrupt billionaire
who wants to undermine the monarchy and regain power from
abroad, where he fled after being convicted of abuse of power in
2008.  In an interview published May 20 in the Bangkok-based
Matichon newspaper, Thaksin described Yingluck as “not my
nominee but my clone.” Yingluck, who was left motherless at a
young age, said in a June 8 interview that Thaksin was like a
“second father” to her. In the same interview, she said “I
will be myself” in running the country.  Unlike her brother, Yingluck is a political novice, having
entered the election campaign only seven weeks ahead of the
vote. Before that, she held senior positions at  Advanced Info
Service Pcl (ADVANC) , the mobile-phone company that was founded by
Thaksin and became the nation’s biggest, and SC Asset Corp., a
property developer owned by his children.  Yingluck obtained a master’s degree in public
administration in 1990 from Kentucky State University in the
U.S. The Frankfort-based school is about 50 miles northwest of
Eastern Kentucky University, where Thaksin earned a master’s
degree in criminal justice 15 years earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  