-- 
AudioCodes Sees Microsoft Deal Driving Sales, Market Share

-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-01T13:55:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/audiocodes-sees-microsoft-deal-driving-share-of-internet-calls.html
AudioCodes Ltd. (AUDC) , a maker of
technology to enable Internet phone calls, is seeking to triple
sales within five years, helped by a tie-up with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   The company aims for a 10 percent share of what it
estimates to be a $5.4 billion market for its Voice over
Internet Protocol Call technology, Chief Strategy Officer
Jeffrey Kahn said in a phone interview yesterday. About 200
Microsoft resellers are including Lod, Israel-based AudioCodes
as part of their telephone solutions package, he said.  “The real growth of the voice-over-Internet market is
ahead of us, and the real opportunity in unified communications,
the contact centers and the mobile voice is just starting,”
Chief Financial Officer Guy Avidan said in a phone interview.  AudioCodes’ sales of products that bridge fixed-line and
Internet calls are growing after Microsoft introduced Lync last
year to offer corporate phone services. The Redmond, Washington-
based company, the world’s biggest software maker, has said Lync
may generate sales of more than $1 billion a year.  “They are grabbing market share and we are piggybacking on
their success,” Avidan said.  AudioCodes rose 2 percent, the biggest jump since July 19,
to 18.67 shekels at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv  today. The
shares have fallen 8.9 percent since the beginning of the year
while the benchmark TA-100 Index has dropped 11 percent. New
York-listed stocks of AudioCodes have lost 6.8 percent this
year.  “Investors are not getting that AudioCodes is a growth
company, well-positioned partner-wise and market-wise,” Avidan
said.  Ashok Kumar , an analyst at Rodman & Renshaw LLC in  New
York , said he expects revenue from partnerships and the
networking bridge products begun last year to drive sales.  ‘Remain Optimistic’  “We remain optimistic on the overall AudioCodes growth
story,” Kumar wrote in a July 28 investor note.  The premium investors were willing to pay for AudioCodes
earnings was 36 percent compared with what investors are willing
to pay for the earnings of the TA-100, down from a February high
of 141 percent. The shares trade at 11.9 times estimated 2011
earnings, compared with an average of 18.6 times for 22 peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Israel , whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
Switzerland’s, has 57 companies traded on the  Nasdaq , the most
of any country outside the U.S., after  China . It’s also home to
the largest number of start-up companies per capita in the
world.  Israeli technology companies raised $569 million in capital
during the second quarter of 2011, the most in two years and up
from $343 million in the same period last year, according to the
Israel Venture Capital-KPMG Quarterly Survey released July 13.  ‘Five-Year Plan’  AudioCodes also provides Voice over Internet Protocol
technology to companies including Alcatel-Lucent SA,  France ’s
biggest telecommunications-equipment maker.  “Our current five-year plan is to triple our current sales
and to grow that to 10 percent and beyond,” Kahn said.  Revenue at  San Jose , California-based  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
the world’s largest networking-equipment company and an
AudioCodes competitor, increased about 40 percent between 2006
and 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Amir Argaman, an analyst at CIBC Oppenheimer Tel Aviv Ltd.,
wrote in a July 28 report that AudioCodes’ trend is positive.  “It seems that the consolidation process in the market is
increasing the company’s market share,” Argaman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net . 