-- 
Banks in BRICs Signaling Credit Crisis With Loans Showing Increasing Risks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-08-01T21:50:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/banks-in-brics-signaling-credit-risks-as-bad-loans-curb-growth.html
Banks in the biggest emerging markets
are losing the confidence of investors as loans turn sour after
a two-year credit binge.  Brazil ’s financial shares have lost more this year than
counterparts in crisis-stricken  Europe  as consumer defaults hit
a 12-month high in June and borrowing costs climbed to 46
percent. Bank stocks in  China  are trading at lower valuations
than global emerging-market indexes for the first time since
2006. The country faces a financial crisis with bad debt that
may jump to 30 percent of total loans,  Fitch Ratings  said.  In  India , the cost of insuring banks against default has
climbed to the highest level in a year. Loan-loss provisions at
 State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s largest lender, rose 77
percent in the first three months of 2011, while net income fell
99 percent.  “People are beginning to smell the credit cycle turning,”
 Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management and
chief executive officer of New York-based brokerage Oscar Gruss
& Son, said in an interview. “Credit cycles have tremendous
momentum, and whenever they turn you want to pay attention,”
said Shaoul, who recommends selling high-yield bonds in emerging
markets and betting on further losses in bank shares.  Citigroup, HSBC  Loans to Brazilian shoppers, Chinese infrastructure
projects and Indian developers have fueled the global economic
recovery and turned emerging-market banks into some of the
world’s biggest companies by market value. Now increased debt
burdens threaten growth as central banks raise  interest rates  to
fight inflation, U.S. hiring stalls and Europe deepens austerity
measures. China and Brazil may see expansion cut by at least 50
percent in the next few years, according to economic consulting
firms A. Gary Shilling & Co. and  Capital Economics  Ltd.  A slowdown would curb profits at global banks including New
York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
which boosted lending in the fastest-expanding economies to fuel
growth after the U.S. credit bubble burst in 2008. Prices of
commodities such as copper are vulnerable to a drop in demand
from China, the world’s biggest consumer of the metal, said Gary Shilling, who founded the Springfield, New Jersey-based firm
bearing his name and predicted the U.S. recession that began in
December 2007.  “China isn’t this juggernaut that’s going to grow forever
without any interruption,” Shilling said in a July 14 interview
with Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu, adding that the
government may be forced to bail out banks as bad debts grow.  China Loan Surge  Chinese lenders expanded credit at a record pace in 2009
and 2010, making more than 17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion) of
new loans as the government moved to offset a collapse in
exports during the global recession. The surge in loans exceeded
credit expansions in the U.S. before its financial crisis, in
 Japan  before its stock and property bubbles collapsed in 1990
and in  South Korea  before the Asian financial crisis of the late
1990s, according to Fitch.  Brazil’s annual credit-growth rate accelerated to as high
as 34 percent in September 2008, the fastest since at least
1995, before moderating. The pace has picked up again, exceeding
19 percent for 11 months through June, central bank data show.  Andreia de Matos Esmeraldo, a babysitter and housecleaner
in Rio de Janeiro, is one of the reasons. The 43-year-old
resident of Rocinha, Rio’s biggest slum, carries her HSBC
credit-card statement in her purse as a reminder that using the
card to purchase clothes and shoes isn’t free. The bill shows an
annual interest rate of 456 percent on 3,000 reais ($1,936) of
debt she ran up that she has agreed to pay off in installments.  ‘Love to Shop’  “I love to shop, it gives me this personal satisfaction,”
Esmeraldo, who also sells products for  Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) ,
Brazil’s largest cosmetics company, said in an interview. “But
two days later I feel sick because I have to pay it back.”  Credit is expanding in developing nations after a decade of
relative economic stability. Brazil has experienced boom-and-
bust cycles of inflation, currency devaluations and interest-
rate swings since the end of military government in 1985. Almost
half of Chinese bank loans turned sour following the Asian
financial crisis, while hundreds of Russian banks were shut when
the government defaulted on $40 billion of ruble debt in 1998.  Most governments in the largest emerging markets are now
strong enough to prevent an increase in bad debt from hobbling
their banking systems, Amer Bisat, a former senior economist at
the  International Monetary Fund  who manages money at hedge fund
Traxis Partners LP in  New York , said in a phone interview.  ‘Cushion of Savings’  China has $3.2 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, the
world’s largest holdings. Brazil, India and  Russia  control a
combined stash of about $1 trillion. The average debt burden in
the four largest emerging economies, known as the BRICs after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. coined the term in 2001, is 40 percent
of gross domestic product, compared with 102 percent for
developed nations, according to IMF estimates.  “So long as the economy continues to grow at trend, the
system can take a significant amount of banking problems,”
Bisat said. “The cushion of savings through reserves is so big
that a lot of problems can be absorbed.”  Capital Requirements  Surging profits during the past two years boosted the
capital cushion of developing-nation banks. Lenders in the MSCI
BRIC Index have an average Tier 1 capital ratio of 11.1 percent,
up from 10.3 percent in 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with the 11.8 percent average for banks
in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index for developed countries.  Banco Bradesco
SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s second-largest lender by market value, has a Tier 1
ratio of 14.7 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Brazilian banks are well-capitalized,” Will Landers, who
runs Latin America equity funds for BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest money manager, said in a July 5 interview on Bloomberg
Television. “We’re really not worried about any type of banking
crisis.”  The MSCI BRIC index gained 0.6 percent today, paring this
year’s decline to 3.1 percent. The MSCI World index fell 0.7
percent, bringing its 2011 advance to 1.3 percent.  Bad Debt  Policy makers have already taken steps to slow credit
growth. Brazil raised reserve and capital requirements on some
loans in December, doubled to 3 percent a tax on consumer credit
in April and required banks to hold more capital against certain
credit-card loans last month. The  Reserve Bank  of India has
asked lenders to set aside more cash for bad loans and double
provisions for restructured debt.  China raised banks’ reserve requirements 12 times since the
beginning of 2010. The China Banking Regulatory Commission told
lenders last month that they haven’t set aside sufficient funds
to cover losses on loans to local governments and ordered them
to accelerate debt collection, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  “China as a country has the capacity to be able to
absorb” increased defaults, Piyush Gupta, CEO of Singapore-
based DBS Group Holdings Ltd., southeast  Asia ’s largest bank,
said in a July 19 interview on Bloomberg Television.  China’s leaders maintained economic growth of at least 7.6
percent in the late 1990s even after bad debt jumped to more
than 40 percent of total loans, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and “Red Capitalism” authors Carl E. Walter and
Fraser J.T. Howie.  Struggle to Grow  This time around emerging countries may struggle to grow
out of their debt problems because demand from the U.S. and
Europe is slowing, said Richard Duncan, a partner at Singapore-
based Blackhorse Asset Management who was a consultant to the
IMF during the Asian financial crisis and has worked for the
 World Bank  as a financial-industry specialist.  The U.S. jobless rate climbed for a third straight month in
June to 9.2 percent. Retail sales in Europe, where policy makers
are struggling to solve sovereign debt crises in member
countries including Greece and Portugal, sank 1.1 percent in May
for the biggest decline since April 2010.  In the past, emerging countries’ export growth “helped
them overcome a lot of bad mistakes in the banking sector,”
Duncan, the author of “The Corruption of Capitalism,” said in
a phone interview. Now in China, “they have massive excess
capacity, which they financed with credit, and no one to sell
the capacity to,” Duncan said.  Shanty Towns  China’s local governments, which the National Audit Office
estimates have 10.7 trillion yuan of debt, are struggling to
repay their obligations after the People’s Bank of China lifted
its main lending rate five times since October 2010. About a
third of local government financing vehicles, used to get around
laws prohibiting direct borrowing, don’t have cash flow to
service their debt, according to China’s banking regulator.  Yichun City Construction Investment & Development Co., an
investment vehicle for the city of about 1.3 million people near
China’s border with Russia, sold 1.2 billion yuan of bonds in
2009 backed only by a pledge from the local government and
possible future land sales.  Money raised from the sale is being used for the
destruction of what the prospectus calls “shanty towns.”
Single-floor traditional wooden homes in the valley are being
demolished to make way for thousands of low-income apartments.  Warrior Princess  The company has also financed a new reservoir, an airport
terminal and parklands, one featuring faux Corinthian columns
topped by winged warrior princesses and bronze sculptures of
chariot-riding gods. The Yichun financing vehicle would have
lost money every year from 2006 to 2008 except for direct
government subsidies.  Fitch cited financing vehicles and property-related lending
as primary areas of concern when it said in April it may cut the
country’s local-currency debt rating. China has the worst grade
in Fitch’s three-level scale of potential for systemic stress.
Sixty percent of countries that received the score had banking
crises within a few years, according to a June 21 presentation
by the ratings company.  An increase in Chinese banks’ bad-debt ratio to 30 percent
is “not inconceivable,”  Andrew Colquhoun , head of Fitch’s
Asia-Pacific sovereign debt unit, said on an April 13 conference
call. Moody’s Investors Service estimates nonperforming loans
may climb as high as 18 percent in a “stress” case, according
to a July 5 statement. China’s total bad loan ratio was 1.1
percent at the end of 2010, according to the central bank.  Bank Valuations  Investors are cutting their estimates for the value of
Chinese bank assets. The MSCI China Financials Index’s price-to-
book ratio, a measure of share prices relative to net assets,
tumbled to 1.8 on July 29, the lowest level since February 2009,
from 2.8 two years ago, according to monthly data compiled by
Bloomberg. The ratio for Chinese lenders slipped below that of
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index on June 21 for the first time
since January 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the world’s
largest lender by market value, slumped 8.2 percent from the end
of March through July 29 even after saying bad loans dropped
almost 4 percent in the first quarter. The stock gained 1
percent today.  Credit-default swaps on  Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , the nation’s
third-largest lender by assets, jumped to 153 basis points from
106 on March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in privately negotiated markets.  ‘Increasingly Tangible’  “We expect Chinese banks’ nonperforming loans to rise
noticeably over the next few years,” Liao Qiang, a director at
 Standard & Poor’s  in Beijing, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on July 21. “This could be increasingly tangible as
policy tightening continues.”  Brazil’s biggest lender,  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , raised
its default-rate forecast for 2011 to between 4.5 percent and
4.6 percent on July 11. The Sao Paulo-based bank had forecast a
rate of 4.2 percent to 4.5 percent. Itau’s shares have tumbled
21 percent this year, helping to drag down the MSCI Brazil
Financials Index by 19 percent in local currency terms. That
compares with a 12 percent retreat in Europe’s Stoxx 600 Banks
Index and a 7.3 percent drop in the  S&P 500 Financials Index. (S5FINL)   Credit Suisse Group AG lowered its rating of Itau on July
26 to “neutral” from “outperform” and cut its earnings
forecasts for Brazilian banks by an average of 4 percent this
year on concern that higher provisioning costs will crimp
industry profits. Itau shares slipped 0.1 percent today.  Retrenchment  Brazilians’ debt burdens are rising after the central bank
lifted its benchmark interest rate five times this year to the
highest level since March 2009. The average interest rate on
consumer loans was 46.1 percent in June, up from 40.6 percent in
December, according to the central bank. The average rate on
company loans increased to 30.8 percent from 27.9 percent.  Loan payments by Brazilian consumers climbed to 26 percent
of disposable income in March, up from 24 percent a year
earlier. The rising costs of debt signals Brazil’s consumers are
“overstretched,”  Neil Shearing , a senior emerging-markets
economist at Capital Economics in  London , wrote in a July 12
report.  A retrenchment may drag down Brazil’s economic growth rate
to 2.5 percent in 2013, from 7.6 percent last year, according to
Shearing. That compares with the 4.5 percent median forecast in
a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Lower Echelon’  “The people doing the borrowing are the people in the
lower echelon in terms of income, and that’s worrisome,” Simon Nocera, a co-founder of San Francisco-based hedge fund Lumen
Advisors LLC and a former economist at the IMF, said in an
interview. Nonperforming loans “will be higher than previous
credit cycles.”  Borrowing costs for Brazil’s mid-sized banks are climbing
amid speculation that loan losses will increase. Yields on Banco
Bonsucesso SA’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose 85 basis points
this year to 10.6 percent after Moody’s cut its outlook in
December for lenders specializing in payroll-deductible loans,
which are deducted directly from workers’ salaries.  Banco Panamericano SA (BPNM4) , which was bailed out with a 2.5
billion-real loan from its controlling shareholder in November
after suspected accounting fraud, increased its assets to $8.1
billion as of September from $4.4 billion two years earlier,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA, which
focuses on payroll-deductible loans, has seen its assets rise to
$7.2 billion from $2.7 billion during the past three years, the
data show.  ‘New Reality’  “Banks will have to face a new reality,” Brigitte Posch,
emerging-markets portfolio manager at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which oversees about $1.3 trillion worldwide,
said at the Bloomberg Brazil conference in New York on July 14.
“That will affect the relative value of those bonds, and we
don’t think it’s the right moment to invest in the mid-sized
banks sector in Brazil.”  In India, debt ratings for companies are deteriorating at
the fastest pace since 2009 as slower economic growth and 11
interest-rate increases by the central bank since March 2010
heighten the risk of defaults. ICRA Ltd., the local unit of
Moody’s, lowered rankings for 34 borrowers last quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indian lenders’ nonperforming assets may rise 25 percent in
the year ending March 31, 2012, to 2.92 percent, the central
bank said on June 14 after conducting stress tests. The Indian
banking system is under pressure and higher provisioning is
“imminent” if regulators want to control asset quality,
Diwakar Gupta, Mumbai-based managing director and chief
financial officer of  State Bank  of India, said on July 2.  ‘Common People’  Bad loans “are going to rise because we will have to pass
on the rate increase,” the bank’s chairman, Pratip Chaudhuri,
told reporters in Mumbai after the central bank increased
borrowing costs on July 26. “Interest-rate sensitive sectors
like real estate and education loans will most definitely be
affected,” Chaudhuri said.  Ghanshyam Kulwal, 46, an exporter of towels and sheets in
Mumbai, is feeling the squeeze. He bought a two-bedroom
apartment in the suburb of Kandivali in 2003 for his wife and
two children, taking a loan from what was then ABN Amro Bank NV
at a floating rate of 6 percent. Today he’s paying 12.5 percent.  “The government’s one-point agenda to check inflation by
raising rates has led to common people like me suffering a
lot,” Kulwal said.  Bailout Loan  The cost of insuring State Bank of India’s bonds against
non-payment with five-year credit-default swaps increased as
much as 48 basis points this year to 208 on July 18, the highest
since July 2010, according to CMA. Swaps for ICICI Bank Ltd.,
the second-biggest Indian lender, jumped by as much as 54 basis
points to a 12-month high of 253 on July 19.  “Whenever you have a period of high growth and the
macroeconomic picture changes, there will always be an issue”
with credit quality, said Sampath Kumar, an analyst at brokerage
India Infoline Ltd. in Mumbai.  Lenders in other emerging economies are also showing signs
of stress. Bank of Moscow needed the biggest bailout in Russian
history last month after racking up at least 150 billion rubles
($5.4 billion) of unsecured bad loans. The $14 billion rescue of
the country’s fifth-largest bank signaled Russian lenders’
health may be “substantially worse” than most investors judge,
Carroll Colley, a director at New York-based research firm
Eurasia Group, wrote in a July 8 report.  Russian lenders accounting for 51 percent of the banking
system’s assets failed central bank stress tests this year.
Losses in the stress scenario may amount to 5.2 percent of gross
domestic product, Bank Rossii said in an April report.  Turkey Boom  In Turkey, annual credit growth of more than 30 percent has
fueled a boom in domestic demand that widened the country’s 12-
month current-account deficit to a record $68.2 billion in May.
The combination of loose credit and a growing trade gap makes
Turkey’s financial system vulnerable to a drop in risk appetite,
according to Shaoul, whose $741 million Marketfield Fund has
climbed 7.3 percent during the past year, beating 66 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Souring loans in emerging markets could affect global
banks.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  shares sank 3.2 percent on July 27
after  Spain ’s biggest lender reported a 32 percent surge in
loan-loss provisions in Brazil, an increase that surprised
investors, according to Daragh Quinn, an analyst at Nomura
International in Madrid.  Profit Reports  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank, gets more than half
of its profit from emerging markets, CEO Vikram Pandit, 54, said
in March. Consumer lending in Asia jumped 41 percent in the two
years through June to $66.7 billion, as deposits rose 27.7
percent. In India, Pandit’s native country, the bank boosted
lending to corporate clients by 33 percent in the year ended
March 31. Loans to small and medium enterprises jumped 35
percent, according to a company statement.  While second-quarter revenue from its consumer bank’s Latin
American and Asian units rose a combined 13 percent to $4.46
billion, profit fell 14 percent.  “They will have to rein in what has obviously been a real
surge in consumer lending,” said Richard Staite, a London-based
analyst with Atlantic Equities, who has an “overweight” rating
on Citigroup shares. “Investors will want reassurance going
forward about the level of credit quality.”  Missed Estimates  Citigroup has a “well-balanced, focused growth strategy in
the emerging markets,” Jon Diat, a New York-based spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “In India and Brazil, Citi has a
very focused consumer strategy that targets the most
creditworthy clients, and our corporate business works closely
with top-tier local corporate and multinational entities.”  Second-quarter earnings reports may provide more clues on
the outlook for nonperforming loans and bank earnings in
emerging markets. At least 126 companies in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Financials Index are scheduled to report results in the
next 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last
quarter, profits missed analysts’ estimates by 3 percent on
average, the data show.  “We are only at the beginning,” said Mohamed Abdel-Hadi,
whose HC GEM Sector Rotation Fund has climbed 7.4 percent this
year, beating 86 percent of peers, in part because of bets that
financial stocks would underperform. “Over the next few
quarters, we expect to see NPLs rising across emerging-market
banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 