-- 
BHP Australian Miners Resume Strikes Ahead of Further Talks

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-31T03:08:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/bhp-billiton-coal-miners-in-australia-resume-strike-action.html
Workers at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
coking-coal mines in  Australia , the world’s largest exporter of
the steelmaking ingredient, resumed strikes today as labor
unions prepare for the last two rounds of talks with management.  Employees at the Gregory and Crinum mines started shift-
long stoppages today that typically last 12-hours,  Stephen
Smyth , a division president at the  Construction, Forestry,
Mining and Energy Union  in Queensland, said by phone. The
company plans two sets of meetings with the union in August
before seeking a vote on a new work agreement, he said.  About 3,500 workers at BHP’s coking-coal mines have been
taking part in a series of strikes that began in June, the first
in a decade at the company’s Australian mines. Miners globally
are stepping up demand for better pay and job security as
producers such as BHP and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  are forecast to report
record earnings, driven by demand from  China .  “We’ve made some slight progress, but on the big ticket
items it’s slow going,” Smyth said. “If we’re not happy with
the contents of any agreement, we will tell our members that. We
are considering ramping up the action if there isn’t progress.”  Escondida Dispute  Melbourne-based BHP also faces disputes at its operations
in Escondida, the world’s biggest copper mine, where a strike
enters the second week, fueling concern the protest may curb
global supplies of copper.  “We continue to meet and negotiate with the unions and we
believe progress continues to be made,” BHP spokeswoman Kelly Quirke said, without specifying the impact of the strike on the
company. “We believe the actions are unnecessary, cause
financial harm and do not help finalize an agreement.”  Workers represented by the CFMEU, the Australian
Manufacturing Workers Union and the Communications, Electrical
and Plumbing Union, are seeking changes to job contracts in
matters relating to  job security , recruitment, use of
contractors, training and development, the union has said.  The next meetings between the union and management will be
on Aug. 18 and 19 with more talks scheduled a week later before
a ballot, Smyth said.  BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance , equally owned by BHP and
Mitsubishi Development Pty., owns seven coking-coal mine
operations in Queensland’s Bowen Basin. It directly employs more
than 4,800 people, according to its website. Almost all the coal
mined at the BMA mines, with annual capacity of 58 million
metric tons, is shipped overseas for steel production, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  