-- 
Boston Red Sox Get Aviles From Royals; Rockies Send Jimenez to Indians

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-31T16:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/boston-red-sox-get-aviles-from-royals-rockies-send-jimenez-to-indians.html
The  Boston Red Sox  acquired
infielder Mike Aviles from the  Kansas City Royals  as the Major
League Baseball trade deadline approached today.  The  Red Sox  sent infielder/outfielder Yamaico Navarro and
pitching prospect Kendal Volz to the Royals.  Aviles, 30, is hitting .222 with a .261 on-base percentage
and five home runs in 185 at-bats.  “He’s a guy I think our organization has kind of liked
afar for a while,” Red Sox manager Terry Francona said on the
MLB website. “He came up, he was that guy that could really hit
left-handers, actually both.”  Aviles was taken by the Royals in the seventh round of the
First-Year Player draft in 2003.  Pitcher Ubaldo Jimenez, 27, who has thrown the only no-
hitter in  Colorado  Rockies’ history, was traded to the  Cleveland
Indians  for four prospects.  “The timing of this deal allowed us to maximize the value
we were able to get in return,” Rockies General Manager Dan O’Dowd said in a statement.  The Indians will send pitchers Alex White and Joe Gardner
and first baseman/outfielder Matt McBride to the Rockies
immediately. Lefthander Drew Pomeranz can’t join Colorado until
August, the one-year anniversary of his professional career.  Indians-Giants Swap  The Indians also sent 15-year veteran Orlando Cabrera, 36,
to the  San Francisco Giants  in exchange for minor league
outfielder Thomas Neal. Giants manager Bruce Bochy said Cabrera
will become the team’s primary shortstop.  The  Baltimore Orioles  completed two deals, sending pitcher
Koji Uehara to the  Texas Rangers  and first baseman Derrek Lee to
the Pittsburgh Pirates.  The Rangers will send pitcher Tommy Hunter and first
baseman Chris Davis to Baltimore.  “Koji is one of the most effective relievers in the game
this year and the past couple of years,” Rangers General
Manager Jon Daniels said. “He’s battle tested, he’s done it in
the American League East, he’s a strike thrower and he has
swing-and-miss stuff. We felt he was the right fit for the
club.”  Uehara, 36, has pitched in 43 games for the Orioles and is
1-1 with a 1.72 earned run average while holding opponents to
a .152 batting average. In 47 innings, he has allowed 25 hits
and eight walks while striking out 62.  Baker for Lee  The Pirates are giving Class A first baseman Aaron Baker to
the Orioles in exchange for Lee, 35, who has batted .309 with 11
extra-base hits and 16 runs batted in during the past 18 games.  The  Atlanta Braves  acquired center fielder Michael Bourn
from the  Houston Astros  in exchange for outfielder Jordan Schafer and three minor league pitchers.  Two-time Gold Glove winner Bourn, 28, is hitting .303 and
leads the majors with 39 stolen bases through July 30.  “This trade gives us the first true leadoff hitter we’ve
had in a number of years,” Braves General Manager Frank Wren
said on the team’s website.  The  Detroit Tigers  acquired pitcher Doug Fister and
reliever David Pauley from the  Seattle Mariners  in exchange for
four prospects.  Fister “gives us that solid guy to go out there, a six- or
seven-inning-type guy that gives us a chance to win every time
he takes the ball,” Tigers General Manager Dave Dombrowski said.  Marquis to Arizona  The Arizona Diamondbacks sent minor league shortstop Zach
Walters to the  Washington  Nationals in exchange for pitcher
Jason Marquis.  Marquis, 32, was 8-5 with a 3.95 ERA in 20 starts for the
Nationals this year.  “He’s a guy that knows how to pitch, how to eat up innings
and keep his team in the game,” infielder Willie Bloomquist
said. “He’s a good sinkerball guy, which will fit well in our
ballpark.”  The Milwaukee Brewers obtained utility fielder Jerry Hairston, 35, from the Nationals in a trade that sent outfielder
Erik Komatsu to Washington.  Hairston is hitting .268 with a .342 on-base percentage and
four home runs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  