-- 
Yankees Stay Quiet Before Baseball Trade Deadline as Leaders Make Moves

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-01T04:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/braves-get-bourn-red-sox-may-add-bedard-ahead-of-mlb-trade-deadline.html
The  New York Yankees  didn’t make a
move in the week before  Major League Baseball ’s trade deadline
for the first time since 2002, while the sport’s six division
leaders all bolstered their rosters for a postseason push.  The American League East-leading Boston Red Sox yesterday
acquired starting pitcher Erik Bedard from the  Seattle Mariners 
as part of a three-team swap, a day after their trade for
Oakland Athletics pitcher Rich Harden fell through.  The Red Sox (66-40), who lead the Yankees by two games in
the AL East, needed pitching help with Clay Buchholz and Daisuke Matsuzaka both out with injuries. While Boston also picked up
infielder Mike Aviles from  Kansas City  two days ago, the
Yankees’ inactivity last week means they failed to make a July
trade for the first time since 1998, when they won 114 games.  “I explored every opportunity. It just didn’t lead to
anything that was of comfort from my perspective,” Yankees
General Manager Brian Cashman said on the team’s website. “I
didn’t feel like I got close on any of it. The positions that
were presented to me were easy to say no on.”  The National League East-leading Philadelphia Phillies,
whose 68-39 record is the best in the majors, got outfielder
Hunter Pence from the  Houston Astros .  The  Atlanta Braves , who trail the Phillies by six games and
lead the NL wild card playoff race, also made a trade with the
Astros, whose 35-73 record is the worst in baseball. The Braves
yesterday added outfielder Michael Bourn, who leads the majors
with 39 stolen bases.  Cardinals, Pirates Trades  St. Louis and Pittsburgh, who are chasing first place
Milwaukee in the NL West, both completed trades ahead of
yesterday’s deadline. The Cardinals got 33-year-old shortstop
Rafael Furcal from the  Los Angeles Dodgers  for a minor league
prospect, while the Pirates acquired outfielder Ryan Ludwick,
who led the  San Diego Padres  with 64 runs batted in.  The Pirates two days ago got first baseman Derrek Lee from
the  Baltimore Orioles .  Milwaukee  (60-49), which leads St. Louis by two games and
Pittsburgh by 4 1/2, on July 13 picked up reliever Francisco Rodriguez in a trade with the  New York Mets .  The World Series-champion San Francisco Giants followed
their July 28 acquisition of outfielder Carlos Beltran from the
Mets by getting Gold Glove shortstop Orlando Cabrera two days
ago from  Cleveland .  The Arizona Diamondbacks, who trail the first-place Giants
by two games in the NL West, bolstered their bullpen yesterday
by getting reliever Brad Ziegler from the Athletics.  Cashman said while the Yankees sought to strengthen their
pitching staff, he wasn’t willing to part with the prospects
other teams were looking for.  Indians Get Jimenez  Instead, it was the Indians who parted with four minor
leaguers to land All-Star pitcher Ubaldo Jimenez from the
Colorado Rockies. Cleveland is 2 1/2 games behind  Detroit  in the
AL Central, where the Tigers (57-51) got starting pitcher Doug Fister and reliever David Pauley from  Seattle .  The Yankees also came up empty in their pursuit of starting
pitchers Wandy Rodriguez of Houston and Hiroki Kuroda of the
Dodgers, and Padres relievers Heath Bell and Mike Adams.  “What I saw out there and the price tags associated with
it, I’m not sure if it was better than what we have,” Cashman
said after the Yankees beat the Orioles 4-2 yesterday.  The defending AL-champion  Texas Rangers  got Adams, who is
3-1 with a 1.13 earned run average, for a pair of minor league
pitchers yesterday. That move came a day after the Rangers, who
lead the Los Angeles Angels by two games in the AL West, picked
up reliever Koji Uehara from the Orioles.  “We’ve liked our team all year and we made it pretty clear
what area we wanted to improve,” Rangers General Manager Jon Daniels said. “We gave up four good players, but we got two
players that fit an area of need.”  Adams said he was surprised he was traded by the Padres
instead of Bell, who is tied for fourth in the majors with 30
saves and is set to be a free agent after the season.  “I didn’t think I was going anywhere, but things happen,
and things happen fast,” Adams told reporters. “That’s the
baseball world. I’m excited about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  