-- 
Buenos Aires Mayor Macri Won Re-Election

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-01T01:26:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/buenos-aires-mayor-macri-heads-for-re-election-in-runoff-ballot.html
Buenos Aires  Mayor Mauricio Macri
was re-elected today in a runoff vote against President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s candidate three months before she seeks
a second term.  Macri, 52, had 64.3 percent support with 99.2 percent of
polling stations reporting, compared with 35.8 percent for
Senator Daniel Filmus, according to the city’s electoral
commission.  Macri fell short of the 50 percent of votes needed to win
the first round outright on July 10, taking 47 percent of the
ballots, followed by 28 percent for Senator Daniel Filmus.  Today he probably will garner 63.5 percent and Filmus 36.5
percent, according to a July 27 poll of 600 people by Buenos
Aires-based pollster Management & Fit. The survey has a margin
of error of 4 percentage points.  “People see Macri as an active person, someone who
accomplishes things and cares about the city,” said Analia del
Franco, a political analyst at Analogias pollster in Buenos
Aires.  During Macri’s four years in office, the former president
of the  Club Atletico Boca Juniors  soccer club and son of a
construction tycoon has retained support among the capital’s 2.5
million voters by funding flood prevention works, creating a
city police force, and building 65 kilometers (40 miles) of bike
paths.  Today is the second time the two candidates face off for
control of  City Hall . Macri, 52, took office in 2007 after
beating Filmus by a margin of 20 percentage points. The 56-year-
old Filmus served as Education Minister for Fernandez’s deceased
husband and predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner .  Winning Chances  The vote comes a week after the defeat of another candidate
allied with Fernandez, 58, when the socialist party retained the
governorship of the agricultural province of  Santa Fe . Miguel
del Sel of Macri’s PRO party came second, while the contestant
from Fernandez’ Victory Front, Agustin Rossi, finished third.  Still, the defeat in Santa Fe and probable loss today won’t
hurt Fernandez’s chances of winning a second term in Oct. 23
elections, said del Franco.  “When the opposition has triumphs like these it gets
stronger, but it won’t have an impact on the presidential
election,” del Franco said.  South America ’s second-biggest economy is heading for a
ninth straight year of economic growth and will expand 6.3
percent this year, according to the median estimate of seven
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Economic Stability’  While inflation ran at 23 percent over the past 12 months,
according to private estimates, which is more than double the
government’s 9.7 percent reading, Fernandez remains popular
among Argentines benefiting from job growth. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 7.4 percent in the first quarter from 8.3 percent
in the same period of 2010.  “Even when the economy is not at its peak, people still
see economic stability,” del Franco said.  Fernandez has 49.8 percent support among voters, followed
by Ricardo Alfonsin of the Radical Civic Union party with 10.5
percent, according to a June 22-24 poll by Buenos Aires-based
CEOP Opinion Publica. The survey of 1,426 people has a margin of
error of 2.6 percentage points.  Under Argentine law, a presidential candidate can win the
election and avoid a runoff by receiving more than 45 percent of
the vote, or 40 percent and a 10 percentage-point lead over the
nearest competitor. A second-round runoff, if needed, will take
place Nov. 20.  Macri ruled himself out as a presidential candidate on May
7, when he announced he would seek re-election. His PRO party
hasn’t said whom it will support in the national vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  