-- 
Colts’ Manning Joins Top Salaries, Rookie Cam Newton Loses Under CBA

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-31T04:46:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/colts-manning-joins-top-salaries-rookie-cam-newton-loses-under-cba.html
Indianapolis Colts’  Peyton Manning 
signed a new contract said to match the salary of the  National
Football League ’s highest-paid quarterback, while the terms of a
new agreement between owners and players may have cost No. 1
draft pick Cam Newton several million dollars.  After a 4 ½-month lockout, teams began signing drafted and
undrafted rookies July 26. Two days later they could waive their
own players and two days ago they could sign free agents and
renegotiate contracts within their current rosters.  The details of Manning’s contract weren’t disclosed
yesterday by the Colts. ESPN reported Manning agreed to a five-
year, $90 million contract which, at $18 million per year,
matches the annual pay of New England Patriots quarterback  Tom
Brady  as the highest in the NFL.  “Signing Peyton was a top priority for this organization
and we are thrilled that the deal is complete,” Colts Chief
Executive Officer Jim Irsay said in a statement. “We feel that
it is a salary-cap friendly deal and it allows us more
flexibility.”  Newton, who led Auburn University to the national
championship last season, agreed to a four-year, $22 million
deal with the Carolina Panthers, the  Associated Press  said,
citing his agent Bus Cook. This year’s drafted players will
probably make about half as much as those selected in 2010 under
the new agreement, the New York Times reported July 15.  Last year, No. 1 draft pick  Sam Bradford  signed a six-year
agreement with the St. Louis Rams that guaranteed an NFL record
$50 million with potential for bonuses that could raise the
total to $86 million, ESPN reported.  Money Doesn’t Matter  “It really doesn’t matter,” Newton told reporters on his
first day at training camp. “Any way you look at it, I’ve still
got more money that I’ve ever had. I don’t look at it as a
numbers scale.”  No. 2 overall draft pick Von Miller got $21 million
guaranteed over four years from the Denver Broncos, compared
with his 2010 counterpart, defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh, who
signed a five-year deal with the Detroit Lions that paid him $50
million guaranteed with $68 million possible, the AP said.  The  Philadelphia Eagles  beat out three others suitors,
including the  New York Jets , in reaching an agreement with two-
time All-Pro cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha , considered the most
sought-after free agent. He signed a five-year contract worth
$60 million with $25 million guaranteed, ESPN said. Quarterback
Vince Young, released by the Tennessee Titans, was signed for
one year to back up Michael Vick.  The Eagles also signed defensive tackle Cullen Jenkins to a
contract worth $25 million over five years, ESPN said.  Restructure Deal  Quarterback Donovan McNabb went to the  Minnesota Vikings ,
who required him to restructure the $78 million, five-year deal
he had with the  Washington Redskins , AP said.  “It’s like more for 20 years for $20 million a year,”
McNabb told reporters. “Yeah, you know, we’re going to
challenge Peyton (Manning) and his contract. It’s undisclosed at
this particular point. The main focus for me was get to a ball
club that has a chance at winning. It’s not about the money.”  The Arizona Cardinals acquired quarterback  Kevin Kolb  from
the Eagles after giving up cornerback Dominique Rodgers- Cromartie and a 2012 second-round draft pick. Kolb, who lost his
starting position to Vick, negotiated a five-year contract worth
$63 million, AP said.  Ochocinco Restructures  The  New England Patriots  required wide receiver Chad Ochocinco, who was slated to make $6.35 million this season from
the Cincinnati Bengals, to restructure his three-year contract
to fit the team’s salary cap, ESPN said.  Running back Reggie Bush negotiated a two-year contract for
almost $10 million with the  Miami Dolphins , while former Colts
linebacker Clint Session signed a five-year deal providing $11.5
million of $29 million guaranteed with the Jacksonville Jaguars,
the AP reported.  Brad Smith, a receiver, running back and kick returner,
agreed to a four-year contract worth $15 million with the
 Buffalo Bills , ESPN said.  The San Diego Chargers reached a five-year agreement with
safety Eric Weddle that pays $40 million, and the Redskins
offered defensive tackle Barry Cofield $36 million over six
years, AP reported.  The  Atlanta Falcons  reached a five-year agreement with Pro
Bowl tackle Tyson Clabo worth $25 million, of which $11.5
million is guaranteed, AP said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  