-- 
Default More Than 400 Years Ago Leaves Scars: Christophe Chamley

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e   C h a m l e y
-- 
2011-07-31T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/default-more-than-400-years-ago-leaves-scars-christophe-chamley.html
The  House Republicans , many of them
opposed to raising the federal government’s borrowing ceiling,
might take a lesson from the first sovereign debt crisis:
Spain’s default in 1575. What events more than 400 years ago
suggest is that it’s easy to ignite a dangerous chain reaction
in financial and credit markets and inflict lasting damage on
the economy.  Republicans today are playing the part of the cities of
Castile, whose delegates to the Cortes (the Spanish parliament)
opposed raising taxes to service King Philip II’s long-term
bonds.  Spain, at the time, was the world’s sole superpower.
Contemporaries described it as an  empire  “over which the sun
never sets.” Yet the king needed the cities’ consent to borrow
at a reasonable rate. And he needed it for a reason: The cities
collected the taxes.  Each of the 18 main cities of Castile levied a special tax
earmarked for long-term debt service. The level of this tax was
set every six years through negotiation with the king. Tax
collections were used first to pay off local long-term
bondholders, with the rest sent to the central government. The
local long-term bondholders were, in large part, the elderly
living in the area. So local taxpayers realized that if they
didn’t pay, their parents would be hurt. Thus, this precursor to
Social Security had an effective enforcement mechanism -- the
ire of the elders.  Confluence of Interests  But the king could only exploit this confluence of
interests so far. The Cortes set the earmarked tax rate by
majority rule, and that limited the king’s issuance of what
were, in effect, his AAA securities. The king also issued other
bonds secured by other, non-earmarked revenue. These securities
were of a lower grade and sold at lower price.  Thanks to Philip’s expensive military adventures in the
Netherlands and the Mediterranean,  Spain ’s debt had reached half
of gross domestic product by 1573. At that point, the cities
balked at paying higher taxes. For the next two years, they
refused to budge in their confrontation with the king.  Finally, in September 1575, Philip took a circuitous route
to outmaneuver the Cortes. He suspended payments not on the
long-term debt, but on the short-term debt, which was owed
primarily to Genoese bankers. The people cheered. Resentment
against bankers ran as high then as now -- perhaps higher,
because the bankers were foreigners. The upshot, however, was
default and a full-blown credit crisis.  Why did the Cortes and the king play this game?  Stop the Spending  The cities wanted to stop Philip’s spending. They knew that
bonds not explicitly backed by dedicated taxes would be very
tough to sell, that a default would make it even harder for
Philip to borrow without their help, and that his lack of direct
taxing authority would force his hand in a standoff. But after
the payments stopped on the short-term debt, things careened in
an unexpected direction, much as they did after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. failed in September 2008. Many bankers who had
lent to the king were, themselves, leveraged. The payment halt
froze the funds deposited by local merchants to the bankers.  At that time of costly communications, periodic commercial
fairs were essential events for the economic activity throughout
 Europe . Credit was rolled over from fair to fair by bankers, and
lending agreements were renegotiated. With the Spanish
commercial credit market frozen, the fairs couldn’t be held.
Indeed, the main fair that was held twice a year at  Medina del
Campo  was canceled. In short, the default caused a banking
collapse, which led to a severe recession.  Caving on Taxes  After two years, in November 1577, the cities caved,
agreeing to a very large tax increase. The king resumed debt
payments to the bankers. As the king explained in the settlement
agreement, called Medio General, the bankers were joined in
their demands “by the petition of the delegates of the cities
with particular urgency about the same business.” In other
words, the cities were begging the king to restore the business
of trade. The fairs at Medina del Campo resumed late in the next
year, but they had lost their preeminence forever.  What’s the message for the House Republicans today? First,
don’t overestimate your power. Second, history stays with us.
Spain’s default is 424 years old, but its story is still being
told and may, to this day, be affecting that nation’s perceived
creditworthiness and cost of capital.  (Christophe Chamley is professor of economics at  Boston
University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Christophe Chamley at  chamley@bu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 