-- 
Dollar Bear Bets Rise to Highest Levels Since May on Debt Ceiling Impasse

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-08-01T13:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/dollar-bear-bets-rise-to-highest-since-may-on-debt-limit-focus.html
Investors boosted bearish bets on the
dollar to the highest level in more than two months on concern
the political wrangling in  Washington  on raising the U.S. debt
limit will erode the value of the world’s reserve currency.  Aggregate wagers against the greenback rose for the fourth
consecutive week, data from the  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  in Washington show. Futures traders added to bets the
dollar will weaken against the euro, yen, Australian and
Canadian dollars, British pound and Mexican peso. Wagers on a
drop versus the franc were trimmed after the Swiss currency
climbed to a record.  Investor sentiment on the dollar weakened through July as
lawmakers clashed over spending cuts and taxes when negotiating
an increase of the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling before the U.S.
exhausts its borrowing capacity tomorrow. The franc rallied to
records against the dollar and the euro as the budget impasse,
slowing growth and Europe’s sovereign-debt turmoil spurred
demand for a refuge.  There’s “clearly the concerns about the impasse on the
debt negotiations,”  Samarjit Shankar , managing director for the
foreign-exchange group at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., said in
a telephone interview from  Boston . “You do have a fair amount
of money going into” the Japanese government bond “market and
Swiss bonds, but at the end of the day the dollar is the
preeminent reserve currency,” he said.  Relative Performance  The dollar weakened 2.2 percent in July, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track the
performance of a basket of 10 developed-market currencies. The
franc appreciated 5.4 percent, the Aussie gained 0.6 and the yen
rose 3.2 percent. The 17-nation euro slumped 3 percent.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators had reduced bets
against the dollar to 147,684 contracts as of June 28, the
lowest level in more than nine months, as European policy makers
debated a debt restructuring for  Greece . CFTC data as of July 26
show traders added 162,538 so-called net shorts as the focus
shifted to the  U.S. debt  negotiations.  Momentum may be shifting again. Ninety-four percent of the
17 money managers overseeing a total of $1.26 trillion surveyed
by Ried Thunberg ICAP Inc. expect the dollar to be stronger or
steady relative to the euro in next three months, while 59
percent expect it to be stronger or steady against the yen. The
New Jersey-based firm is a unit of the world’s largest
interdealer broker.  ‘Relief Rally’  “If we do get the debt-ceiling increase we could see a
little short covering initially,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research at the online trader GFT Forex in New York.
“Depending upon how quickly rating agencies come in and respond
by downgrading U.S. debt that will determine how long this
relief rally will last.”  Standard & Poor’s , which has given the U.S. a top AAA
ranking since 1941, said on July 14 that the chance of a
downgrade is 50 percent in the next three months and may cut the
rating as soon as this month if there isn’t a “credible
solution” to reduce the nation’s deficit.  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service have also warned they may cut their
grades for the U.S.  “More recently, in the last few days certainly, the scale
of the potential deficit reductions that are being discussed is
much smaller,”  Steven Hess , the senior credit officer at
Moody’s in  New York , said in a July 29 telephone interview.
“The smaller the actual reduction, the more likely a negative
outlook.”  Cumulative Inflows  The U.S. currency saw cumulative inflows last week that
were higher than the average of the previous year as Treasuries
rallied, according to data from BNY Mellon, the world’s largest
custodial bank, with more than $20 trillion in assets under
administration.  Demand for Treasuries surged on July 29 after a report that
the  U.S. economy  grew more slowly in the second quarter than
forecast. Yields on benchmark 10-year notes tumbled 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, last week to 2.80 percent, the
lowest level since November. The yield was little changed today.  Strategists haven’t planned for a dollar selloff,
maintaining expectations it will strengthen against the franc in
the fourth quarter to 85 centimes per dollar, a survey of 38
contributors by Bloomberg shows. The median forecast for the
dollar versus the yen has been at 85 since June 20, according to
47 economists in a separate survey.  Franc Gains  The franc appreciated 7 percent versus the dollar in July
to 78.55 centimes. It was the sixth consecutive monthly gain,
the longest winning streak since June 1994, with the Swiss
currency touching a record 78.51 centimes on July 29.  The dollar dropped 4.7 percent to 76.76 yen in July after
touching 76.73, the lowest level since reaching a post World War
II record of 76.25 on March 17. The dollar strengthened to
$1.4398 versus the euro, from $1.4502 in June. The 17-nation
currency slid 5.4 percent in July to 110.54 yen.  Wagers by hedge funds and other large speculators on a
decrease in the dollar versus the euro, yen, Australian dollar,
Canadian dollar, franc,  Mexican peso  and British pound rose to
310,222 from 272,444 on July 19. The difference in bets on an
advance in the euro compared with those on a decline -- so-
called net longs -- rose to 17,038 from 9,246 a week earlier,
data released July 29 showed.  European Debt Crisis  Concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis would spread
has persisted after European leaders announced an additional
rescue package for Greece on July 21. Moody’s said on July 29
that  Spain , the region’s fourth-largest economy, faces a
possible downgrade amid yields on the nation’s 10-year bonds
rising above 6 percent.  “There are still a lot of people who would like to sell
the euro because of all the problems that there are in  Europe ,
so there is not a strong bias for the euro,” said  David Mann ,
regional head of research for the Americas at Standard Chartered
Plc in New York. “There may be more investor interest in
potentially selling the dollar against the franc, the yen and
the Aussie dollar.”  Futures traders increased their bets that the yen will gain
against the dollar to 51,302 from 42,155. Net longs for the
franc declined to 7,877 from 11,494, and added bets  Australia ’s
currency will advance to 81,438 from 77,795.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  