-- 
Franc, Yen Gain Versus Peers on Downgrade, Europe Crisis; Dollar Advances

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-08-08T21:29:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/dollar-rises-against-yen-franc-as-lawmakers-move-closer-to-debt-agreement.html
The yen and the franc climbed versus
all of their most-traded peers, with the Swiss currency reaching
records versus the euro and dollar, as  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and the euro-region’s debt
crisis spurred investor demand for safety.  The dollar rose to a four-month high against  Australia ’s
currency and gained versus the euro as investors sought  U.S.
government debt  even after the rating cut as stocks plunged the
most since 2008. Treasury two-year note yields dropped to a
record low. Canada’s dollar dropped for a seventh day against
the dollar as crude oil plummeted.  “It’s going to be hard for the yen and the Swiss to fight
the tide,” said David Mann, regional head of research for the
Americas at  Standard Chartered  in New York. “We’re not yet at
the stage where there is a serious panic about debt
sustainability in the U.S., so we have seen some support in the
dollar, especially against the euro.”  The yen appreciated 0.8 percent to 77.77 per dollar at 5
p.m. in  New York , from 78.40 on Aug. 5, and climbed 1.5 percent
to 110.26 per euro, from 111.97. The franc gained 2.3 percent to
1.0705 per euro and reached a record 1.0618. It traded at 75.50
centimes per dollar, up 1.6 percent, after earlier touching a
record high 74.83. The dollar strengthened 0.7 percent against
the 17-nation currency to $1.4179.  Volatility in  currency markets  climbed to the highest level
since March, with the JPMorgan Global FX Volatility Index
reaching 13.19.  ‘Massively Overvalued’  The Swiss currency gained 30 percent over the past year
versus the currencies of nine developed-nation peers in the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The yen rose
0.6 percent and the dollar dropped 10 percent.  Switzerland ’s government said today it agrees with the
Swiss National Bank that the franc is “massively overvalued”
and that energetic measures within the framework of its monetary
policy are required. The government made its comments after
meeting in an extraordinary session in the capital Bern with SNB
President Philipp Hildebrand.  The SNB unexpectedly cut interest rates Aug. 3 and pledged
to boost the supply of the franc in money markets to curb gains.  Implied volatility, a key gauge of option prices that tends
to rise in times of uncertainty, for euro-Swiss one-month
options climbed to more than 21 percent. That’s above the
previous high reached in October 2008, one month after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 6.7 percent, the
most on a closing basis since December 2008.  U.S. two-year note yields decreased as much as six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to an all-time low of 0.23
percent. Yields on 10-year notes touched 2.31 percent, the
lowest level since January 2009.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Reserve  meets tomorrow on monetary policy. It
may prolong a pledge to maintain record monetary stimulus, said
economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co., BNP Paribas and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. The central bank could do so by making a
commitment to hold its $2.87 trillion balance sheet steady for
an “extended period.”  Moody’s Investors Service reiterated that it affirmed the
U.S.’s top Aaa ranking because the dollar’s status as the main
reserve currency allows it to support higher debt levels than
other countries, Moody’s analyst  Steven Hess  wrote in a report.  S&P expects the dollar, “for lack of alternative if no
other reason,” to retain its reserve-currency role, John Chambers, chairman of the company’s sovereign-debt committee,
said in an conference call today. Even so, the U.S. is unlikely
to regain its AAA rating quickly,  David Beers , managing director
of S&P’s sovereign ratings group, and Chambers said in the call.  Negative Outlook  The outlook on the U.S. rating remains “negative” and may
be cut to AA from AA+ within two years if spending reductions
are lower than agreed to,  interest rates  rise or “new fiscal
pressures” increase debt, the New York-based company said on
Aug. 5 as it announced the downgrade.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s affirmed their AAA credit ratings
for the U.S. on Aug. 2, the day President  Barack Obama  signed a
bill that ended a debt-ceiling impasse and ordered budget cuts.
The companies said downgrades were possible if lawmakers fail to
enact debt-reduction measures and the economy weakens.  “The concerns about weaker global growth are in fact
helping to stimulate demand for Treasuries, so in an ironic way,
even though the longer-term ramifications are negative, it is
currently dollar-supportive,” said Paresh Upadhyaya, New York-
based head of Americas G-10 currency strategy in at Bank of
America Corp.  Obama, breaking his silence on the downgrade, said at the
White House the main obstacle facing the U.S. is the “lack of
political will in  Washington ” to solve the nation’s problems.  Oil Plunges  The loonie, as  Canada ’s dollar is sometimes known, weakened
as crude oil for September delivery plunged to as low as $80.17
a barrel in New York, the least since November, from $94.89 a
week ago.  The Canadian currency depreciated 1.3 percent to 99.45
cents per  U.S. dollar , the weakest level since March 17,
compared with 98.20 cents on Aug. 5.  The Australian dollar tumbled 2.4 percent to $1.0187 and
touched $1.0181, the lowest level since March 24. It fell for an
eighth day in the longest slump since 2001. The Aussie dropped
3.2 percent to 79.225 yen and touched 78.99 yen, the weakest
since March 18.  ECB Bond Buying  The euro rose earlier against the greenback after the
 European Central Bank  bought Italian and Spanish government
bonds today, according to six people with knowledge of the
transactions who asked not to be identified because the deals
are confidential. A spokesman for the ECB declined to comment.  In a statement issued yesterday in the name of President
Jean-Claude Trichet after an emergency teleconference meeting of
policy makers, the ECB called on all euro-area governments to
follow through on measures agreed at a July 21 summit, including
allowing the European Financial Stability Facility to purchase
bonds on the secondary market.  Group of Seven nations sought to head off a collapse in
global investor confidence, saying in a joint statement today
that they will take every action necessary to stabilize
financial markets.  Japan  may have spent a record amount intervening on Aug. 4
to stem the yen’s gains, based on a projection of deposits held
by financial institutions at the  Bank of Japan . Japanese Finance
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  said last week’s action was unilateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  