-- 
Dollar-Debt Meltdown Would Drive Yen Faster Than Franc: Chart of the Day

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-31T19:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/dollar-debt-meltdown-would-drive-yen-faster-than-franc-chart-of-the-day.html
The cost of insuring against a drop
in the dollar versus the yen rose to a four-month high as
investors sought havens amid a possible U.S. credit-ratings
downgrade and bet the  Bank of Japan  will struggle to halt gains
in its currency.  The CHART OF THE DAY compares the cost of contracts to
protect against a fall in the dollar versus the yen and Swiss
franc. Also shown is the Nikkei 225 Stock Average, which has
gained 14 percent from its low after  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake
and tsunami. The lower panel tracks the exchange rates. Group of
Seven nations jointly sold the yen March 18, a day after it
reached a postwar record high, in an effort to reduce “excess
volatility and disorderly movements.” The franc rose to a
record on July 29.  “There may be less willingness on the part of the other
central banks to act with the Bank of Japan now, and that would
of course make intervention much less effective,” said  Michael McCarthy , Sydney-based chief market strategist at CMC Markets
Asia Pacific Pty Ltd. “With the buying of Japanese stocks by
international investors adding to repatriation flows,” the yen
may rally to another record, he said.  A possible U.S. credit downgrade is boosting demand for
assets in nations considered better able to weather financial
turmoil. The yen and franc often gain during periods of stress
because their export-reliant economies don’t need foreign
capital to balance current accounts -- the broadest measure of
trade. The yen jumped 4.5 percent in 26 minutes on March 17 to a
record 76.25, as the threat of radiation leaks from a crippled
Japanese nuclear plant stoked  risk aversion .  Traders are paying a premium of 1.9 percentage points, the
most since March 17, on contracts to sell the dollar against the
yen over options granting the right to buy it in a month. The
so-called risk reversal rate for put options on the greenback
versus the franc is 0.8. The divergence signals concern Japan
won’t be able to arrest gains in the yen on its own, said
McCarthy. “We’ve seen time and time again how difficult it is
for a single central bank to support a currency,” he said.  The yen climbed 5 percent last month to 76.76 per dollar in
 New York  on July 29. The franc gained 7 percent in the same
period to 78.55 centimes per dollar and reached a record 78.51.
Options show a 73 percent probability the yen will rise to 75 by
year-end, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  