-- 
EON Confirms Strategy Review Following Germany’s Nuclear Exit

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-08-01T13:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/e-on-may-shut-ruhrgas-unit-to-lower-expense-spiegel-reports.html
EON AG confirmed it’s reviewing
strategy after a report that  Germany ’s biggest operator of
atomic reactors may shut units and cut hundreds of jobs
following the country’s exit from nuclear energy.  Germany’s biggest utility is “reviewing possible
adjustments of the company’s strategy and structure,” according
to an e-mailed statement yesterday. That followed a report in
Der Spiegel that EON may trim or close three units, including
its Ruhrgas natural-gas subsidiary, to reduce costs.  “EON desperately needs to come up with answers in response
to Germany’s accelerated nuclear exit and these would make
sense,” Bernhard Jeggle, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg AG, said in a phone interview today. “The company
might also sell more assets to improve its cashflow.”  EON, based in Dusseldorf, and its peers RWE AG, EnBW
Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG and Vattenfall AB are bracing for
a decline in profits after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  shut eight
reactors in March and introduced a tax on nuclear fuel rods. The
government plans to complete Germany’s withdrawal from nuclear
power by 2022.  EON has fallen 17 percent in Frankfurt trading since the
March 11 nuclear accident in  Japan  stoked safety concerns in
 Europe ’s largest power market and caused Merkel to speed up a
plan to rely on renewables such as wind, solar and biomass to
power Europe’s largest economy.  Trim Debt  RWE, the No. 2 utility in Germany, said July 14 it sold a
75 percent stake in its Amprion power grid for 1.3 billion euros
($1.87 billion) to reduce debt and counter a possible slump in
earnings.  “The German nuclear exit is hurting utilities
considerably,” said Peter Wirtz, a WestLB AG analyst who
recommends investors hold EON and RWE stock.  EON is also battling to keep profitable its Ruhrgas unit,
which it bought in 2003 for 10.7 billion euros. Germany’s
biggest natural gas distributor has suffered from falling gas
prices as it’s locked in long-term supply contracts with Russian
gas export monopoly OAO Gazprom that are higher than spot
prices. The companies have been negotiating to review pricing
for more than a year.  Integrating the unit in company headquarters, a plan
spelled out by  Der Spiegel , “is a clear sign that EON doesn’t
want to sell Ruhrgas,” Wirtz said. The price negotiations
should unwind by late November at the latest, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  