-- 
Economy in U.S. Probably Failed to Create Enough Jobs to Cut Unemployment

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-31T04:01:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/economy-in-u-s-probably-failed-to-create-enough-jobs-to-cut-unemployment.html
The U.S. probably failed to create
enough jobs in July to reduce unemployment, showing anxiety over
government debt deliberations and a slowdown in  consumer
spending  have shaken employer confidence, economists said before
reports this week.  Payrolls climbed by 90,000 workers after an 18,000 increase
in June that was the smallest this year, according to the median
forecast of 62 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before a
Labor Department report Aug. 5. The jobless rate held at 9.2
percent after rising in each of the previous three months.  The lack of jobs threatens to further reduce consumer
spending, raising the risk the economic recovery will come to a
halt. The inability to reach an accord raising the debt ceiling
and unexpectedly weak growth in the first half of 2011 caused
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to drop 3.9 percent last week,
the most in a year.  “The whole uncertainty we’re seeing right now is going to
keep firms cautious and households cautious,” said James Knightly, a senior economist at ING Bank NV in  London . “It’s
unlikely anybody is going to go on a hiring binge in that
environment. The risk is we see ongoing softness.”  Private payrolls, which exclude government jobs, rose
115,000 after a gain of 57,000 in the prior month, economists
forecast the employment report will also show.  Growth Slowdown  The economy grew at a less-than-forecast 1.3 percent pace
in the second quarter following revised growth of 0.4 percent in
the first three months of the year that was less than previously
estimated, the Commerce Department reported last week. Consumer
spending grew 0.1 percent, the smallest gain since the second
quarter of 2009, the final months of the recession.  The projected gain in payrolls would bring the average from
May through July to 44,000, down from 215,000 in the previous
three months.  Increases of around 125,000 a month are needed to keep the
 unemployment rate  steady, while about 200,000 a month would
bring it down a percentage point over a year, according to
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Through June, the economy had recovered about 1.77 million
of the 8.75 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month
recession that began in December 2007.  In his semi-annual testimony to Congress earlier this
month, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
“economy still needs a good deal of support.”  Bernanke’s View  “The most recent data attest to the continuing weakness of
the labor market,” Bernanke said the July 13. “It’s improving
very slowly in terms of jobs regained. Wages are very stagnant
and that’s affecting consumer spending and  consumer confidence .
There is also ongoing uncertainty about the durability of the
recovery.”  The drop in shares last week was accompanied by a surge in
 Treasury securities . The yield on the benchmark 10-year note
dropped to 2.80 late on July 29, the lowest since Nov. 30.  Some companies are firing workers to keep costs down as the
economy slows and uncertainty builds over the debt ceiling,
European  default risk  and regulatory and tax costs.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the largest networking-equipment maker,
plans to eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of its full-
time global workforce, to help trim $1 billion in annual costs
and step up profit growth.  The job cuts will come from across the company and aren’t
concentrated in a single unit, said Karen Tillman, a company
spokeswoman, in an interview July 18. The company said affected
workers in the U.S. and  Canada  will be notified this week.  Manufacturing Cools  Manufacturing, a stalwart of the expansion, grew at a
slower pace last month, a report may show tomorrow. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 54.5
from 55.3 last month, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. A reading higher than 50 signals growth.  Factory orders fell 0.8 percent in June after a 0.8 percent
gain the prior month, economists forecast the Commerce
Department will report on Aug. 3.  Services industries, which cover about 90 percent of the
economy, expanded at a faster pace, a report may show the same
day. The ISM’s index of non-manufacturing businesses rose to
53.7 in July from 53.3 a month earlier, according to the
Bloomberg News survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  