-- 
England Prospers in Second Cricket Test as Ian Bell Gets Sporting Reprieve

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-01T01:19:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/england-reaches-130-2-at-lunch-on-third-day-of-india-cricket-test.html
England  took control of the second
cricket Test as  Ian Bell  hit 159 after being handed a sporting
reprieve by India to lift the his team to 441-6 in its second
innings on day three.  Bell’s 15th Test century and fifties from  Kevin Pietersen ,
Eoin Morgan and Matt Prior gave England a lead of 374 as the
home team racked up 417 runs yesterday in Nottingham. Top-ranked
India, which trails 1-0 in the best-of-four series, made 288 in
reply to England’s first-innings 221.  Bell had a let off on the last ball of the afternoon
session after he was ruled to have been run out. Under the
impression that Morgan’s shot had gone for four runs, and the
ball was therefore dead, Bell left his crease and the stumps
were then broken by Abhinav Mukund.  India  captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni agreed to withdraw his team’s appeal during the tea break,
allowing Bell to continue having already reached 137.  “While the initial appeal and umpire decision may have
been acceptable to the letter of the law, the decision by India
captain MS Dhoni and his team to withdraw the appeal shows great
maturity,” International Cricket Council Chief Executive
Officer Haroon Lorgat said in a statement.  Bell added 22 runs to his total before being caught by VVS
Laxman off  Yuvraj Singh . He shook hands with several of the
Indian players as he left the field after his 206-ball innings.  “There was a sense that, while it was out in the laws of
the game, it probably wasn’t out in the spirit of the game,”
India batsman  Rahul Dravid  said a news conference. “The guys
were feeling that there was something not right about it.”  England began yesterday at 24-1 and lost the wicket of
captain  Andrew Strauss  before lunch for 16. Bell and Pietersen
(63) added 162 for the third wicket, before Morgan combined with
Bell to add a 104-run partnership.  India then removed Morgan for 70 and  Jonathan Trott ,
batting down the order because of a shoulder injury, for 2.
Prior will resume on 64 today with Tim Bresnan 47 not out.  England, which won the opening Test at Lord’s by 196 runs,
can overtake India at the top of the International Cricket
Council rankings by winning the four-game series by two Tests or
more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  