-- 
Erdogan Deals Turkish Army Worst Defeat Amid Power Struggle

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-08-01T15:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/erdogan-deals-turkey-s-secularist-army-worst-defeat-yet-in-power-struggle.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
is poised to deal his biggest blow yet to  Turkey ’s secularist
military as he takes on the armed forces from within their own
ranks.  Erdogan began four days of meetings with army heads in
Ankara to decide promotions for the highest posts. There was no
announcement after the meeting adjourned today. The July 29
resignations of Turkey’s top four generals give Erdogan
unprecedented freedom to steer the process as the army shows
signs of buckling under government allegations of coup-plotting.  The issue of “who runs Turkey has been won, and won by the
civilians,” Soli Ozel, a professor of international relations
and political science at Istanbul’s Bilgi University, said in a
telephone interview. This is “about the reconstruction of the
Turkish military for a new age, and a power struggle over who
shapes that military.”  The prime minister was re-elected in June after pledging to
replace the constitution, drawn up after a military coup in
1980. A new charter will help Turkey pursue its bid for European
Union membership and boost its appeal to investors, Erdogan, 57,
said April 16. The opposition has criticized the premier saying
he is seeking to crush any dissent in pursuit of an Islamist
agenda and argues that efforts to subdue the military represent
a blow to the country’s secular traditions.  ‘Legitimate Target’  “The government’s mindset makes any opposition a
legitimate target,” Emine Ulker Tarhan, a deputy leader of the
main opposition  Republican People’s Party , said July 30.  The latest twist in Erdogan’s contest with Turkey’s armed
forces, the second-biggest in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization after the U.S. military, comes as he struggles to
prevent the $740 billion economy from overheating.  Gross domestic product surged an annual 11 percent in the
first quarter, driven by consumer demand. Foreign direct
investment plunged to $8.9 billion last year from a $22 billion
peak in 2007. Turkey posted its widest 12-month current-account
deficit in May since records began in 1984.  The lira, which was trading near its weakest against the
dollar since March 2009, pared losses that followed the July 29
resignations, rising 0.1 percent to 1.6861 per dollar at 17:30
p.m. in Istanbul. The benchmark ISE-100 index declined 0.6
percent to 61,926.61, while yields on two-year  government bonds 
dropped 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 8.80
percent.  ‘Broader Clash’ Averted  The currency recovered as investors bet the resignations
won’t lead to a “broader clash,” Tim Ash, head of emerging-
market research at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London ,
said in e-mailed comments.  Since Erdogan took office, there has been “a high degree
of concentration and monopolization of power,” Ozel said.
“Part of the problem is a lack of a convincing opposition.”  According to parties outside the government, the
resignation of the generals marks “a serious breakdown in
relations between the organs of state,” Tarhan said. “It
raises the suspicion that the government is not interested in
civilian control; it’s interested in removing anyone who opposes
it.”  Frontline Professionals  Erdogan has ordered the army to start hiring professional
frontline troops and is examining ways to cut compulsory
military service, which provides the bulk of the army’s
manpower.  The military has deposed four governments since 1960 and
sees itself as the guardian of the secular system established in
1923 by national founder Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Erdogan says his
party is “conservative and democratic” and rejects an Islamist
label.  “The armed forces were once the dominant political force
in the country, determining the shape of the regime and wielding
veto power. They’ve now lost that privilege,” said Dogu Ergil,
a professor of political science at Ankara University.  Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party , formed in 2001
after the closure of an Islamist movement he belonged to, in
2003 ended army control of the National Security Council, the
body through which politicians and generals meet to discuss
security threats, and defeated military attempts to block the
party’s candidate for the presidency in 2007.  ‘Criminal Gang’  Chief of General Staff Isik Kosaner resigned last week
along with three other top generals, saying trials of officers
linked to alleged coup plots in 2002 have cast the army as “a
criminal gang” and prevented him from doing his job. The
officers reject the charges while their lawyers say some
evidence against them is forged.  Erdogan’s replacement for Kosaner, Necdet Ozel, is a career
soldier with no interest in politics, the Vatan newspaper
reported yesterday, citing a former colleague.  The government has examined ways to cut the 15-month term
of military service, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdag said
July 29. Erdogan’s plans also include centralizing control
mechanisms in the armed forces. He wants to develop a Turkish-
made main battle tank and build ships that can land troops.  Delivering his victory speech in Ankara after the June
elections, Erdogan said Turkey, which hasn’t taken a combat role
in the NATO-led campaign against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ,
should respond to popular uprisings in the  Middle East  by
providing a role model of what a modern state in the region can
achieve.  “Turkey is involved in the Arab Spring as a soft power,”
said Ihsan Bal, director of the International Strategic Research
Organization in Ankara. “An economic power, a cultural power
but not as a military power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  