-- 
Mexico Captures Alleged Leader Behind U.S. Consulate Killings

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-08-01T04:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/mexico-captures-alleged-consulate-killer.html
Mexico has captured Jose Antonio
Acosta Hernandez, the alleged leader of a gang called La Linea
who federal police say was behind the killing last year of three
people with ties to the U.S. consulate.  Acosta Hernandez, known as “El Diego,” helped the Juarez
drug cartel in its fight with the Pacific cartel for control of
 Ciudad Juarez , said Ramon Pequeno, head of the anti-drug unit of
the federal police yesterday.  Drug gangs and their allies have made Ciudad Juarez, which
sits across the  Rio Grande  from El Paso,  Texas , one of the
world’s most violent cities as they battle for lucrative
shipment routes to the U.S. market.  Federal police said in a  statement  yesterday that Acosta
Hernandez was captured in the northern city of Chihuahua on July
29. Further details weren’t available. La Linea works as
enforcers for the Juarez cartel, according to the police.  Acosta Hernandez admits to ordering about 1,500 killings in
the state of Chihuahua, according to the police statement. The
government was offering a 15 million peso ($1.3 million) reward
for his capture. Police have said the Juarez cartel is led by
Vicente Carrillo Fuentes, or “El Viceroy,” who remains at
large.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon said yesterday on his
Twitter account that the arrest was the biggest victory yet in
his bid to curb violence in the border city.  U.S. Intelligence  Police also seized weapons in the operation and captured a
man they said worked as a security guard for Acosta Hernandez.  Pequeno, speaking from  Mexico  City in remarks broadcast on
Milenio television, said Acosta Hernandez was the “presumed
intellectual author” behind the three slayings connected to the
U.S. consulate in Juarez in March 2010.  Consulate worker Lesley Enriquez and her husband, Arthur
Redelfs, were gunned down in Juarez as they left a birthday
party in the northern Mexican city. Jorge Alberto Salcido, who
was married to a Mexican employee of the consulate, was also
killed by gunmen after leaving the same party.  U.S.  Drug Enforcement Administration  intelligence aided
police in Acosta Hernandez’s capture, Pequeno said.  The Pacific cartel, also known as the Sinaloa cartel, is
headed by Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman, police have said. Guzman
was named by  Forbes magazine  in March as one of the world’s
richest people with a net worth of more than $1 billion.  Mexico has had more than 35,000 organized crime-related
deaths since Calderon took office in December 2006 and deployed
soldiers to combat drug gangs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  