-- 
Forsyth’s Shadowy Jackal Celebrates 40 Years of Assassination: Interview

-- B y   H e p h z i b a h   A n d e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-31T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/forsyth-s-shadowy-jackal-celebrates-40-years-of-assassination-interview.html
Over the course of 14 novels,
Frederick Forsyth has manipulated Nazis, terrorists and
kidnappers. In the name of research, he has hobnobbed with drug
dealers, infiltrated the arms trade and weathered an African
coup. Yet the bestselling thriller writer is no match for an
excitable Jack Russell puppy.  We’re on the wisteria-clad terrace of his home in  England ’s
bucolic Buckinghamshire, and the aptly named Sassy is running
circles around him. Literally.  She’s the youngest in a dynasty of terriers that Forsyth
began acquiring when he left  London  for a farm after his first
marriage ended in 1988. Though he has now remarried and
downsized (even with a farm manager, 400 ewes were a handful),
he still needs time alone, he says. It’s one of the traits this
otherwise bluff, convivial 72-year-old shares with his
celebrated villains.  “Some people are terrified of being alone,” he says over
hot tea and ginger cookies. “I’m absolutely the reverse. There
are periods when I need to be alone, like Greta Garbo.”  This year marks the 40th anniversary of the publication of
“ The Day of the Jackal ,” which features one of popular
fiction’s most memorable loners, the nameless assassin hired by
the Organisation de l’Armee Secrete (OAS), a real-life French
extremist group, to kill President  Charles de Gaulle .  Portable Typewriter  It was Forsyth’s first novel, written in just 35 days at
the start of 1970. He’d returned to a particularly frigid
London, worn out from reporting on the Biafran conflict.
Unemployed, sleeping on a friend’s couch and badly in need of
cash, he sat down at his bullet-scarred portable typewriter and
began bashing out a novel he’d conceived years earlier, as a
“junior junior” foreign correspondent in Paris.  His job back then had been to trail de Gaulle in case he
was assassinated -- which seemed a good possibility in the wake
of Algerian independence. The young  Forsyth  figured otherwise.  “I was watching, and worked out in my head that the OAS
were not going to get him. His security was too good and they
were too amateurish. I thought to myself the only way they could
get him is by bringing in an outsider.”  Four publishers turned the novel down, unable to see the
point in a book about killing de Gaulle when de Gaulle was
already in retirement. Where was the suspense? The point is to
find out how close the Jackal gets, Forsyth says.  Seeing the World  Growing up in a small English market town, Forsyth had two
aspirations, neither of them literary: to fly and to see the
world. National Service granted his first wish and work as a
foreign correspondent the second. Journalism also taught him the
research skills that define him as a novelist.  Though he has switched from a manual to an electric
typewriter, Forsyth refuses to have anything to do with
computers, which rules out the Internet as a research tool. His
preference is for first-hand observation, and it has landed him
in some tight spots.  In 2009, for example, he was investigating the global
cocaine trade for his most recent novel, “ The Cobra .” Guinea-
Bissau turned out to be an unexpected hub, and so off he set,
arriving just in time to witness the start of a bloody coup
d’etat.  The research is the only part of the writing process that
Forsyth will admit to enjoying. “I’m a very unwriterly
writer,” he says with a pinch of pride. He likes to play the
mercenary, insisting that he became a novelist solely -- and
misguidedly, he concedes with a laugh, given the fate of most
first books -- for the money.  Backyard Fish Pond  The world has changed considerably in the four decades
since “Jackal” was released, and I can’t help noticing that
Forsyth is looking a little out of place even in his own home.
Thanks to his wife’s passion for all things Oriental, this
quintessential English buffer has a pair of plump Buddhas
flanking his front door, an enormous Shinto bell sitting in the
hallway and a Japanese bridge spanning the fish pond out back.  Fortunately for his fans, he has been stockpiling against
obsolescence. “I have three of those still in the maker’s
wrapper,” he says, gesturing to the Nakajima typewriter on his
desk. “I’m just hoping that they’ll see me through. I’ll tap my
last line as I hop off into the next world, leaving a ‘Goodbye,’
typewritten.”  A 40th-anniversary edition of “The Day of the Jackal” is
published in the U.K. by Hutchinson (358 pages, 20 pounds). To
buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Hephzibah Anderson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Hephzibah Anderson in London at 
 Hephzibah_anderson@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 