-- 
Funds Lift Bullish Commodity Bets to Six-Week High as Silver Holdings Jump

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-01T05:37:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/funds-lift-bullish-commodity-bets-to-six-week-high-as-silver-holdings-jump.html
Funds lifted bets on rising commodity
prices to a six-week high after traders snapped up raw materials
as alternative assets amid the escalating U.S. debt crisis.  Speculators raised their net-long position in 18
commodities by 10,063 futures and options contracts to 1.27
million in the week ended July 26, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the highest since June 14. Silver
holdings rose for a fourth straight week, and bullish sugar bets
climbed to the highest since February 2010.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index climbed 2.6 percent
in July, ending two months of declines. The  S&P 500 Index 
dropped more than 2 percent last month on concern that the  U.S.
economy  will falter as lawmakers remained deadlocked on raising
the debt ceiling before a default deadline.  “Investors in many disciplines have been investing
commodities and precious metals of late in response to loose and
accommodative monetary policy around the world as well as
uncertainty surrounding debt and budgetary issues both in Europe
and the United States,”  Michael Cuggino , who helps manage about
$14 billion at Permanent Portfolio Funds in  San Francisco , said
in a telephone interview.  Gold for immediate delivery reached an all-time high of
$1,632.80 on July 29, advancing 8.5 percent last month on
concern among investors that sovereign-debt crises in the U.S.
and  Europe  may derail the global economic recovery. Copper in
 London  gained to a more than three-month high of $9,895 a metric
ton on the same day.  Silver, Oil  Investors put $570 million into commodity funds in the week
ended July 27, the fourth consecutive increase, and year-to-date
inflows totaled $11.05 billion,  Cameron Brandt , director of
research at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, said in
a telephone interview.  Hedge funds and other money managers boosted their silver
net-long position by 11 percent to 27,492 contracts, data from
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed. The four
weeks of gains was the longest string of increases since
February. Bullish crude-oil holdings rose to a six-week high.  “If you look at oil, you’ve got tremendous growth in
emerging markets,” boosting demand, said Nic Johnson, who helps
manage about $30 billion in commodities at Pacific Investment
Management Co. in  Newport Beach ,  California .  Still, interest in commodities may be waning, Johnson said
in a telephone interview. In the week ended July 26, commodity
net-longs were up 0.8 percent. In each of the prior two weeks,
bets jumped about 15 percent.  “People look at the outlook for commodities on a secular
basis, and it’s still pretty strong,” Johnson said. “You could
have near-term pullbacks from weak growth. You’re at the high
end of the recent range for most commodities. That has tempered
a lot of people’s enthusiasm.”  Speculators reduced their gold net-long position by 2.1
percent to 233,256 futures and options contracts. That was the
biggest decline since June 28. Prices touched a record $1,637.50
an ounce on the Comex in  New York  last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  