-- 
Gulf of Mexico Oil Production Rises After Tropical Storm Fades

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-31T19:21:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/gulf-of-mexico-oil-production-rises-after-tropical-storm-fades.html
Oil and gas companies in the  Gulf of
Mexico  are restoring production after Tropical Storm Don
dissipated over  Texas , the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management ,
Regulation and Enforcement said.  About 6 percent of oil production and 3.5 percent of gas
pumping in the Gulf was shut in as of 11:30 a.m. Central time,
down from 11.9 percent and 6.2 percent, respectively, at the
height of the storm, according to the  bureau .  Personnel were evacuated from a total of 7 production
platforms, equivalent to 1.1 percent of the 617 manned platforms
in the Gulf, the bureau said in a  release . All of the 62 rigs in
the Gulf are manned, the bureau said.  The bureau said its hurricane response team “is monitoring
the operators’ activities and continues to work with offshore
operators and other state and federal agencies until operations
return to normal.”  Workers were evacuated from 56 oil and gas platforms and
four rigs in the Gulf when the storm was strongest, according to
the bureau.  In its last advisory on the disturbance, issued yesterday
morning, the U.S.  National Hurricane Center  said Dan was rapidly
weakening to a “remnant low” after crossing the coastline near
 Baffin Bay  on the night of July 29. At 4 a.m. local time
yesterday it had sustained winds of 30 miles (45 kilometers) per
hour.  Storms are watched closely because they are a threat to oil
and natural gas interests in the Gulf, home to 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 7 percent of natural gas production. Coastal
refineries account for 7.6 million barrels a day, or 42 percent
of U.S. capacity.  Forecasters also are tracking Tropical Storm Eugene, which
is about 400 miles south (640 kilometers) south of  Acapulco ,
 Mexico , the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  The storm has maximum sustained winds of 40 miles per hour
(64 kph) and was moving west-northwest at 10 mph as of earlier
today, the Miami-based center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  