-- 
Guyana Civil Authority to Lead Probe of Caribbean Airlines Crash

-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-08-01T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/guyana-civil-authority-to-lead-probe-of-caribbean-airlines-crash.html
Caribbean Airlines Ltd.  said  Guyana ’s
Civilian Aviation Authority will lead the investigation into the
crash landing of a Boeing 737-800 this past weekend that injured
dozens of passengers. No one was killed.  The plane, operating as Flight No. 523 from  New York ’s John
F. Kennedy International Airport to Georgetown, Guyana, crashed
at 1:32 a.m. local time on July 30, the airline said in a
 statement .  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board and the
Trinidad and Tobago Civil Aviation Authority will assist the
Guyana aviation authority in the investigation, the airline said
at a press conference this weekend in Georgetown.  Terry Williams, a spokesman for the NTSB, confirmed
yesterday that the board was sending a team to assist with the
accident probe.  Shanta Gohardhan, editor-in-chief for Guyana’s Government
Information Agency, said in a telephone interview the aircraft
“ran off” the airstrip at Cheddi Jagan International Airport
in Georgetown. The plane broke in two, forward of the wings, as
it overshot the runway and wound up in a gully, the agency said.  Fifty-two people were treated at two hospitals, the
statement said. Passengers were forced to exit the plane through
its rear doors by either jumping or climbing to the ground.  Flights to Caribbean  The airline said the flight had stopped in Port of  Spain ,
Trinidad, and was completing its journey to Georgetown when the
incident occurred.  Caribbean Airlines has flights from Fort Lauderdale,
Florida; Miami, New York, Philadelphia, and Toronto, to the
Caribbean islands of Antigua, Barbados, Grenada, Trinidad and
Tobago, as well as Guyana, Suriname and Venezuela in  South
America .  Venezuela borders Guyana to the west, Suriname to the east
and  Brazil  to the south. The country was a former Dutch colony
in the 17th century, and was controlled by the British by 1815,
according to the  CIA World Factbook . Guyana, which has a
population of 744,768, gained its independence in 1966.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in  Washington  at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net  