-- 
Li Na Nears Top Earner Sharapova With $42 Million in Endorsement Contracts

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-07-31T23:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/li-na-nears-top-earner-sharapova-with-42-million-in-endorsement-contracts.html
Li Na , the first Chinese player to
win a major tennis title, is set to become the world’s second-
highest earning female athlete after signing endorsement
contracts worth at least $42 million.  The 29-year-old, who became  Asia ’s first Grand Slam singles
champion at the French Open in June, has since signed seven
deals worth between $2 million and $3.5 million each annually,
her agent  Max Eisenbud  said in an interview. All seven contracts
are for a period of three years.  “We could do five more endorsement deals but she just
doesn’t have the time,” said Eisenbud, a vice president at
Coral Gables, Florida-based IMG Tennis who signed Li in November
2009. “It’s incredible.”  The endorsements may make Li the second-highest earning
female athlete in the world, behind former Wimbledon champion
 Maria Sharapova . The Russian, who is also represented by
Eisenbud, makes about $24 million a year from prize money and
endorsements, according to Forbes.  Li, who has won $3.1 million in prize money so far this
season, became the first Chinese player to reach a Grand Slam
final at January’s  Australian Open . Her success has made her a
household name in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  While Chinese women had won Olympic gold medals and Grand
Slam titles in doubles, Li broke their singles drought when she
defeated  Italy ’s Francesca Schiavone in Paris. Her victory was
watched by 116 million viewers in  China , according to the WTA
Tour, which runs the elite women’s circuit.  Car Pact  Since  Roland Garros , Li has signed deals with German
carmaker  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz brand and Chinese insurance
company Taikang Life Insurance Co., Eisenbud said.  “It was hard to set the price” after Li’s triumph in
Paris, Eisenbud said. “We had to change it a lot.”  She’ll wear the Mercedes-Benz and Taikang logos as patches
on the sleeves of her outfit, made by her clothing and footwear
sponsor,  Nike Inc. (NKE)  She is the only tennis player allowed to do
so by Nike, the world’s largest sporting-goods company.  Eisenbud said the remainder of her new endorsement deals,
which include two “blue-chip global brands” and a Chinese real
estate company which will help the player build a tennis academy
in her home country, will be announced later this year.  “Her appeal is that she has the ability to crack the
Chinese market, which is such an important and hard market for
American and European brands to get into, or to establish a
foothold,” Nigel Currie, director of London-based sports
marketing agency brandRapport, said in an interview. “The holy
grail of marketing on a global scale is to crack the Chinese
market.”  Earlier Sponsors  Li’s history making run in  Melbourne  at the start of the
season had already led to sponsorship deals with Swiss watch
brand Rolex Group, U.S.-based ice-cream maker  Haagen-Dazs  and
Chinese website  Sina .  Until Li’s success, the world’s second-highest earning
female sports star had been 13-time Grand Slam singles champion
 Serena Williams . The American’s annual earnings have dropped to
$12 million from $20.2 million the year before, according to a
Forbes estimate in May, as illness and injury kept her sidelined
for almost a year.  Fellow Nike tennis players and IMG clients, including men’s
Grand Slam record holder Roger Federer,  French Open  champion
Rafael Nadal and triple Grand Slam winner Sharapova, aren’t
allowed to wear any other endorsement on their outfits apart
from the Nike swoosh.  After losing in the second round of Wimbledon to German
wild card Sabine Lisicki, Li took a break from tennis to recover
at home. She’ll return to the WTA Tour on Aug. 8 at the Rogers
Cup in Toronto, a tune-up event for the  U.S. Open , which starts
at the end of the month. Li’s best result in  New York  was
reaching the quarterfinals in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  