-- 
Mideast Shares Advance on Signs of Possible U.S. Debt Deal, Paced by Emaar

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-07-31T14:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/mideast-shares-drop-led-by-qatar-on-u-s-debt-standoff-saudi-stocks-gain.html
Middle East shares rose, sending
Dubai’s measure up the most in two weeks, as U.S. politicians
began a fresh attempt to reach an agreement on raising the
country’s debt limit two days before a default deadline.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the developer of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, gained 2.1 percent and  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB) 
rallied the most in three months as second-quarter profit rose
10 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 0.8 percent, the most
since July 13, to 1,517.58 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The
measure was little changed in July. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200) 
rose 0.3 percent after slipping as much as 0.3 percent earlier.
 Egypt ’s  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  also gained 0.3 percent and Israel’s TA-25
index fell 0.7 percent.  Reports that “there is a preliminary agreement on a deal
between President  Barack Obama  and the Republicans” helped push
up stocks, said Samer Darwiche, a financial analyst at Gulfmena
Investments in Dubai.  The White House and congressional Republicans have sketched
out the contours of an agreement to increase the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling that would raise borrowing authority
through the next presidential election, a person familiar with
the talks said late last night. U.S. President Barack Obama and
congressional leaders yesterday kick-started the new push to
prevent a U.S. government default on its debt.  Israel Declines  Emaar advanced the most since July 3 to 2.88 dirhams and
Dubai Islamic jumped 3 percent, the most since April 20, to 2.06
dirhams. Net income at the United Arab Emirates’ biggest lender
complying with Shariah rules increased to 331 million dirhams
($90 million).  Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rose 0.3 percent and  Saudi Arabia ’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.6 percent after tumbling 1.4
percent yesterday. Kuwait’s SE Price Index slipped 0.1 percent
and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index fell 0.5 percent, while  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  decreased 0.3 percent. Oman’s MSM 30
Index dropped 0.7 percent.  In Israel, the TA-25 Index declined to 1,224.14, the lowest
since June 30, amid protests over rising housing and living
costs.  The director general of Israel’s Finance Ministry Haim Shani resigned after a series of disagreements with Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz as the government grapples with growing
protests. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pledged on July 26
to raise the supply of housing to offset increasing property
prices.  “Local protests are reaching a new high with the
resignation of the finance ministry director general,” said
Saar Golan, sales trader at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd. in  Tel
Aviv . “The government is under a lot of pressure to do
something.” The debt impasse in the U.S. is also hurting
stocks, he said  The yield on the 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit government bonds
due January 2020 rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 5.03 percent.  -- With assistance from  Susan Lerner  in  Jerusalem . Editors:
Claudia Maedler, Dan Weeks  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  