-- 
India Shunning ‘Big Bang’ Two Decades After Opening Endangers Singh Legacy

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-08-01T08:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/india-shuns-big-bang-change-risks-singh-legacy.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s push
to deepen India’s welfare system may divert focus from the
investment and regulatory changes needed to sustain an economic
transformation that he unleashed two decades ago.  The government is expanding education and rural jobs plans
whose costs could swell by almost 2 percentage points of gross
domestic product,  International Monetary Fund  estimates show.
Singh also aims to submit a bill in the parliamentary session
that started today securing low-cost food for more than 800
million people, more than the combined U.S. and euro-area
population.  While embracing such populist measures may help shore up
support for a government roiled by corruption charges, it means
proposals to boost investment and overhaul tax and land-use laws
risk languishing, analysts said. By contrast, Singh as finance
minister 20 years ago attacked regulatory burdens that held back
private companies, helping propel a 247 percent surge in GDP.  “While the government has succeeded in building a safety
net for the poor which is probably the most extensive for any
nation at  India ’s per-capita income level, it has come at the
cost of enhancing the investment environment,” said Jahangir Aziz, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. who used to work at
the  finance ministry  and the IMF.  India is losing about 2.5 percentage points in growth a
year from regulations and approval requirements that deter
investment in roads, ports and power generation, and labor laws
that hinder firing, Credit Suisse Group AG estimates.  To-Do List  The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry,
one of the nation’s two largest business lobbies, wants
priorities set on agriculture investment -- to prevent 40
percent of India’s food from going to waste, an attack on
corruption and overhaul of  labor laws , said Harsh Mariwala,
president of the New Delhi-based group.  “We are not big-bang reformers,”  Montek Singh Ahluwalia ,
the prime minister’s top economic aide, said in an interview
July 19. “A lot of what needs to be done is in the works.”  Two decades ago, the attitude was different. As Singh stood
to  address  parliament on July 24, 1991, as finance minister,
India was on the brink of defaulting on some of its $84 billion
in overseas debt. Paraphrasing French novelist Victor Hugo, he
said “ no power on earth can stop  an idea whose time has come,”
as he outlined plans to pare back the system of business permits
and quotas dubbed the “License Raj.”  Historic Barriers  Sunil Munjal, whose family runs Hero Group, India’s biggest
motorcycle company, remembers how 26 government officials who
used to visit each month in search of signs production quotas
were being exceeded disappeared after the changes.  “We had officials crawling around ranging from labor to
excise inspectors,” Munjal said in an interview last month.
“It was a sheer waste of time.”  In his first two months as finance minister, Singh devalued
the rupee, swept away government monopolies, cut import tariffs
and tax rates, and let foreign companies take  51 percent stakes 
in sectors including automobiles and pharmaceuticals.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and International Business Machines Corp.
returned after leaving in the 1970s. The main  stock index  has
risen twelve-fold since 1991, poverty has halved and swelling
wealth has lured luxury firms, with Fiat SpA’s Ferrari and  Aston
Martin  opening their first India dealerships this year.  Shifting Tack  Singh, 78, has shifted his focus in his terms as prime
minister since 2004 toward direct support for the nation’s poor,
in a nation where more than three-quarters of the people live on
less than $2 a day.  He enacted a jobs plan in 2006 that gives 100 days’ work to
any rural household that requests it, and this year indexed the
pay rates to the pace of inflation. Expanding it to states where
penetration so far has been limited would cost about 0.8 percent
of GDP, the IMF said in a  February report . Widening an effort to
boost literacy would entail 0.9 percent of GDP, it said.  Singh’s emphasis is appropriate to help build public
support for continuing the economic transformation, according to
Amartya Sen, India’s first Nobel laureate in economics.  “He has to do more to make Indian economic growth more
inclusive,” Sen, a Harvard University economics professor, said
in an interview in Edinburgh last month. “An illiterate laborer
with very indifferent health isn’t in a great position to seize
the opportunities that globalized economic relations provide
today.”  Growth Warning  Even so, India’s central bank last week was the latest to
warn that the government’s priorities risk crowding out
investment critical to sustaining current expansion rates, let
alone securing an acceleration. Growth averaged 8.6 percent in
the past six years, compared with the near 10 percent rate
officials say is needed over two decades to lift the third of
the world’s poor who live in the country out of extreme poverty.  The rural jobs program has sparked a “wage-price spiral,”
the bank said in a July 25 report. Aziz at JPMorgan said that
higher rural incomes have set a nationwide benchmark for sectors
from the  construction industry  to services jobs including maids
and car drivers, embedding inflation.  Central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, whose term ends
next month, said in a statement July 26 that a lack of steps to
remove supply bottlenecks raises questions about the economy’s
ability to sustain current growth rates. The bank has increased
its benchmark  interest rate  11 times since early 2010 to quell
inflation, putting pressure on  capital investment .  Investment Drops  Planned corporate investment fell 43 percent in the six
months to March, the  Reserve Bank of India  said July 25. Foreign
direct investment dropped 22 percent in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. India is the most bureaucratic place to
do business, a January survey of 1,370 U.S. executives by Hong
Kong-based  Political and Economic Risk Consultancy  showed.  The government has made moves to address investment, with a
panel advising July 22 that retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and Carrefour SA be allowed 51 percent stakes in multi-
brand supermarkets. Officials on July 29 published the latest
draft of a bill to end years of disputes with farmers over
compensation for land needed for roads or factories.  “It will join the long list of bills that just sit there
and don’t get passed,” predicted Laveesh Bhandari, a director
of Indicus Analytics, an economics research firm based in  New
Delhi . “It is not lack of intentions, it is lack of credibility
to push some of these bills through.”  Corruption charges that led to the jailing of a minister
have made the government less bold in pushing reforms, said Leif Eskesen, Singapore-based chief economist for  Southeast Asia  and
India at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “India needs to rediscover that reforming zeal otherwise
the growth we are enjoying today may not last,” said Rahul Bajaj, chairman of Pune-based  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , India’s No. 2
motorcycle maker, who wants action on corruption, infrastructure,
a proposed tax overhaul and fiscal-deficit reduction. “There’s
still an enormous amount of work to be done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ; 