-- 
Iran Verdict on Detained U.S. Nationals Expected in a Week

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-07-31T14:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/iran-verdict-on-detained-u-s-nationals-expected-in-a-week-1-.html
An Iranian court will likely deliver
a verdict within a week in the case of U.S. nationals that have
been detained for two years over espionage charges, their
lawyer, Masoud Shafiei, said.  “Today’s session was the final hearing and I was given
enough time to defend my clients,” Shafiei said in a telephone
interview from Tehran following the court session. “We rejected
both charges of spying and illegal entry,” he said, adding that
he was ‘hopeful’’ his clients may be released soon.  The release of prisoners during the fasting month of
Ramadan, which begins around August 1 this year, isn’t uncommon
in  Muslim countries . Shafiei said yesterday that  Josh Fattal  and
 Shane Bauer , the two detainees, could be released in line with
“Islamic compassion” on the wake of Ramadan, according to a
July 30 report by the state-run  Fars  news agency.  Fattal and Bauer were detained on July 31, 2009, and
prosecuted for illegally crossing into  Iran  from  Iraq . The U.S.
government has said they mistakenly wandered across the border
during a hiking trip and has called for their release. Fattal
and Bauer’s first hearing was held in Tehran on February 6.  No Exchange  The continued detention of the two men has been another
point of contention between Iran and the U.S., which accuses the
Persian Gulf country of seeking to build atomic weapons under
cover of its nuclear program. Iran rejects the claim and says it
needs the technology to secure energy for is growing population.  In February 2010, President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Iran
may be ready to exchange the detainees with Iranians held in the
U.S. The overture was dismissed by the State Department.  Fattal and Bauer had been detained alongside a third U.S.
national,  Sarah Shourd , who was freed in September on bail of
$500,000, with Iranian authorities citing “humanitarian”
reasons. Shourd left the country immediately.  Bauer is a freelance journalist and photographer, who got
engaged to Shourd while they were both in prison. Fattal is an
environmentalist who was visiting Damascus before they headed to
Iraq, according to  freethehikers.org , a website that was set up
to support their release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Beirut 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  