-- 
Third-Party Chestnut Won’t Fix Broken U.S. Politics: Albert Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-07-31T15:01:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/third-party-chestnut-won-t-fix-broken-u-s-politics-albert-hunt.html
The disgust with  Washington  and the
U.S. body politic is palpable as Republicans and Democrats play
petty games that imperil the nation’s full faith and credit.  With a system that looks broken, there are rising calls for
basic change. Predictably, an old saw, the need for a new party
and a centrist presidential candidate, is gaining new currency.
One plan, by a new political force, Americans Elect, aims to
enlist millions of citizens to vote online for a third-party or
independent candidate for president and to acquire ballot access
in all 50 states. One of the most influential American
columnists, Tom Friedman of the New York Times, embraced this
initiative, arguing that it could create a “radical center”
alternative in American politics, much in the same way that
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  revolutionized the book business.  This is an idea whose time hasn’t come, and may never,
despite the understandable public revulsion with the nation’s
political leaders.  The most basic problem, one that often afflicts such
movements, is that it’s top down; find a charismatic
presidential candidate and all flows from there. If fundamental
change is the purpose, the emphasis instead should be on a
bottom-up approach to building local candidates and grassroots
infrastructure that subsequently could wage a serious
presidential run.  “Charismatic candidates can help, but if you want a
sustained movement there has to be a lot of work and effort
building at the local level, creating an institutional
structure,” says Edward H. Lazarus, who more than a quarter-
century ago co-wrote “Third Parties in America.”  Bull Moose  There rarely has been a more charismatic candidate than
Teddy Roosevelt, he notes. TR ran as a Bull Moose independent in
the 1912 election, lost and not long afterwards “his movement
disappears.”  In 1992, the independent candidate  Ross Perot  received 19
percent of the presidential vote; this top-down effort to create
a Reform party failed miserably. Governors, such as Jesse Ventura of  Minnesota , and  Connecticut ’s Lowell Weicker, were
elected as independents; they left no enduring legacy.  Third- or fourth-party movements aren’t unusual in U.S.
politics, from the Prohibitionists to the Communists.
Sustainability requires a rationale and support from a committed
slice of the electorate.  Radical Center  Some of today’s strongest advocates for an alternative
political force say there is an opening for a party that isn’t
beholden to special interests, governed from the center, a
position called common sense by some, a radical center by others.  Sounds interesting. Is there a middle-ground consensus, not
amply represented by Republicans or Democrats today, on the war
in  Afghanistan , or Medicaid, or a carbon tax, or the
controversial social issues?  Actually, a more compelling case can be made that there’s a
vacuum for a populist neo-right-wing movement: one that is anti-
immigration, anti-Wall Street, anti-welfare state and opposes
foreign entanglements and aid. This would share little in common
with a common-sense centrist party.  Americans Elect  is undeterred by these obstacles. This is a
well-intended group with a blue-ribbon advisory board that
includes a few top officials from both Democratic and Republican
administrations and prominent citizens such as Irv Hockaday,
former chief executive officer of Hallmarks Cards Inc., and
William Webster, a former director of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation .  Internet Drive  The goal is to register, through the Internet, millions of
delegates who, next June, will nominate a presidential and vice-
presidential candidate and establish 15 to 20 major policy
planks.  “The American people know they’re not well served by
duopoly in the American political system, and with the Internet
and social media we can extend to politics the competition
that’s in other facets of our lives,” says  Elliot Ackerman , the
chief operating officer of Americans Elect. The group says it
already has gathered 1.6 million signatures to get the ticket on
the California ballot and vows it will do the same in the other
50 venues.  Americans Elect stresses transparency, and vows to get away
from secret deals and smoke-filled rooms. Yet it changed its tax
status and doesn’t disclose the identities of all of its funders.
“We’re playing by the rules,” says Ackerman, who adds that all
of the money goes to the organizing effort, not to the eventual
candidates.  ‘National Level’  They have no intention of fielding candidates at any level
below the national ticket. “We think the focus has to be on the
level of leadership at the national level,” says Kahlil Byrd,
the group’s CEO.  Certainly, the debate over the debt fiasco fuels the
contempt and disdain that many Americans feel for Washington.
Veteran politicians of both parties say they can’t remember a
time when the system was more broken.  America’s two political parties are too often captives of
narrower interests and a my-way-or-the-highway base. That flaw
afflicted Democrats a generation ago, and today the central
cause of political dysfunction are the unyielding, out-of-the-
mainstream elements of the  Republican Party  that often call the
shots.  Sharp disagreements, disputes and divides are healthy in
democratic societies. The debt ceiling, however, isn’t the stuff
of earlier battles over war and peace, or civil rights or the
New Deal. And when it comes to unsustainable deficits, Democrats
and Republicans both are culpable.  Stable System  Still, for more than a century and a half, these two
parties have served America well, creating a more stable
political system than most democracies. Sometimes they have
benefitted from independent or third-party movements, absorbing
ideas and disaffected voters.  It may be that this time, one or both these parties have
gone too far and the new technology affords opportunities for
sweeping change. If so, independent or third-party advocates
should focus next year on electing hundreds of state legislators,
dozens of members of Congress and perhaps even a statewide
office holder or two. That might provide the start of the
necessary infrastructure of a new movement, or force the major
political parties to adapt.  That’s less sexy and a lot tougher than tapping someone to
run a quixotic campaign for president. It also is more serious.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 