-- 
Israeli 10-Year Bonds Decline as Consumer Protests Intensify

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-31T12:25:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/israeli-10-year-bonds-decline-as-consumer-protests-intensify.html
Israel ’s 10-year government bonds
fell amid concern widening public protests against rising
housing and living costs may force the government to borrow more
money.  The yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond
due in January 2020 gained two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 5.02 percent at 2:29 p.m. in Tel Aviv. The rate has
declined 14 basis points this month. A  Standard & Poor’s  team
that met with Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz last week
expressed concern the  budget deficit  may swell as the government
raises spending to respond to protesters’ demands, harming the
country’s credit rating,  Ma’ariv reported . It didn’t say where
it got the information.  “Growing protests over rising prices increase pressure on
the government to act,” Ehud Itzhakov, a bond trader at Bank
Hapoalim Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by telephone. “There is concern
in the market the government may need to raise more debt, which
is creating uncertainty about the deficit. Investors are likely
to sell long-term debt and take profits today.”  More than 100,000 Israelis rallied in Tel Aviv, Jerusalem,
Haifa and other cities last night to demand affordable housing.
Haim Shani, director general of the  Finance Ministry , resigned
today after a series of disagreements with Finance Minister
Yuval Steinitz.  Ministerial Panel  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said today he will name a
team of ministers to listen to the public and put together a
plan that will be brought to the cabinet.  Home prices  rose 13.7
percent in the 12 months through April-May, the Central Bureau
of Statistics reported July 15. Netanyahu on July 26 announced a
plan to increase the supply of housing to offset rising property
prices and appease protesters.  The demonstrations are the latest in a series of consumer
protests that started over the rising cost of cottage cheese.
The outcry prompted dairy companies, including  Strauss Group
Ltd. (STRS) , to lower prices. The Ministry of Industry, Trade, and
Labor said July 27 the dairy market will be opened to more
competition and imports in an effort to bring down prices.  The shekel strengthened 0.1 percent to 3.4210 against the
dollar on July 29, trimming the decline this month to 0.6
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  