-- 
Israel Finance Ministry Loses Top Aide Amid Housing Protests

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-07-31T13:14:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/israel-finance-ministry-loses-top-aide-amid-housing-protests-1-.html
The director general of Israel’s
 Finance Ministry  Haim Shani resigned after a series of
disagreements with Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz as the
government grapples with growing protests over housing costs.  Shani will leave after less than two years at the ministry
because of “differences of opinion in fundamental issues” with
Steinitz, he said in a letter published today by the Finance
Ministry in  Tel Aviv .  “To my great sadness, my desire to contribute to the State
of Israel from my business and administrative experience can’t
be fully utilized under these conditions,” Shani said in the
letter. “Events of the past few days have exacerbated the
problems I describe.”  The resignation follows a wave of protests over housing
costs and other consumer price increases. Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu pledged on July 26 to increase the supply of
housing to offset rising property prices and appease protestors.  Israel ’s benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bond fell
today, pushing the yield up three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 5.03 percent at 1:31 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  “Growing protests over rising prices increase pressure on
the government to act,” Ehud Itzhakov, a bond trader at Bank
Hapoalim Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by telephone. “There is concern
in the market the government may need to raise more debt, which
is creating uncertainty about the deficit. Investors are likely
to sell long-term debt and take profits today.”  House Prices  Home prices  rose 13.7 percent in the 12 months through
April-May, about triple the inflation rate, the  Central Bureau
of Statistics  said on July 15. Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  warned July 8 that the country is facing a potential
“housing bubble” that is fueling inflation.  More than 100,000 Israelis took to the streets last night
in Tel Aviv,  Jerusalem , Haifa and other cities across the
country. Netanyahu said today he will appoint a team of Cabinet
ministers to talk to protest leaders and address their concerns.  Shani will continue in his post until a replacement is
found, the ministry said. Steinitz said he responded to the
resignation with both “regret and understanding.”  “The mice are abandoning a sinking ship,” said Zahava
Gal-On, a parliament member from the Meretz opposition faction,
“The tens of thousands of people who marched yesterday don’t
want to see the officials resign, they expect the prime minister
and the finance minister to hand in the keys and go home.”  Must Respond  President  Shimon Peres  said the government must respond to
the street demonstrations.  “This generation has a right to speak out and it is our
obligation to listen and draw conclusions,” he said in remarks
broadcast from Jerusalem on Israel Radio.  Protests continued even after Netanyahu laid out a plan
last week to build 50,000 housing units across the country
within 18 months. Incentives for building the cheapest rental
apartments would include free land provided by the state.  “Some of the claims being made are justified and some are
not,” Netanyahu said in remarks to the Cabinet e-mailed by his
office. “We are obligated to deal with the genuine claims and
distress. This, without doubt, compels us to change our list of
priorities.”  Shani, who was the chief executive officer of digital
surveillance product maker  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE)  before joining the
Finance Ministry, was the main architect behind a government
technology program to attract international financial-services
companies.  Barclays Capital  announced in March it plans to open
a research and development center in Israel with 200 employees,
becoming the first company to take up the government’s offer to
subsidize salaries under the plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net 
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  