-- 
Japan Orders Flood Evacuation, S. Korea Warns of Mudslides From Downpours

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 
2011-07-31T09:31:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/japan-orders-flood-evacuation-s-korea-warns-of-mudslides-from-downpours.html
Japan  told almost half a million
people to evacuate flood zones in central Honshu while  South
Korea  warned waterlogged hillsides might slide as downpours
pummeled both northeast Asian nations.  Three bodies were discovered in rivers swollen by the
deluge and three others are missing in the Japanese prefectures
of Niigata and Fukushima, and authorities advised or ordered
evacuation of 470,000 residents, the  Fire and Disaster
Management Agency  said today on its website.  Niigata recorded 1,186 millimeters (47 inches) of rain and
Fukushima 680 millimeters since July 27, the  Japan
Meteorological Agency  said on its website yesterday. The agency
forecast rainfalls up to 24 millimeters per hour in the region
tomorrow.  South Korea’s capital of  Seoul  and parts of Gyeonggi, and
South Chungchong, Jeolla provinces will receive hourly rainfall
from 50 millimeters to 120 millimeters tonight and tomorrow, the
Korea Meteorological Administration said on its Web site.  Torrential rains triggered mudslides and flash floods that
killed at least 51 people in South Korea last week. As many as
10 landmines at an air-defense site in southern Seoul were
missing as of July 29 after parts of the hillside were washed
away.  North Korea  scaled down military exercises planned last
week because of heavy rainfall, Yonhap News reported July 29.  North Korea’s state-run Korean Central News Agency said
thousands of homes and hundreds of factories, schools and public
buildings were destroyed by floods. China’s government and the
 Red Cross  decided to provide emergency relief aid to help North
Korea recover from the damage, KCNA reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  