-- 
Japan Has ‘Slim’ Chance of Splitting Power Utilities as Blackouts Loom

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a ,   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   A k i k o   I k e d a
-- 
2011-07-31T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/japan-has-slim-chance-of-splitting-power-utilities-as-blackouts-loom.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s proposal
to split electricity monopolies into generation and distribution
companies as part of his plan to wean  Japan  from nuclear energy
may be opposed by utilities as the nation faces power shortages.  Kan’s government last week announced its plan to diversify
away from nuclear power after a public backlash following the
Fukushima disaster, and shift to alternate sources gradually to
avoid shortages and higher prices. The strategy will consider
separating generation and distribution and encourage “various
operators” to enter the  electricity market , Kan said July 29.  “Breaking up the electricity grid is a great idea in
theory, but the power companies are against it and the chances
of it actually happening are slim,” said  Kenichi Hirano ,
general manager and strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in
Tokyo. “The debate will end at the discussion stage instead of
translating into policy unless the government is willing to take
on the utilities. The reaction in the market will be limited.”  Japan’s Topix Electric Power & Gas Index slumped to a six-
week low July 29. Kansai Electric Power Co. and Kyushu Electric
Power Co. are among utilities that have avoided issuing full-
year profit forecasts or revised them after three meltdowns at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in March
raised questions about nuclear safety and prevented idled units
from restarting.  Three Stages  Reliance on atomic power will be reduced in three stages,
the first being the next three years, then by 2020 and then
through 2050, the government said in a July 29 statement.  “In the medium to long term, we’ll reduce dependence on
nuclear power and strengthen and accelerate green innovation,”
National Strategy Minister  Koichiro Gemba  told reporters in
Tokyo the same day. “We’ll consider how to realize the best
mixture of new energy.”  Opposition to nuclear power surged after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi, triggering
the worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl 25 years ago. More
than 70 percent of respondents in a Kyodo News survey published
July 25 said they support phasing out the energy source.  Public support for nuclear power may erode further after
disclosures that utilities sought to manipulate public opinion
at government-held symposiums on nuclear power.  Agency Independence  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency should be made
independent of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry,
Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said July 30, adding that personnel
exchanges between the agency and ministry were a factor in such
attempts, according to a report by state-run broadcaster NHK.  The Kyodo poll also showed Kan’s approval rating fell to
17.1 percent, from 23.2 percent in June, and 66.9 percent said
he should resign by the end of August. The poll of 1,014 people
conducted July 23-24 didn’t provide a margin of error.  “People are getting tired of all these grand plans by the
 Democratic Party  that go nowhere and this plan will be seen as
just that,” Hirano of Tachibana Securities said.  Of Japan’s 54 reactors, 38 are idled or inactive as local
officials block restarts of units closed for maintenance and
safety checks since the earthquake and tsunami wrecked the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, causing radiation leaks.  Japan’s Rise  The rise of Japan’s manufacturing after World War II to
dominate the global auto and electronics industries came in
lockstep with promotion of nuclear power to reduce the country’s
dependence on imported oil. Japan passed laws on nuclear
subsidies to develop the industry in 1974, a year after the
global oil shock sent its economy into a recession.  A Japan without nuclear generation and reliant on Kan’s
goal to get 20 percent of its power from renewable energy would
add 1.66 trillion yen ($2.1 billion) a year to the power bill
for  Japan Iron and Steel Federation  members, the association
said July 19.  Abandoning nuclear power risks hollowing out Japan’s
industry as companies like Komatsu Ltd., the world’s No. 2 maker
of construction machinery, say they can move abroad “whenever
we want,” taking jobs and taxable revenue with them, Chairman
Masahiro Sakane said. Prime Minister Kan’s nuclear-free vision
doesn’t consider all the issues, he said.  Gross domestic product will fall by 3.6 percent and 200,000
jobs may be eliminated if all of Japan’s reactors close by next
spring as scheduled maintenance takes them offline, the Tokyo-
based Institute of Energy Economics said a report last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in  Tokyo  at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at   iakiko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  