-- 
Japan Stock Futures Rise on Signs U.S. Lawmakers Close to Debt Agreement

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-31T23:32:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-signs-u-s-lawmakers-close-to-debt-agreement.html
Japanese  stock futures  gained amid
optimism U.S. lawmakers will reach an agreement on raising the
federal debt ceiling one day before the Treasury Department says
it will run out of cash to pay its bills.  American depositary receipts of Toyota Motor Corp., the
world’s largest carmaker that counts  North America  as its
biggest market, increased 0.3 percent from the closing share
price in  Tokyo . Those of Kyocera Corp., a maker of solar panels
that gets 17 percent of its revenue in the U.S., gained 0.3
percent. ADRs of NTT DoCoMo Inc., Japan’s No. 1 mobile-phone
operator by market value, advanced 1.2 percent after the company
said first-quarter profit increased.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September were bid in the pre-market at 9,890 in  Osaka  at 8:05
a.m. local time compared with their July 29 closing level of
9,820 in Chicago and 9,830 in Osaka. Futures on  Australia ’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index slid 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index gained 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “The U.S. debt ceiling talks are moving toward an
agreement and the dollar’s depreciation is easing,” said
 Kazuhiro Takahashi , a general manager at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. in Tokyo. “More and more companies are
reporting earnings that exceed analysts’ estimates or raising
profit forecasts, and that’s bringing a feeling of hope.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.2
percent today amid optimism lawmakers and President Barack Obama
are close to an agreement to raise the federal debt ceiling and
avoid a default.  Tentative Agreement  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  approved a tentative
agreement with Republican leaders and the Obama administration
to raise the borrowing limit pending approval by fellow Senate
Democrats, according to a spokesman.  Congressional leaders and the Obama administration
negotiated to finish the details of the agreement, paving the
way for possible votes in the Senate and House. Senate
Republican leader Mitch McConnell said that congressional
negotiators and Obama are “very close” to a deal, having made
“dramatic progress” on July 30.  The dollar climbed versus the euro, yen and Swiss franc
after Reid’s office said he signed off on a proposed deal,
pending approval of fellow Senate Democrats. The Dollar Index,
which tracks the currency against six counterparts, fell in July
as debt talks and concern over slow growth damped demand for the
greenback.  U.S. Growth  In  New York , the  S&P 500  fell 0.7 percent to 1,292.28 on
July 29 as economic growth trailed forecasts and investors
awaited the outcome of negotiations to avoid a debt default.  The Commerce Department reported gross domestic product
rose at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter
following a 0.4 percent gain in the previous three months that
was less than originally estimated. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 1.8 percent
increase. Household purchases, which make up about 70 percent of
the economy, climbed 0.1 percent.  In a separate report, the Institute for Supply Management-
 Chicago  Inc. said on July 29 its business barometer fell to 58.8
in July, lower than forecast, from 61.1 the prior month. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  In  Europe , Moody’s Investors Service said on July 29 that
it is reviewing  Spain ’s Aa2 classification as its regions
struggle to cut budget deficits and last week’s Greek bailout
increases the risk that bondholders will have to pay for further
European rescues. A cut would probably be “limited to one
notch,” Moody’s said. Spain has the same  credit rating  as Italy,
which is also on review for downgrade at Moody’s.  Yearly Loss  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.7 percent this year
through July 29, compared with a gain of 2.8 percent by the S&P
500 and a drop of 3.8 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.4 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.9 times for the S&P 500
and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  In  Japan , of the 620 companies that have released quarterly
earnings results since July 11, 98 have reported profit
surprises, exceeding 59 firms that reported disappointing
results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NTT DoCoMo said on July 29 that net income increased 12
percent to 158 billion yen ($2 billion) for the April-June
period, citing cost reductions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 