-- 
Jenson Button Celebrates 200th Formula One Grand Prix With Win in Hungary

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-31T23:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/jenson-button-of-mclaren-wins-hungarian-formula-one-grand-prix.html
Jenson Button  won the Hungarian Grand
Prix in his 200th Formula One race, securing his 11th career
victory at the track where he got his first in 2006.  World champion and series leader  Sebastian Vettel  of  Red
Bull  was second, with  Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari third after
yesterday’s 70-lap race at the Hungaroring near Budapest.
Changing weather led to a record 88 pit stops as teams grappled
with a greasy track amid intermittent rain.  It was Button’s second victory of the season after the
rain-disrupted Canadian Grand Prix. For much of the race he
battled with McLaren teammate  Lewis Hamilton , who came fourth
after a driving error and a mistake in tire selection cost him
the chance of a second straight win.  “We were both driving on the limit and the gap ebbed and
flowed,” Button, 31, said in a team statement. “This was the
perfect way to celebrate my 200th Grand Prix and the team can
enter the summer break with a spring in its step.”  The 19-event series takes a four-week break before the Aug.
28 Belgian Grand Prix at Spa-Francorchamps. There are eight
races remaining.  Hamilton, the 2008 series champion, also picked up a drive-
through penalty yesterday for making Force  India ’s Paul di Resta
go off the track.  Mark Webber  of Red Bull finished fifth,
followed by Ferrari’s  Felipe Massa  and Di Resta.  Vettel started on pole for the eighth time this season,
followed by Hamilton, Button, Massa and Alonso. In slippery
conditions, Hamilton won a battle with Vettel for the lead, then
lost it back to the German, before those two drivers and Button
tussled for first place.  Hamilton Setback  After 47 laps, Hamilton’s six-second advantage disappeared
when he spun his car in the incident with Di Resta and Button
took over.  “I’m disappointed in myself for spinning,” Hamilton said.
“I had to do a doughnut to get myself facing the right way and
that forced Paul onto the grass, which is why I got the drive-
through penalty. I’ve apologized to Paul and I’ll put the
penalty behind me and move on to the next race.”  After dueling with Button for the lead over the following
laps, Hamilton compounded his earlier error by wrongly choosing
intermediate tires to cope with rain, only to switch to softs
almost immediately.  That put the Briton back to sixth, although he managed to
move up to fourth by the close. Button, meantime, had
consolidated his lead and cruised to victory by 3.59 seconds for
McLaren’s fourth win this campaign.  ‘Wasn’t Easy’  “To win this type of race means a lot because it wasn’t
easy out there,” Button said. “A wonderful race and perfect
for my 200th. This is where I first won in F-1, so I’m going to
enjoy this.”  Vettel increased his lead in the drivers’ standings to 85
points. He has 234 points, followed by Webber (149), Hamilton
(146), Alonso (145), Button (134) and Massa (70).  “There is still a long way to go, and with races like this
we know how quickly things can change,” Vettel said.  McLaren has won three of the past five races and will look
to attack in the second half of the season, Team Principal
Martin Whitmarsh said.  “I’m a long way behind Seb,” Button added. “I’ve got to
beat him at every race, and that is exactly what we are going to
try and achieve after we’ve had a break.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  