-- 
Katzenberg Biggest Donor to Pro-Obama Political Group

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-07-31T22:59:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/katzenberg-biggest-donor-to-pro-obama-political-group.html
Jeffrey Katzenberg, chief executive
officer of Dreamworks Animation, donated $2 million to a group
founded by former White House aides who are working to help
President  Barack Obama  win a second term.  Media executive and philanthropist Fred Eychaner and the
 Service Employees International Union  were the second-largest
donors to Priorities USA Action, the committee founded by  Bill Burton , a former White House spokesman, and Sean Sweeney, a
former senior White House adviser. Each wrote a check for
$500,000.  Lobbyists are also among the organization’s donors. Steve Elmendorf, founder of Elmendorf Ryan and a former adviser to
 Hillary Clinton ’s 2008 Democratic presidential primary campaign,
and David Castagnetti, a partner at Mehlman Vogel Castagnetti
Inc. and an adviser to the 2004 presidential campaign of
Democrat  John Kerry , each donated $5,000.  Priorities USA Action provides the first opportunity for
lobbyists to make donations aimed at helping the president,
although they are indirect. Obama, citing his intention to be
distant from special interests, has banned lobbyist donations to
his campaign and the  Democratic National Committee , the two
primary financial engines behind his re-election committee.  Priorities USA Action, which discloses its donors, and
Priorities USA, an affiliated group that keeps its contributors’
names secret, have raised a combined total of more than $5
million since their founding in April.  Burton v. Rove  Burton’s group intends to counter similar efforts by pro-
Republican political action committees and non-profits created
in the 2010 midterms with the guidance of Karl Rove, President
 George W. Bush ’s political adviser, after the U.S. Supreme Court
ruled in Citizens United v. Federal Election Committee that
corporations and unions can spend freely to influence the
outcomes of political campaigns.  “We’ve invested in early advertising to highlight
Republican proposals to end Medicare and to counter  Karl Rove ’s
$20 million in deceptive ads,” Burton said in an email.  Priorities USA Action has spent $1.3 million so far this
year, according to today’s filings with the  Federal Election
Commission .  Rove is adviser to pro-Republican groups,  American
Crossroads  and Crossroads GPS, which launched a $20 million
advertising campaign earlier this month criticizing Obama’s
economic policies. American Crossroads reported raising $3.8
million in the first six months of this year.  Three Democratic Groups  Priorities  is working with three other new, independent
Democratic groups.  The groups, only some of which disclose their donors, have
raised more than $10 million to help re-elect Obama and to add
to the Democratic ranks in Congress, according to a press
release issued July 29. Majority PAC, which will work with
Senate candidates, raised $1.25 million in the first half of
2011. House Majority PAC took in $985,000 and American Bridge
and its affiliated foundation raised $3.07 million.  Other Hollywood figures also underwrite Democratic groups.
Hollywood producer Steve Bing was the biggest donor to American
Bridge and the Majority Pac. He gave $250,000 to help elect
Senate Democrats and $150,000 to American Bridge. Bing is a
longtime friend of former President  Bill Clinton , and founder of
Los Angeles-based Shangri-La Industries, which develops real
estate and makes films.  J.J. Abrams , who produced the television series “Lost,”
gave $50,000 to Priorities USA Action and $37,500 to American
Bridge.  Union Giving  Unions are another major source of money. SEIU gave
$185,000 to the House Majority PAC, in addition to the $300,000
the union gave to American Bridge and the Senate committee.  The Democratic organizations, operating independently of
candidate campaign committees and the  Democratic National
Committee , will copy the tactics used by Rove and his allies
last year when the  Republican Party  won control of the  House of
Representatives  and gained six seats in the Senate. The
Democratic groups plan to meet regularly to share information
and resources and to target their political advertising at races
where it would have greatest effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  