-- 
Obama Pressing Republicans on Debt-Ceiling Debate in 140-Character Bursts

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-07-31T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/obama-turns-to-twitter-to-press-republicans-on-debt-limit-debate.html
President  Barack Obama  is pressing
Republicans to change their minds on the debt-ceiling debate 140
characters at a time.  The president put his political organization to work on the
social network last week, mobilizing supporters on Twitter Inc.
for the Washington wrangling over raising the federal debt
limit.  With 9.4 million followers, @barackobama, the president’s
campaign Twitter feed, is the third most followed on the
service, sandwiched between pop music stars Lady Gaga and Justin
Bieber and  Britney Spears  and Katy Perry, according to
 fanpagelist.com .  A day after Obama’s campaign aides posted more than 100
Twitter messages urging followers to pressure their lawmakers to
find a compromise in the debt-ceiling standoff, Obama’s campaign
Twitter feed had just one posting as of 7 p.m. Eastern time
yesterday. The end of the Twitter blitz came as lawmakers sought
to break a stalemate and Obama held a meeting at the White House
with Vice President  Joe Biden , Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi ,
a California Democrat.  The lone message was posted mid-day and included a link to
the president’s weekly  radio address  encouraging lawmakers to
reach a bipartisan compromise to raise the $14.3 trillion debt
by Aug. 2.  Twitter Blitz  Campaign aides used the site to flood followers on July 29
as the  House of Representatives  was heading toward a vote  on a
Republican plan to raise the debt ceiling. The House bill passed
that day solely on the basis of Republican support, 218-210. The
Senate later killed it, continuing the impasse in the debt-
ceiling debate.  Obama had already threatened to veto the bill when he went
before White House microphones to urge voters to “let your
members of Congress know” how they feel. “Make a phone
call. Send an e-mail. Tweet,” he said. “Keep the pressure on
 Washington .”  Over the course of the day, Obama’s campaign aides posted
Twitter messages, some spaced just a minute apart, giving out
the Twitter addresses of more than 230 Republican lawmakers.
Obama’s followers were urged to contact the Republicans in
support of legislation from the Democratic-controlled Senate to
raise the government’s borrowing authority and take a slice out
of the deficit.  Boehner Message  Obama isn’t alone in the capital contest of 140 characters
or less: Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio , in
advance of his chamber’s vote yesterday rejecting a Senate plan
to raise the debt ceiling, issued this Twitter message: “DOA:
@SenatorReid’s bill a non-starter in the House (and the
Senate?)”  Not everyone was a fan of the president’s message blitz.
Obama’s campaign Twitter feed lost 33,243 followers July 29,
according to  Twitter Counter , a website that tracks statistics
for more than 10 million Twitter users. By 7 p.m. Washington
time yesterday, the site had gained 10,786 followers, according
to  Twitter Counter .  “Tweet at your Republican legislators and urge them to
support a bipartisan compromise to the debt crisis,” said one
Obama campaign message on July 29. “Massachusetts voters: Tweet
@USSenScottBrown and ask him to compromise on a balanced deficit
solution,” said another, referring to the state’s Republican
senator.  While the directives to contact Republican lawmakers came
from Obama’s campaign Twitter account, White House
communications director  Dan Pfeiffer  has been using Twitter for
days to engage and debate lawmakers, pundits and voters on the
debt-ceiling issue issue.  ‘Silly Little Gimmick’  Representative Trent Franks, an Arizona Republican and one
of the targets of the Twitter campaign, called the move a
“silly little gimmick.” He said Obama should have spent more
time engaging directly with House Republicans and putting
deficit-cutting specifics on paper.  “I wish the president would tweet us,” Franks said. “He
is AWOL in this discussion.”  The Obama campaign’s Twitter blasts also set off a series
of retaliatory broadcasts.  ‘No  Ronald Reagan ’  “President Obama is no Ronald Reagan,” Representative Joe Walsh, an Illinois Republican, said in a Twitter message.  Senator  Dan Coats , an Illinois Republican, told his
followers in a Twitter message: “Hoosiers: Tweet @BarackObama
and ask him what his plan is.”  According to Rachael Horwitz, a spokeswoman for the biggest
U.S. microblogging service, San Francisco-based Twitter posts
about 200 million messages each day and has more than 200
million registered users.  Twitter Inc. was No. 4 in June in the U.S. among social
networks, with 30.6 million users, according to ComScore Inc.
That was up 14 percent from the previous month and a 31 percent
increase from a year earlier, ComScore said.  “What’s exciting about Twitter is it’s another way to have
an ongoing dialogue between many Americans across the country,”
said Macon Phillips, the administration’s director of digital
strategy, who manages @WhiteHouse, the official White House
Twitter page, which has 2,306,503 followers.  Ronald Yaros, a professor of new media and mobile
journalism at the  University of Maryland  in  College Park , said
as Twitter becomes a mass medium it could play a significant
role in mobilizing voters and that how successful Obama is in
using it in the debt-ceiling debate will be watched by other
campaigns.  For the president’s campaign staff and White House
advisers, Yaros said, the aim is not only for Obama supporters
to mobilize “but that the followers will pass the word and use
this as just one stage of the networking process.”  “It’s a very effective, efficient way to get the word out,
and to let the network of existing followers be the disciples
for, without waiting for the television camera to turn on,”
Yaros said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  