-- 
Obama Offered ‘West Wing’ Tips by Writer Watching Crisis

-- B y   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-08-01T13:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/obama-offered-west-wing-tips-by-writers-transfixed-by-debt-crisis-talks.html
Reviving broken-down political talks
is easy for fictional U.S. leaders. When Josiah Bartlet, the
Democratic president in “The West Wing,” is confronted by
Republicans opposed to raising the debt limit, the crisis takes
just one hour long episode to fix.  The 2003 episode, “Shutdown,” is still shown around the
world today with eerie echoes, its writer  Mark Goffman  says.
Bartlet’s government is thrown into chaos as he resists
Republican demands.  “We had the people in  Washington  you hope for there,”
Goffman says in an interview. “All the smartest minds, working
to figure out the best solution.”  Goffman has a positive fictional outcome to his debt
crisis, unlike Gary Shteyngart in his latest satire “Super Sad
True Love Story.” The Russian-born novelist has imagined the
consequences of a U.S. default.  Goffman and Shteyngart are both fascinated by President
Barack Obama’s negotiations with Republican congressional
leaders. The writers are worried by what they see as reluctance
to compromise.  In “The West Wing,” Bartlet marches through Washington to
where the Republicans are holed up.  As the commander-in-chief waits outside, greeting passersby
and showing enthralled reporters his readiness to talk, his
opponents dither -- a fatal error. Having lost the initiative,
they cave in and agree to raise the debt ceiling without
exacting further concessions.  Shrewd Politician  The fictional speaker of the House,  Jeff Haffley , is “a
shrewd politician but a reasonable person,” says the writer.
Once he understands Bartlet won’t stand down, he accepts defeat.  Goffman, 42, who attended the Harvard School of Government,
says the show espoused an “idealized” vision of Washington.  Politics in the West Wing’s Washington were characterized
by “respect,” he says. “I’m not sure if you see that in the
real Washington D.C.”  In the bleaker version of Shteyngart’s comedy, the Chinese
government pulls out of its holdings of U.S. treasuries. “The
country becomes ungovernable,” he says in a telephone
interview.  The future, as he pictured it, “is just two years away
these days,” says 39-year-old Shteyngart.  In 2006, having noticed some “very modest homes going for
ridiculous sums,” the St. Petersburg-born  New Yorker  started a
novel about the collapse of the U.S. real-estate market.  Bank Collapses  His doomsday scenario, at the time, was “the collapse of a
couple of banks, the decline of the  auto industry ,” he says.  When those episodes actually happened even before the book
was written, Shteyngart had to come up with a new disaster. He
decided to set his novel in the near future, and imagined the
turmoil caused by a U.S. default.  He envisages real-life Americans “tearing ourselves
apart,” with no help from outsiders. “ Greece  would die to have
an economy like ours,” he says. “Behind the political theater
is a more profound feeling. We’re at the end of an era and we
don’t know how to react.”  Goffman says that television works differently to reality.  “The way news works,” he says, “it’s better for them to
portray it as a story -- here are the good guys, here are the
black hats. That makes for good TV, maybe, but not good
politics.”  “Super Sad True Love Story” is published in the U.S. by
 Random House  ($26, 334 pages) and is published in the U.K. by
 Granta  priced 7.99 pounds.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  To contact the writer on the story:
Ed Ballard in  London  at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 