-- 
Oil Climbs After Obama Says Congressional Leaders Agree to Debt-Limit Deal

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-08-01T12:08:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/oil-climbs-in-new-york-as-u-s-senate-leader-close-to-deal-on-debt-ceiling.html
Oil advanced from a two-week low in
New York after President  Barack Obama  said congressional leaders
approved a deal to raise America’s debt ceiling, stoking
speculation the world’s biggest crude user will avoid a default.  Futures surged as much as 1.9 percent after Obama spoke
from the White House and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
endorsed the emerging accord between Republican leaders and the
administration. The U.S. won’t default on its obligations,
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said. A Labor Department
report on Aug. 5 may show July payrolls rose by 90,000 workers.  “It’s a kind of relief for the market,” Thina Saltvedt,
an analyst at Nordea Bank AB, said in a phone interview from
Oslo. “Risk appetite is again increasing and investors are
moving into more risky assets such as oil and commodities.”  Crude for September delivery rose as much as $1.85 to
$97.55 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $96.73 at 1:05 p.m. London time. The
contract dropped $1.74 to $95.70 on July 29, the lowest
settlement since July 14. Prices gained 0.3 percent last month
and are 19 percent higher the past year.  Brent for September settlement climbed $1.74, or 1.5
percent, to $118.48 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $21.74 to  New York  futures, compared with a record
close of $22.63 on July 14.  “Brent is reacting to the tension in the Middle East
escalating once again,” Ole Hansen, senior manager of trading
advisory team at Saxo Bank A/S, said from Copenhagen.  Debt Deal  Congressional leaders are sifting through the details of
the tentative bipartisan agreement to raise the debt ceiling,
preparing to sell the deal to skeptical Republicans and
Democrats ahead of possible votes today.  The deal would raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
through 2012, cut spending by about $1 trillion and call for
enactment of a law shaving another $1.5 trillion from long-term
debt by 2021 -- or institute punishing reductions across all
government areas, including Medicare and defense programs,
according to congressional officials.  “Prices moved sharply higher because of Obama’s speech,”
said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivatives sales manager at
broker Newedge Group in  Tokyo , who predicts oil will trade from
$95 to $105 a barrel in the short term. “This market can avoid
a collapse. The recovery of the global economy and increasing
demand for winter fuels will push it higher.”  Chinese Manufacturing  A Chinese manufacturing index was higher than economists
estimated in July, signaling the world’s second-biggest economy
is withstanding interest-rate increases and tighter credit.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.7 for July
compared with 50.9 in June, the China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said in a statement today. That was more than
every forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists. The
median estimate was for a reading of 50.2.  Oil in New York also rose as  hedge funds  increased bullish
bets on gasoline for a fifth consecutive week, pushing futures
to the highest since May. Large speculators increased wagers on
rising prices by 1.9 percent in the week ended July 26 as U.S.
imports declined and falling refinery output crimped supply,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly
Commitments of Traders report. It was the highest total since
April 11.  Hedge-funds and other money managers raised bullish bets on
Brent by 8 percent in the week ended July 26, the London-based
ICE exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of Traders
report. Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 98,733
contracts. Net-long positions increased by 7,571 contracts, from
91,162 a week earlier.  Syria  Violence  Syria’s army pressed its attack on Hama as thousands took
to the streets of Damascus and other cities to protest the
killing of more than 140 people by President Bashar al-Assad’s
security forces.  The two-day offensive has left 116 dead in Hama, as well as
25 in the eastern city of Deir al-Zour and six in Bukamal,
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Damascus-based Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said in a telephone interview. The attack on Hama
is one of the bloodiest episodes in Syria’s four-month uprising.  Oil and gas companies in the  Gulf of Mexico  are restoring
production after Tropical Storm Don dissipated over  Texas , the
 Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement
said yesterday. About 6 percent of oil output and 3.5 percent of
gas pumping in the Gulf was shut in as of 11:30 a.m. Central
time, down from 11.9 percent and 6.2 percent respectively at the
height of the storm, according to the bureau.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ crude
output rose in July to the highest level since December 2008,
led by gains in  Saudi Arabia  and  Angola , according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Production increased 245,000 barrels, or
0.8 percent, to average 29.565 million barrels a day, according
to the survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  