-- 
London Luxury-Home Prices Climb the Most in Six Months on Overseas Demand

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-01T09:14:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/london-luxury-home-price-gains-accelerate-on-overseas-buyers.html
Central  London  luxury-home prices
jumped the most in six months in July as buyers from mainland
 Europe  sought a haven from economic instability, driving values
to record highs,  Knight Frank LLP  said.  Values of houses and apartments costing an average of 3.7
million pounds ($6.1 million) rose 9.6 percent in the 12 months
through July, according to an index compiled by the London-based
real-estate broker released today. That’s the most since
January, when there was a 10.3 percent gain.  The countries that share the euro have been roiled by a
sovereign-debt crisis that led to bailouts for  Greece , Ireland
and  Portugal  and now threatens Spain and  Italy . That encouraged
buyers to invest money in London’s prime property market, where
there’s a pipeline of developments valued at about 21 billion
pounds, London-based consulting firm  EC Harris LLP  said July 4.  “The increase in supply is in no way making up for the
pent-up demand,” Grainne Gilmore, head of U.K. residential
research at Knight Frank, said by telephone. “With everything
that’s going on in the  euro zone , London is definitely seen as a
safe haven.”  Luxury-home values in the U.K. capital have rebounded
faster than those for other properties as the pound’s weakness
also helped to attract foreign purchasers. Buyers from  France ,
Italy, Greece and  Switzerland  accounted for about 16 percent of
sales in the six months through March, according to Gilmore.  “You can’t underestimate the demand that is coming from
overseas,” she said.  Pound’s Slide  The pound’s 22 percent slide against a basket of 9 other
developed-market currencies, as measured by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, since the market’s previous peak
in March 2008 has also made an apartment or house in affluent
London neighborhoods more affordable for overseas buyers.  Middle East investors also targeted the U.K. before Ramadan
starts this month, said Noel Flint,  Knight Frank ’s head of
London residential. Homebuyers from the region are likely to
return to the London market after the Muslim holy month, he
said.  Since January, the number of luxury homes for sale has
risen about 8 percent, Knight Frank estimates. Even so, prices
in the Chelsea neighborhood have advanced 7.7 percent during
that time, while Mayfair prices have climbed 7.2 percent.  Prime London residential values are now 35 percent higher
than in March 2009, when the U.K. property market slumped during
the global recession.  Chelsea Development  In July, prices for luxury houses and apartments increased
0.7 percent from the previous month, the smallest gain since
October, Knight Frank said. Rents rose 0.3 percent, according to
the broker.  Investors and developers plan to build 9,000 prime
apartments and houses by the end of the decade, EC Harris said
in last month’s report. The new projects include KOP Properties
Pte. Ltd.’s revamp of 10 Trinity Square, which is opposite the
Tower of London, and  Richard Caring ’s plan to convert the former
U.S. Navy building on Grosvenor Square to luxury apartments.  Orion Capital Managers LP bought an acre of residential
land in Chelsea where it plans to build a 300 million-pound
luxury-housing development, founding partner Aref Lahham said by
phone today. The development will have six apartments, two
villas and one penthouse. Construction will begin in six months,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 