-- 
ArcelorMittal, Peabody to Submit Hostile Bid for Macarthur

-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 
2011-08-01T14:08:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/peabody-arcelor-rejects-a-16-shr-offer-for-macarthur-coal.html
ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU)  will put their bid valuing  Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC) , the
world’s biggest maker of pulverized coal, at A$4.7 billion ($5.2
billion) to shareholders after talks for an agreed deal broke
down.  Peabody, based in  St. Louis , and ArcelorMittal, the world’s
largest steelmaker, will proceed with their A$15.50-a-share cash
bid after rejecting Macarthur’s proposal for an agreed deal if
the offer was raised to A$18 a share, the Brisbane-based company
said today in a statement.  Buying Macarthur would give Peabody and ArcelorMittal, its
second-largest shareholder, mines producing steelmaking coal in
Australia as prices trade near a record and suitors vie for
targets. Macarthur, which is trading above the offer price, said
it’s in talks with other parties for alternative offers.  “If cash is going to be successful, I would think the
price should be markedly higher than Peabody and ArcelorMittal’s
initial offer,” Andrew Pedler, a senior analyst at Wilson HTM
Investment Group in Brisbane, said by phone. “I wouldn’t
discount an alternative offer.”  Macarthur rose 1.8 percent to A$15.83 at the 4:10 p.m.
close in Sydney trading. The stock closed at A$11.08 on July 11
before the takeover proposal was first announced.  Confirmed Bid  Peabody and ArcelorMittal confirmed in a statement their
A$15.50-a-share cash bid, valuing Macarthur at about A$4.7
billion. Macarthur shareholders will also be entitled to retain
any final dividend up to 16 cents a share, without reducing the
offer price, the two companies said. That represents total value
of A$15.66 a share, or a 41 percent premium, they said.  The offer is being made by PEAMCoal Pty, to be owned 60
percent by Peabody and 40 percent by ArcelorMittal, the
companies said. The bidding company already has a 16.1 percent
stake in Macarthur and financing has been secured, they said.  Peabody and ArcelorMittal had been willing to raise their
offer to A$16 a share, which included a provision barring talks
with potential rival bidders, Macarthur said. The Australian
company said it would recommend the A$16 proposal, subject to
its own conditions, including an increase to A$18 a share once
the suitors held more than 90 percent of its stock. Peabody and
ArcelorMittal rejected the counter proposal.  The offer “appears opportunistic,” Macarthur Chairman
Keith DeLacy said in the statement. “The board is strongly of
the view that it should do all that it can to facilitate”
potential rival bids, the company said.  ‘Take no Action’  Macarthur told its shareholders to take no action in regard
to the offer.  The offer is the second-biggest coal deal announced this
year, after Alpha Natural Resources Inc.’s $7.1 billion takeover
of Massey Energy Co. in January, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It’s the best first half in at least 12 years,
according to the data, with $21.3 billion in announced deals.  Peabody and ArcelorMittal are willing to pay the equivalent
of $27 for each ton of Macarthur’s coal reserves and $3 a ton of
its coal resources, Morgan Stanley said in a July 12 report.
Both valuations are “toward the upper end,” of similar coal
transactions over the past few years, it said.  The average price for deals in the same coal region,
 Australia ’s Bowen Basin, is $3.30 a ton of resource, Morgan
Stanley said. Macarthur owns a resource of more than 1.5 billion
tons of coal and a reserve of 172.4 million tons, it said.  ‘Unrelenting’ Demand  Credit Suisse Group AG last month raised its price
forecasts for coking coal by an average 15 percent for
2014-2018, citing “unrelenting” demand. Prices jumped 47
percent to a record $330 a metric ton in the second quarter.  Macarthur is being advised by JPMorgan Australia Ltd. and
Corrs Chambers Westgarth. ArcelorMittal is advised by RBC
Capital Markets LLC and Mallesons Stephen Jaques. UBS AG, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and Freehills are
advising Peabody.  “Following due diligence, Peabody and ArcelorMittal
attempted to negotiate a bid implementation agreement (BIA) with
Macarthur,” the two companies said. “However, Macarthur was
not willing to engage on a BIA on customary terms even with
Peabody and ArcelorMittal’s willingness to improve the price
from the original proposal if such a BIA could be agreed.”  Teck Resources Ltd. and Anglo American Plc could be
potential rival bidders, the Australian Financial Review said in
its Street Talk column on July 27 without citing anyone.  Rio, Yanzhou  Rio Tinto Group and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. may also be
interested, the newspaper reported on July 18, without saying
where it got the information.  Macarthur may seek a rival offer that would involve its
largest shareholder Citic Group, RBS Morgans Ltd. said in a
report on July 26. Citic’s director on the Macarthur board, Chen Zeng, has not been involved in any deal discussions and has
taken a leave of absence to avoid a potential conflict of
interest, Macarthur said today.  Macarthur was the subject last year of competing bids for
control from Peabody, New Hope Corp. and Noble Group Ltd. An
investment bank acting for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  in April 2010 also had
approached a “substantial” Macarthur shareholder, Macarthur
said last year. Macarthur ended deal talks with ArcelorMittal in
June 2008 after the steelmaker bought a 14.9 percent stake.  Earnings Multiple  Peabody and ArcelorMittal are offering to pay 20.8 times
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
compared with the median multiple of 16.4 times for 10 coal
mining industry deals compiled by Bloomberg data. Macarthur is
trading at 18.83 times earnings compared with 16.6 times for
Peabody and 16.09 times for ArcelorMittal.  The Peabody and ArcelorMittal bid only needs to be accepted
by at least 50.01 percent of shareholders. Citic Group owns 24.3
percent of Macarthur and  Posco (005490)  7.1 percent as at March 31,
according to a company filing.  “An offer that contains a scrip component would give them
a much more interested hearing from the major industry
shareholders than one that is purely cash,” said Wilson HTM’s
Pedler. “Each of which is there for strategic reasons. Now if
they get paid out in cash, the strategic reason for being there
vanishes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  