-- 
Persian Gulf Analysts Discuss U.S. Debt Crisis and Local Markets

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-07-31T13:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/persian-gulf-analysts-discuss-u-s-debt-crisis-and-local-markets.html
Following are comments from analysts
in the Persian Gulf region as politicians in the U.S. near a
deadline on raising the government’s debt limit.  Paul Cooper , Dubai-based managing director at Sarasin-Alpen
& Partners Ltd.:  “There are two issues: Will the debt ceiling be raised so
that the U.S. can avoid a damaging default and, second, if the
debt ceiling is raised, will the accompanying deficit-reduction
proposal be sufficient to retain the U.S.’s AAA rating?
Currently the balance of probability seems to point toward a
downgrade, not a default.  “The implications for the region, indeed for all emerging
markets, in this scenario are relatively modest. The dollar may
strengthen when a default is avoided, but it is likely to weaken
thereafter when the country’s mediocre growth rate is taken into
account. The same will apply to the U.S. bond market, where
economic weakness, rather than the lack of an AAA rating, will
prevent yields from rising too far.  “The economic slowdown has greater implications for this
region. Slower growth, together with the dampening effect of the
budget-deficit program, will ensure that U.S.  interest rates 
remain low, while currency pegs will keep interest rates low
here as well, supporting the region’s economic recovery. The oil
price may fall, but it will be high enough to finance the
expansionary fiscal policies in place throughout the region.”  Yong Wei Lee, who helps oversee about $1.2 billion as a
senior fund manager at Emirates NBD Asset Management in Dubai:  “At a high level, concerns over the U.S. debt issue are
having a negative effect on global equities, and that spillover
effect is expected to be felt in regional markets as well.  “It is justifiable that some correlation should exist,
since most of the currencies in the region are pegged to the
U.S. dollar. Hence economic decisions that have long-term
implications for the U.S. dollar are also likely to affect
regional economies.”  Sachin Mohindra, a  fund manager  at Invest AD in  Abu Dhabi :  “The uncertainty surrounding U.S. debt issues has and will
continue to affect investor sentiment in regional markets. With
foreign institutional flows drying up, the only providers of
additional liquidity are regional investors, high net worth as
well as local institutions.”  “In the absence of any significant short-term local
triggers, regional high net worth [individuals] have been
increasingly focused on international markets to provide
direction. The U.S. debt crisis has clearly affected sentiment
and will continue to result in increasing risk aversion on the
part of investors.  “Attention is now not only focused on the risk of a
default on Treasury debt, but also on the risks relating to a
potential ratings downgrade. While opinion is divided on whether
a downgrade by itself would result in a financial crisis, the
overall uncertainty and the ‘fear of the unknown’ has prompted a
number of investors, regional included, to adopt a risk-off
attitude, with investors unwilling to commit any substantial
incremental funds to equity markets.  “Regional investors have been adversely affected by
various financial crises over the last few years and appear to
be unwilling to second-guess the consequences of a potential
economic shock, and hence this wait-on-the-sidelines approach.
Poor liquidity conditions in our markets have further
exacerbated the problem.”  Ibrahim Masood, who helps manage about $400 million at
Mashreqbank PSC:  “I think there will be a resolution. However, assuming
there is no resolution, the logical outcome would be
deterioration in the standing of the U.S. as a borrower, so from
a sentiment perspective you could see a volatile few days in the
region.  “I don’t think the  U.S. dollar  would be under any severe
weakness in the aftermath. So that leaves general sentiment and
potentially higher U.S. dollar interest rates as factors
impacting the region.  “This whole debt-ceiling business is a bureaucratic step,
with a lot of background politics. It does not change anything
on the ground, and so any fallout will be equally short term as
well. A very volatile few days, if at all, then the attention
will, I bet, shift back to the structural debt sustainability
problems that the U.S. and even  Europe  faces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net  