-- 
Burress Joins Jets; Cromartie Is Next, ESPN Says, as Eagles Collect Talent

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-01T12:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/plaxico-burress-reaches-agreement-in-principle-to-sign-with-new-york-jets.html
Plaxico Burress said he’s anxious for
a fresh start with the  New York Jets  after the former Giants
receiver spent 20 months in prison on a weapons charge.  Burress signed a contract yesterday with the Jets, less
than two months after he was released from prison and a week
after he was reinstated by the  National Football League . His
one-year contract is worth  $3.02 million , ESPN reported.  Burress, who caught the winning touchdown pass in the 2008
Super Bowl, said he decided to join the Jets after being pursued
by the Giants, Pittsburgh Steelers,  Philadelphia Eagles ,  San
Francisco 49ers  and  St. Louis Rams .  “It came down to going somewhere I wanted to be, where I
could have an impact, help the team get to the next level and
win a championship,” Burress told reporters yesterday on a
media conference call. “That was here.”  Burress and fellow wideout  Santonio Holmes  give Jets third-
year quarterback  Mark Sanchez  two experienced receivers who have
performed in pressure situations. Holmes, who signed a new
contract with the Jets last week, caught the winning touchdown
pass for Pittsburgh in the 2009 Super Bowl.  “I’ve never played with a guy on the other side of me who
was that explosive,” the 6-foot-5 Burress said. “It’s going to
be fun. We’re going to drive some defensive coordinators crazy.
It’s going to be interesting to see how teams match up against
us.”  The deal with Burress came two days after the Jets lost to
the Philadelphia Eagles in the bidding for free-agent cornerback
 Nnamdi Asomugha , a four-time All Pro. Early this morning, the
team agreed to re-sign free-agent cornerback  Antonio Cromartie 
to a four-year, $32 million contract, ESPN reported, citing a
person in the NFL. Cromartie joined the team last year in a
trade with the  San Diego Chargers .  Asomugha’s Contract  Asomugha will get $60 million over five years, according to
ESPN, and the cornerback said he turned down more money from
other teams because the Eagles give him the best chance to win a
Super Bowl. The Eagles have had one losing season since 2000 and
Asomugha has never been on a winning NFL team.  “I’ve seen what the Eagles have done in the past, the
winning tradition they have,” Asomugha said at a news
conference. “It excites me. They’re winners.”  The addition of Asomugha was the last in a flurry of moves
by the Eagles over the past several days.  They also got cornerback Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie in the
trade that sent quarterback  Kevin Kolb  to Arizona, and signed
Pro Bowl defensive end Jason Babin, quarterback  Vince Young  and
defensive tackle Cullen Jenkins, who had seven sacks for the
Super Bowl-champion Green Bay Packers last season.  “You look at the talent they’ve collected over the last
few days and it’s unbelievable,” said ESPN analyst Mark Schlereth, who played 10 seasons as an NFL offensive lineman.
“They’re built to stop some of the great juggernauts in the NFC
when you talk about Green Bay and  New Orleans .”  Jets’ Options  Burress, in teaming with Holmes, offers another attacking
option for a Jets team that got within one win of the past two
Super Bowls by relying on its running game.  The Jets ran for a league-high 2,756 yards in the 2009
season and tied for third in rushing touchdowns. Last season,
they were fourth in total rushing yards and tied for ninth in
running touchdowns.  By contrast,  New York  ranked 31st of 32 teams in net
passing yards in 2009 and 22nd last season. The team was 23rd in
touchdown passes last year after tying for the third-fewest in
the league in 2009.  “We’re going to complement each other very well,” Burress
said of Holmes. “Our running game is really going to blossom
because of that. I really think Mark Sanchez has the chance to
grow and be an elite quarterback. It’s a great situation all the
way around.”  Super Bowl Catches  Burress made his winning catch with 35 seconds left to play
in the 2008 NFL championship game to give the Giants the win
over the  New England Patriots . Holmes made his, also with 35
seconds left, to beat the  Arizona  Cardinals.  Burress, who played for the Steelers from 2000-04, was
sentenced to two years in jail after he pleaded guilty to a New
York state charge of attempted possession of a weapon. The plea
stemmed from an incident on Nov. 28, 2008, when he carried a
Glock semiautomatic pistol in the waistband of his pants into a
Manhattan nightclub and accidentally shot himself.  Burress was released four months early from the medium-
security  Oneida Correctional Facility  in  Rome , New York, for
good behavior. He has 505 receptions for 7,845 yards, averaging
15.5 yards a catch, in his NFL career.  “It has been some long days and some long nights,”
Burress said. “You dream about being able to get back to the
ones you love and that time is coming. It’s time for me to focus
on playing football and playing at a high level.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  