-- 
Pro-Romney PAC Raises $12.3 Million From High-Dollar Donors

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-07-31T21:56:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/pro-romney-pac-raises-12-3-million-from-high-dollar-donors.html
A political action committee that
supports former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney in the
Republican presidential primary raised $12.3 million from mostly
big-money donors in the first half of this year.  Hedge fund manager  John Paulson , who made money during the
financial crisis betting against subprime mortgages, was one of
four $1 million donors to the Restore Our Future PAC.  The other three are corporations: F8 LLC and Eli Publishing
Inc., both listed at the same address in Provo,  Utah ; and W.
Spann LLC of  New York .  J.W. Marriott, chairman and CEO of Marriott International
Inc.; his brother Richard Marriott, chairman of Host Hotels and
Resorts; and Louis Moore Bacon, CEO of Moore Capital Management
LP in New York, each wrote the pro-Romney group a $500,000
check.  Romney, who polls suggest is leading in the 2012 nomination
contest, reported earlier this month that he raised $18.3
million for his campaign during the second quarter. As of June
30, Romney had $12.6 million in the bank.  The donors included many in the financial industry,
including Paul Edgerley, a managing director of Bain Capital
LLC, the company Romney founded. With his wife Sandra, Edgerley
contributed $1 million to the Restore Our Future PAC.  Founding Romney Aides  The political action committee is an independent group that
can run ads to bolster Romney’s bid and may not coordinate with
his campaign. Its treasurer is Charles R. Spies, who was
Romney’s general counsel in the 2008 Republican primary. Its
board of directors includes Carl Forti, who was political
director for Romney’s primary campaign three years ago.  Restore Our Future is one of two “Super PACs,”
independent political committees that take unlimited
contributions, that have been created to help a presidential
candidate. Former White House officials have set up a similar
organization to promote President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.  The Romney-friendly committee could give him an advantage
in the Republican primary by running ads attacking his
opponents, which would allow Romney to conserve resources for
his campaign.  The $12.3 million the group reported today to the  Federal
Election Commission  came from fewer than 100 donors, many of
whom wrote checks for hundreds of thousands of dollars. The
smallest contribution was $3,500, more than the legal limit of
$2,500 per election that an individual can donate to a
candidate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  