-- 
Scott Stallings Extends PGA Tour’s 2011 Rookie Run With Greenbrier Victory

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-08-01T05:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/rookie-scott-stallings-wins-pga-tour-s-greenbrier-classic-in-playoff.html
Scott Stallings made a 7-foot putt on
the first hole of a three-way playoff at the Greenbrier Classic
to become the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s sixth rookie winner this season.  Stallings rolled in a 6-foot birdie putt on the par-3 18th
hole yesterday to get to 10-under par and into the playoff with
Bob Estes and Bill Haas. The players returned to the 18th hole
for the playoff and Stallings hit his tee shot in almost the
same location to set up the winning birdie at the Greenbrier’s
Old White TPC Course in White Sulphur Springs,  West Virginia .  Stallings, 26, received $1.08 million and joins Jhonattan
Vegas,  Charl Schwartzel , Brendan Steele, Keegan Bradley and
Chris Kirk as rookie winners on the PGA Tour in 2011. It’s the
most on the world’s richest golf tour since 1970.  “The money is great, it’s a huge bonus, but I’ve wanted to
do this since I was a little kid,” Stallings said.  Stallings’s birdie in the playoff denied Haas, 29, his
third PGA Tour win in the past two years and Estes, 45, his
first victory since 2002. It was the 13th PGA Tour event to be
decided in a playoff this season.  Stallings had missed the cut for weekend play in 12 of his
previous 20 tournaments this year, with his best finish a third
place showing at the Transitions Championship in March.  With the victory, he earns a spot in the World Golf
Championships-Bridgestone Invitational, which is scheduled for
Aug. 4-7 in Akron,  Ohio . Tiger Woods has said he plans to play
in the tournament after spending more than two months recovering
from knee and ankle injuries.  The Bridgestone Invitational is the last U.S. tournament
before the  PGA Championship , golf’s final major of the season.
The PGA Championship will be played Aug. 11-14 at the Atlanta
Athletic Club.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  