-- 
Ryan Lochte Outduels Phelps as U.S. Dominates World Swimming Championships

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-08-01T04:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/ryan-lochte-of-the-u-s-wins-400m-medley-5th-gold-at-world-championship.html
Ryan Lochte left the world swimming
championships with five gold medals as the U.S. claimed more
than a third of the available titles in the last major global
meet before next year’s London Olympics.  Lochte, 26, cemented his place as the dominant swimmer of
the eight-day championships yesterday by winning the 400-meter
individual medley. Michael Phelps took his fourth gold in
 Shanghai  by helping the U.S. win the 400-meter medley relay.  “Getting five gold medals is definitely great, but the
times that I went, I know I could go a lot faster,” Lochte said
in comments distributed by USA Swimming. “There are a lot of
places in my races that I messed up on that I could have changed
and gone faster, but I guess I have a whole year to make sure I
have those perfect swims.”  Jessica Hardy won the women’s 50-meter breaststroke and
Elizabeth Beisel finished first in the women’s 400-meter medley
to give the U.S. four golds on the final day. Americans won 16
of the 40 swimming finals at the Oriental Sports Center and also
won the 5-kilometer open water team race.  Lochte beat Phelps, a 14-time Olympic gold medalist, in
both their matchups. He also set the first world record since
swimming’s governing body banned high-tech bodysuits 19 months
ago by breaking his own 200-meter individual medley mark.  “I don’t really think I’m the top dog,” Lochte added. “I
have a whole year to work hard, train hard to get back up there
to the top.”  Lochte led all the way yesterday to finish in 4 minutes,
7.13 seconds and add to his victories in the 200-meter
backstroke, medley and freestyle events, and in the 800-meter
freestyle relay.  Matching Phelps  Lochte’s haul matched the five world titles Phelps won two
years ago in Rome. Phelps helped the U.S. close the 14th world
championships by winning the 400-meter team medley by two-tenths
of a second over  Australia .  Phelps swam the butterfly leg, taking the team up to second
place from fourth, before Nathan Adrian sealed the victory in
the freestyle leg.  “The biggest thing is just being able to finish on a win
like that,” Phelps said. “To be able to put four guys together
to step up and fight, we always find a way to get up and go, and
it was a great way to end the last event.”  China ’s Sun Yang broke the second world record of the meet
yesterday by beating Grant Hackett’s 10-year-old mark in the
1,500-meter freestyle. Sun won in 14 minutes, 34.14 seconds,
improving the Australian’s time of 14:34.56 at the 2001 worlds,
which had been the sport’s longest standing record.  Forty-three records fell at the 2009 world championships in
 Rome , before the bodysuit ban.  ‘Grown Up’  “Since I won bronze at Rome two years ago, I’ve grown up a
lot,” Sun, 19, told reporters. “With the London Games one year
out, I should be more strict with myself and start from zero.
Hopefully I can create miracles at the Olympics.”  In other finals yesterday, Hardy won the 50-meter
breaststroke in 30.19 seconds, and Therese Alshammar of  Sweden 
took the 50-meter freestyle in 24.14 seconds. Beisel won the
400-meter medley in 4:31.78.  Defending champion Liam Tancock won the men’s 50-meter
backstroke in 24.50 seconds, giving 2012 Olympic Games host
Britain its third medal of the championships.  “It has been a challenging meet, at times a rollercoaster,
but every team has had their highs and lows,” Michael Scott,
British Swimming’s national performance director, told the
British Broadcasting Corp. “We pulled together as a team and we
have to maintain that for next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  