-- 
HSBC to Sell 195 Branches to First Niagara for $1 Billion

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-08-01T20:33:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/hsbc-to-sell-some-u-s-branches-to-first-niagara-for-1-billion.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s largest
bank by market value, agreed to sell its upstate New York branch
network to  First Niagara Financial Group Inc. (FNFG)  for about $1
billion as it pares U.S. operations.  The price amounts to a 6.7 percent premium for the $15
billion of deposits First Niagara is acquiring along with 195
branches in New York and  Connecticut , London-based HSBC said
yesterday in a statement.  The deal would let First Niagara expand in markets
surrounding its home city of Buffalo, New York, as HSBC Chief
Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver , 52, reduces U.S. operations
amid a push to overhaul its businesses. HSBC also has been
seeking buyers for its U.S. credit-card unit, which has more
than $30 billion of assets.  The branch sale is part of a strategy “to align our U.S.
business with our global network and meet the local and
international needs of domestic and overseas clients,” HSBC
North AmericaCEO Niall Booker said in the statement.  HSBC said in May that the company planned to trim costs by
up to $3.5 billion. The lender may announce 10,000 job cuts
today, when it’s scheduled to report first-half financial
results, Sky News reported July 30, without saying where it got
the information. Robert Sherman, a spokesman for the bank,
declined to comment on the report.  In addition to the sale to First Niagara, HSBC said it
plans to close 13 branches in Connecticut and  New Jersey  by next
year. The combined moves would reduce HSBC’s U.S. network of 470
branches by almost half.  Buffalo Branches  The transaction may help First Niagara surpass  M&T Bank
Corp. (MTB)  as the lender with the most branches in the Buffalo area.
M&T had 60 branches in the region as of June 30, 2010, compared
with 58 for HSBC and 35 for First Niagara, according to Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. data.  First Niagara fell 33 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $11.92 at
4:15 p.m. in Nasdaq composite trading. The shares have fallen 15
percent this year.  “Our objective was to progressively deepen the presence we
have in the Northeast,” First Niagara CEO John R. Koelmel, 48,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We do our best to
keep a simple business simple. Those of us that win longer term
are going to have won the deposit-gathering game.”  Capital One Financial Corp. sold $5 billion in debt and
equity last month after agreeing to buy ING Groep NV’s U.S.
online bank for $9 billion. McLean, Virginia-based Capital One,
which said it expects to complete the deal late this year or in
early 2012, would gain about  $80 billion  of deposits and 7
million customers.  Antitrust Regulators  First Niagara may divest some branches that don’t fit with
its strategy and to comply with a review from antitrust
regulators regarding its presence in Western  New York , the
lender said in its statement. About 100 branches will be sold or
closed, Koelmel said today on a conference call with analysts
and investors.  The bank plans to issue $750 million to $800 million in
common stock and $350 million to $400 million in debt prior to
completing the acquisition, which is expected to happen early
next year, according to the statement.  “We’re ready to move as soon as the time is right,”
Koelmel said on the call. “We’ll be patient and pick our spot.
I’m confident we’ll have multiple opportunities to do so in the
weeks and months ahead. Right now, the markets aren’t where I’d
like to see it.”  First Niagara’s Earnings  The deal may bolster First Niagara’s operating earnings per
share by 10 percent to 11 percent next year and 11 percent to 12
percent in 2013, the company said.  The sale would unwind HSBC’s 1980 purchase of Buffalo-based
Marine Midland Banks, which was founded in 1850 to serve the
shipping trade on the  Great Lakes . That takeover gave HSBC a
major presence in Buffalo, where the  National Hockey League ’s
Sabres play in the HSBC Arena.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and HSBC’s own investment bankers are
advising HSBC on the sale, as is Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP are
advising First Niagara, along with Pepper Hamilton LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 