-- 
White House, Republicans Said to Reach Tentative Deal on U.S. Debt Ceiling

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-31T04:40:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/senate-postpones-vote-on-reid-debt-limit-plan-as-lawmakers-continue-talks.html
The White House and congressional
Republicans have found the framework of an agreement to increase
the nation’s debt ceiling that would raise borrowing authority
through the next presidential election, a person familiar with
the talks said late last night.  The tentative outlines of the accord include spending cuts
of $1 trillion and creation of a special committee to recommend
additional savings of up to $1.8 trillion. The new panel would
have to act before the Thanksgiving congressional recess in late
November or government programs including Defense and Medicare
would face automatic, across-the-board cuts, the person said.  A White House official familiar with the talks cautioned
after reports of the framework surfaced last night that no final
agreement has been reached among involved in negotiations.  The prospective agreement wouldn’t include increased net
revenue, a sticking point for Republicans who’ve been adamant
that any deal with tax increases couldn’t pass the Republican-
run House.  Democrats, including those who run the Senate, have been
insistent that any deal must be a “balanced approach” that
includes revenue, raising questions about whether President
Barark Obama would find the support of his party for the plan.  Obama Demand  Obama has been demanding an increase in the $14.3 trillion
debt limit that lasts through the 2012 election, when he is
seeking another term.  Obama and congressional leaders yesterday began their new
attempt to prevent a U.S. government default on its debt, with
Republicans and Democrats expressing greater optimism a deal may
be within reach before an Aug. 2 deadline.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , last night said he was
“confident that reasonable people from both parties should be
able to reach an agreement.”  Reid, in remarks on the Senate floor before details of the
framework emerged, cautioned that “there are many elements to
be finalized and there is still a distance to go before any
arrangement can be completed.” Still he said, “I am glad to
see this move toward cooperation and compromise.”  To give the negotiations more breathing room, Reid pushed
forward by 12 hours a planned test vote today on his pending
measure to raise the $14.3 debt ceiling and cut  government
spending . The planned 1 a.m. vote was rescheduled for 1 p.m. at
the Capitol.  Earlier  Mitch McConnell , the Senate Minority leader, said
he was “more optimistic” and that negotiators have “got a
chance of getting there.”  John Boehner , the House Speaker of
 Ohio , also voiced confidence an agreement could be reached.  Markets  Financial markets were restrained in reacting to the
impasse on a debt deal through July 29.  Treasuries rallied, sending yields on 10-year notes to the
lowest level since November. The yield on 10-year Treasury notes
declined 15 basis points to 2.79 percent in  New York .  Stocks fell as economic growth trailed forecasts. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.7 percent and tumbled 3.9
percent this week for its worst slide in a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  