-- 
South African Mine CEOs Warned by Eunomix That Nationalization May Happen

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-01T13:21:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/south-african-mine-ceos-warned-by-eunomix-that-nationalization-may-happen.html
South Africa’s ruling party may
institute some form of mine nationalization, a step that could
throttle investments in the world’s biggest producer of platinum
and chrome, according to a confidential report prepared for
mining executives by a risk analyst.  A drive to seize mines, banks and land is being spearheaded
by  Julius Malema , 30, who won an uncontested second term as the
leader of the youth league of the ruling  African National
Congress  in June. The ANC in November instituted a study into
the viability of nationalization. The findings will be the “key
political issue” in party leadership elections in December
2012, Claude Baissac, the Johannesburg-based founder of country-
risk consultants Eunomix, wrote in the report.  “The possibility of the ruling party voting for a major
policy shift affecting security of tenure and ownership of the
mines is now greater than at any point since the end of
apartheid,” Baissac wrote in the report obtained by Bloomberg
News. Mining companies “will now dismiss the prospect of
nationalization, whichever form it ultimately takes, at their
peril.”  South Africa  is the continent’s largest producer of gold,
supplies European and Indian power plants with coal and depends
on mining for half of exports. In April 2010, Citigroup Inc.
valued the country’s mineral resources at $2.5 trillion, the
most of any nation.  Plunging Shares  “It is only our policy conference that is going to bring
some finality to the matter,” Jackson Mthembu, a spokesman for
the ANC, said in an interview from Johannesburg on July 29.
“Studies are being conducted. We can’t therefore jump the
gun.” Malema told reporters in Johannesburg yesterday that the
party is studying how to implement nationalization rather than
whether to go ahead with the policy.  An ANC vote for nationalization “would represent the
crossing of the Rubicon for both the ANC and for the country,”
Baissac wrote. Shares of companies “with a large exposure to
South Africa would tumble. Foreign capital would rush out of the
country, bringing an immediate collapse of the rand.”  On July 26, 2002, shares of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , the biggest
investor in South African mining, plunged as much as 12 percent
after the Mines Ministry said it was considering a proposal that
would require mines to be 51 percent black-owned. The rand
declined as much as 1.9 percent against the dollar.  ‘Important Issues’  Anglo American,  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and Rio
Tinto Group operate in South Africa, also home to the world’s
three biggest platinum companies and two of the four largest
gold miners.  “I’ve seen the report,”  Mark Cutifani , chief executive
officer of Johannesburg’s  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s
third-largest gold producer, said in a July 27 interview. “It
is alarmist to some degree, but you have got to be careful not
to dismiss it completely. Claude has been around for a long
time. He does raise some important issues.”  The ANC proposed placing mines and banks “in the hands of
the people” when it adopted a policy document known as the
Freedom Charter in 1955.  Nelson Mandela  restated the party’s
commitment to nationalization after being released from jail in
1990, a position he reversed prior to becoming president
following the first all-race elections in 1994.  While  Thabo Mbeki , Mandela’s successor, oversaw the passing
of a law compelling miners to sell 26 percent of their local
assets to black  South Africans , he backed the sale of state-
owned companies, including a controlling stake in the fixed-line
phone monopoly, Telkom South Africa Ltd.  ‘King-Maker’  In 2007 the youth league helped  Jacob Zuma  wrest control of
the ANC from Mbeki, enabling him to become president 17 months
later.  The “nationalization call can no longer be dismissed as an
isolated outburst from the fringes, as the youth league has
become an extremely powerful force in a dramatically different
ANC alliance,” Baissac wrote. Malema “is indeed the king-
maker.”  Opposition parties and the Congress of South African Trade
Unions, a labor group that also helped propel Zuma to president,
have called for a police and tax probe of Malema after
Johannesburg’s City Press newspaper cited unidentified people as
saying he was paid to help businessmen win government contracts.
Malema has denied taking bribes.  Not Policy  Zuma, who has said he may seek a second term as party
leader, and senior members of his Cabinet including mines
minister Susan Shabangu have stated that nationalization “is
not government policy.” Mathews Phosa, the ANC’s treasurer-
general, said on July 28 that while the ANC shouldn’t meddle
with successful companies it could back the creation of state-
owned companies to compete with miners.  Malusi Gigaba, the country’s public enterprises minister,
said in an interview in Johannesburg today that the
nationalization debate is deterring investment and the
government doesn’t have the ability to manage the mines if it
took them over.  Malema has warned that the youth league will only back
leaders who support its calls.  Baissac has been a political and economic analyst and
adviser for more than 15 years, working as a researcher for the
World Economic Processing Zones Association, an adviser to the
 World Bank  and employee of Kroll Inc., the New York-based risk-
analysis company. Eunomix experts advise companies, governments,
the International Finance Corp. the  United Nations  and the World
Bank, according to the report.  Starvation, Hopelessness  Since Baissac circulated his report in June, several senior
mining executives including former central bank governor Tito Mboweni, now chairman of AngloGold and an adviser to Goldman
Sachs, and Sim Tshabalala, chief executive of Standard Bank
Group Ltd.’s South African business, have spoken out about the
risks of nationalization.  Malema has paid little heed.  “An absolute majority of African youth are living in
absolute poverty, starvation and hopelessness,” Malema wrote in
a June 14 youth league newsletter. “All of us agree that the
status quo is not an option. The ANC youth league has a
political and economic program to address these challenges. What
are the analysts, big business, communists, and neo-liberal
sycophants saying should be the alternative?”  Political considerations, rather than economic rationale,
will determine the how issue is resolved, according to Baissac.  “The ANC leadership contest is going to be battled around
nationalization,” Baissac said in an interview. “It is a key
marker of the future of the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in London at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  