-- 
South Korea Inflation Accelerates to a Four-Month High, Exceeding Target

-- B y   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-08-01T02:44:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/south-korea-inflation-accelerates-to-a-four-month-high-exceeding-target.html
South  Korea ’s inflation accelerated
to a four-month high in July and exports grew at a quicker pace,
putting pressure on the central bank to raise interest rates.  Consumer prices rose 4.7 percent from a year earlier,
Statistics Korea said today, exceeding the median estimate of a
4.4 percent rise in a Bloomberg News survey of seven economists.
Exports expanded 27.3 percent last month, rebounding from a 20-
month low and beating forecasts for a 17.1 percent gain, a
separate report showed.  The  Bank of Korea ’s board will meet on Aug. 11 to discuss
whether to raise borrowing costs after reports last month showed
that economic growth slowed in the second quarter on weaker
exports. Policy makers across  Asia  are struggling to contain
rising consumer prices as food costs soar.  “Korea’s economy is proving surprisingly robust,” said
 Frederic Neumann , co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC
Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . “This should provide the Bank of
Korea with enough confidence to hike interest rates further.”  The won rose 0.5 percent to 1,049.20 per dollar as of
11:38 a.m. in Seoul, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Kospi stock index gained 1.8 percent.  Exports, equivalent to about half the economy, increased to
a record $51.4 billion last month from $47.8 billion in June,
today’s report showed. Imports climbed 24.8 percent to $44.2
billion. The trade surplus was an all-time high $7.2 billion.  Cars Leading Growth  “Automobiles are leading the economy’s growth on strong
sales both at home and abroad while semiconductor chips are a
drag now due to weak prices,” Jung Gyu Don, director-general of
Statistics Korea’s economic statistics bureau, said on July 29.  South Korea ’s industrial production expanded at the slowest
pace in nine months in June as export growth of semiconductor
chips and other electronic goods slowed, according to the
nation’s statistics agency.  “While the growth process is in a soft patch currently,
inflation pressures remain high and the balance of risks is
still tilted toward inflation,” Ma Tieying, an economist with
DBS Bank Ltd. in  Singapore , said before the release. He expects
South Korea’s central bank to raise interest rates by half a
percentage more this year.  Today’s trade report signals the economy may be rebounding
from a second-quarter slowdown, when gross domestic product rose
0.8 percent from the previous quarter.  Kia Motors Corp. posted a 67 percent increase in second-
quarter profit while Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s largest
carmaker, reported a 37 percent gain in profit in the same
period. Profits at Samsung Electronics Co. and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. declined 25 percent and 34 percent last
quarter on falling chip prices, respectively.  Raising Forecasts  South Korea last month raised its forecast for exports this
year to $557 billion from the $513 billion it projected last
December. The 19.4 percent increase in exports will likely leave
a  trade surplus  of $29 billion, more than the earlier estimate
of $25 billion, according to the economy ministry.  Electricity prices will rise by an average 4.9 percent
starting today, the first hike in a year. South Korea’s central
bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  three times this year to
3.25 percent, most recently in June.  Core prices, which exclude energy and food costs, advanced
3.8 percent in July from a year earlier, today’s report showed.  “The unusually heavy rain in July must hurt crops of
vegetables and fruits, which, together with power tariff hike,
should keep the inflation rate well above 4 percent this
month,” Park Sang Hyun, chief economist at HI Investment &
Securities Co. in  Seoul , said. He expects the Bank of Korea to
increase borrowing costs again in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shinhye Kang at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  