-- 
Spain Election May Mean More Austerity

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-01T14:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/spain-election-may-mean-more-austerity-if-rajoy-ousts-socialists.html
Spain’s opposition  People’s Party 
pledged to restore investor trust in the euro area’s fourth-
biggest economy by imposing more spending cuts if it wins early
elections in November.  With Europe’s debt crisis lapping at Spanish shores, the
People’s Party led by  Mariano Rajoy , 56, is set to campaign on
the extra steps it says are needed to kick-start growth and
slash unemployment of more than 20 percent. The PP is holding
out the prospect of more austerity after the Nov. 20 election as
it bids to repeat the trouncing it gave Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialist Party at local polls in May.  “Achieving Spain’s fiscal consolidation will require a
huge effort of coordination between  Spain ’s regions and profound
economic reforms which have hardly yet been started,” Alvaro Nadal, a spokesman on the economy for the PP group in congress
in Madrid, said by phone. “Post-electoral periods are a good
time to implement deep changes.”  Spain’s Socialists have lost support after seven years in
power as Zapatero’s minority government pursues the most drastic
budget cuts in three decades. Faced with soaring costs to
service debt as investors pushed up bond yields, Zapatero bowed
to public pressure last week and brought forward the election
from March. He has already said he won’t seek a third term.  Latest Polls  Rajoy’s People’s Party would take 44.8 percent of the vote
compared with 30.8 percent for the Socialists, El Pais reported
yesterday, citing a poll of 1,203 people carried out from July
27 to July 28. The margin of error was 2.9 percent  “I think the PP can win and that it’ll have a positive
impact on markets and the economy because it is better
prepared,” said Jaime Alvarez, finance professor at  Madrid ’s
Complutense University. “It would be the best for Spain’s
image.”  Spanish 10-year bonds rose today for the first time in four
days, sending yields down 10 basis points to 5.98 percent. The
additional yield investors demand to hold the securities instead
of similar-maturity German bunds fell 15 basis points to 339
basis points.  Bonds fell on July 29 for a third day after Moody’s
Investors Service said it may downgrade Spain’s credit rating.
Zapatero announced the election hours later in a bid “to
project political and economic certainty for the next few
months.” The  International Monetary Fund  said the same day that
Spain remains in “the danger zone.”  Three-Year Slump  As the country’s borrowing costs have surged, Zapatero, 50,
ditched pledges for more social spending and replaced them with
public-sector wage cuts and a pensions freeze. Investors
questioned his ability to rein in the  budget deficit , the euro
area’s third-largest after Ireland and  Greece , and steer the
country out of a three-year slump that has sent youth
unemployment soaring to 44 percent.  Spain’s biggest companies were instrumental in Zapatero’s
decision to call early elections, El Mundo reported yesterday,
citing people at the country’s main business group it didn’t
identify.  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-biggest bank, said in a July 29
statement that Zapatero had taken the “right decision” in
calling early elections. The Nov. 20 date for the elections
coincides with the anniversary of the death of the Spanish
dictator  Francisco Franco  in 1975.  ‘Massive Overspending’  The current government shied away from sorting out decision
sharing between regions and the central government, Nadal said.
“This has led to massive overspending,” as each level conducts
its own policies, he said. “There is a lot left to do for the
new government.” He cited reform of the labor market and energy
sector as well as an overhaul of the regional administrations.  Spain’s regions are crucial to its efforts to rein in the
deficit. They have accumulated debt of 121 billion euros ($174
billion) and control more than a third of the nation’s spending,
including health, education and half of public employment.  The new government will face the challenge of
reinvigorating growth in Spain, where unemployment has been
stuck above 20 percent for the last three quarters, the highest
in  Europe . The economy faces tough times before the election,
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba, 60, who will lead the Socialists into
the vote, told Radio Nacional de Espana yesterday.  ‘Difficult’ Times  “Elections don’t change the economic situation,” he said.
“There are still difficult times ahead, but we’re seeing some
light at the end of the tunnel.”  The PP’s campaign will focus on unemployment, Esteban Gonzalez Pons, the party’s vice-secretary for communication,
said in a televised news conference today. “In an election, you
choose between change and continuity and with 5 million
unemployed it’s impossible that the Spanish will bet on
continuity,” said Pons.  While polls suggest a victory for the PP, the party’s
margin of maneuver will depend on whether it can get a majority
in parliament, said  Luis Garicano , a professor at the  London
School  of Economics. Rubalcaba may prove a tough opponent
because of his success against Spain’s regional terrorist group
ETA and his high personal approval ratings, he said.  Rubalcaba has sought to woo voters hit by the country’s
economic woes, proposing to tax the wealthiest and make banks
hire young Spaniards.  ‘Fair and Achievable’  It’s “reasonable, fair and achievable” to set up a new
tax for banks in order to create jobs for young people,
Rubalcaba told RNE.  Whatever the election outcome, any new government may
struggle to drive through economic reforms and Rajoy’s PP might
find it harder to do so than the Socialists under Rubalcaba,
said Antonio Fatas, an economics professor at the Paris-based
INSEAD business school.  “I don’t expect any big changes in November,” he said.
“Reforms are difficult to decide for any party, whether left
wing or right wing. It might actually be more difficult for a
conservative party to implement reforms, for example of the
labor market, because it is less close to the unions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  