-- 
Stein, Dies at 84; Drew Investors to Dreyfus

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 
2011-07-31T14:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/stein-dies-at-84-drew-investors-to-dreyfus.html
Howard Stein, who succeeded Jack Dreyfus at the helm of the Dreyfus mutual-fund company and
helped turn a generation of Americans into investors, has died.
He was 84.  He died July 26 at his home in Southampton,  New York , The
New York Times reported, citing his son-in-law, Jamie Stokien.
The cause was complications of a stroke.  In word and deed, Stein cultivated Dreyfus’ conservative
image, spreading the message that the firm was a safe haven for
small investors, no matter their level of income or wealth. That
image had been established by Dreyfus through one of the
industry’s first advertising campaigns. In television
commercials that Stein helped devise, a lion, the firm’s symbol,
emerged from a subway station to stride down  Wall Street .  Under Stein, Dreyfus in 1974 introduced the first direct-
marketed, no-load money-market fund, called Dreyfus Liquid
Assets, which allowed investors to avoid up-front fees.  The downside of his cautious approach was that he missed
the  bull market  that swelled the bank accounts of stock
investors from 1982 well into the 1990s. During that span, Stein
favored short-term tax-exempt bonds,  money market funds  and
cash, according to a 1996 article in Fortune magazine.  “I was stupid! I wasn’t paying attention,” he said in a
1993 interview.  In 1994, Mellon Bank Corp. bought Dreyfus in a stock swap
valued at $1.85 billion. Stein remained Dreyfus’s chairman and
chief executive until his resignation in 1996.  Love of Politics  Unlike Jack Dreyfus, who left the fund in 1961, Stein never
achieved fame commensurate with the money he managed.  “Stein is an omnivorous listener who believes that he can
learn more from a dialogue than from the printed word,” Gilbert
Edmund Kaplan and Chris Welles wrote in “The Money Managers,”
their 1969 book. “He does not read the painstakingly produced
outpourings of the institutional research brokers,” nor is he
“often swayed by the traditional convincers: numbers.”  He did like consulting with people in government and
politics. His interest was such that he took a six-month leave
of absence in 1968 to serve as national finance chairman for
Senator Eugene McCarthy’s presidential campaign, believing
McCarthy’s opposition to the  Vietnam War  was best for the  U.S.
economy  and stock market.  That stint in politics earned Stein a place on President
 Richard Nixon ’s famous list of enemies. “I couldn’t believe
that the president didn’t have more important enemies than me,”
Stein joked in the 1993 interview with Bloomberg News.  Buy Polaroid  Howard Mathew Stein was born on Oct. 6, 1926, in  New York
City , where his Polish-immigrant parents as well as a brother
and a sister worked in the garment industry, according to the
Times.  The family moved to  Manhattan  and settled in a flat over
the Stage Delicatessen on Seventh Avenue, according to a Time
magazine profile in 1970. He played the violin from age 5 and
planned to be a professional musician.  He dropped out of a vocational high school, won a music
scholarship at the  Juilliard School , wrote music and produced
some off-Broadway shows, Time said.  After deciding he wouldn’t become a great violinist, he
went to work loading steel onto trucks. Through a friend he
landed a trainee spot at Bache & Co., where, he told Time, he
began responding to stacks of unanswered letters requesting
sales brochures.  He joined Dreyfus in 1955 and, according to Time, “earned
a reputation as a shrewd stock analyst, helping to steer the
fund into rapid risers, including Polaroid.” Within a few years
he was chief assistant to the firm’s founder, Jack Dreyfus.  Stein became president in 1965, when the firm went public,
and chairman and chief executive in 1970. Time said in 1970 that
he made $160,000 per year and also owned 5 percent of the
company’s stock, a holding then valued at about $2 million.  According to the Times, survivors include his wife, the
former Janet Gelder, and daughters Julia Stokien, Jocelyn Hayes,
Jessica Levine, Joanna Stein and Jennifer Seay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  