-- 
Stevens Rate Call Splits Markets First Time Since Lehman: Australia Credit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-08-01T07:15:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/stevens-rate-call-splits-markets-first-time-since-lehman-australia-credit.html
For the first time in three years,
 Australia ’s interest-rate swaps indicate investors are concerned
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  may raise borrowing costs
earlier than is needed to curb inflation.  A Credit Suisse Group AG index shows a 15 percent chance
the RBA will raise the overnight cash rate to 5 percent from
4.75 percent tomorrow. Another swaps gauge signals the RBA will
cut the developed world’s highest benchmark 0.16 percentage
point in the next 12 months. The last such split was in July
2008, two months before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  The divergence reflects an economy where business and
consumer confidence have dropped while annual inflation reached
the fastest pace in three years, fueled by a mining boom that
helped drive the currency to a record. Australian  government
bonds , second only to New Zealand among 20 developed markets
tracked by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, rallied in July by the
most in 11 months, on concerns the economy is faltering.  “Some see the glass as overflowing, some see it rapidly
emptying and the retailers claim that they can’t see it at
all,” said Sean Keane, an analyst in Auckland at financial
advisory group Triple T Consulting and a former head of Asia-
Pacific rates trading at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The RBA’s two preferred measures of annual inflation
accelerated to 2.7 percent in the second quarter, compared with
a gain of about 2.3 percent in the first quarter. The central
bank aims to keep underlying inflation in a range of 2 percent
to 3 percent on average.  Divided Outlook  Economists are also divided on the outcome of tomorrow’s
RBA meeting: One of Australia’s four biggest lenders,  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , forecast the first rate
increase since November, while  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  expected
Stevens will hold, before cutting rates in December. Twenty-one
of 25 economists surveyed July 29 expect the RBA to leave
borrowing costs unchanged this month, with the remaining four
predicting an increase.  The decision “is a close call,” said Paul Bloxham,
Sydney-based chief economist for HSBC Holdings Plc and a former
RBA official. “We think rates need to rise but that next week
presents significant risks. On balance, we expect the RBA to
remain on hold.”  A central bank report last week showed loans provided by
Australian banks and finance companies fell in June for the
first time since October 2009 as business credit contracted and
housing lending grew the least in 27 years.  Slowing Growth  A gauge of Australian manufacturing slumped to a two-year
low in July as the currency and the highest borrowing costs in
the developed world hurt demand at home and abroad, a report
today from PricewaterhouseCoopers and the Australian Industry
Group showed. Australian sales of newly built dwellings fell 8.7
percent in June, the biggest drop in five years, the Canberra-
based Housing Industry Association said today.  “Amidst the roller coaster of interest-rate sentiment that
has unnecessarily become the norm in 2011, the idea that an
imminent rate hike is now unavoidable is misplaced,” said
Harley Dale, chief economist at HIA.  Traders are betting on a 4 percent chance of a reduction in
borrowing costs by year end, December cash-rate futures showed
at 5 p.m. today on the  Sydney Futures Exchange , down from a 100
percent chance on July 25.  Households are closing their wallets as rising energy
bills, falling  home prices  and global concerns sap confidence.
Retail sales unexpectedly dropped in May, the second decline in
three months.  ‘Boom and Gloom’  “We are currently in the midst of a boom and gloom
economy,”  Heather Ridout , chief executive officer of the
manufacturing group, said today in a statement.  Further clouding the outlook is concern that the  U.S.
economy  has yet to regain the ground it lost during the
recession and may be vulnerable to a relapse. Gross domestic
product expanded at a 1.3 percent annual rate in the second
quarter, after a 0.4 percent pace in the prior period, the worst
six months since the recovery began in June 2009, Commerce
Department figures showed July 29.  Prospects for the world’s largest economy also were dimmed
by wrangling over the nation’s debt burden. President  Barack
Obama  said in  Washington  on July 31 that leaders of both parties
in the U.S. House and Senate had approved an agreement to raise
the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit and cut the federal deficit.  Bond Returns  The benchmark 10-year Australian government note’s yield
rose to 4.90 percent today from an 11-month low of 4.80 percent
on July 29. Australian bonds returned 6.7 percent this year,
including reinvested interest, second to  New Zealand  debt’s 6.8
percent advance, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Westpac on July 15 became the first among Australia’s four
biggest lenders to predict a rate cut in December. The bank,
with A$279 billion ($308 billion) in home loans outstanding,
said in a statement that “ interest rates  are too high in
Australia given the state of the non-mining sectors of the
domestic economy.” It predicted the nation’s unemployment rate
may rise as high as 5.75 percent next year from 4.9 percent.  Australia is undergoing what Stevens calls a structural
change -- a shift in productive capacity to more mining and
construction industries while the stronger currency hurts
exporters, education, tourism and manufacturing. Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard ’s government estimates that mining investment will
reach A$76 billion this fiscal year.  Energy Projects  Business investment surged 24 percent in the second
quarter, led by liquefied natural gas projects, Deloitte Access
Economics said in a July 28 report. Projects valued at A$357
billion were committed or in progress as of June 30, up A$70
billion from the previous three months.  The same day,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , the third-largest U.S. oil
company, and partner  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  approved the first stage
of a $20 billion LNG project in Australia.  The Australian dollar climbed to $1.1081 after the July 27
inflation report, the strongest level since exchange controls
were scrapped in 1983. The Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, advanced 2.5 percent last month and traded at $1.1054
at 5 p.m. today in Sydney.  The day after the consumer prices index report, ANZ became
the first of the nation’s four largest lenders to predict an
increase in rates tomorrow.  Inflation has reached “an uncomfortably high starting
point given the robust 2012 outlook,” ANZ chief economist
 Warren Hogan  wrote in a July 28 report.  Rate Outlook  “A small upward adjustment to interest rates now could
well save the Australian economy from a painful series of rate
hikes in 2012,” he said.  Inflation expectations, which had been declining on concern
European and U.S. debt crises will roil global markets, gained
after last week’s consumer price data. The gap between yields on
10-year inflation-linked bonds and debt not indexed to consumer
prices widened 17 basis points over the past week to 2.92
percentage points today. The gap represents the average annual
inflation rate anticipated by investors over the bonds’
lifetime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  