-- 
Treasuries, Dollar Up as Stocks Trim Loss

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-01T20:51:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/stock-futures-climb-dollar-oil-gain-as-u-s-nears-deal-to-avoid-default.html
A rally in Treasuries sent 10-year
yields to the lowest level since November and the dollar rose
after a gauge of manufacturing weakened to a two-year low. U.S.
stocks pared losses as lawmakers expressed optimism Congress
will pass a plan to increase the debt ceiling.  Ten-year Treasury yields fell five basis point to 2.75
percent at 4 p.m. in  New York . The Dollar Index rose 0.5 percent
as the euro slipped 1 percent to $1.4261 and Italian and Spanish
bonds reversed gains amid concern a deteriorating global economy
will worsen the European debt crisis. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, which gained as much as 1.2 percent during the session
and fell as much as 1.4 percent, ended down 0.4 percent at
1,286.94 for a sixth straight loss.  Treasuries rallied and equities continued a slump that
dragged the S&P 500 down 3.9 percent last week, its worst drop
in a year, as the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index sank to its lowest level since manufacturing last
contracted in July 2009. Other reports today revealed factory
indexes from  Asia  to Europe fell last month as demand weakened.  “The ISM figures got people concerned about the third
quarter,”  Peter Jankovskis , who helps manage about $2.6 billion
at Oakbrook Investments in Lisle,  Illinois , said in a telephone
interview. “That was certainly a negative surprise offsetting
the optimism about a final vote on the debt ceiling.”  Thirty-year U.S. bond yields decreased three basis points
to 4.09 percent, also the lowest since November. Five-year
credit-default swaps on Treasuries dropped eight basis points to
54, the biggest retreat since February 2010, according to data
provider CMA.  ISM Sinks Stocks  The S&P 500 surged to its high for the session in the first
half hour of trading, before erasing gains after the ISM factory
gauge, released at 10 a.m. New York time, fell to 50.9 in July
from 55.3 the prior month. Economists projected the gauge would
drop to 54.5, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey. Other reports showed U.K., Russian and Australian
manufacturing shrank, while the pace of factory growth slowed in
 Europe  and China.  Today’s data added to concern that the economic recovery is
faltering after the U.S. Commerce Department reported last week
that American gross domestic product rose at a less-than-
forecast 1.3 percent annual rate in the second quarter following
a 0.4 percent gain in the prior quarter that was less than
previously estimated.  “Already the market is turning its focus away from this
deal to the global economic deceleration,”Jack Malvey, chief
global markets strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp., said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “I think we see a
continuation of the kind of turbulence, range-bound over the
course of the last several months,” he said. “It’s not just
the U.S. It’s Europe.”  Medicare Rates  Health-care stocks led declines among eight of the 10 main
 S&P 500  industries, falling 1.7 percent as a group. Medicare,
the U.S. health plan for the elderly and disabled, announced an
11.1 percent rate cut for next year. Health Care REIT Inc., an
investment trust specializing in senior housing and health-care
real estate, plunged 8.5 percent for the biggest loss in the S&P
500.  Merck & Co. and Home Depot Inc. lost more than 1.9 percent
to lead declines in 21 of 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average . The Dow closed 10.75 points, or 0.1 percent, lower at
12,132.49 after climbing as much as 139 points in the first half
hour of trading and losing more than 145 points by midday.  All Eyes on Congress  Stocks recovered from their lows of the session as
Republican leaders and the Obama administration voiced optimism
that Congress will pass a compromise plan to raise the U.S. debt
limit by at least $2.1 trillion and slash federal spending by
$2.4 trillion or more. The House plans to vote today on the
agreement after a months-long struggle over raising the $14.3
trillion ceiling before the nation’s borrowing capacity expires
tomorrow. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said a Senate vote
“could happen either tonight or tomorrow.”  The dollar strengthened versus 10 of 16 major peers, while
the yen weakened against 11 of 16 after rallying versus most
earlier.  Japan  expressed the intention to sell the yen as needed
to curb its appreciation, Nikkei reported.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index retreated 1.2 percent to an
eight-month low and extended its slide from this year’s high in
February to 10 percent. Banks helped lead losses, with  Spain ’s
Banco Santander SA down 3.8 percent and  Italy ’s Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA losing 7.9 percent.  Earnings Season  While 78 percent of S&P 500 companies that reported
earnings since July 11 topped analysts’ average per-share
estimates, profits at European companies are trailing
projections by the most in at least five years, dragged down by
manufacturing companies that had been forecast to lead a rally
in the second half of the year. About 52 percent of companies in
the Stoxx 600 that have reported earnings since July 11 missed
analysts’ projections.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 12 basis points to 6.16
percent, while Italy’s increased 14 basis points to 5.99
percent.  Oil fell 0.9 percent to a one-month low of $94.89 a barrel
in New York, reversing a rally of as much as 3 percent. Gold
futures for December delivery retreated from a record, slipping
0.6 percent to $1,621.70 an ounce after sinking 1.4 percent
earlier. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 commodities lost 0.3 percent
after surging 2.1 percent in morning trading.  Commodities beat stocks, bonds and the dollar for the first
time in three months in July as expectations that  China ’s
booming economy will spur demand for raw materials outweighed
the debt crises in the U.S. and Europe.  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities rose 2.4
percent in July, ending two months of losses, while the MSCI
All-Country World Index of shares slipped 1.7 percent. Bonds of
all types returned an average 0.8 percent, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index. The Dollar
Index fell 0.6 percent and touched a 10-week low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  