-- 
Suzlon May Raise 50 Billion Rupees as Repayment Nears

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-01T11:24:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/suzlon-unexpectedly-turns-profitable-as-sales-growth-accelerates.html
(Corrects to say company may raise funds in headline and
first paragraph.)  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s biggest
maker of  wind turbines , may raise up to 50 billion rupees ($1.1
billion) selling shares and bonds as it prepares to start
repaying loans next year.  The board has approved the issuance of instruments
including shares, bonds or global depositary receipts, the
company said in a statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange today.  Suzlon is seeking to boost orders and pay down debt amid
intense competition as turbine-makers battle a supply glut that
has slashed margins. Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s
largest wind-turbine maker, saw its loss double in the first
quarter, while Sinovel Wind Group Co., the second largest, said
profit growth slowed to 1 percent.  “We’ve maintained our focus on managing our debt profile
and securing orders,” Chief Financial Officer  Robin Banerjee 
said by telephone. The Ahmedabad-based company needs to raise
cash by next year when $389 million in convertible bonds mature
and repayments start on 100 billion rupees of loans.  Suzlon’s shares gained as much as 4.9 percent today after
reporting an unexpected first-quarter net income of 600 million
rupees compared with a 9.1 billion-rupee loss a year earlier.
The company may end the financial year with as much as 260
billion rupees in sales, the highest since 2009, as offshore
projects and emerging markets drive demand, Banerjee said.  Paring Debt  If bondholders decide to redeem next year, Suzlon estimates
it would have to pay a premium of 6.4 billion rupees, which it
hasn’t provided for in its books, Suzlon said in an e-mailed
statement on July 30.  “If we do have to pay off the convertible bonds, we have
enough share premium to do so,” Banerjee said.  The 115 million pounds ($187 million) that Suzlon expects
to get from selling its remaining stake in  Hansen Transmissions
International NV (HSN) , a Belgium-based maker of gearboxes, will be
used to reduce debt and buy out minority shareholders in its
German unit Repower Systems SE, Banerjee said.  Repower’s shareholders will vote on Sept. 21 on Suzlon’s
proposal to pay 63 million euros for the 5 percent stake it
doesn’t yet own. If approved, completing the buyout may take
another three months after that, Banerjee said.  The stock closed up 3.6 percent to 54.3 rupees. The
benchmark Sensitive Index of the Bombay Stock Exchange advanced
0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in London at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  