-- 
Swan Says Australia’s Resource-Driven Investment Boom a ‘Mixed Blessing’

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-31T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/swan-says-australian-economic-credentials-among-world-s-best.html
The mining investment boom in
Australia is a “mixed blessing” for the economy as a rise in
the local dollar hurts the manufacturing and tourism industries,
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said.  “I’m acutely aware many businesses are doing it tough,”
Swan said in his weekly economic note released yesterday, citing
tighter credit and “cautious” consumer spending.  Asian demand for energy and commodities is driving record
investment, including last week’s approval by  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and
 Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)  of the first stage of a $20 billion liquefied
natural gas project in Queensland State. The so-called Aussie,
the world’s fifth-most traded currency, has risen 22 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  in the past 12 months as the mining boom
drove unemployment below 5 percent.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s government estimates that
mining investment will reach A$76 billion ($84 billion) this
fiscal year. The nation is undergoing what the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia calls a structural change -- a shift in productive
capacity to the mining and construction industries while the
stronger currency hurts exporters, education, tourism and
manufacturing.  “Clearly the high dollar is making life pretty tough for
many trade-exposed sectors,” Swan said. “The lingering effects
of the global financial crisis are adding to this, with a
cautious consumer and tighter credit.”  Interest Rates  The RBA will keep its overnight cash rate target unchanged
at 4.75 percent when it meets tomorrow, according to 21 of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News on July 29. The nation’s
benchmark rate is the highest among the world’s developed
economies.  The Australian dollar traded as high as $1.1081 last week,
the highest since the end of exchange controls in 1983, after a
government report showed second-quarter consumer prices rose
more than economists had forecast.  Consumer sentiment plunged last month by the most since
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, a survey from
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and the Melbourne Institute showed.
Business confidence dropped to a six-month low, according to a
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey of more than 400 companies
from June 24 to June 30.  “Despite our underlying strength, we know that the
investment boom is a mixed blessing,” Swan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  