-- 
Syrian Army Presses Assault on Hama as 140 Deaths Spark Wave of Protests

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-08-01T11:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/syrian-forces-tanks-kill-at-least-145-in-siege-of-hama-on-eve-of-ramadan.html
Syria ’s army pressed its crackdown on
Hama as thousands took to the streets of Damascus and other
cities to protest the killing of more than 140 people by
President Bashar al-Assad’s security forces.  On the first day of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month,
artillery pounded parts of Hama, destroying four buildings,
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Damascus-based Arab Organization for
Human Rights, said in a telephone interview. The attack on Hama,
one of the bloodiest episodes in Syria’s four-month uprising,
will be discussed at the  United Nations Security Council  today,
the U.K. said, with British Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
pledging to seek a resolution condemning the killings.  The two-day offensive has left 116 dead in Hama, in west-
central Syria, as well as 25 in the eastern city of Deir al-Zour
and six in Bukamal, Merhi said. Syrian state television said an
army colonel and two other soldiers were killed by armed men in
Deir al-Zour.  The assault came as Syria’s opposition forces vowed to step
up their campaign against Assad during Ramadan. Family and
community groups typically gather for evening meals during the
month to break their fasts and more people attend special
services at mosques. That may make it easier for opposition
leaders to organize daily rallies along the lines of those held
for the past four months after Friday prayers.  The government “has been very frightened by Ramadan’s
onset,” Joshua Landis, a Syria specialist who directs the
Center for Middle East Studies at the University of Oklahoma in
Norman, said in a telephone interview. “The unfolding crackdown
is going to fuel people’s anger.”  ‘With Our Blood’  Thousands of people demonstrated after evening prayers late
yesterday on the streets of the capital, Damascus, and Aleppo,
Homs and other Syrian cities. “With our blood, with our soul,
we shall redeem you, O Hama,” the crowd shouted in unison in
Damascus, as televised by  Al Arabiya .  At least 2,000 protesters have been killed since the
demonstrations began in mid-March, inspired by revolts that
overthrew the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia , according to Merhi
and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human Rights
in Syria.  The unrest poses the biggest challenge to Assad’s rule
since he inherited power from his father, Hafez al-Assad, 11
years ago. Assad has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired
plots, while conceding that some demonstrators have legitimate
demands and pledging political changes.  ‘More Force’  “Clearly the regime believes they have got to use more
force and they have to get on top of this before it expands into
more towns and gets beyond the capabilities of the security
forces to be in all places at all times,” Landis said.  Syria has been a key opponent of U.S. and Israeli policy in
the  Middle East  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon. The
U.S. and allied countries condemned the latest violence. They
have criticized earlier attacks without taking any action beyond
sanctions targeting government officials.  A European Union decision to adopt a fourth sanctions
measure on Syria is “imminent,” European Commission spokesman
 Michael Mann  told reporters in Brussels today.  There is no prospect of military intervention, Hague told
BBC radio today.  China and  Russia  have led opposition to a UN Security
Council resolution condemning Assad’s assault, while Russia’s
Foreign Ministry said in a statement today that the use of force
against civilians is unacceptable and must end.  President  Barack Obama  said the U.S. will “increase our
pressure on the Syrian regime, and work with others around the
world to isolate the Assad government.”  Praise for Military  In a speech marking the anniversary of the Syrian army’s
founding, Assad called the military a model of commitment to the
nation’s causes and a defender of its rights, according to the
state-run SANA news agency.  “This vicious attack won’t fare any better than the
previous ones,” the Syrian president said. “Hardships make us
more resilient, conspiracies make us stronger.”  The government last week approved laws that allow new
political parties to exist alongside Assad’s Baath party, which
has been in power since 1963, and the establishment of a
commission to regulate parliamentary elections. The measures
were dismissed by activists as cosmetic.  Hama was the site of a 1982 uprising that the current
president’s father crushed, leaving about 10,000 people dead,
according to  Human Rights Watch . The city, Syria’s fourth-
largest, has been mainly under the control of protesters for the
past month, Merhi said. Al Arabiya and  Al Jazeera  showed columns
of black smoke billowing from the city yesterday. Gunfire and
people screaming could be heard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net . 