-- 
Syrian Army Storms Hama, Killing at Least 136

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-31T18:12:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/syrian-army-tanks-storm-city-of-hama-at-dawn-amid-gunfire-al-jazeera-says.html
Syrian soldiers stormed Hama and
other flash points of unrest, leaving at least 136 dead, an
activist said, as President Bashar al-Assad’s forces sought to
reassert control on the eve of the holy month of Ramadan, when
protests are likely to intensify.  Tanks shelled Hama,  Syria ’s fourth largest city, where at
least 109 people were killed today, said Mahmoud Merhi, head of
the Damascus-based Arab Organization for Human Rights.  Three people died near the city of Daraa, and fighting in
other areas raised the toll to 136, Merhi said. At least 10
people were killed in Deir Al Zour, said Abdul-Karim Rihawi,
head of the Syrian Human Rights League. It was one of the
deadliest bouts of violence since the uprising against Assad
began in March.  The regime is “very worried that as soon as Ramadan begins
there will be daily, nightly protests against it, and this is an
attempt by hard-liners to give a decisive show of force,”  Chris Phillips , a London-based analyst at the Economist Intelligence
Unit, said in a telephone interview. “Given what has happened
over the past five months, it is highly unlikely this will
work.”  Ramadan Protests  Activists, analysts and refugees have said they expect the
uprising to intensify during Ramadan, which begins tomorrow.
More than 1,950 protesters have been killed since the
demonstrations began, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the
National Organization for Human Rights in Syria. The unrest
poses the biggest challenge to Assad’s rule since he inherited
power from his father, Hafez al-Assad, 11 years ago.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he was “appalled” by the
Syrian government’s “use of violence and brutality against its
own people.” He said the reports out of Hama “demonstrate the
true character of the Syrian regime,” adding that Assad has
“shown he is completely incapable and unwilling to respond to
the legitimate grievances of the Syrian people.”  Syria will be a “better place when a democratic transition
goes forward,” Obama said in a statement issued today by the
White House. “In the days ahead, the  United States  will
continue to increase our pressure on the Syrian regime, and work
with others around the world to isolate the Assad government.”  French, Turkish Condemnations  France  condemned the Syrian military repression and said
the violence would lead to further instability, according to a
statement from the Foreign Ministry.  Turkey said the events on the eve of Ramadan saddened the
Islamic world and raised doubts over Assad’s commitment to a
peaceful solution to the protesters’ demands.  “The operations will not only make no contribution to
securing public order, they also have an extremely negative
impact on the process of necessary reform,” the Foreign
Ministry in Ankara said in an e-mailed statement. “The events
raise questions over the Syrian administration’s goodwill and
sincerity in the search for a peaceful resolution.”  Hama, in western Syria, was the site of a 1982 uprising
that the current president’s father crushed, leaving about
10,000 people dead, according to  Human Rights Watch .  The city has been controlled largely by protesters for
about the past month, Merhi said.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is “deeply
concerned,” by reports of killings today in Syria, his office
said in a statement. He condemned the use of force and called on
the Syrian government to halt its crackdown.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  “The Secretary General reminds the Syrian authorities that
they are accountable under international human rights law for
all acts of violence perpetrated by them against the civilian
population,” the statement said.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said he was
“appalled” by the assault.  “The attack appears to be part of a coordinated effort
across a number of towns in Syria to deter the Syrian people
from protesting in advance of Ramadan,” Britain’s top diplomat
said.  Assad “is mistaken if he believes that oppression and
military force will end the crisis,” Hague said.  Footage broadcast today by  Al Arabiya  and  Al Jazeera  showed
columns of black smoke billowing from the city. Gunfire and
people screaming could be heard. Syrian state television said an
army colonel and two other soldiers were killed by armed men in
Deir al-Zour.  Pressure on Economy  The unrest is likely to increase pressure on the country’s
economy, Phillips said. Growth is expected to slow to 3 percent
this year from 3.2 percent in 2010, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in April. The  Institute of International Finance  says
the economy may contract 3 percent this year.  The  tourism industry , which accounts for about 10 percent
of gross national product, is slumping, with virtually zero
hotel-occupancy rates in Damascus, the capital, and Aleppo,
Phillips said.  In Syria, as in other mostly Islamic countries, extended
family and community groups typically gather to break the daily
Ramadan fast after sunset, and people attend mosque more
frequently than in other months. Mosques have been rallying
points for the Syrian protesters and greater attendance may help
organizers get more people on the streets, Phillips said.  ‘Arab Spring’ Inspiration  Demonstrators, inspired by the overthrow of leaders in
Tunisia and  Egypt  earlier this year, are calling for democracy
and increased civil rights in the country, which has been ruled
by the Assad family for four decades. Syria has been a key
opponent of U.S. and Israeli policy in the  Middle East  and a
power-broker in neighboring Lebanon.  Assad has blamed the protests on foreign-inspired plots,
while conceding that some demonstrators have legitimate demands
and pledging political changes.  The government last week approved laws that allow new
political parties to exist alongside Assad’s Baath Party, which
has been in power since 1963, and the establishment of a
commission to regulate parliamentary elections. Those moves and
earlier steps toward change have failed to mollify protesters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon, at 
Or  mderhally@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at  lmeixler@bloomberg.net  