-- 
U.K. Business Confidence Weakened in July

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-31T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/u-k-business-confidence-weakened-in-july-from-13-month-high.html
U.K. business confidence weakened
last month after reaching a 13-month high in June, adding to
indications growth may be slow for the rest of the year.  The Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets Business Barometer survey
showed a net positive balance of 19 percent of companies that
were more optimistic about the economy, down from June’s 36
percent. The survey was conducted with 301 companies with sales
above 1 million pounds ($1.6 million) in the July 4-13 period.  The U.K. economy expanded in the second quarter by 0.2
percent, half the rate predicted by the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  in March, figures showed July 26. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  said that day a deficit-reduction
plan will remain in place. The government has a 1.7 percent
growth target for 2011.  “The recovery remains fragile,” Trevor Williams, chief
economist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets, said by e-mail.
“Domestic demand conditions look set to remain challenging, but
external demand and business-to-business activity are likely to
fare better.”  The survey “points to a very gradual pickup in growth in
the second half of the year,” he said.  The government must maintain its course amid “big problems
in the global economy,” Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander told the British Broadcasting Corp. yesterday.  “We have rising  oil prices  causing high inflation here in
this country, which affects everyone in this country in their
pockets at home,” the BBC cited him as saying. “But the most
important thing we can do is to stick to the plan that we set
out, the credibility that we established for this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 