-- 
U.K. Treasury Brings Forward Move to Ease Small-Company Equity Financing

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-31T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/u-k-treasury-brings-forward-move-to-ease-small-company-equity-financing.html
Treasury Minister Mark Hoban said the
U.K. will bring forward the implementation of European rules
making it easier for small companies to raise money in equity
markets, the latest bid to spur growth as the economy stagnates.  The steps from the European Union Prospectus Directive take
effect in Britain today, a year early, Hoban said in a statement
released by his office in  London . Small companies will be able
to raise 5 million euros ($7.1 million) without having to
produce a prospectus for investors.  “Small businesses have to be able to access the finance
they need -- that includes making it easier for such businesses
to tap into capital markets,” Hoban said.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is looking at
ways to improve conditions for companies so that they can expand
more easily even as he attracts criticism from the opposition
 Labour Party  for doing nothing to stimulate demand. The economy
expanded 0.2 percent in the three months through June, leaving
gross domestic product barely higher than it was in the third
quarter of last year.  The measures, which double the level above which companies
need to produce a prospectus, will save small and medium-sized
businesses in the U.K. about 12 million pounds ($19.5 million) a
year, the Treasury said. Companies will be able to raise money
from as many as 150 investors, up from 100 under previous rules.  “More small firms should look at equity finance as an
alternative route to accessing credit, and these simple changes
will help firms who are looking to grow and invest,”  John
Walker , the national chairman of the  Federation of Small
Businesses , said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  