-- 
U.S. Stocks Slump, Erasing Rally After ISM-Manufacturing Report

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-01T15:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/u-s-stock-futures-rally-on-debt-deal-hopes.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down for a sixth day, as slower-
than-forecast growth in manufacturing erased a rally triggered
by speculation lawmakers will raise the debt ceiling.  Health-care stocks fell 2.5 percent, the most among 10
groups in the  S&P 500 , after Medicare announced an 11.1 percent
rate cut for next year. The  S&P 500 Financials Index (S5FINL)  dropped 0.6
percent, reversing an early gain, which had been driven by
optimism that lawmakers would race to push through a compromise
to raise the U.S. debt limit by at least $2.1 trillion and slash
 government spending  by $2.4 trillion or more.  The S&P 500 lost 1.2 percent to 1,277.38 at 11:55 a.m. in
 New York  after climbing as much as 1.2 percent earlier. The
benchmark gauge’s losing streak is the longest since June 8. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  retreated 130.10 points, or 1.1
percent, to 12,013.14 today after rising 139 points.  “It’s just a reality check,” said Peter Kenny, a managing
director in institutional sales at Knight Capital Group Inc. in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey . The ISM report “confirms an outlook
with real contraction characteristics. The budget assumptions
may be simply too optimistic. The debt deal may not be enough.
The economy is slowing. This is a real problem for any deal the
way it is currently structured.”  The S&P 500 rallied earlier, rebounding from its worst
weekly loss in a year, as lawmakers prepared to vote on a deal
to increase the federal debt limit and avoid default. The index
posted a third straight monthly loss in July on speculation
Republicans in the House would fail to reach a compromise with
the Democrat-controlled Senate and President Barack Obama to
boost the nation’s ability to borrow by tomorrow’s deadline.  Manufacturing  Equities erased their gains as data showed U.S.
manufacturing expanded in July at the slowest pace in two years,
indicating the industry that’s been driving the economic
expansion is starting to weaken. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index fell to 50.9 last month from 55.3 in
June. Economists projected the index would drop to 54.5,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  Manufacturing indexes from  Asia  to the U.S. to  Europe  fell
in July as demand weakened and the global recovery from
recession lost momentum. U.K., Russian and Australian
manufacturing shrank last month, while the pace of factory
growth slowed in Europe and  China , according to surveys today.  ‘Pervasive Weakness’  “We’re seeing a pervasive weakness across the global
spectrum of manufacturing,” Randy Bateman, chief investment
officer of Huntington Asset Management in Columbus,  Ohio , said
in a telephone interview. His firm oversees $14.8 billion.
“The market has been consumed with the budget deficit crisis
and the debt ceiling. In reality, we’re looking at fairly weak
numbers that are coming out of our economy.”  The House plans votes today and the Senate may follow suit
to consider the agreement reached during a weekend of
negotiations that capped a months-long struggle between Obama
and Republicans over raising the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling.
Both parties were working to sell the deal to their rank and
file -- meeting resistance from social liberals who fault it for
failing to increase taxes and from fiscal conservatives who say
it’s insufficient to rein in the debt.  Both S&P and Moody’s Investors Service are weighing whether
to cut the U.S. credit rating. The impasse boosted to 50 percent
the chance that S&P will downgrade the U.S. from AAA within
three months, the ratings company said last month.  Interest Rates   If the country defaults on some obligations after Aug. 2
and pays bondholders, S&P said short- and long-term interest
rates would rise by 0.5 percentage point and 1 point,
respectively.  A gauge of health-care companies in the S&P 500 slumped 2.5
percent as 50 of its 52 stocks decreased.  Health Care REIT Inc. (HCN) 
fell the most in the S&P 500, sliding 7.8 percent to $48.64,
while  HCP Inc. (HCP)  retreated 5 percent to $34.91.  The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks fell 0.5 percent after
earlier rising as much as 1.5 percent. U.S. Bancorp dropped 0.7
percent to $25.87.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  slid 2.1 percent to
$5.96.  The decline in stocks brought the S&P 500 below its average
price of the last 200 days of about 1,285. A drop below the 200-
day moving average could trigger further losses, according to
analysts who study charts to make forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  