-- 
Wall Street Can Save U.S. With `Reverse TARP’: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-07-31T15:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/wall-street-can-save-u-s-with-reverse-tarp-william-d-cohan.html
Anyone on Wall Street who has spent
time restructuring the debt of bankrupt companies knows exactly
why the politicians in Washington have proved so inept in their
attempts to get a comprehensive deal to cut  government spending ,
raise taxes and increase the debt ceiling.  What Congress and the White House have been trying to do --
essentially an out-of-court restructuring among creditors in
serious denial -- is generally considered to be one of the most
difficult and complex maneuvers in Wall Street sport. It is the
equivalent of a 309B from the three-meter board in springboard
diving: a reverse four-and-one-half in the pike position, which
has a degree of difficulty of 4.8. Even the top restructuring
professionals rarely pull it off.  You can’t blame anyone for trying, though. There is a huge
allure to getting the creditors of a distressed company to agree
to a deal outside of bankruptcy. The bankruptcy process is often
very costly (the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy, the
largest in history, is getting close to costing $1.5 billion)
and time-consuming (we are coming up on the third anniversary of
the Lehman filing).  Agreement, though, often proves elusive in out-of-court
deals because, until they see a bankruptcy-court filing,
creditors generally refuse to believe things are as bad as
advertised and so rarely will take less than what they are owed
just to get a deal done. Compounding matters, an out-of-court
restructuring, generally speaking, requires there to be
unanimous agreement among all classes of creditors in order to
get a deal done. No wonder it happens so infrequently.  The GM Precedent  The biggest open secret on  Wall Street  for much of the past
decade was that General Motors needed to restructure both its
colossal debt and its ballooning off-balance-sheet liabilities,
including those for retiree health benefits and pension
payments. Making that difficult process even more challenging
was that GM’s basic business -- making and selling cars -- was
falling off the cliff. The GM operating pie was shrinking at the
same time its liabilities were increasing exponentially. This
was obvious to nearly everyone but the company’s executives,
employees and creditors.  No surprise, then, that a restructuring deal could not get
done -- at least until the American taxpayers agreed to bail out
the company with an infusion of $50 billion. With that pledge,
Steve Rattner and  Ron Bloom , the “car czars,” were able to
dictate terms to the recalcitrant creditors and stakeholders.  But even Rattner and Bloom couldn’t bludgeon the creditors
into universal agreement out of bankruptcy, so GM filed what is
known as a “prepackaged” bankruptcy -- where less than 100
percent agreement by creditors can get a deal done. This allowed
the company to zip through the bankruptcy court in about 45
days, an extraordinary accomplishment that was helped along
immeasurably by the power of the U.S. government to determine
how the shrinking pie would be carved up.  What Congress and President  Barack Obama  have been trying
to do in recent weeks is like GM trying to restructure its debts
and obligations before the government bailout. Only the debt-
ceiling task has been even more difficult, because the operating
presumption in  Washington  seems to be that long-term creditors
of the U.S. government -- holders of Treasury bonds and bills --
will get paid before the equivalent of the country’s secured
creditors, which would seem to be those citizens expecting
Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid checks.  China Goes First  Putting long-term debt holders at the top of the priority
chain is the exact opposite of what would happen in a corporate
restructuring. (The Treasury’s logic seems to be that angering
older Americans is more politically palatable than angering the
Chinese.)  What’s worse, no one on either side of the aisle is willing
to admit that we can no longer afford our obligations and that
for all intents and purposes the U.S. government is bankrupt.
Something has to give: Either more revenue has to be generated
through higher taxes, or spending has to be cut; preferably
both, in my opinion, and the sooner the better.  But as any Wall Street restructuring professional could
tell you, getting the lines of fear and greed to intersect on
such a tight deadline, absent a serious dose of reality, is
virtually impossible. No wonder Congress hasn’t been able to do
it, and that some half-baked measure will probably win the day
before the Aug. 2 deadline.  Of course, there is no  bankruptcy court  for the U.S.
government. There is only Congress and its 535 financial
geniuses running around like chickens with their heads cut off.  So, how about this modest proposal: Why doesn’t Wall
Street, along with GM and Chrysler and every other industry that
only survived 2008 because of taxpayer TARP money, use some of
its new-found profits to bail out the government?  The symmetry of that would be elegant, of course. And then
Wall Street could appoint some uber-banker like Jimmy Lee of
JPMorgan Chase to become the “restructuring czar” and dictate
the terms under which the shrinking pie would be carved up. Now
there’s a threat that could get Congress to act, even before
midnight tomorrow.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 