-- 
El Bulli’s Closure Is No Bad Thing: Richard Vines

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-07-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/why-el-bulli-s-closure-is-no-bad-thing-for-restaurant-world-richard-vines.html
El Bulli, which has won the World’s
50 Best Restaurants title a record five times, closed at the
weekend. Is that reason to be sad?  Probably not.  It has been extremely hard for ordinary diners to get a
reservation in recent years. The usual estimate of the odds --
two million applications annually for 8,000 places -- would
equate to 250-to-1 if there were a level playing field.  There wasn’t. Ferran Adria isn’t just a brilliant chef.
He’s also smart at marketing and at building relationships. He
sought to fill his restaurants with food writers and journalists
who would help to spread the fame of El Bulli, and with chefs,
who might be influenced by his creativity. I’ve been twice.  Adria, 49, isn’t hanging up his whites and putting away his
knives to go into a lazy retirement near El Bulli, on the coast,
north of Barcelona. He’s founding a culinary foundation where he
and his longtime collaborators will focus on creativity.  It’s scheduled to open in 2014. Meanwhile, there is
building work to be done. New premises are going to be
constructed in place of the car park where apprentice chefs
spent their first day of each season -- polishing a pile of
rocks that decorated the entrance rather than preparing food.  Until now, Adria has spent half the year creating dishes at
his workshop in Barcelona and the other half serving them to
customers at El Bulli, which is reached by a winding road from
the town of Roses. He’s dispensing with the restaurant because
he wants to spend more time being creative, like an artist
abandoning exhibitions to focus on making art.  Best Restaurant  El Bulli came to worldwide attention when it first won the
 best restaurant title in 2002 , yet it isn’t a new establishment.  It was created by a German physician, Hans Schilling, who
bought a piece of land on the coast, near Roses, and on June 7,
1961, gained permission to open a mini-golf course. He and his
wife, stateless, Czech-born Marketta, added a beachside bar and
in 1964 built a grill room, the Bulli Bar, using a French slang
term for Marketta’s pet bulldogs.  When the restaurant first opened, it served traditional
French cuisine. Adria got work experience at El Bulli in 1983
while  doing military service  at Cartagena and joined full time
in March 1984. At that time, he and his friends would often go
out at night to drink in the bars and discotheques of Roses.
Just a few months later, he and his friend Christian Lutaud were
jointly placed in charge of the kitchen. Lutaud left in 1987.  Exploding Olives  If you haven’t tried Adria’s dishes, let me say that they
can be challenging. He plays with taste, texture and
temperature, so you think you are about to eat one thing and it
turns out to be another. This can be fun: Your meal may start
with what looks to be an olive but is an olive puree trapped
within a film of gel, so it explodes in your mouth.  Your cocktails may be a pina colada that comes as cotton
candy with freeze-dried pineapple and spheres of rum. It’s fun,
yet a meal may run to 48 courses, as mine did in March. And
sometimes the surprises may not be to your liking. My 33rd
course was introduced as hare blood: a scarlet liquid congealing
in a glass. It was beet juice.  While El Bulli was a unique and fabulous restaurant, it was
also an experience for the rich to collect. If you want to
understand Adria, elements of his cooking are now to be found in
restaurants around the world, including Pollen Street Social,
where chef-patron Jason Atherton was the first Briton to
complete a ‘stage’ (unpaid work experience) at El Bulli. Also in
 London , Viajante’s Nuno Mendes is a direct disciple of Adria’s.  El Bulli’s closure doesn’t matter because most people would
never have got the chance to eat there and we do still have the
master, Ferran Adria, who is now able to devote himself full
time to the creative process. Adria is El Bulli.  Long live El Bulli.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 