-- 
Worst European Earnings Hitting Industrial Stocks as Stoxx 600 Falls 8.9%

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-08-01T16:05:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/worst-europe-earnings-hitting-industrials-as-stoxx-600-falls-9-.html
Profits at European companies are
trailing analyst estimates by the most in at least five years,
dragged down by manufacturing shares that had been forecast to
lead a rally in the second half of the year.  About 53 percent of companies in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
that have reported earnings since July 11 missed analysts’
projections. That’s the most in data compiled by Bloomberg since
2006. The benchmark gauge lost 3.1 percent in the period, the
largest decline to start an earnings season since April 2010.  Investors have been relying on manufacturers in  Germany  and
Scandinavia to buoy stocks after Europe’s debt crisis forced
Greece to accept a second bailout and cut projections for bank
earnings. As commodities costs rise and currencies in
 Switzerland  and the Nordic region strengthen, companies from
 Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  in  Stockholm  to Paris-based PSA Peugeot Citroen
and Ludwigshafen, Germany-based  BASF SE (BAS)  have disappointed,
sending their shares down more than 5 percent.  “We were coming into an earnings season where expectations
were quite high,” said Ben Ritchie, an investment manager at
Aberdeen Asset Management in London, which oversees $290
billion. “When you look into financials, results have been weak
but in line with estimates. Investors have been more optimistic
about certain areas within the industrial space and where they
have disappointed, shares have reacted strongly.”  Spreading Crisis  The Stoxx 600 fell 8.9 percent from its 2011 high on Feb.
17 through the end of last week as 10-year bond yields climbed
as high as 6.29 percent in Italy and  Spain  on concern the
region’s debt crisis is spreading from  Greece ,  Portugal  and
Ireland. A struggle between U.S. lawmakers to lift the nation’s
debt ceiling and avoid a default by the world’s largest economy
also contributed to the decline.  The gauge plunged 1.2 percent to 262.02 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in London today after a report showed U.S. manufacturing
expanded in July at the slowest pace in two years.  A total of 88 companies out of 167 in the Stoxx 600 that
reported earnings since July 11 trailed estimates, data compiled
by Bloomberg show, while, in the U.S., 78 percent of Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index members topped forecasts. Makers of industrial
goods accounted for the biggest number of disappointments, with
18 of 33 companies lagging behind projections, the data show.
Profits climbed an average of 7.4 percent from a year ago,
trailing analyst forecasts by 11 percent, Bloomberg data show.  ‘It’s a Concern’  “When the number of misses is that high, it’s a concern,”
said Philipp Musil, who helps manage about $11 billion at Semper
Constantia Privatbank AG in Vienna.  The 10 companies with the biggest misses in per-share
profit dropped an average of 4.2 percent the day after releasing
results, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 10 that
exceeded estimates more than others declined 0.6 percent on
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  More German companies have disappointed than any other
country, Bloomberg data show. Investors were counting on
 Europe ’s biggest economy to lead growth the next six months.
Economies in Germany, Sweden and  Norway  may expand by an average
of 3.5 percent in 2011, compared with a 1.4 percent rate in the
U.K.,  France  and Spain, according to the median forecasts of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The good news is half-heartedly cheered and the bad news
results in throat slitting,” said David Finch, head of cross-
sector research at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris.  Options Traders  German options traders are paying the most to protect
against declines in stocks since at least 2006. Prices for puts
expiring in three months to sell the benchmark DAX Index rose to
1.6 times the level for calls to buy on July 29, close to the
July 7 high of 1.71, according to Bloomberg data.  The day before the earnings season started, analysts were
predicting 20 percent growth at industrial companies in 2011,
almost double that for financial stocks. At the end of 2010,
analysts had projected 19 percent expansion in industrial
earnings this year and a 23 percent gain for financials.  They increased 2011 earnings estimates for seven of the 19
industries in the Stoxx 600 in the first half of the year,
including industrial, automobile and chemical companies, and cut
forecasts for banks.  Managers’ Survey  European fund managers had their biggest investments in
manufacturers such as computer and software makers and
industrial companies, according to a monthly survey by Bank of
America Corp. on June 14. Banks, financial firms and utilities
had the smallest weightings.  The results aren’t as bad as they seem given analysts’ high
expectations and the “difficult” economy, said  Henk Potts , who
helps oversee $239 billion as an equity strategist at Barclays
Wealth in  London . Gross domestic product in the 17 countries
that share the euro may slow to 1.7 percent next year from 2
percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of 22
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Profits at companies in the Stoxx 600 are forecast to
increase 22 percent in 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. For 2012, analysts predict a 14 percent gain. About
40 percent of the index whose estimates are tracked by Bloomberg
have yet to release results this period.  “Even if results haven’t absolutely blown analysts’
expectations out of the water, investors should still take some
confidence,” Barclays’ Potts said. “Companies are still
quickly feeding demand into the bottom line.”  High Expectations  Optimism for sales from outside Europe proved wrong, said
Matthieu Giuliani, a fund manager at Palatine Asset Management
in Paris.  “Investors remained with this idea that exporters were
fine,” said Giuliani, whose firm oversees $5.8 billion. “Now
at the least little slowdown, a stock can lose 7 or 8 percent.
Expectations were too high.”  Atlas Copco dropped 8.1 percent, the most in more than two
years, on July 18. The world’s largest maker of air compressors
reported second-quarter net income of 2.98 billion kronor ($475
million), missing the 3.2 billion-krona average estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts.  Scania AB (SCVB) , the Sodertalje, Sweden-based truckmaker
controlled by Volkswagen AG, posted second-quarter net income of
2.43 billion kronor on July 21, compared with the 2.73 billion-
krona average forecast. The stock slid 4.5 percent.  Peugeot, Clariant  Peugeot tumbled 7.6 percent on July 27, the most in more
than two years, as Europe’s second-biggest carmaker said its
automotive unit may post a loss in the second half because of
disruption from the Japanese earthquake in March and rising
material costs. First-half operating profit rose 1.8 percent,
held back by a 23 percent drop in earnings from carmaking.  The same day,  Clariant AG (CLN)  sank 14 percent, the most in more
than eight years. The Muttenz, Switzerland-based chemical maker
said earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization declined 9.5 percent to 241 million francs ($306
million) because of the franc’s rally and a commodities jump.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities climbed
to the highest since August 2008 in April. Copper in London
ended the second quarter 45 percent higher than a year earlier
while wheat futures in  Chicago  rose 28 percent.  BASF, the world’s biggest chemical company, fell 4.2
percent on July 28 after reporting second-quarter profit of 2.24
billion euros ($3.2 billion) that missed estimates and
forecasting growth will slow in the second half.  The franc strengthened to a record against the U.S.
currency on July 29, reaching 78.51 centimes per dollar, hurting
the value of overseas sales for Swiss exporters. An  exchange
rate  for the krona calculated by the  Bank of England  that values
 Sweden ’s currency against a basket from trading partners rose to
the highest since 1998 on March 1.  “Foreign exchange seems influential,” said Nigel Sedgley,
an equity strategist at Collins Stewart Plc in London. “The
concern I have is that some companies’ second quarter was weak
but they are keeping guidance and that could be storing problems
for the remainder of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  