-- 
Tseng Comes From Two Strokes Behind to Retain Women’s British Open Title

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-07-31T18:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-31/yani-tseng-retains-women-s-british-open-golf-title-for-fifth-career-major.html
Yani Tseng overcame a two-shot
third-round deficit to win golf’s  Women’s British Open  for the
second straight year.  World No. 1 Tseng shot 3-under-par 69 today at Carnoustie
Golf Links in northeast  Scotland  for a four-round total of 16-
under-par 272. Brittany Lang of the U.S. was second, four shots
behind the winner and one ahead of  Sweden ’s Sophie Gustafson.  “It feels really good,” Tseng said at the trophy
presentation. “It’s my honor to win the British Open again.”  At 22 years, six months and eight days,  Taiwan ’s Tseng is
the youngest golfer to win five majors. Tiger Woods was 24 when
he collected his fifth major title. Tseng joins Debbie Massey
and Sherri Steinhauer as the only back-to-back winners of the
Women’s  British Open . After also winning the LPGA Championship
in June, Tseng is also the first player to win two women’s
majors in consecutive years since Karrie Webb in 2001.  The victory is worth $392,133 to Tseng, who has now won
seven times in 2011 and four times on the LPGA Tour. She has
nine career titles.  Caroline Masson, a 22-year-old German who was playing in
her second major tournament, finished in a tie for fifth place
after starting the final day in the lead.  “It just didn’t work out,” Masson said in a televised
interview after a 6-over-par 78. “That’s just how it is
sometimes. You have to accept it.”  Katie Futcher of the U.S. had the best round of the day, an
8-under-par 64, to climb 50 places to a tie for 14th.  Royal Liverpool Golf Club , known as Hoylake, will host the
2012 edition.  The LPGA Tour resumes Aug. 19 with the  Safeway Classic  in
North Plains,  Oregon , where Ai Miyazato will defend her title.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 