-- Air Canada Flights Returning to Normal After Pilots’ Walkout
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-04-14T15:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/air-canada-flights-returning-to-normal-after-pilots-walkout.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  passengers faced
disruptions on a handful of flights today, as pilots were
ordered back to work after failing to report yesterday in
protest of stalled contract talks.  The airline canceled today at least three flights, with
destinations to Mexico City, Montreal and Ottawa from Toronto,
according to the website of Toronto’s  Pearson International
Airport ,  Canada ’s busiest airfield. At least six flights among
 Air Canada (AC/B) ’s 289 scheduled for departure were delayed.  Canada’s Industrial Relations Board ruled yesterday that
certain pilots were participating in an illegal strike. The
board ordered the Air Canada Pilots Association to “take all
reasonable steps” to end the walkout, while requiring all
pilots participating in the job action to return to work
immediately and “perform their duties in the normal manner,”
according to the company.  “Nothing is changed from our release last night,” Air
Canada spokesman  Peter Fitzpatrick  said in an e-mail message
today. “What you are seeing today is a result of planes being
out of position this morning due to yesterday’s events.”  About nine delays and cancellations also were reported at
the Vancouver, Montreal and Halifax  airports , according to
departure-information websites. Montreal-based Air Canada said
in a statement yesterday that it plans to resume regular service
today after it canceled about 75 flights yesterday.  Stalled Talks  Customers who were scheduled to travel by today and wish to
change their plans may rebook for free until June 30, the
carrier said.  The disruptions are the latest illustration of how the
stalled negotiations over new union contracts are affecting
operations at Canada’s largest airline. Pilots are working under
the terms of their last accord, which expired in March 2011,
after talks begun in October 2010 failed to produce a new deal.  Air Canada Pilots Association Chairman Jean-Marc Belanger
said yesterday that he sent members a memo on April 12 urging
them not to walk off the job after Air Canada contacted the
union about reports of a planned sickout. About 3,000 pilots are
part of the union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia  at 
 Cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  