-- ANZ Mortgage-Rate Rise Will Anger Customers, Swan Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-04-14T01:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/anz-mortgage-rate-rise-will-anger-customers-swan-says.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) ’s decision to increase mortgage interest rates,
citing higher funding costs, will anger its customers,
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said today.  The lender, one of Australia’s so-called four pillar banks,
yesterday raised it standard variable rate by 6 basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 7.42 percent, effective April 20. ANZ
Bank Chief Executive Officer  Mike Smith  began a policy this year
of announcing any changes to its  mortgage rates  on the second
Friday of each month, to decouple his bank from the  Reserve Bank 
of Australia’s monthly interest-rate cycle.  “ANZ’s decision to whack its customers at a time when many
of them are doing it tough flies in the face of recent  Reserve
Bank (RBATCTR)  statements saying funding costs for banks have eased,”
Swan said in an e-mailed statement.  Smith is among Australian bank executives fighting to
maintain earnings as demand for mortgages tumbles to the weakest
level since 1977.  Home-loan approvals  fell for a second month in
February on the fastest exodus of first-home buyers in a decade,
increasing pressure on the central bank to cut  interest rates  as
consumer confidence weakens.  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at 4.25 percent this month, with minutes of its March 6 meeting
showing it considered the risks from  Europe ’s debt crisis had
eased.  “The funding environment changed quite dramatically in
late 2011 as a result of the economic and financial crisis in
Europe,” Philip Chronican, ANZ’s chief executive officer of
Australian operations, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“This has seen wholesale funding costs rise and competition
increase dramatically among banks for deposits.”  Borrowing Costs  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  signaled last week he may end a
three-month pause in rate cuts as soon as next month if weaker-
than-forecast growth slows inflation. The central bank lowered
borrowing costs in November and December to buttress the housing
market, support jobs and boost confidence among consumers who
are saving more.  Australia  unexpectedly posted back-to-back trade deficits
in February as coal and metal exports slumped. The central bank
is relying on A$456 billion ($473 billion) of resource projects
to meet Chinese and Indian demand to drive economic growth and
support employment.  The RBA has consistently made the wrong call on setting
rates and should lower them, Paul Howes, national secretary of
the Australian Workers Union, said April 11.  The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on April 11
urged the RBA to cut rates by half a percentage point to arrest
declining competitiveness and “break through” low business and
consumer confidence.  Government Criticism  ANZ’s move yesterday follows decisions by Australia’s other
three biggest lenders --  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and Westpac Banking Corp. -- to
raise variable mortgage rates by as much as 10 basis points in
February, citing higher wholesale funding costs.  The decision by the four pillar banks, named for a law that
prevents them from buying each other, to increase rates
independently from the RBA has drawn criticism from the
government.  “ANZ has become the unofficial rate movement setter for
Australia’s mortgage market,” Damian Smith, chief executive of
researcher RateCity, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“Now that ANZ has given other lenders the green light on
lifting rates, we expect that other lenders, including the major
banks, will follow their lead.”  Loans Decline  The number of loans granted to  build  or buy houses and
apartments fell 2.5 percent in February from a month earlier,
the biggest drop since March 2011, according to the statistics
bureau. The total value of loans dropped 1.3 percent to A$20.3
billion.  A private survey showed  consumer confidence  declined to an
eight-month low as concerns mount among mortgage holders paying
the highest borrowing costs across major developed nations.  The four pillar lenders reported an aggregate 8 percent
increase in profit to A$12.1 billion for their latest six-month
results from the same period a year earlier, according to the
RBA. ANZ Bank in February announced plans to slash about 1,000
jobs by Sept. 30.  “There would be a lot of ANZ customers very upset about
this decision to jack up rates, coming after their recent
massive profit announcement and staff sackings,” Swan said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  