-- Aramex CEO, Founder Ghandour to Hand Over to Hachem by Year-End
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-04-14T15:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/aramex-ceo-founder-ghandour-to-hand-over-to-hachem-by-year-end.html
Aramex PJSC (ARMX) , the Middle East’s
largest logistics company, said its Chief Executive Officer and
founder Fadi Ghandour will retire by the end of the year, to be
succeeded by regional head Hussein Hachem.  Ghandour, who becomes vice chairman, will focus on
“strategic expansions, new investments, and sustainability,”
the company said in an e-mailed statement today.  Aramex, which competes in the Middle East with Deutsche
Post’s DHL unit and United Parcel Service Inc., was founded in
1982 in Jordan and  New York  by Ghandour and William Kingson. It
employs more than 12,300 people operating in 353 locations in 60
countries.  “There is no better time than this 30th anniversary of
Aramex, capping an astounding journey of challenges and
achievements, to propose that you and I are ready for yet
another leap,” Ghandour said in the statement.  Aramex has been expanding into  Asia , Africa and  Europe 
through acquisitions and partnerships. The company said March 14
it signed a partnership agreement with South Korea’s CJ GLS
Corp. That followed a joint venture with SinoAir in  China , and
the acquisitions of OneWorld Courier and In-Time Couriers in
Kenya, and Berco Express in South Africa.  Hachem joined the company 20 years ago when he rebuilt its
operations in Kuwait after the 1991 Gulf War. He is currently
CEO for the Middle East and Africa, the largest revenue-
contributing region for the company, according to the statement.  The courier company, which sold shares in an initial public
offering in 2005, posted a 4 percent increase in profit last
year as the popular uprising in the  Middle East  and the global
credit crisis weighed on earnings.  Aramex shares  have gained 2.2 percent this year after
dropping 13 percent in 2011. They closed 1.1 percent higher in
Dubai trading on April 12, giving the company a market value of
2.69 billion dirhams ($732.4 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Abu Dhabi at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  