-- Mexico Bourse Voids Bulltick Stock Trades Behind IPC Plunge
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2012-04-14T02:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/bolsa-canceled-bulltick-erroneous-trades-carried-out-today.html
Mexico ’s stock exchange said it
voided transactions involving Bulltick  Capital Markets  after
errors sparked a late-day plunge in the nation’s benchmark
index.  The IPC equities  gauge  sank 2 percent in about three
minutes starting at 2:45 p.m. today, before ending the day down
2.3 percent at 38,444.01, according to unadjusted prices
provided at the time. The bourse has canceled the trades, which
it says affected 13 companies, and is readjusting its indexes to
reflect the changes, it said in an e-mailed statement after
markets were closed.  “It was a technological error very similar to the flash
crash” in the U.S., Alejandro Creixell, a managing partner at
Bulltick, said in a telephone interview from Mexico City.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000
points in the so-called flash crash of May 2010, which spawned
increased regulatory scrutiny for high-frequency traders that
use complex computer programs to make trade orders sometimes
within milliseconds.  Bulltick  executed  more sell orders by volume than any other
Mexican brokerage today. In the past month, it’s been the 19th
most active seller, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Due to the problem that said member generated, and upon
its own request, the erroneous offers were canceled,” the
exchange said in the e-mail, referring to Bulltick.  Arca Continental SAB (AC*) , Mexico’s second-largest Coke bottler,
sank as much as 14 percent in intraday trading today.  Grupo
Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB , the operator of airports in the
Pacific and central regions of Mexico, fell as much as 10
percent.  Beer maker  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  and  Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO) , the
world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster, also retreated.  “All of a sudden the index started falling,” said Roberto Cavazos, who manages about 2 billion pesos ($152 million) in
equities at Value Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City. “We started
to look at different stocks and realized it was an error. There
were very unusual trades from Bulltick -- big volumes and prices
out of line with the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  