-- Chavez Misses Obama Summit Confrontation Fueling Cancer Scare
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-04-15T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/chavez-skips-americas-summit-for-more-cancer-treatment-in-cuba.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
pulled out of the Summit of the Americas yesterday for more
cancer treatment, giving up a chance to confront U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and signaling his health may be deteriorating.  The South American president, who is facing an election in
October, was advised by his doctors not to go to the summit and
travelled instead to Cuba for radiation therapy, Foreign
Minister  Nicolas Maduro  said on state T.V.  “This is the sort of event that Chavez normally thrives
on, so cancelling is a clear indication of how serious his
cancer is,” Greg Weeks, associate professor of political
science and director of Latin American studies at the University
of  North Carolina  in  Charlotte , wrote in an e-mail. “The summit
would have given him a platform to criticize the U.S. on a
number of issues such as Cuba and the Falklands/Malvinas, and
that is not normally an opportunity he would miss.”  Chavez, 57, who returned to Caracas from Cuba on April 11
after completing the third of five planned radiation treatments,
has no official succession plans in case his illness prevents
him participating in the October election. Speaking at a
Catholic Mass in his home state of Barinas on April 5, Chavez
wiped tears from his face as he pleaded for life in his fight
against cancer.  Gossip Columnist  Nelson Bocaranda, a journalist who often reports on the
president’s health in the absence of official statements, said
yesterday on his  website  that doctors this month in Cuba
discovered the cancer has started to affect Chavez’s liver and
kidneys. Bocaranda revealed last June that Chavez had cancer
five days before the self-declared socialist announced doctors
in Cuba had removed a tumor from his pelvic area.  Chavez has declined to give details.  “The treatment has an impact on my body and my physical
strength,” Chavez said on April 13 in a nationwide broadcast to
mark the 10-year anniversary of a 2002 coup that briefly removed
him from power. “The recovery has been positive, the treatment
is going well.”  The president, who has undergone three operations since
June as part of his treatment, is seeking to recover from the
cancer in time to campaign for re-election in a bid to extend
his 13-year rule until 2019.  Missed Opportunity  With Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa  also boycotting the
summit and Nicaragua’s Daniel Ortega deciding not to attend,
Obama faced less open confrontation than three years ago, when
regional leaders attacked the U.S. history of intervention in
the continent. Chavez has criticized the U.S. and Canadian
presence at the summit because they oppose Cuba attending the
events and haven’t backed Argentina’s efforts to regain the
Falkland Islands from the U.K.  “They oppose these issues because they’re part of the old
empires,” Chavez said to a crowd of followers outside the
presidential palace in Caracas on April 13. “One of the issues
that we need to talk about at the summit is Yankee
interventionism. How long will this go on for, Mr. Obama?”  The fact he missed an opportunity to confront Obama
directly will “only reinforce the perception that he is
seriously ill,”  Michael Shifter , president of the Inter-
American Dialogue, a policy center in  Washington , said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “He rarely misses a chance to be
the center of attention. The consummate showman, Chavez relishes
such situations.”  Open Veins  At the summit in 2009, Chavez handed Obama a Spanish-
language copy of Uruguayan writer Eduardo Galeano’s book “Open
Veins of Latin America: Five Centuries of the Pillage of a
Continent.” The book attacks the U.S. and  Europe  for 500 years
of exploiting Latin America.  At this year’s meeting, Venezuelan Foreign Affairs Minister
Nicolas Maduro said Obama’s advisers keep him ignorant of the
reality of the region, and said it was distasteful to Latin
Americans that the U.S. president should visit Cartagena.  “Unfortunately, after three years in office he has
inherited the cynicism and perversion of his predecessor,”
 George W. Bush , Maduro said in remarks broadcast on state media.  The only other criticism Obama has received so far is on
U.S. monetary policy, which along with monetary expansion in
Europe has led to a flow of funds into  emerging markets , pushing
up their exchange rates and undermining their competitiveness.  The policy is “provoking a real monetary tsunami,”
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  said yesterday. “It’s clear
that we have to take measures to defend ourselves. I said
defend, not protect. To defend is different, defend means to
perceive that we cannot leave our manufacturing sector be
cannibalized.”  She called on the developed world to find ways of boosting
investment, rather than relying on cheap money to drive demand.  Boycott  Nicaragua ’s President Daniel Ortega didn’t attend the
summit yesterday, without giving a reason for his absence.
Ecuador’s Correa has said he won’t go in protest at the
exclusion of communist Cuba, the region’s sole dictatorship,
from the meeting.  Maduro said yesterday in Cartagena that  Venezuela  wouldn’t
attend another Summit of the Americas without Cuba, according to
state television. Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  said
that Cuba must attend future meetings.  “The isolation, the embargo, the indifference, and looking
the other way, have shown their ineffectiveness,” Santos said
during the opening ceremony of the summit. “In today’s world,
this path isn’t justified. It’s an anachronism that they are
anchored in a cold war that ended decades ago.”  ‘New Era’  Obama says his administration has done more than any in
decades to improve relations with Cuba and blamed the communist
regime for the nation’s exclusion from this weekend’s
hemispheric summit.  “We’re looking for a new era in the relationship between
our two countries,” Obama said, according to a transcript of an
interview published on April 13 in Spanish by Bogota’s El Tiempo
newspaper.  Obama told regional leaders yesterday that the U.S. has
“never felt more excited about prospects of working as equal
partners with our brothers and sisters in  Latin America  and the
Caribbean.”  The president stressed the need for democracy and the rule
of law as elements that pave the way for expanding economies.  To aid the fight against “narco-traffickers and gangs that
threaten our people,” Obama promised the U.S. would increase
the amount it spends on equipment and training in  Mexico ,
central America and the Caribbean to $130 million this year from
$105 million this year.  ‘Rumors’  Venezuela’s National Assembly yesterday approved Chavez’s
request to leave the country for treatment, according to state
television.  “In the past 340 days, from May, 2010 through April 8, the
president has spent 200 days in recovery and 80 days in Cuba,”
opposition lawmaker Carlos Berrizbeitia said in Congress. Yet,
the president hasn’t given an official report on his health.
“Venezuelans are learning about the president’s health from
rumors,” he said.  Chavez has remained defiant.  “It would be easier for a horse to go through the eye of a
needle than for the opposition to win the elections,” Chavez
said on April 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 