-- China Doubling Yuan Band Signals Drive for Convertibility
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-15T03:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/china-widens-yuan-band-to-1-percent-people-s-bank-says.html
China ’s decision to widen the
yuan’s trading band against the dollar for the first time since
2007 signals a drive toward a convertible currency that also saw
overseas investors get bigger investment quotas this month.  The band’s increase to 1 percent from 0.5 percent takes
effect tomorrow, the  People’s Bank of China   said  on its website
yesterday. This month, regulators raised quotas for foreigners
buying onshore stocks and bonds to $80 billion from $30 billion
and increased the amount of yuan held offshore that can be
invested locally.  Chinese officials pledged in a five-year plan running
through 2015 to keep loosening controls on currency flows as
Premier Wen Jiabao targets higher domestic consumption and an
enlarged global role for the yuan that would curb the dollar’s
dominance. Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. said yesterday that moves
including the increased investment quotas indicate that the
government is stepping up the pace of its efforts.  “Greater two-way exchange rate risk makes possible capital
account opening, which would be a logical next step,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets in
 Singapore . “If so, we are in the early stage of what will be as
momentous for China” as the nation joining the  World Trade
Organization  in 2001, he said.  Trading Band  The previous broadening of the trading band, which is
centered on a rate set daily by the central bank, was from 0.3
percent in May 2007. Gains in the currency against the dollar
have stalled this year as China’s growth slows and officials say
that the yuan may be near “equilibrium.”  “It’s a positive decision and one that the market has long
waited for,” Helen Qiao, an economist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong
Kong , said yesterday. “But in the end, the most important thing
to watch is how much of that band will actually be used.”  Still, the U.S. Treasury Department says China needs to do
more. “While we welcome the progress to date, the process of
correcting the misalignment of China’s exchange rate remains
incomplete, and further progress is needed,” a Treasury
official said in an e-mailed statement. “China’s decision to
widen the daily trading band for its exchange rate, if
implemented in a way that allows the value of the exchange rate
to reflect market forces, could contribute to rebalancing, which
would be positive for China, the U.S. and the global economy.”  At Standard Chartered Plc, Shanghai-based economist  Li Wei 
said yesterday that more “two-way variability” in the yuan is
a pre-condition for opening the capital account because of the
reduced risk of one-way capital inflows.  ‘High on Agenda’  “High on China’s financial reform agenda is to increase
its capital account opening to allow domestically trapped idle
money to invest offshore for better uses and returns,” Li
added.  The yuan ended last week at 6.3030 per dollar, up about 8.3
percent since the scrapping in June 2010 of an almost two-year
peg imposed during the global financial crisis.  In a March 5 state-of-the-nation address, Wen said that the
government will “work steadily” to make the currency
convertible under the capital account and expand the use of the
yuan in cross-border trade and investment.  Yesterday’s announcement came days before the  International
Monetary Fund  and Group of 20 hold talks in  Washington , forums
used by finance chiefs to lobby China to let the yuan gain.  “This underlines China’s commitment to rebalance its
economy toward domestic consumption and allow market forces to
play a greater role in determining the level of the exchange
rate,”  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the IMF, said in
a statement.  ‘Political Year’  Expectations for a stronger currency dwindled in the past
six months as Wen cut the country’s economic growth target,
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis hurt exports, and China’s trade
deficit in February swelled to the biggest since at least 1989.  Political pressure may be a “main factor” in the latest
move, said  Ren Xianfang , a Beijing-based economist with IHS
Global Insight Ltd., who added that this is a “political year”
because of a looming U.S. presidential election.  While the yuan reached an 18-year high at 6.2884 per dollar
on Feb. 10, President  Barack Obama ’s administration and U.S.
lawmakers say the currency remains weak enough to give China,
the world’s biggest exporter, an unfair advantage in trade.  The Obama administration is reviewing China’s announcement
“very closely,”   Ben Rhodes , a deputy national security
adviser at the White House, told reporters in Cartagena,
 Colombia , where Obama is attending summit of Latin American
leaders. “They’ve made some progress and we’d like to see
more.”  ‘Little Gift’  China always tries “to offer something” before big
international meetings, said David Smick, a former Congress
staff member and chief executive officer at Washington-based
consultancy Johnson Smick International Inc. “It’s like when
you go to dinner you take a little gift,” Smick said in Berlin.  After keeping the exchange rate stable for a decade, China
allowed its currency to strengthen 21 percent from July 2005 to
July 2008, including an initial, single-day gain of 2 percent.
Appreciation was then halted for almost two years to help
exporters weather a global recession.  The yuan’s 31 percent advance in almost seven years makes
it the third best of the most-traded Asian currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, excluding the Japanese yen. The Brazilian real jumped
28 percent, while  India ’s rupee declined 16 percent and the
Russian ruble dropped 3.3 percent.  Yuan May Weaken  Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz told reporters that the yuan
may weaken as China takes steps to increase the ability of its
investors to invest abroad.  “Opening up the band in conjunction with other actions
they’ve taken may lead to a fall in the exchange rate rather
than appreciation,” he said yesterday in Berlin, where he’s
attending an economics conference. “To the extent they do open
up, money may leave and that will weaken their currency. A free
market exchange rate may not go in the way the U.S. thinks it
should.”  The central bank said the widening of the band is to meet
“market demands,” promote price discovery, and enhance the
currency’s two-way flexibility. The change improves a managed,
floating exchange-rate regime that is based on supply and demand
and operates in reference to a basket of currencies, it said.  The monetary authority will keep the currency “basically
stable at an adaptive and equilibrium level,” to preserve the
stability of the Chinese economy and financial markets, it said.  Soft Landing  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards for the yuan were 0.5
percent weaker than the onshore spot rate at the end of last
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, suggesting that
the currency could fall over that period. The yuan is already
down 0.14 percent against the dollar this year.  “China will avoid significant appreciation or depreciation
this year,” Lu Ting, an economist at Bank of America Corp. in
Hong Kong, said after the announcement, citing reasons including
an “uncertain” global economy.  “It adds to my confidence in a soft landing,” Goldman
Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said in an e-mail.
The change is positive for equities because it shows reformers
are “in charge,” while “for FX it just means more
volatility,” he said.  Cliff Tan, a currency analyst at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ in Hong Kong, said yesterday he’s leaving unchanged a
forecast for the yuan to reach 6.17 by the end of 2012.  The U.S. House of Representatives has yet to take up a bill
passed on Oct. 11 by the Senate, which would allow sanctions on
countries with so-called misaligned exchange rates. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said on Jan. 27 that China’s
currency is “still below almost all measures of fundamentals.”  Trade Deficit  The  U.S. trade deficit  with China rose 8 percent to $295
billion last year, fueling friction between the two nations.  Mitt Romney, the Massachusetts governor who is seeking
nomination as the Republican presidential candidate to run
against Democratic President Barack Obama, is committed to
applying “strong and sustained pressure” on China to overhaul
its trade and currency practices, according to a statement
released today from his spokeswoman.  “Even as our trade deficit with China has grown each year,
President Obama has made no progress confronting China on its
wide range of unfair trade practices,” said Andrea Saul,
Romney’s spokeswoman.  PBOC Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said March 12 that market
forces are playing a greater part in determining the yuan’s
value, which is also affected by the balance of payments. China
may “appropriately” widen the trading band to better reflect
market supply and demand, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported Zhou as saying on March 5.  Growth Target  China will aim for a 7.5 percent economic expansion this
year, having had an 8 percent goal in place since 2005, Premier
Wen said on March 5. Growth slowed more than forecast last
quarter to the least in almost three years, with the economy
expanding 8.1 percent from a year earlier, a statistics bureau
report showed last week.  Before yesterday’s announcement, views had varied on how
far the central bank could or should expand the trading band.  One option is an increase to as much as 2 percent, China
Business News reported on Dec. 9, citing  Liu Yuhui , a researcher
with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. A band of 0.7
percent or 0.75 percent would be appropriate,  Li Daokui , then a
central bank adviser, said March 6.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  