-- City Closes on Manchester Rival in Premier League Title Race
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-14T16:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/city-closes-on-manchester-rival-in-premier-league-title-race.html
Manchester City  routed Norwich 6-1
to cut Manchester United’s lead at the top of the standings in
English soccer’s Premier League to two points.  A Carlos Tevez hat trick helped City pull closer to
United, which hosts  Aston Villa  tomorrow.  Sergio Aguero  added
two goals and  Adam Johnson  another as City won for the first
time in four away matches. City hosts United on April 30.  “Enough has been said, all we had to do was go out and
play,” City captain  Vincent Kompany  said on the club’s website.
“We realized that for a couple of months we did not perform at
our best.”  Swansea beat Blackburn 3-0, West Bromwich defeated Queens
Park Rangers 1-0 and Sunderland tied 0-0 with Wolverhampton.  Tevez, making his second straight start after returning to
the team last month following a dispute with manager  Roberto Mancini , opened the scoring in the 18th minute and Aguero made
it 2-0 with a volley nine minutes later.  Andrew Surman pulled Norwich back with a goal early in the
second half before City broke the game open. Tevez scored with a
header in the 73rd minute and Aguero curled in a shot from about
20 yards less than two minutes later.  Tevez completed his hat trick with 10 minutes left and
Johnson finished off the rout in injury time.  Gylfi Sigurdsson and Nathan Dyer scored in the first half
to lead Swansea over Blackburn, while Graham Dorrans’s goal
lifted West Brom over QPR. Blackburn stays in the three
relegation places at the bottom of the standings, while QPR is
just two points clear of the drop zone.  Wolverhampton remains in last place following its goalless
draw in Sunderland. Wolves have 23 points, five fewer than
Blackburn above it in 19th place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  