-- Colombia’s Santos Urges U.S. to End Cuba’s Isolation
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-14T21:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/colombia-s-santos-urges-u-s-to-end-cuba-s-isolation-1-.html
Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  called the U.S.-backed blockade of Cuba a Cold War-era
anachronism, and said the continued isolation of the communist
island is unacceptable.  “The isolation, the embargo, the indifference, and looking
the other way, have shown their ineffectiveness,” Santos said
in a speech at the opening ceremony of the Summit of the
Americas in Cartagena. “In today’s world, this path isn’t
justified. It’s an anachronism that they are anchored in a cold
war that ended decades ago.”  Santos flew to Havana in March to meet with President  Raul Castro  and head off the threat of a boycott by nations allied to
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , frustrated by Cuba’s non-
attendance. President  Barack Obama  has faced criticism on U.S.
policy toward Cuba even from friendly leaders such as Santos and
Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff.  “Just as it would be unacceptable to have another
hemispheric meeting with Haiti still prostrate, so it would be
without Cuba present,” Santos said in his speech.  Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa  boycotted the meeting
over Cuba’s absence, and Nicaragua’s Daniel Ortega also decided
not to attend. Chavez pulled out of the meeting for cancer
treatment in Cuba.  ‘Old Empires’  Chavez yesterday criticized the U.S. and Canadian presence
at the summit both for their opposition to Cuba’s attendance and
also because they haven’t supported Argentina’s efforts to
regain the Falkland Islands from the U.K.  “They oppose these issues because they’re part of the old
empires,” Chavez said to a crowd of followers outside the
presidential palace in Caracas. “One of the issues that we need
to talk about at the summit is Yankee interventionism. How long
will this go on for, Mr. Obama?”  The U.S. leader said his administration has done more than
any in decades to improve U.S. relations with Cuba and blamed
the communist regime for the country’s absence.  In an e-mail  interview  with a group of newspapers across
 Latin America , Obama said that by allowing increased family
visits and the sending of remittances to Cuba, his
administration has given the Cuban people hope for democracy.
Obama said the Cuban authorities haven’t shown any interest in
improving their record for human rights and respect for
democracy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Cartagena at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Cartagena at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 