-- Colombia Mulls Measures to Curb World’s Biggest Currency Rally
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-04-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/colombia-weighs-measures-to-curb-world-s-biggest-currency-rally.html
Colombian Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said he is studying ways to stem a rally by the
peso this year that has outstripped gains by every other
currency.  Colombia  should use a “diverse set of instruments” to
halt the gains, protect jobs and help bring the  unemployment
rate  below 9 percent by the end of the year, Echeverry said,
without specifying what steps the government may take.  “My first task is to maintain Colombian jobs,” Echeverry
said April 13 in an interview in Cartagena, where he was
attending a meeting of business leaders at the Summit of the
Americas. “If the  exchange rate  stays too strong for too long
then definitely I’m worried. Definitely, I think we can do
more.”  The peso has strengthened 9.2 percent this year to 1,775.5
per dollar, more than all 171 currencies tracked by Bloomberg
and compared with a 1.3 percent gain for  Brazil ’s real.
Colombian central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said April 13 that
he’d like to see a weaker peso too, while President  Juan Manuel Santos  has repeatedly complained of the damage the stronger
currency is inflicting on the Andean nation’s manufacturers and
farmers.  Brazil, which has a jobless rate of 5.7 percent, half of
Colombia’s 11.9 percent, has increased import tariffs to defend
local industry and raised taxes on foreign investment to weaken
the real. Last month, President  Dilma Rousseff  extended a 6
percent tax on foreign loans and bonds issued abroad to include
lending with a maturity of as much as five years, to shield
Brazil from what she called a “monetary tsunami.”  Open Economy  Colombia’s government has kept its economy more open as it
benefits from record levels of foreign investment and credit
growth of more than 20 percent. Echeverry expects gross domestic
product to expand 5 percent or more this year, after increasing
5.9 percent last year, its fastest pace since 2007.  The peso has rallied after policy makers raised  interest
rates  nine times since the start of 2011, bucking a global trend
for lower borrowing costs.  The central bank has since taken action to weaken the
currency, vowing to purchase a minimum of $20 million daily in
the  spot market  until at least Aug. 4.  The government is also avoiding bringing dollars into the
country to ease pressure on the peso. State oil company
Ecopetrol SA will make its first two 2011 dividend payments to
the government in April and July in pesos and the following two
abroad, Echeverry said.  In a separate interview over the weekend Ecopetrol
president  Javier Gutierrez  said the company is a “small
player” in the  currency market , selling about $25 million per
day.  Echeverry said that cutting the national jobless rate below
9 percent by the end of the year, from 11.9 percent in February,
is his “number one goal,” and that policy makers should aim
for low unemployment as well as price stability.  “We have inflation at 3.4 percent, and we are going toward
3 percent by the end of the year,” Echeverry said. “So, great.
But it’s only valuable if you pair it with a declining
 unemployment rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Cartagena at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Cartagena at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 