-- Dodgers Win Approval for Team’s Sale and Bankruptcy Exit
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/dodgers-win-court-approval-to-sell-team-exit-bankruptcy.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers , set to end
court oversight of the club about 10 months after filing for
bankruptcy, won permission to sell the Major League Baseball
team for a record $2.15 billion.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington, Delaware,
approved the Dodgers’ reorganization plan, which is built on the
sale of the team to a group including former basketball player
Magic Johnson, Guggenheim Partners Chief Executive Officer Mark Walter and former Atlanta Braves and Washington Nationals
President Stan Kasten. Walter will be the controlling member of
the group, according to court documents.  The team and MLB will now submit any disputes related to
the sale to a retired federal judge who is acting as mediator.
The mediator will make final decisions in time for the deal to
close on April 30.  “I suspect I will be hearing some issues in the future,
but hopefully they will be limited,” Gross said in court
yesterday, referring to continuing disputes between the team and
MLB.  Major League Baseball  “has issues” with the sale,
including who will own the stadium parking lots and whether a
court-appointed mediator will retain the authority in the future
to make final rulings related to the transaction, attorney
Thomas E Lauria said in court.  Mediator Praised  Gross praised the mediator, retired federal judge Joseph Farnan. He said that without Farnan’s work, the sale and the end
of bankruptcy would have taken much longer.  “Judge Farnan has gotten this case to the point where it
really needed to be,” Gross said.  The remaining disputes will not threaten the sale, Dodgers
attorney Bruce Bennett said in an interview after the hearing.  “I don’t think there is any realistic possibility that the
transaction will not close,” Bennett, with Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP
in  Los Angeles , said.  Owner Frank McCourt put the Dodgers into bankruptcy in
June, claiming Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig forced the team
into a cash crisis by rejecting a new contract with  News Corp.’s (NWSA) 
Fox Sports, which holds the club’s television rights through the
2013 season.  The sale is scheduled to close April 30, after opponents to
the reorganization plan have a chance to decide if they want to
appeal Gross’s approval. The team will then officially exit
bankruptcy.  Television Rights  After mediation sessions with Farnan, McCourt agreed to
sell the team, ending his battle with MLB in November and, in
January, dropping his effort to sell the television rights
separately from the team.  The  Magic Johnson  group won an auction for the team last
month, beating competing offers from  Stan Kroenke , who owns the
National Football League’s St. Louis Rams and Arsenal of English
soccer’s Premier League, and a group led by Steve Cohen, who
runs hedge fund manager SAC Capital Advisors LP.  Fox initially opposed to the sale, seeking written
assurance that competitor  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  wasn’t part of
the group buying the Dodgers. Fox agreed to drop its objection
after the team agreed to give the broadcaster written assurances
that Time Warner isn’t part of the Johnson group, attorneys for
both sides in court.  Ex-Wife’s Claim  Gross threw out a request by McCourt’s ex-wife, Jamie McCourt, to include her $131 million divorce settlement as a
claim against the team. Jamie McCourt, the team’s former chief
executive officer, must seek payment from  Frank McCourt , not the
team, Gross ruled.  Under the divorce settlement, McCourt must pay Jamie
McCourt $131 million by April 30.  While based in Brooklyn,  New York , the Dodgers became the
first Major League Baseball team with a black player when  Jackie Robinson  took the field in 1947. They started play in 1884 as
the Brooklyn Atlantics, and didn’t win their first championship
until 1955. Even with devoted fans that lovingly called them
“Dem Bums,” they joined the Giants in moving from New York to
 California  in 1958.  The Dodgers have won six  World Series , tied for fifth-most
in baseball. Five of them came in Los Angeles, where Duke
Snider, Sandy Koufax, Steve Garvey, Fernando Valenzuela and Kirk Gibson led them to championships.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  