-- Goldman Joins Wal-Mart to Boost Women Business Owners
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-14T00:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/goldman-joins-wal-mart-to-boost-women-business-owners.html
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
said the U.S. will work with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to promote women’s
entrepreneurship in  Latin America  and the Caribbean.  Sharing a stage with  Mike Duke , Wal-Mart’s chief executive
officer, Clinton said the State Department, partnering with
private and corporate foundations, will provide training and
mentoring, support market access initiatives and expand programs
to help women-owned businesses access credit.  “The most effective way to accelerate a nation’s economic
productivity and prosperity is to enable women to participate,”
Clinton said yesterday in a speech in the resort city of
Cartagena, Colombia, where President Barack Obama and U.S.
officials are participating in the Summit of the Americas.  The Wal-Mart Foundation will support training and provide
$1.5 million for grants to promote economic empowerment and
development for women-owned businesses in the region, the State
Department said in a statement.  Goldman Sachs, through its 10,000 Women Entrepreneurship
Partnership program, will bring women to the U.S. for training,
while Exxon’s foundation will sponsor grants to support the
registration and certification of women-owned businesses in
 Mexico .  “We believe business has a responsibility and an
opportunity to help bring about what you’d call an age of
participation, a world where women can fully contribute and
where their contributions are respected and valued,” Duke said.  The Inter-American Development Bank will work with lenders
on models that support growth in women’s businesses. The
Washington-based lender, which supports efforts in the region to
fight poverty, will also work with Wal-Mart and the State
Department to help women-owned businesses in Chile, Costa Rica
and Peru gain access to new markets and increase productivity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  