-- Greece’s Main Parties Have Backing of 33% of Voters, Poll Shows
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-04-14T13:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/greece-s-main-parties-have-backing-of-33-of-voters-poll-shows.html
Two thirds of Greek voters say they
won’t vote for  New Democracy  or  Pasok , the country’s two largest
political parties and interim government partners, a poll for
the  Real News  paper showed today.  Of those surveyed in the poll, conducted by MRB Hellas SA,
20.5 percent said they’d vote for the conservative  New
Democracy , compared with 20.3 percent in a similar survey on
March 24, while 12.7 percent back Pasok, up from 12.1 percent.  The combined 33.2 percent support for New Democracy, led by
Antonis Samaras, and Pasok, headed by Evangelos Venizelos,
compares with a combined 47.4 percent for smaller parties that
oppose the austerity measures required as part of a 130 billion-
euro ($170 billion) financial aid program for Greece.  The poll found that 19.4 percent of voters will abstain or
are undecided on how to vote in the May 6 elections called by
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos .  Two in three of those interviewed said that while Greece
should remain within the euro area, it should follow a different
economic policy that doesn’t involve the harsh austerity
measures associated with the aid program.  Almost 66 percent said a coalition government would be the
most effective in tackling  Greece ’s problems, with 40.4 percent
preferring to see parties other than New Democracy and Pasok co-
operating in a coalition government. Only 7 percent favor an
administration made up again of the two main parties.  Coalition  While 22.9 percent said Samaras would make the best prime
minister, compared with 20.9 percent for Venizelos, 52.4 percent
said neither was suitable.  The number of parties in the parliament would increase to
seven from five if the election were held now, with the
 Democratic Left , the  Independent Greeks  and  Chryssi Avghi , or
Golden Dawn, all gaining representation for the first time. The
nationalist  Laos  party, which withdrew from the coalition, would
lose all its 16 seats, the poll indicated.  Independent Greeks would attract the largest number of New
Democracy supporters, while the Democratic Left would see the
most defections from Pasok, according to the survey.  MRB Hellas surveyed 1,008 people for  Real News  between
April 7 and April 10. No overall margin of error was given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  