-- Idaho Adviser Hutcheson Pleads Not Guilty to Wire Fraud
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/idaho-adviser-hutcheson-pleads-not-guilty-to-wire-fraud.html
Matthew Hutcheson, an  Idaho 
independent fiduciary who advises companies on retirement plans
and has testified before Congress, pleaded not guilty to charges
that he took more than $2 million from a fund he oversaw and
spent it on himself and his family.  Hutcheson, 41, used the money to remodel his house in
Eagle, Idaho, build a 4,100-square-foot barn, a swimming pool, a
hot tub and a dog house, according to an indictment filed in
federal court in Boise on April 10. He also bought a BMW
convertible and a  Land Rover .  Hutcheson, indicted on 31 counts of wire fraud and theft,
entered a not guilty plea yesterday. Before his arrest, he was a
critic of 401(k) managers and trustees who don’t act in the best
interests of their clients.  “The fiduciary duty is the highest duty known to the
law,” Hutcheson said in testimony before the House Ways and
Means Committee in October 2009. As an independent fiduciary,
Hutcheson helped manage company  retirement plans , picking
investments and monitoring their operations.  Hutcheson was arrested at about 7 a.m. on April 11, said
his lawyer, Dennis Charney. He spent one night in jail and was
released without bail.  “He was treated very differently than other people in
similar cases,” said Charney. “We deny that any investor funds
were used for personal gain.”  Tamarack Resort  In addition to the $2 million he allegedly took for
personal use, Hutcheson also used $3 million from another 401(k)
fund to buy a mortgage note on the golf course at Tamarack
Resort, near McCall, Idaho, according to the indictment.  Hutcheson had founded a company, Green Valley Holdings, to
try to purchase all of struggling Tamarack. The resort defaulted
on a $250 million loan in December 2007, and the founders sought
 bankruptcy protection .  Hutcheson misrepresented the purchase, telling the
retirement plan’s administrator that the golf course note was a
one-month transaction, and that it would be done in the name of
the plan participants, according to the indictment.  Instead, he bought the note in the name of Green Valley
Holdings. Later, he used the note as collateral to borrow
$425,000 from a private lender in  Virginia . That lender then
held first lien on the property, according to the indictment.  Hutcheson’s bid for all of Tamarack collapsed.  Hutcheson didn’t violate any laws by using investors’
401(k) funds to buy the mortgage note on the golf course at
Tamarack Resort, Charney said.  “He saw a golden opportunity to buy a note at a fraction
of its value, backed by an asset that was worth ten times what
he paid,” Charney said.  The case is U.S. v. Hutcheson, 12-00093, U.S. District
Court, District of Idaho (Boise).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland, Oregon, at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  