-- Iran Nuclear Talks Set Grounds to Reconvene Next Month
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-04-15T15:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/iran-nuclear-talks-set-grounds-to-reconvene-next-month.html
The first international talks with
 Iran  on its nuclear program in 15 months produced a promise to
reconvene in May amid calls for urgent diplomacy to avert
military strikes.  The so-called P5+1 group of five permanent United Nations
Security Council members -- the U.S., Britain,  China ,  France ,
and Russia -- plus  Germany  will meet Iranian delegates in
Baghdad on May 23 following “constructive” talks yesterday in
Istanbul, according to  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s
foreign policy chief.  Tensions over Iran’s nuclear program have escalated since
the parties’ last gathering in  Turkey  in January 2011, with
 Israel  and the U.S. saying they may attack the Islamic Republic
to prevent it from developing atomic weapons. That prospect and
economic sanctions aimed at blocking Iran’s oil exports helped
drive Brent crude prices 13 percent higher this year alone.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  criticized the
timing of the new meeting, saying it gave Iran a “freebie” of
five weeks “in which it can continue enrichment without any
limitation, any inhibition,” according to a text message from
his office in Jerusalem today.  Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said the
European Union should delay its July 1 ban on Iran’s oil imports
to help the talks.  Delaying Oil Embargo?  “It would make a good deal of difference,” Ryabkov,
 Russia ’s top delegate to the talks,  said today by phone from
Istanbul. “It would promote both a positive atmosphere and it
would be conducive for further progress if the European Union
decides to move in this direction.”  While yesterday’s talks didn’t yield any new promises, the
P5+1 group hailed Iran’s willingness to engage in discussions on
its nuclear program.  “We want now to move to a sustained process of serious
dialogue, where we can take urgent practical steps to build
confidence and lead on to compliance by Iran with all its
international obligations,” Ashton told reporters after the
talks. “In our efforts to do so, we will be guided by the
principle of the step-by-step approach and reciprocity.”  Iran’s nuclear envoy,  Saeed Jalili , said “we witnessed
progress” in yesterday’s talks. “We said before that pressure
doesn’t work, we believe that cooperation is fruitful,” Jalili
said. “Today we experienced that.”  Economic Sanctions  An EU embargo on Iranian oil is scheduled to go into effect
on July 1, following U.S. restrictions already in place.  “One of the issues that should be taken into
consideration, and is the request of the Iranian people, is the
removal of sanctions,” Jalili said, speaking to reporters
through a translator.  A lifting of sanctions won’t be on the agenda until there
are concrete moves to assure the international community about
the intent of  Iran’s nuclear program , a senior U.S. official
said after yesterday’s talks. The meeting wasn’t about what may
or may not happen militarily, said the official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the discussions were private.  Rejecting the contention of the U.S. and its allies that
Iran may be developing the capability for nuclear weapons,
Jalili spoke under a banner with images of assassinated Iranian
atomic scientists that read, “Nuclear energy for all, nuclear
weapons for none.”  Fordo Site  Iran is enriching uranium to the 20 percent level at an
underground facility at Fordo, near Qom. Civilian nuclear  power
plants  require 5 percent low-enriched uranium. Iran says it is
developing nuclear technology solely to generate power and for
medical purposes.  Further stockpiling of 20 percent enriched uranium “poses
a growing threat” that some will be diverted for weapons use,
the  Institute for Science and International Security , a research
group in  Washington , said in an April 10 report.  President  Barack Obama  said a month ago that although the
window for diplomacy is “shrinking,” there is “still time and
space” for diplomacy and sanctions before resorting to military
action to stop Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.  Yesterday’s scheduling of a May meeting is “a positive
step forward,”  Ben Rhodes , a deputy national security adviser
at the White House, told reporters in Cartagena, Colombia, where
Obama was participating in a summit of Latin American leaders.
“Now what we’re doing is building out the agenda going
forward.”  Drafting Proposals  Iranian and P5+1 deputies will work on drafting a framework
for proposals to be taken up at the  Baghdad  gathering, Ashton
said. That will enable the negotiators to take “concrete
steps” in resolving concerns about Iran’s nuclear program, she
said.  Both sides reiterated that while Iran has a right to
civilian nuclear technology, it needs to meet its obligations as
a signatory to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. The treaty
will be a “key basis” of the parties’ engagement going
forward, Ashton and Jalili said.  “We are seeing a more serious approach now because
international pressure on Iran is at an all-time high and both
sides are coming to the talks with more pragmatic proposals,”
 Daryl Kimball , executive director of the Arms Control
Association in Washington, said yesterday in an e-mail. “The
further high-level and technical talks announced today are the
logical next step to reach agreement on specific, concrete steps
that can help prevent a nuclear-armed Iran.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  