-- Liverpool Heads to F.A. Cup Final With Win Over Everton
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-14T17:29:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/liverpool-beats-everton-2-1-to-advance-to-english-f-a-cup-final.html
Liverpool rallied to defeat local
rival Everton 2-1 and reach the F.A. Cup soccer final for the
first time in six years.  Andy Carroll’s goal in the 87th minute gave Liverpool the
win in the weekend’s opening semifinal at Wembley Stadium in
London. Chelsea and Tottenham meet tomorrow to decide who will
face the Reds in the final on May 5.  “As a Liverpool player, losing to Everton would have been
an absolute nightmare,” defender  Jamie Carragher , who was at
fault for the Everton goal, told ESPN. “It’s just really
thrilling.”  Liverpool will be making its 14th F.A. Cup final
appearance, third to Manchester United’s 18 and Arsenal’s 17.
The Reds won the last of their seven titles in  England ’s top
club competition when they beat West Ham in 2006.  Nikica Jelavic scored in the first half for Everton before
 Luis Suarez  tied the game just after halftime. Carroll, who’s
been criticized for his lack of scoring following his club-
record 35-million pound ($55 million) signing from Newcastle
last season, then won it with a header in the closing minutes.  “He takes criticism on the chin,” Liverpool captain
 Steven Gerrard  told ESPN. “That’s what we bought him for, to
step up and score big goals.”  Having already captured the League Cup, Liverpool can
become the first team to twice win the domestic-cup double.
Arsenal (1993), Liverpool (2001) and Chelsea (2007) are the only
clubs to win F.A. and league cups in the same season.  The Toffees  Everton was attempting to reach the final for the second
time in four seasons. The Toffees have now lost four of their
five F.A. Cup semifinal meetings with their neighbor.  “We can’t hide the fact we gave away two goals on
mistakes,” Everton manager David Moyes told ESPN. “If you make
mistakes in games, it doesn’t win you trophies.”  Everton took the lead in the 24th minute after a mix-up
between Carragher and  Daniel Agger , with the former’s clearing
attempt hitting  Tim Cahill  at the edge of the area. The ball
rebounded straight to Jelavic, who slid a shot past goalkeeper
 Brad Jones .  Carroll missed a chance to tie the score two minutes into
the second half when he headed  Stewart Downing ’s cross wide.  Liverpool pulled even in the 62nd minute after Luis Suarez
picked up an errant back-pass by Sylvain Distin and raced in
alone to put a shot by goalkeeper  Tim Howard .  Jones caught Leon Osman’s shot from outside the area in the
76th minute, Carroll dragged a shot wide and Jelavic sent an
attempt into the side of the net as both teams looked for a
winning goal.  Carroll then made up for his earlier misses when he headed
in Craig Bellamy’s free kick following Seamus Coleman’s foul on
Gerrard to the left of the penalty area.  “I had a few chances and should have probably scored
earlier,” Carroll, who also had the injury-time winner as
Liverpool beat Blackburn in the Premier League four days ago,
told ESPN. “But I kept at it and it was a great ball in by
Craig. I just had to score with that one and I did.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 