-- N. Korea Marks Founder’s Anniversary After Botched Rocket
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-04-15T10:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/n-korea-marks-founder-s-anniversary-after-botched-rocket.html
North Korea  celebrated the 100th
anniversary today of the birth of state founder Kim Il Sung, two
days after the regime was embarrassed by the disintegration of a
long-range rocket that was meant to demonstrate its power.  State television broadcast a military parade in Pyongyang
on the so-called “Day of the Sun” to honor Kim and laud the
new leadership of his grandson, Kim Jong Un. The younger Kim,
thought to be less than 30 years old and who took over after his
father died on Dec. 17, told the crowd gathered in Kim Il Sung
Square that the nation was at a “critical” juncture in history.  “In order to realize our goal of building a socialist,
strong and prosperous nation, we must first, second and third
strengthen the people’s army on all fronts,” he said in his
first public address to the nation, flanked by military and
Workers’ Party leaders. “We have never lost a battle and now
have a military that can handle any modern war.”  The launch debacle on April 13 prompted a rare public
admission of failure to the outside world and raised questions
over whether Kim can secure his grip on the military and
government as he confronts international condemnation and an
economy that struggles to feed its own people. Today’s parade,
featuring goose-stepping soldiers in dress uniform, tanks and
mobile rocket launchers, was an opportunity for Kim to showcase
his might to the North Korean people.  Resembles Grandfather  The parade also featured what appeared to be a new, larger
ballistic missile, said Baek Seung Joo, who studies Pyongyang’s
military at the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses in  Seoul .
South Korea’s  Defense Ministry  was unable to comment on the
design or whether it was a real missile.  Kim, the third son of  Kim Jong Il , resembles his
grandfather and wears the same dark Mao suits favored by the
state founder. He was made a four-star general in September 2010
in the first official notice he was being groomed to succeed his
father.  Kim inherited a country of 24 million people suffering from
chronic malnutrition and dependent on  China  for assistance.
North Korea has twice detonated atomic devices and refuses to
abandon its nuclear program.  “An era where enemies threatened us has forever passed and
our military’s dignity is proof of that,” he said today from a
podium high above  Kim Il Sung  Square.  Saving Face  The rocket that was fired on April 13 was launched in
defiance of warnings it would scupper an American food aid deal.
The crash touched off a scavenger hunt by the U.S. and South
Korea for pieces of the debris.  “Kim Jong Un’s political fate depends on how much he can
control the military,” said Park Young Ho, senior fellow at the
Korea Institute for National Unification in Seoul. “Were this
long-range rocket launch successful, he would have cleared
doubts about his ability to lead and gain legitimacy.”  South Korea warned that chances are “very high” the
regime will soon conduct a nuclear test to save face and rally
domestic support. The U.S. called off food assistance to North
Korea that was to be provided under a February deal, and the
 United Nations Security Council  “deplored” the launch,
according to U.S. Ambassador Susan Rice.  Public Admission  The missile reached an altitude of 151 kilometers (93
miles) before disintegrating into 20 pieces and falling into the
ocean 100 to 150 kilometers off the western coast, South Korean
Major General Shin Won Sik said in Seoul. North Korea’s state-
run Korean Central News Agency said scientists “are now looking
into the cause of the failure.”  The rare public admission contrasted with previous tests,
and came after the regime invited foreign journalists to watch
the launch. When North Korea in April 2009 fired a Taepodong-2
missile that crashed into the  Pacific Ocean , it claimed to have
successfully orbited a satellite.  Last week’s launch violated North Korea’s February
agreement to suspend missile and nuclear tests in exchange for
240,000 tons of U.S. food aid.  Japan  and  South Korea  joined the
Obama administration in condemning the launch.  The U.S. won’t send the food aid and will take further
steps if the totalitarian state engages in additional
“provocative behavior,”  Ben Rhodes , a deputy national security
adviser at the White House, told reporters traveling on April 13
with President  Barack Obama .  Intelligence Report  A South Korean intelligence report a week ago warned that
North Korea may soon detonate its third nuclear device. Recent
activity at the Punggye-ri nuclear testing site is consistent
with preparations for previous detonations in 2006 and 2009,
according to the report.  North Korea will allocate 15.8 percent of the total state
budgetary expenditure for national defense this year, KCNA said,
citing Finance Minister Choe Kwang Jin.  At the UN,  Security Council  members have agreed that the
North Korean launch violated previous sanctions imposed by the
world organization, according to Rice, who spoke as president
this month of the 15-member body.  “The Security Council agreed to continue consultations on
an appropriate response in accordance to its responsibilities
given the urgency of the matter,” she said.  As part of the centennial celebrations, the country’s sole
political party named Kim Jong Un its head on April 11, and the
Supreme People’s Assembly on April 13 named him head of the
National Defense Commission, positions previously held by his
father.  North Korea’s “military first” ideology holds that the
top priority is strengthening the 1.2 million-strong armed
forces. The country technically remains at war with South Korea
since their 1950-53 conflict ended without a peace treaty and
public statements regularly accuse the South, the U.S. and Japan
of having belligerent intent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  