-- Obama Says Romney Should ‘Absolutely’ Release Tax Returns
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-14T17:54:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/obama-says-romney-should-absolutely-release-tax-returns.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  should
‘absolutely’ release his tax returns, calling it a tradition
among U.S. presidents and candidates, in an interview conducted
by Univision in Cartagena, Colombia.  Romney yesterday requested a six-month extension to file
his 2011 federal income taxes, said Andrea Saul, his campaign
spokeswoman. Saul said he would file and release the return
before the Nov. 6 general election.  “I think that it’s important for any candidate in public
office to be as transparent as possible, to let people know who
we are, what we stand for, and you know, I think that this is
just carrying on a tradition that has existed throughout the
modern presidency,” Obama said yesterday, according to a
transcript of the interview released today. The interview will
air on Univision’s “Al Punto” program on Sunday.  Obama is at this year’s Summit of the Americas where trade,
drug legalization and the debate over the addition of Cuba in
future summits are at the top of the agenda. The gathering is
being overshadowed by allegations of misconduct by Secret
Service agents involving prostitutes.  Obama released his tax returns yesterday, which showed that
he and First Lady  Michelle Obama  paid 20.5 percent in federal
taxes on $789,674 in adjusted gross income for 2011.  Immigration Laws  Addressing frustration among Hispanic Americans about the
failure to revamp immigration laws, one of the unfulfilled
promises of his campaign, Obama said, “I can promise that I
will try to do it in the first year of my second term.”  He said Republicans in Congress have blocked his efforts,
and attacked Romney for supporting the Arizona law that would
allow  law enforcement  to check citizenship papers of those they
suspect to be illegal immigrants.  In his first public remarks since George Zimmerman was
charged with second-degree murder for the February shooting
death of Trayvon Martin, 17, Obama said, “Issues of race are
deeply embedded in the history of this country.”  “With each successive generation there are going to be
misunderstandings,” the president said. “There are going to be
tensions, there’s going to be tragedy sometimes, and what’s
important for us to do is to look at it honestly, look at it
squarely, but then move forward.”  Zimmerman, 28, is scheduled to be arraigned May 29 on a
charge of second-degree murder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Cartagena,  Colombia , at 
1973 or  kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  