-- Panama 10% Growth Forces Firms to Steal Workers, Martinelli Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-04-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/panama-s-10-economic-growth-leaves-firms-scrambling-for-workers.html
Panama ’s President Ricardo Martinelli, who attended a summit this weekend with Barack Obama, faces a challenges that his U.S. counterpart could only
dream of: companies stealing employees from each other as
economic growth reaches 10 percent for a second straight year.  “You can’t hire a lot of workers in a lot of positions
because there simply aren’t the workers,” Martinelli, 60, said
in an interview April 14 at the Summit of the Americas in
Cartagena,  Colombia . “Wages have risen, firms are stealing
workers from each other.”  While Obama is struggling to create jobs during an election
year, Panama’s  unemployment rate  hovers at around 4.4 percent
and may drop further as the economy grows 10 percent in 2012,
Martinelli said. A free trade pact with the U.S. should be in
force by October as officials make the final changes to
implement the accord, he said.  Martinelli, a supermarket magnate turned politician, took
office in 2009 vowing to complete his predecessor’s trade deal
with the U.S. and a $5.25 billion expansion of the Panama Canal
to reduce unemployment in the Central American nation of 3.3
million. The $33 billion economy was the fastest growing in
 Latin America  last year, expanding 10.6 percent, boosted by the
canal expansion and other infrastructure projects as well as
foreign investment in banking and real estate.  The fast growth and tight labor market are provoking “a
high degree of uncertainty” on consumer prices, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in an April 10 report.  ‘Can’t Do Much’  Panama, which uses the  U.S. dollar , has no central bank and
“can’t do much” to counter inflation, Martinelli said.
Consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in March from a year earlier,
according to the statistics institute.  The country, which has offered to host the next Summit of
the Americas in 2015, ranked second after  Brazil  in the region
for the best hiring outlook during the last quarter of 2011 and
was fifth worldwide, according to a survey by  Manpower Inc. (MAN)   In the U.S., employers added 120,000 jobs in March, half as
many as the month before, Labor Department figures showed last
week. The unemployment rate fell to 8.2 percent, a three-year
low, as more Americans left the  labor force .  Panama’s government increased the minimum wage by 17
percent in January after about 6,000 workers on the Panama Canal
expansion walked off the job, demanding higher wages and back
pay. The expansion project, due to be completed in 2014, may be
finished in early 2015, Martinelli said.  “We are sure that, if there is a delay, it would be of one
or two months, and not more,” Martinelli said.  Moody’s Investors Service in June 2010 raised Panama to
Baa3, which is the rating company’s lowest investment grade
rating. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings also rate Panama as
an investment grade credit.  Since Martinelli took office on July 1, 2009, the extra
yield investors demand to own Panama government dollar debt
instead of U.S. Treasuries has fallen 117 basis points to 160.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 