-- RBS’ Chia Sees China Yuan Move as Market Liberalization Step
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-14T07:23:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/rbs-chia-sees-china-yuan-move-as-market-liberalization-step.html
Chia Woon Khien, a strategist with
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. in  Singapore , comments on the
widening of the yuan’s trading band by the People’s Bank of
 China .  “The move should be seen as a market liberalization step
and not a monetary policy move. Stated in the opening line of
its notice, the PBOC justified the move as such: ‘‘Presently,
China’s FX market is maturing. The market’s ability to price and
manage risks is growing.” We will confirm this on Monday when
we see how the PBOC fix the USD/CNY daily central parity. If
they intend to have a monetary policy message, they would fix
the CNY either stronger or weaker to reflect that intention.’’  “The move is a necessary step towards greater capital
account opening, especially for the greater interaction between
the offshore CNH and onshore markets. As the offshore market
continues to grow, the PBOC needs to gradually remove the
discrepancies between the FX regimes on both sides to minimize
arbitrage gaps which will only attract speculative hot money.”  “If there is any policy implication from the move, it is
that the PBOC is ready to relax its FX policy and let market
forces dictate more of the direction for CNY.”  “In terms of net capital flows, this would be the net sum
of the flows into both the offshore CNH and onshore CNY
markets.”  “Given that the move is a very strong confidence booster
for global investors, I would expect strong buying interests of
CNH against USD in the spot and forward market on Monday
opening. The USD/CNH forward curve has been steepening upwards
in recent weeks due to the onshore demand for the cheaper
offshore CNH funding as well as the global  risk aversion .”  “We are already expecting to see fresh outright buying
interests of CNH forwards to emerge to gradually counter the
recent steepening in the USD/CNH forward curve.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  