-- Riyad Bank 1Q Profit Climbs 22%, Beats Analyst Estimates
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-14T16:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/riyad-bank-1q-profit-climbs-22-beats-analyst-estimates.html
Riyad Bank (RIBL) ,  Saudi Arabia ’s third-
largest lender by market value, posted a 22 percent increase in
first-quarter profit as income from operations grew.  Quarterly net income advanced to 901 million riyals ($240.3
million) from 741 million riyals in the year-earlier period, the
Riyadh-based lender said in  a statement  on the Saudi bourse
website today. The average estimate of six analysts was for
profit of 851 million riyals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nine of the country’s 11 publicly traded banks that
released earnings results for the previous quarter reported an
increase in lending.  Alinma Bank (ALINMA)  had the biggest increase at 35
percent. Riyad Bank reported a 4 percent increase in lending,
according the lender’s statement today.  Saudi banks are lending at the fastest pace in three years
as the economy benefits from  oil prices  that averaged more than
$100 a barrel last quarter. Bank lending to the private sector
grew 12 percent in February, the fastest pace since March 2009,
according to central bank data.  Saudi Investment Bank (SIBC)  posted a 2 percent increase in first-
quarter profit to 212 million riyals as operating income
increased, the lender said in a statement to the Saudi bourse
today. Net income missed the median estimate of three analysts
for a profit of  216 million riyals , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Of the Saudi banks that have released results, Saudi
Investment is the only bank to have reported a decline in
lending in the previous quarter. Loans and advances fell 9
percent to 28 billion riyals from the year earlier period,
according the statement from the lender on the Saudi bourse
website.  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA)  hasn’t released its results for the
first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  