-- Rodriguez Home Run Ties Griffey as Yankees Win Opener in Bronx
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-14T06:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/rodriguez-home-run-ties-griffey-as-yankees-win-opener-in-bronx.html
Third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  hit
his 630th career home run and Hiroki Kuroda pitched eight
scoreless innings as the  New York Yankees  beat the Los Angeles
Angels 5-0 in their first home game of the Major League Baseball
season.  Jason Bay  hit a two-run homer to lead the  New York Mets  (5-
2) to a 5-2 victory over the  Philadelphia Phillies  (3-4). Josh Becket allowed one run in eight innings as the  Boston Red Sox 
(2-5) routed the  Tampa Bay Rays  (4-3) 12-2. Los Angeles Dodgers’
Aaron Harang set a franchise record by striking out nine
consecutive batters in the team’s 9-8 win over the  San Diego
Padres .  Kuroda, signed as a free agent from the  Los Angeles Dodgers 
after last season, allowed five hits, two walks and struck out
six in front of 49,386 fans yesterday afternoon in the 110th
home opener in franchise history and fourth at the $1.5 billion
Yankee Stadium. In a showdown of the two American League
favorites to win the World Series, the Japanese-born right-
hander left to a standing ovation in the ninth inning.  “It’s the greatest feeling in the world,” Kuroda, 37,
said through a translator. “I’d like to repeat it as much as I
can this year.”  Rodriguez hit the milestone home run on starter Ervin Santana’s first pitch of the third inning for a 4-0 lead. It
moved Rodriguez into a tie with former teammate Ken Griffey Jr.
for fifth place on baseball’s all-time list.  Amazing Career  “You look at the home runs, the RBIs, the runs that he’s
scored, it’s amazing what he’s done in his career,” New York
manager  Joe Girardi  said.  Nick Swisher  had a three-run double in the first inning and
 Curtis Granderson  hit his second home run of the season off
Santana in the fifth.  The early runs helped Kuroda settle into his second start
of the season. He evened his record at 1-1 and moved the Yankees
to 4-3, the first time they have been over .500 this year. They
opened with three straight losses to  Tampa Bay .  “When you have that kind of run support, I was able to get
a really good rhythm,” he said. “I was able to be more
relaxed.”  Kuroda threw 71 of his 109 pitches for strikes, striking
out six and lowering his season earned-run average to 2.63. The
third, fourth and fifth batters in the Angels lineup -- nine-
time All-Star Albert Pujols, designated hitter Kendrys Morales
and third baseman Mark Trumbo, last year’s runner-up for AL
Rookie of the Year -- combined for one hit in 11 plate
appearances.  Accustomed to Pressure  “I didn’t think he’d be too fazed by his surroundings, and
the magnitude of the game,” Girardi said of Kuroda. “I talked
about the pressure that a player who comes over from  Japan  feels
a lot of times, they’re used to pitching in games like this.”  Pujols, 32, is off to a slow start in his first seven games
since signing a 10-year, $240 million contract with the Angels
in December. The three-time National League Most Valuable Player
is hitting .222 with two runs batted in and no home runs.  Angels manager Mike Scioscia said after the game that he
was confident Pujols would soon find his rhythm.  “This isn’t about Albert, this is about our team doing
some things better on the mound and playing a little more
fundamentally sound baseball,” he said. “Albert is going to be
there, but we have to be more than Albert and we are.”  One of the Guys  On a 65-degree day with no clouds, Rodriguez pulled even
with Griffey, his teammate on the  Seattle Mariners  from 1994 to
1999. The Yankees’ third baseman said after the game that he
didn’t want reaching the milestone, or moving closer to  Willie Mays  at 660 and No. 4 on the all-time list, to interfere with
his focus on the club’s season.  “I don’t allow myself to be a fan of what I’m trying to do
because I’m part of a team and I’m trying to be one of the guys
and help the team win,” Rodriguez said. “To go out today in
pinstripes and play in the best stadium in baseball in front of
the greatest fans in the world, on a day like today, is all
pretty special.”  Former Yankees catcher  Jorge Posada , who threw out the
ceremonial first pitch, said that as a player he’d lose sleep
prior to opening day in the Bronx. The 40-year-old Posada played
on five World Series-champion teams in a 17-year career with New
York before retiring in January.  ‘Like a Playoff’  “Opening day is like a playoff, like a  World Series , it’s
that atmosphere,” Posada said after receiving a standing
ovation from the crowd. “You get those chills and butterflies,
you’re eager to get the field and put that uniform on.”  The Yankees opened their season with three consecutive road
losses to the AL East-rival Rays, and followed that series with
a three-game sweep of the Orioles in Baltimore. The team has now
won 14 of its last 15 home openers and a half game behind the
division-leading  Toronto Blue Jays  (4-2).  The Yankees and Angels entered the season as the two AL
teams most likely to win this year’s World Series, according to
online sports book  Bovada.lv . The Yankees had 13-2 odds to win
their 28th MLB championship, while the Angels, after offseason
acquisitions of Pujols and pitcher C.J. Wilson, were 7-1.  “These guys made a lot of noise this offseason, they’re a
good team,” Rodriguez said. “You have the feeling that we are
going to see a lot of them, during the regular season, but maybe
in the postseason as well.”  Girardi said he couldn’t have scripted a better home-
opening for the Yankees.  “You get an early lead, your starter gets you into the
ninth inning,” he said. “I don’t think it gets any better.”  In other American League games last night, it was the
Chicago White Sox 5, Detroit 2; Cleveland 8, Kansas City 3;
Baltimore 7, Toronto 5; Oakland 4, Seattle 0; and Texas 4,
Minnesota 1.  In the National League, it was the Chicago Cubs 9, St.
Louis 5; San Francisco 5, Pittsburgh 0; Washington 2, Reds 1 (13
innings); Miami 5, Houston 4 (in 11 innings); Colorado 7,
Arizona 6; and Atlanta 10, Milwaukee 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at Yankee Stadium at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  