-- Iran Nuclear Talks ‘Constructive’ After 15-Month Halt
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-14T14:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/saudi-shares-drop-on-rising-concern-over-global-economic-growth.html
Saudi Arabian shares declined, led
by banks and petrochemical companies, as the Arab world’s
biggest bourse followed U.S. stocks lower amid intensified
investor concerns over global economic growth.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  dropped 0.7 percent to
7,524.36, the lowest level since March 20, in Riyadh at the 3:30
p.m. close. The 152-member index has gained 17 percent this
year.  Al-Rajhi Bank, Saudi Arabia’s largest by market value, lost
2.2 percent, and  Samba Financial Group (SAMBA)  decreased by 1.8 percent.
Saudi Arabian Fertilizer Co., a unit of  Saudi Basic Industries
Corp. (SABIC) , fell to the lowest level since March 20.  “Resurfacing European debt concerns and slowing economic
growth in  China  are affecting international sentiment,” Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at Riyad Capital, said in response to
e-mailed questions. “Some of this may impact Saudi market
direction today, but first quarter earnings expectations will be
top-of-mind.”  Saudi companies started reporting first-quarter financial
results earlier this month.  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI)  and four other Saudi
lenders posted first-quarter results that beat estimates as
lending increased in the Arab world’s biggest economy.  U.S. Stocks Fall  U.S. stocks fell this week, sending the  Standard & Poor’s
500  to its first back-to-back weekly decline since November,
after employers added fewer jobs than estimated and investor
concern over global economic growth increased. U.S. employers
added 120,000 jobs in March, less than the median economist
forecast of 205,000 disclosed in a Bloomberg survey. A surge in
Spanish and Italian bond yields has fueled concern Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening, while China said its economy expanded 8.1
percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace since 2009.  “The international data published last week adversely
affected the petrochemical sector due to fears about a slowing
global economy,” Turki Fadaak, head of research at Riyadh-based
Albilad Investment Co., said in response to e-mailed questions.
“The petrochemical sector is most responsive to global data.”  Al-Rajhi Bank fell to 77.50 riyals, while Samba Financial
declined to 53.75 riyals.  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer (SAFCO)  dropped 4.9
percent to 183 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
operating on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  