-- Scotland Courts Oil Producers With Taxes Lower Than U.K. Budget
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-14T07:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/scotland-courts-oil-producers-with-taxes-lower-than-u-k-budget.html
Scotland  Energy Minister Fergus Ewing is seeking to court investment in the region’s oil and gas
industry and become a hub for offshore wind developers by
reducing corporate taxes included in the U.K. government budget.  “The budget was difficult for us,” Ewing said yesterday
in an interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in New York.
“Oil and gas producers want stability and we’re giving it to
them. The tax-equity grab is not what people expected from the
U.K.”  The remarks shed light on the Scottish government’s efforts
to wrest control of the region’s oil resources from the U.K. as
politicians from  London  to Edinburgh debate a proposal from
Scottish nationalists on whether to hold a referendum on
independence.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s government released a budget
plan last month that boosts taxes on  North Sea  oil producers by
1.14 billion pounds ($1.8 billion) over the next six years. The
U.K.’s three main political parties oppose independence for
Scotland.  Ewing, a lawmaker for the  Scottish National Party , is on a
tour of North America seeking to boost investor interest in
Scotland.  Scotland aims to bolster revenue from energy companies that
would underpin its finances if it separates from the U.K. Oil
and gas production in the North Sea provided 8.8 billion pounds
of revenue for the British Treasury in the fiscal year through
April 2011, about 1.6 percent of the 550.8 billion pounds of
total receipts.  Independence Referendum  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond , leader of the semi-
autonomous government in Edinburgh, wants to call a referendum
on independence in 2014. The  U.K. government budget , released on
March 21, reduces the Treasury’s revenue from North Sea
production by $160 million pounds for this fiscal year, then
increases taxes by 2.53 billion over the next four years.  Scotland also is working to build up its sources of
renewable energy, especially offshore wind farms and plants that
generate electricity from tides and ocean currents.  The regional government has pledged to obtain all of its
electricity from renewable sources by 2020 and to export power
to Ireland and Norway.  “We don’t see the referendum as reducing investment, in
fact quite the opposite,” Ewing said, citing recent commitments
from offshore wind turbine developers.  Offshore Wind  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) ,  Spain ’s biggest wind-turbine
maker, last month opted to locate a 150 million-euro ($196
million) offshore wind energy hub in Leith, the port area of the
Scottish capital Edinburgh.  Leith edged out the northeast English coastal town of
Hartlepool to win the investment, which will make it a focal
point for an industry that may be worth as much as $52 billion
over the next eight years.  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. said on Jan. 31 that it will
base a 100 million-pound offshore wind project creating more
than 500 jobs across the Forth River estuary from Leith in
Methil.  “Our opponents have tried to scare people but we don’t see
the evidence that it’s working,” Ewing said.  He expects to install as much as 25 gigawatts of offshore
 wind turbines  and 1.6 gigawatts of tidal and wave power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  