-- Secret Service Agents With Obama Probed for Misconduct
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-14T21:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/secret-service-agents-with-obama-investigated-for-misconduct.html
Secret Service agents assigned to
protect President  Barack Obama  at a summit in Colombia were
relieved of their assignments and sent back to the U.S. after
allegations of misconduct, a spokesman for the agency said.  At least one Secret Service agent is being accused of
getting into a dispute over payment to a prostitute in
Cartagena, according to Jon Adler, president of the Federal Law
Enforcement Officers Association, which provides legal
representation for Secret Service agents.  Obama was told about the allegations yesterday and the
issue “has been more of a distraction for the press” than for
the president at the Summit of the Americas, spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters at a briefing in Cartagena.  At least a dozen Secret Service agents were questioned
about the incident though they weren’t necessarily involved in
any alleged misconduct, Adler said.  “By way of practice, any time an allegation is directed at
a team member, all team members will be interviewed to ascertain
the veracity of the allegation,” Adler said in an interview.
“There is no implication that those being interviewed are
culpable or accused of anything.”  Secret Service Statement  “There have been allegations of misconduct made against
Secret Service personnel in Cartagena,  Colombia , prior to the
president’s trip,” Special Agent Edwin Donovan said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “The Secret Service takes all
allegations of misconduct seriously. This entire matter has been
turned over to our Office of Professional Responsibility, which
serves as the agency’s internal affairs component.”  Carney referred all further questions to the Secret
Service. Donovan wouldn’t disclose the nature of the misconduct
or the number of agents involved.  Agents involved in the allegations had stayed at
Cartagena’s Hotel Caribe, where several members of the White
House staff and press corps also stayed, the  Associated Press 
reported.  In addition, five members of the military who were staying
at the same hotel violated the curfew set by the senior U.S.
defense official at the American embassy in Colombia, according
to Colonel Scott Malcom, the public affairs officer for the U.S.
Southern Command. The five Department of Defense members had
been sent to Colombia to support the summit, in part by
providing security, Malcom said.  Restricted to Hotel  The five will remain in Colombia during the summit because
their skills and knowledge are needed, Malcom said, adding that
they will be restricted to their hotel rooms when not carrying
out official duties. The military has yet to determine whether
the five violated any rules beyond the curfew, Malcom said. He
didn’t provide their rank or the branch of the military in which
they serve.  “We are going to do an investigation as soon as they get
back,” Malcom said in a telephone interview. The U.S. Southern
Command, headquartered in Miami, is the combatant command
responsible for the 31 nations of Central and  South America  and
the Caribbean. Its largest permanent presence is in Colombia,
Malcom said.  Heavy Drinking  A hotel employee, speaking on the condition of anonymity
for fear of losing his job, told the AP that the Secret Service
agents arrived at the beach-front hotel about a week ago and
were drinking heavily during their stay. According to Malcom,
when the police arrived, the hotel manager provided them with a
list of all U.S. government personnel who were guests.  Adler said in an e-mailed statement that he trusted the
agency to ‘investigate this matter professionally.”  “It would be both reckless and premature to jump to
judgment that either the President’s safety or his mission in
Colombia were jeopardized by the allegations in question,”
Adler said.  Obama arrived in Colombia yesterday for a summit with other
leaders of North and South America over the next two days. He
attended a dinner with the summit participants last night at
Castillo San Felipe de Barajas, an historic Spanish fortress in
Cartagena.  “These personnel changes will not affect the comprehensive
security plan that has been prepared in advance of the
President’s trip,” Donovan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  