-- Sperling Says Jobs Act Might Have Put U.S. Unemployment Below 8%
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-04-14T18:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/sperling-says-jobs-act-might-have-put-u-s-unemployment-below-8-.html
The U.S. unemployment rate might
now be below 8 percent had Congress adopted all of President
Barack Obama’s legislative proposals, one of his economic
advisers said in an interview.  Gene Sperling , White House director of the National
Economic Council, said Republicans rejected Democrat Obama’s
plans to provide money to prevent teacher firings and increase
infrastructure spending, according to a transcript of his
interview  with CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” scheduled for
broadcast tomorrow.  “Just think about how much stronger the job market would
be” if these two initiatives had passed, Sperling told Zakaria.
“We’d be knocking on the door of going under 8 percent, being
into the 7 percent range on unemployment and making much further
progress.”  Republicans and Democrats are trading blame for the
government’s inability to get more people back to work, an issue
that may decide which party captures the presidency in November.
Sperling’s comments coincide with evidence this month and last
that the job market is weakening after showing earlier signs of
recovery.  On April 12, the Labor Department reported that  jobless
claims  had increased 13,000 in the week ended April 7 to
380,000, the highest level since late January. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for 355,000 claims.  Unemployment (USURTOT)  stood at 8.2 percent in March, when U.S.
employers added 120,000 jobs, less than the most pessimistic
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The rate,
also reported by the labor department, had fallen to 8.3 percent
in February from 9.1 percent last August.  Tax Credits  In the American Jobs Act, a $447 billion initiative
released last September, the Obama administration proposed
cutting the  payroll tax  for most businesses, extending
 unemployment benefits  for 5 million people who were looking for
work, and providing tax credits for the hiring of unemployed
veterans. Congress eventually took these steps while rejecting
other measures in the legislation, including spending to prevent
teacher dismissals and create jobs through infrastructure
development, Sperling said.  The economy created 2.1 million private sector jobs last
year, a performance that would be “solid in most other
contexts,” Sperling told  CNN . The problem, he said, was that
“we started from a very, very deep hole” created by the worst
recession since the Great Depression.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christian
Baumgaertel at   cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  