-- Syria Monitoring Mission to Be Voted on by UN Envoys
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/syria-monitoring-mission-to-be-voted-on-by-un-envoys.html
The  United Nations  Security Council
plans a vote today on sending observers to  Syria  to monitor a
cease-fire that is being tested by nationwide protests against
President Bashar al-Assad.  The UN’s decision-making body will vote in New York on a
resolution to deploy an advance team of as many as 30 UN
observers, who were waiting on standby to board planes. The 15-
member body spent yesterday arguing behind closed doors over
rival draft, as Russia clashed again with Western powers on how
to tackle the longest of the Arab revolts.  While the cease-fire in Syria largely held after a truce
took hold on the morning of April 12, at least 13 people died
yesterday in clashes, according to the Local Coordination
Committees, an opposition group.  “The situation in Syria is extremely tenuous right now,”
 Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign
Relations , said in an interview. “What you have at the moment
appears to be a quiet more than the truce called for” by UN
special envoy  Kofi Annan  in his six-point peace plan.  Before the cease-fire, the death toll often exceeded 100 a
day, reaching 9,000 in the 13 months since the start of the
uprising, according to the UN. A prolonged lull would allow
unarmed monitors to be sent to the country, while failure of the
cease-fire may encourage calls for international military
intervention.  U.S. Sends Aid  The U.S. has begun sending promised nonlethal aid to the
Syrian opposition, most of it medical and communications
equipment, according to an administration official who discussed
the shipments yesterday on condition of anonymity.  The supplies are going to nonviolent, political groups
based on what they said would help them organize their efforts
and provide aid to civilians, and the aid is likely to increase,
the official said.  At least one million people in Syria “remain in need of
urgent humanitarian help,” the UN’s emergency relief
coordinator,  Valerie Amos , said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. She said it’s “extremely important that negotiations
to enable humanitarian organizations in Syria to deliver aid
remain separate from other efforts to resolve the crisis.”  Assad, 46, is fighting for the survival of his Alawite
family’s four-decade hold on power. While more than 70 percent
of Syria’s population is Sunni, Assad and the ruling elite are
in a minority, belonging to an offshoot of the Shiite branch of
Islam that predominates in  Iran  and which stands to lose
privileges should he fall.  ‘Terrorist Groups’  Syria’s  Interior Ministry  urged citizens who have fled
their homes to escape “crimes by terrorist groups” to return,
the official Syrian Arab News Agency said yesterday.  Russia , which has vetoed two draft resolutions seeking to
hold Assad accountable, has a stake in the survival of a Soviet-
era ally, selling the regime weapons during the uprising. Still,
Moscow has leaned on the Syrian government to accept the terms
of a cease-fire and let UN monitors into the country.  Russia’s envoy to the UN,  Vitaly Churkin , told reporters he
wasn’t “completely satisfied” with the outcome of negotiations
at the world body yesterday. French Ambassador  Gerard Araud  said
there still wasn’t an agreement and described talks as “very
tough.”  “I don’t want to predict” an outcome, U.S. Ambassador
Susan Rice told reporters. “We’ve been to this movie so many
times.”  UN Monitors  The UN has had monitors and political officers in the
 Middle East  since the 1940s as well as in other regions, the
most recent a group of 180 observers sent to oversee the end of
the civil war in Nepal.  A UN presence in Syria may involve 200 to 250 personnel
trying to cover a much larger country, according to Richard Gowan, associate director for crisis diplomacy and peace
operations at the  New York  University Center on International
Cooperation.  “It will be very hard to establish a robust monitoring
presence in Syria if violent incidents continue,” Gowan said in
an e-mail. “UN planners will be concerned about keeping their
personnel safe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  