-- UN Monitors Head to Syria as Cease-Fire Placed at Risk
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-04-15T09:47:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/syrian-monitors-authorized-by-un-to-monitor-cease-fire.html
An advance team of 25 United
Nations military observers are headed to  Syria  after the
Security Council authorized their deployment to monitor a cease-
fire at risk from reported shelling by security forces in Homs.  The UN’s 15-member council voted unanimously yesterday to
dispatch a first wave of monitors and urged President Bashar al- Assad to “implement visibly its commitments in their entirety”
under a six-point cease-fire plan from UN special envoy  Kofi Annan . A bigger mission will follow, if conditions allow it.  The truce was already being tested as the UN’s most
powerful body passed its first binding measures to stem a 13-
month-old conflict that has killed more than 9,000. Inspired by
revolts that toppled leaders in Egypt and  Libya , the Syrian
uprising is evolving into a civil war with sectarian undertones.  “We are under no illusions,” U.S. Ambassador to the UN,
 Susan Rice , told the council after passage of the resolution.
“Two days of diminished violence, after a year of murderous
rampage, hardly proves that the regime is serious about honoring
its commitments.”  Syria’s army today shelled residential districts in Homs,
the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mailed
statement. In the Aleppo area, government forces and rebels
clashed and a police station was attacked with bombs, the U.K.
based rights group said.  Homs, Aleppo  Days after an April 12 cease-fire was declared, reports
emerged of soldiers opening fire on protesters in the cities of
Homs, Aleppo and Hama. Syrian security forces killed 27 people
across the country, an umbrella opposition group called the
Local Coordination Committees, said in a statement yesterday.  The UN council said yesterday it “expresses its intention
to assess the implementation of this resolution and to consider
further steps as appropriate.” The UN’s decision-making body
alone can authorize sanctions, referrals to the  International
Criminal Court  and military intervention.  “Syrian forces resumed their brutal shelling of Homs, and
shot innocent mourners at a funeral in Aleppo,” said Rice, who
holds the Security Council presidency this month. “This resumed
violence casts serious doubts yet again on the regime’s
commitment to a cessation of violence.”  Homs, a flashpoint of the uprising seeking to topple
Assad’s rule, has been the target of a military campaign by the
regime, which says it’s fighting terrorists in the city.  9,000 Dead  Before the cease-fire, the death toll in Syria often
exceeded 100 a day, reaching 9,000 since the start of the
uprising, according to the UN. A prolonged lull would allow
deployment of unarmed monitors in the country, while failure of
the cease-fire may prompt calls for outside military
intervention.  The language and tone of the resolution was scaled back to
secure approval from Russia, which has been allied with Assad’s
regime and twice vetoed attempts at the  Security Council  to hold
him accountable for the violence.  Russia has a stake in the survival of a Soviet-era ally,
selling the Assad regime weapons during the uprising. Still, the
government in Moscow has leaned on the Syrian government to
accept the cease-fire terms and let monitors into the country.  “For many months now the situation in Syria has been the
subject of the fixed attention and alarm of the international
community, and it’s understandable,” Russian Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin  told the council after the vote. “There have been too
many casualties” and there are “too many destructive
consequences if the crisis continues to ratchet up.”  Human Rights  Amnesty International  led human-rights activists in calling
the compromise resolution “underwhelming.”  Radhwan Zyadeh, a member of the Syrian National Council,
the main opposition group, told  Al Jazeera  that Syrians were
“frustrated” by the one-year wait for a resolution that
achieves a bare “minimum,” given  Russia ’s position.  Assad, 46, is fighting for the survival of his Alawite
family’s four-decade hold on power. While more than 70 percent
of Syria’s population is Sunni, Assad and the ruling elite are
in a minority, belonging to an offshoot of the Shiite branch of
Islam that predominates in  Iran  and which stands to lose
privileges should he fall.  The UN has had monitors and political officers in the
 Middle East  and other regions since the 1940s, the most recent a
group of 180 observers sent to oversee the end of the civil war
in Nepal.  A UN presence in Syria involving 250 personnel will be
trying to cover a much larger country, according to Richard Gowan, associate director for crisis diplomacy and peace
operations at the New York University Center on International
Cooperation.  Their safety in Syria will also be a concern. In 2006,
during the war in southern Lebanon, four UN monitors were killed
by Israeli fire. In 1998, a team of 1,400 observers were
deployed to try to calm the situation in  Kosovo  yet were pulled
out the following year as Yugoslav security forces continued to
carry out atrocities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  