-- Yen Gains as Central Bank Holds Off Easing; Euro Weakens
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-04-14T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-14/yen-gains-as-central-bank-holds-off-easing-euro-weakens.html
The yen advanced for a second week
versus the euro and the dollar after the Bank of  Japan  refrained
from further moves to stimulate growth and Spanish bond yields
climbed, reviving concern Europe’s debt crisis will spread.  The 17-nation currency fell as investors wagered the
 European Central Bank  won’t restart its government-bond purchase
program. The dollar rose versus 10 of its 16 most-traded peers
as investors sought haven, pushing Treasury  10-year yields  below
2 percent before the  Federal Reserve  meets on April 24. The
Australian and New Zealand dollars gained on stronger domestic
data and speculation China will take steps to boost its economy.  “The Bank of Japan became a bit more neutral, and that
shift gave support to the Japanese yen because it reduced
expectations for easing,” Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in  New York , said
yesterday. “One of the major supports of the yen is low U.S.
yields. With the 10-year below 2 percent, that will drive
dollar-yen lower.”  The Japanese currency rallied 1 percent to 105.83 versus
the euro yesterday in New York, from 106.86 on April 6. It
touched 105.45 on April 11, the strongest level since February.
The yen gained 0.9 percent to 80.93 per dollar, after touching
80.57 on April 11, the strongest in six weeks. The dollar
appreciated 0.1 percent to $1.3078 per euro.  Chinese Economy  The Australian currency climbed against all of its major
counterparts except the  Singapore dollar  and the yen as China
recorded an unexpected  trade surplus  and the slowest economic
expansion in almost three years. The data fueled speculation the
People’s Bank of  China  will move to stimulate economic growth.
The nation is  Australia ’s biggest trading partner.  Chinese gross domestic product grew 8.1 percent year-on-
year in the first quarter, the slowest in almost three years,
data showed yesterday.  “Expectations for slowing in the Chinese economy are
already fairly entrenched, but at the same time there is ample
scope for policy easing,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said. “The
negatives of weak economic data have been offset by expectations
of monetary easing.”  Australia’s dollar also strengthened as payrolls in the
nation added 44,000 jobs in March, more than six times the
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The Aussie rose 0.6 percent to $1.0370 and reached $1.0453,
the highest since April 3. It declined 0.2 percent to 83.94 yen.  Stronger Confidence  New Zealand ’s dollar rallied versus its U.S. counterpart
after the South Pacific nation’s  business confidence  rose in the
first quarter. The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, was 0.4 percent
stronger at 82.28 U.S. cents. It fell 0.5 percent to 66.59 yen.  Implied volatility  on three-month options on Group of Seven
nations’ currencies fell yesterday to the lowest level since
August 2008, 9.7 percent, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index. The average over the past decade is 10.6 percent.  Lower volatility makes investments in currencies of nations
with higher benchmark rates more attractive because the risk in
such trades is that market moves will erase profits.  Futures traders  increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the dollar to the highest level in five weeks.
Net-euro shorts rose to 101,364 in the five days ended April 10,
from 79,480 in the previous period, figures from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  Spanish Bonds  Europe ’s shared currency erased a weekly gain against the
dollar after Klaas Knot, a member of the ECB governing council,
said yesterday he didn’t see sufficient justification for the
central bank to buy Spanish  government bonds .  Spain’s 10-year (GSPG10YR)  securities dropped this week, pushing their
yields up 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, to 5.98
percent. They have jumped 62 basis points this month amid
concern they’re approaching the 7 percent threshold reached by
 Greece , Portugal and Ireland before their bailouts.  The cost of insuring against a Spanish-government default
rose to a record 498 basis points, according to CMA prices. A
basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10 million euros
($13.1 million) of debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000
euros a year.  “I don’t see a good reason” for the ECB to purchase
government bonds, Knot said at an event in Amsterdam. “I think
there has been an overreaction to the unfortunate communication
surrounding  Spain .”  Dollar Gains  The greenback rose against the euro, South African rand and
Mexican peso as increasing demand for dollar-denominated assets
pushed the yield on the 10-year Treasury below 2 percent for the
first time in almost a month. The peso tumbled 1.5 percent to
13.1775 per dollar, and the rand dropped 0.8 percent to 7.9491.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
index of consumer sentiment for April unexpectedly fell
yesterday, and the Labor Department reported April 12 the most
Americans since January filed for jobless benefits last week. A
separate report on April 6 said U.S. nonfarm payrolls added
120,000 jobs in March, the least in five months.  The  U.S. economy  is still “far from having fully
recovered” from the financial crisis, Fed Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said April 9 at a conference in Stone Mountain,
 Georgia .  The Fed meets this month in a two-day policy session. It
bought $2.3 trillion of assets from December 2008 to June 2011
to support the economy, and it has held its benchmark  interest
rate  at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Bank of Japan  The yen climbed 3 percent over the past month, the biggest
winner among 10 developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro and dollar each
rose 0.2 percent, while Australia’s dollar slid 1.7 percent.  Bank of Japan  policy makers on April 10 kept their key
 interest rate  and asset-purchase plan unchanged, the second
straight meeting without a policy shift. They next announce a
policy decision on April 27.  Gains in the currency were limited after Governor Masaaki
Shirakawa said policy makers could “pursue powerful easing.”
Defeating deflation and achieving sustained growth are important
tasks for the central bank, Shirakawa said April 12 in  Tokyo .  “The market is still expecting that the BOJ will do
something to ease policy,” Hitoshi Asaoka, a senior strategist
in Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., said April 12. The firm
is a unit of Japan’s third-largest listed bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  