-- Actavis, Time Warner, Take Two: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-12T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/actavis-time-warner-take-two-intellectual-property.html
UCB Inc. sued  Actavis Inc. (ACT) ,  Novartis
AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit and more than 13 other drugmakers alleging
patent infringement for plans to sell low-cost generic versions
of the epilepsy medicine Vimpat.  The unit of  UCB SA (UCB) , based in Brussels, contends that U.S.
sales of Vimpat before the patent expires in 2022 would hurt its
business, according to one of the complaints filed July 10 in
federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  UCB, formerly known as Schwarz Pharma AG, is “entitled to
an award of damages for any commercial use” of the patented
medicine, it said court papers.  Vimpat was the company’s third-best-selling product,
generating 334 million euros ($437.4 million) in revenue last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
Actavis, wasn’t immediately available to respond to a phone call
seeking comment on the lawsuit. Julie Masow, a spokeswoman for
Novartis, based in Basel,  Switzerland , declined to comment on
the lawsuit.  In dispute is patent RE 38,551.  In June,  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s
largest generic-drug maker, was sued for patent infringement in
the same court by UCB over Vimpat. The case is pending.  The Actavis Case is UCB v. Watson, 13-cv-01219, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Time Warner Sued Over Sports Transmissions to Wireless Devices  Time Warner Inc. and its Turner Sports unit were sued by
closely held Front Row Technologies on July 10 in federal court
in  Albuquerque , New Mexico.  Front Row said Time Warner infringed three patents relating
to a method of transmitting sports and entertainment data to
wireless handheld devices over a telecommunications network.  Applications for NCAA sports, NBA Game Time, NBA League
Pass Mobile,  PGA Championship  and  PGA Tour  are accused of
infringing patents 8,086,184, issued in December 2011;
8,270,895, issued in September; and 8,401,460, issued on March
19.  Front Row seeks cash compensation and an order blocking
further use of its inventions. The complaint also names Turner
Broadcasting System and Turner Sports Interactive.  Front Row has filed other patent suits, including ones
against Major League Baseball Properties and NBA Media Ventures.  The case is Front Row Technologies v.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ,
1:13-cv-00636, U.S. District Court, District of New Mexico
(Albuquerque).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  California Craft Brewery Will Quit Using ‘420’ on Beer Labels  Lagunitas Brewing Co. , a craft brewery in Petaluma,
 California , will no longer use a code phrase for marijuana on
one of its beer labels, the Santa Rosa, California, Press
Democrat  reported .  The brewery will defer to  Sweetwater Brewing Co.  of
Atlanta, which claimed prior trademark rights to the use of the
number 420, commonly associated with marijuana, the newspaper
reported.  Lagunitas Founder Tony Magee said he made the change after
receiving a demand letter from the Atlanta brewery, according to
the Press Democrat.  Sweetwater produces a beer it calls “ 420 Extra Pale Ale ,”
which is one of almost 80 live trademarks in the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office’s database related to “420,” the Press
Democrat reported.  Take Two Unit Registers ‘Rockstar Games’ Trademarks in Australia  Take Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) ’s Rockstar Games unit, a
New York-based maker of video games, registered its name as a
trademark in Australia after a five-year battle, the TM Watch
news blog  reported .  The games company’s application was opposed by JMBP Inc.,
 Mark Burnett ’s production company, according to TM Watch.  Burnett’s company, which produced the “Survivor,”
“Apprentice” and “The Voice” reality-television programs,
withdrew its opposition June 21, TM Watch reported.  Among Rockstar Games’ products are the Grand Theft Auto,
Max Payne and Midnight Club series of games, according to TM
Watch.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Warner Bros. Can Pursue Counterclaims in Hobbit Games Suit  Time Warner Inc.’s  Warner Bros . Entertainment unit can
pursue counterclaims in a lawsuit by author J.R.R. Tolkien’s
estate over the right to license “Lord of the Rings” and
“Hobbit” online and gambling games.  U.S. District Judge Audrey Collins in Los Angeles yesterday
denied a request by the estate and Tolkien heirs to dismiss
counterclaims by Warner Bros. and producer Saul Zaentz, saying
they are routine contract-based claims and aren’t improper
because the estate sued first.  The estate sued last year, alleging that the movie studio
and its subsidiaries have the right to sell and license only
tangible objects, not downloadable video games. Warner Bros.
also doesn’t have permission to license online  slot machines  and
casino slot machines based on the late author’s books, according
to the Nov. 19 complaint.  Bonnie Eskenazi, a lawyer for the Tolkien estate, didn’t
immediately return a call to her office for comment on the
ruling.  The case is Fourth Age Ltd. v. Warner Bros. Digital
Distribution Inc., 12-cv-09912, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California ( Los Angeles .)  Japan May Extend Copyright Term to 70 Years, Daily Press Says  The Japanese government is considering revisions to that
nation’s copyright legislation that would extend copyright terms
so they will be in conformity with those in the U.S. and
European Union, Japan Daily Press  reported .  Presently, the copyright term in Japan for songwriters,
composers and music publishers is the author’s life plus 50
years, as opposed to life plus 70 years in the U.S. and EU,
according to the publication.  Impetus for the change comes from the Japanese Society for
Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers and also from
forthcoming negotiations over the Trans-Pacific Partnership
free-trade agreement, Japan Daily Press reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  One-Time Espionage Suspect Admits to Tampering With Computer  An ex- Medical College of Wisconsin  researcher once
suspected of trying to steal a developmental cancer-fighting
compound for China pleaded guilty to a computer tampering
charge.  Hua Jun Zhao, a Chinese national, was arrested in March on
suspicion he had taken three vials of the cancer drug from a
Medical College office in  Milwaukee  and then took steps to
deliver them to China’s Zhejiang University. Initially charged
with economic espionage, he was indicted on April 9 for computer
tampering and lying to federal agents.  “As you gather facts, your view of a situation sometimes
changes,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Stephen Ingraham told
reporters yesterday after Zhao pleaded before U.S. District
Judge Charles N. Clevert in Milwaukee.  The three vials were never found, he said.  “Of course we’d like to resolve that,” Ingraham said. The
missing vials, containing a powdery substance identified only as
C-25, had a value of about $8,000, according to court papers
filed when Zhao was arrested.  Zhao, who told Clevert he is 41, is scheduled to be
sentenced on Aug. 6. While his crime is punishable by as long as
five years in imprison, the prosecutor said outside court the
sentence imposed is likely to be less than that.  Zhao’s lawyer, Michelle Jacobs, declined to comment after
her client entered his guilty plea.  The case is U.S. v. Zhao, 13-cr-00058, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Wisconsin  (Milwaukee).  Treasury’s Lew, State’s Burns Meet Chinese and U.S. Executives  U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and Deputy Secretary
of State  William Burns  met with U.S. and Chinese business
leaders yesterday as part of the U.S.-China Strategic and
Economic Dialogue.  The executives said their priorities include protection of
 intellectual property  rights, cybersecurity and streamlining
regulation, according to the statement released by the Treasury
Department.  The American chief executive officers included Laurence D.
Fink of Blackrock Inc.,  Ellen Kullman  of DuPont Co. and Patricia
Woertz of  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the Treasury Department
said in a statement released in  Washington .  Chang Zhenming, chairman of CITIC Group Corp., and Tian
Guoli, chairman of Bank of China Ltd., were among the Chinese
executives, the Treasury said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  