-- Taiwan Braces for Direct Hit as Typhoon Soulik Approaches
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 2013-07-12T09:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/taiwan-braces-for-direct-hit-as-typhoon-soulik-approaches-1-.html
Taiwan  is bracing for a direct hit
by Typhoon Soulik early tomorrow, with officials evacuating
people at risk of landslides and airlines canceling dozens of
flights due to expected high winds.  Soulik may make landfall in northeastern Yilan or eastern
Hualien county early morning tomorrow and bring cumulative rain
of as much as 1,000 millimeters (39 inches) in the island’s
northern and central mountains today and tomorrow, the Central
Weather Bureau said. President Ma Ying-jeou called on local
governments and citizens to make preparations and be on alert
for mudslides, according to a  statement  from his office today.  Damage from Taiwan’s first typhoon of the year may be
exacerbated by loose soil following large earthquakes in March
and June, the Central Emergency Operations Center said in a
 statement . The bureau tracked eight typhoons last year including
 Saola , which killed seven people and destroyed NT$1.2 billion
($40 million) of agricultural produce. Morakot in 2009 killed
more than 600 people and brought record rainfall.  Authorities evacuated 1,158 people mainly in eastern
Hualien county, northern Hsinchu county, and New Taipei City,
National Fire Agency Deputy Director Chen Wen-long said today.  “We fear heavy rains will cause mudslides that will block
roads, so we’re clearing people out as a precaution,” Cheng
said by phone.  The  highways department  will close 12 roads across the
island by the end of today, the Directorate General of Highways
said in an e-mailed statement.  Land Warning  Taiwan authorities issued a land warning and advised people
to avoid outdoor activities as Typhoon Soulik continues its
approach from the east.  China ’s National Marine Environmental
Forecasting Center raised a wave warning to orange, the second-highest of four levels, in the  East China Sea , the  Taiwan Strait 
and waters near Zhejiang and Fujian provinces, Xinhua reported.  As of 4 p.m., Soulik’s winds gusted as fast as 209
kilometers (130 miles) per hour and the eye of the storm was 280
kilometers off Taiwan’s northeastern coast moving toward land at
a speed of 23 kilometers per hour, the weather bureau said on
its website.  Flights Canceled  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  canceled 14 flights between
 Hong Kong  and Taipei from 9 p.m. today to 2 p.m. tomorrow,
according to a statement today. The airline will waive rebooking
and rerouting charges for people affected. Taiwan’s largest
carrier  China Airlines Ltd. (2610)  canceled 12 flights scheduled for
today, according to a statement on its website.  Far Eastern Air Transport Corp. canceled four flights
between Taiwan and China and five domestic flights scheduled for
tomorrow, according to an e-mailed company statement.  A total of 75 inbound and outbound flights from northern
Taiwan had been canceled as of 4 p.m. today, according to a
 statement  from Taoyuan International Airport Corp. Ltd.  An average of seven typhoons are monitored by Taiwan
authorities every year, with the greatest frequency between the
months of July and September, according to  bureau data .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  