-- All Blacks to Play Brave Blossoms as Japan Eyes 2019 World Cup
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-07-12T03:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/all-blacks-to-play-brave-blossoms-as-japan-eyes-2019-world-cup.html
Rugby world champion  New Zealand 
will play in Japan for the first time in 26 years in November,
it was announced today.  The All Blacks will play for just the fifth time against
Japan’s national rugby team, known as the Brave Blossoms, in
 Tokyo  on Nov. 2 before heading to Europe for games against
France, England and Ireland, the New Zealand Rugby Union said in
a statement in Wellington. Japan, which will host the 2019  Rugby
World Cup , has lost all four previous matches against New
Zealand, the first of which took place in Japan in 1987.  “Hosting a historical match against the world-famous All
Blacks in the heart of our capital will definitely build
momentum for rugby in Japan as we work toward Rugby  World Cup 
2019,” Japan Rugby Football Union Chairman Tatsuzo Yabe said in
the statement.  New Zealand hosted and won the 2011 edition of the Rugby
World Cup, which takes place every four years. The All Blacks’
biggest win against Japan was a record 145-17 thrashing at the
1995 tournament in South Africa, when the New Zealanders ran in
21 tries. Japan has improved since then, winning the Asian Five
Nations for a sixth consecutive time this year and beating  Wales 
for the first time last month.  “The history of matches between the All Blacks and Japan
hasn’t been in our favor, but we have changed history once by
beating Wales this year and we want to change history again when
we play against the All Blacks,” Japan coach Eddie Jones said.  Japan is 14th in the International Rugby Board’s  world
rankings , which are topped by New Zealand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  