-- Hamptons Scene: Eric Fischl, de Montebello at Art Fairs
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-07-12T15:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/hamptons-scene-eric-fischl-de-montebello-at-art-fairs.html
Last night on the East End of  Long
Island  two art fairs opened and Hamptons Magazine’s Samantha
Yanks hosted “A Ladies Night Out.”  There were a few guys around: artist Adam Stennett settled
into his “Artist Survival Shack” at the  artMRKT Hamptons  fair
in downtown Bridgehampton.  At the other fair,  ArtHamptons , also in Bridgehampton,
Philippe de Montebello, former director of the  Metropolitan
Museum  of Art, was spotted with his wife. Also with spouses were
Marc Korman and Greg Hodes, agents at William Morris Endeavor.  In the middle of the tent, Eric Fischl signed copies of his
memoir, “Bad Boy: My Life On and Off the Canvas,” while up
front, Richard Prince alumnus Tom Dash mingled in front of his
1950s pin-up girl and painted toy guns, at  Mark Borghi Fine
Art ’s booth.  The same booth, where Whispering Angel rose was poured,
featured Carole Feuerman sculptures of women and girls in
bathing suits and swim caps, arms dappled with water drops.  “I love that she’s focused on women,” said Lois Robbins,
an actress who owns several pieces, including a woman in a yoga
pose titled “Balance.” “It’s very calming and very real.”  Art dealer Mark Borghi was constantly squiring guests to
meet the artists.  “The market here has been strong since last summer,”
Borghi said. “Especially in the Hamptons, the art market rides
the stock market. If the Dow is high, they’re happy and they
buy.”  First-Timers  The fair this year attracted many first-time exhibitors,
among them: Rex-Livingston Projects of Sydney, with beautifully
colored, luminous natural forms by Dorryce Rock; and New York-based  Shin Gallery , drawing guests in with a canvas of melted
synthetic fabric by Hyon Gyon Park, and  Susan Teller Gallery ,
showing a William Baziotes painting for $125,000.  Barbara Goldsmith, a fierce advocate for persecuted
writers, came out to see a special exhibition by her late friend
Larry Rivers, who would have turned 90 in August. She said a gem
in his archive at  New York  University is 12 years of
correspondence with poet Frank O’Hara.  Both art fairs run through Sunday.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  London  and New York  weekend  guides,
 Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  