-- Tanker Hiring Jumps to Six-Year High as IEA Sees Refining Surge
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2013-07-12T08:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/tanker-hiring-jumps-to-six-year-high-as-iea-sees-refining-surge.html
Bookings of the largest  oil tankers 
jumped to the highest for the time of year since at least 2007
as demand for crude cargoes accelerates before a surge in oil
refining projected by the  International Energy Agency .  Traders and oil companies hired 126 very large crude
carriers to load in July, according to data today from Marex
Spectron Group, a London-based commodities and freight-derivatives broker. There are still more charters to arrange and
it’s the second consecutive month when bookings have been at the
highest for the period in Marex data starting in January 2007.
The vessels each carry 2 million barrels.  Rates on the benchmark  Saudi Arabia  to Japan route rose
fourfold to $24,939 a day since the end of June, according to
prices from the  Baltic Exchange , a publisher of freight costs on
more than 50 maritime routes. Global refinery throughput will
rise 3 percent between July and September from the second
quarter, an “exceptionally high” increase, the IEA, an adviser
to 28 oil-consuming nations, said yesterday in a report.  “Bookings are running at elevated records now to be able
to deliver crude during the period of peak demand,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity markets at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “We should progressively see some slowing over the next
one to two months as refiners would have stocked up on their
crude requirements.”  The rates increase is helping owners to contend with VLCC
earnings that averaged $6,838 a day this year, the lowest since
at least 1997, according to data from  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
largest shipbroker.  Frontline Ltd. (FRO) , the operator led by
billionaire  John Fredriksen , said May 30 it needs daily returns
of $25,500 to break even.  Chinese Refineries  Chinese refineries are returning from maintenance and their
processing rates were also curbed by rains in the second
quarter, the IEA said. Global throughput for the year will peak
next month at 77.2 million barrels a day, a 2.1 percent increase
since January, the IEA said.  The number of VLCCs sailing for Chinese ports rose to 66,
the highest since April, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by weekly Bloomberg from IHS Fairplay, a Redhill,
England-based maritime research company.  There are 15 percent  more  VLCCs in the Persian Gulf
available for loading in the next 30 days than cargoes,
according to the median estimate of six shipbrokers and owners
in a Bloomberg News survey July 9. That’s the smallest excess
since June 6, survey data showed.  “We have been expecting  China  to increase demand to
replace drawn stocks and fill additional storage coming on
stream,” Simon Newman, head of tanker research in London at
ICAP Shipping International Ltd., said by e-mail today. “Now we
are starting to see this come to fruition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  