-- Asiana Survivors Pleaded for Ambulances to Help Injured
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-12T03:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/asiana-crash-survivors-plead-for-ambulances-for-hurt-passengers.html
The first ambulance reached  San
Francisco  International Airport at 11:34 a.m., six minutes after
Asiana Airlines Flight 214 slammed its tail into the seawall
short of the runway and spun across the tarmac.  It was an eternity for those who fled the burning Boeing
777. They used their mobile phones to call emergency 911
operators, pleading for medical help for victims they described
as near death or critically injured.  “There are no ambulances here,” one woman tells a
dispatcher in recordings released by the California Highway
Patrol. “We’ve been on the ground, I don’t know, 20 minutes, a
half hour. There are people laying on the tarmac with critical
injuries -- head injuries. We’re almost losing one here. We’re
trying to keep her alive.”  Only two of the 307 people on board the wide-body jet
didn’t survive the crash landing on the edge of  San Francisco
Bay  about 11:28 a.m. local time, July 6. More than 200 were
taken to hospitals. The 911 records offer a window into the
scene as investigators seek to understand why so many survived.  “We just got in a plane crash and there a bunch of people
who still need help and there’s not enough medics here,” says
another female passenger. She tells the operator she’s standing
near debris at the end of the runway where the plane hit.  “There is a woman out here on the street -- on the runway
-- who is pretty much burned very severely on the head and we
don’t know what to do,” she says. “She is severely burned. She
will probably die soon if we don’t get help.”  Firefighters, Paramedics  Mindy Talmadge, a San Francisco Fire Department
spokeswoman, said its airport units rolled at 11:28 a.m. Twenty-three firefighters, including four trained as paramedics, began
prioritizing victims based on the severity of their conditions,
she said in an interview. The unit doesn’t have ambulances, she
said.  The firefighters’ initial focus was to remove passengers
from the plane and suppress the flames, she said. In plane
crashes, the department’s ambulances are used to transport, not
treat, patients, she said.  The fire department ambulances were held in a staging area
near the runway as a precaution against potential risks,
including an explosion or a terrorist device, she said.  “There may have been some people that waited a long time
to be transported to the hospital, but those were the patients
that were prioritized as being delayed transports and in need of
less medical attention than the ones who were transported
before,” Talmadge said.  A small number of private ambulances were close to the
scene at the time of the crash and responded immediately, she
said. At least 13 hospitals received passengers from the crash.  First Patients  At the city’s only trauma center, San Francisco General
Hospital, 11 miles (18 kilometers) from the airport, the first
wave of victims arrived at 12:30 p.m., or about an hour after
the crash, according to Rachael Kagan, a spokeswoman.  In  California , all mobile phone calls to 911 are routed to
highway patrol communications centers. Dispatchers heard not
only from victims, but people who saw the crash and smoke.  “We just heard a giant explosion and I’m with a couple of
other hikers and they saw that an airplane had crashed right
there at SFO,” says a man who gives his location as near
Pacifica, a coastal town about 6 miles west of the airport.  His call is transferred to police, whose dispatcher tells
him they’re aware of the crash.  “We just don’t see any sirens or anything,” he says.  “We are responding,” the operator replies. “Trust me.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in San Francisco at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  