-- Asia Stocks Set for Best Week Since April; Fast Retailing Drops
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-07-12T11:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/asia-stocks-rise-as-equities-on-course-for-best-week-since-april.html
Most Asian  stocks  rose, with the
regional benchmark headed for its biggest weekly advance since
April, amid optimism central bank stimulus and improving
economic growth in the U.S. will buoy equities. Hong Kong shares
fell after yesterday’s biggest gain since January.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest miner, gained 1.4
percent, tracking a surge overnight in metals prices.  Newcrest
Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s No. 1 gold miner, jumped 8.9 percent as
the price of the precious metal headed for its steepest weekly
surge in 21 months.  Fast Retailing Co. (9983)  sank 5.8 percent in  Tokyo 
after Asia’s biggest clothing retailer reported earnings
declined.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.2 percent as of 7:21
p.m. in Hong Kong, with about three stocks gaining for every two
that fell. The gauge has climbed 3 percent this week as the
 Federal Reserve  and the  Bank of Japan  signaled they will
maintain measures to boost their economies.  “Monetary conditions are still very stimulatory and
markets can get some comfort from that,” Chris Green, an
Auckland-based strategist at First NZ Capital Ltd., a brokerage
and wealth management firm, said by telephone. “Even though
there is recognition that tapering is on the way, the market has
got more confidence that it’s not touching the brakes, just
easing off the accelerator. That will be supportive for equities
for some time.”  Regional Gauges  Japan ’s  Topix index  rose 0.6 percent as the yen weakened
against the dollar. The measure posted its biggest four-week
gain in more than four years. After plunging as much as 18
percent from a May 22 high, the gauge rebounded amid optimism
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will push through economic reforms
following elections on July 21.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index advanced 0.2 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index climbed 0.5
percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index sank 0.4 percent after a
stronger-than-estimated  expansion  in the city state’s economy
last quarter reduced pressure on the central bank to ease
monetary policy.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.8 percent and  China ’s
Shanghai Composite slid 1.6 percent. The Shanghai measure fell
10 percent this year as data from industrial production to
exports pointed to a slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy and as money-market rates reached record highs last
month.  China Growth  Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said a 6.5 percent
economic-growth rate wouldn’t be a “big problem,” signaling
the government may tolerate a slower pace of expansion than
officials have previously indicated.  South Korea’s Kospi index retreated 0.4 percent. Hyundai
Motor Co. lost 5.9 percent to 209,000 won in  Seoul  amid concern
that plans in China to increase the number of cities curbing
auto purchases to fight pollution and congestion will threaten
vehicle sales. Kia Motors Corp. sank 4.7 percent to 58,600 won.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  were little
changed today. The U.S. equities benchmark surged 1.4 percent to
a record closing level yesterday as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  backed sustained monetary stimulus.  The Fed has helped stoke a 32 percent advance in global
stocks over the past three years as it suppressed  interest rates 
through its asset purchases aimed at bolstering the economy.
After signaling in May that the program could be reduced as
risks to the U.S. outlook abate, Bernanke said July 10 that
“highly accommodative” monetary policy was needed for the
foreseeable future.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index traded at 13.3 times average
estimated earnings yesterday compared with 15.2 for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index and 13.2 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Miners Jump  A gauge of raw-material producers rose 0.9 percent, the
biggest advance among 10 industry groups on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index. The London Metal Exchange LMEX Index, a measure
of commodities prices, gained 1.9 percent yesterday.  BHP Billiton  rose 1.4 percent to A$33.31 in Sydney, a
fourth day of gains. JFE Holdings Inc., Japan’s second-largest
steelmaker, gained 2.4 percent to 2,483 yen. Newcrest climbed
8.9 percent to A$12.09, with gold on course for its best weekly
advance since October 2011.  Bullet Trains  CSR Corp., China’s biggest trainmaker, soared 7.1 percent
to HK$4.70 in Hong Kong after Shanghai Securities News reported
the nation may start taking bids for bullet trains in the second
half. The four top gains on the Hang Seng Composite Index today
were railway-related companies.  Infosys Ltd. surged 11 percent to 2,804.2 rupees, the most
since January, after  India ’s second-largest software exporter
reported an increase in first-quarter profit and the company’s
sales forecast in dollar terms beat analyst estimates.  Fast Retailing, the firm run by billionaire Tadashi Yanai
sank 5.8 percent to 36,450 yen. Operating profit at for the
three months ended May fell to 27.4 billion yen ($280 million)
from 27.6 billion yen a year earlier, according to Bloomberg
calculations derived from results provided by the Japanese
company in a stock-exchange statement yesterday. That was below
the average estimate of 35 billion yen from three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Daphne International Holdings Ltd., a footwear maker that
sells Aldo and Aerosoles shoes in China, slumped 13 percent to
HK$5.02 in  Hong Kong  after saying it expects first-half profit
will fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  