-- Asiana Death Toll Rises to Three as Girl Dies in Hospital
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-13T16:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/asiana-pilots-raised-speed-concerns-seconds-before-crash.html
The death toll from the  Asiana
Airlines Inc. (020560)  plane crash in San Francisco rose to three as a
girl in critical condition since the accident died yesterday.  Chinese state media identified her as Liu Yipeng, who
attended school in Jiangshan with the other two victims. Asiana
Chief Executive Officer Yoon Young Doo apologized for the loss
in yesterday’s statement.  The two other victims, 16-year-olds Ye Meng  Yuan  and Wang
Lin Jia of China, who were on their way to a summer camp in the
U.S., died at the crash site. More than 300 people survived the
July 6 wreck at San Francisco International Airport, the first
fatal airline accident in the U.S. since 2009. It was Seoul-based Asiana’s first crash since a Boeing 747 cargo plane went
down at sea in July 2011.  The  San Francisco  Police Department separately said
yesterday it verified that a fire truck hit one of the two
victims who died at the scene, as the fire department had
suspected.  That victim was covered in fire-retardant foam, lying
prostrate on the ground near the fuselage, Gordon Shyy, a police
spokesman, said in a telephone interview yesterday. Shyy said he
didn’t know which victim was struck.  “We do not know that the fire truck was the actual cause
of death,” he said.  Runways Reopened  San Francisco International Airport has all four of its
runways open for the first time since Asiana Flight 214 crash-landed on runway 28L.  The fourth runway reopened yesterday at 5:05 p.m. local
time, the airport said in a statement.  The third death occurred as investigators with the U.S.
National Transportation Safety Board completed their field work
and left San Francisco to return to  Washington .  While the agency normally doesn’t declare a probable cause
for an accident for 12 to 18 months after its investigators
conclude the on-scene work, Chairman  Deborah Hersman  said she
wants to issue a report in a year or less.  The Asiana Boeing Co. 777 struck a seawall short of a
runway, slammed to the ground and spun off the tarmac.  Damage to the aircraft ranged from imperceptible near the
front to severe at the rear, which hit the barrier and where the
people killed and most severely injured were sitting.  Hitting Seawall  The safety board is looking into why the plane slowed to
almost 40 miles (64 kilometers) an hour below its target speed
before striking the seawall, Hersman has said. A cockpit warning
of an impending aerodynamic stall, the point at which a plane
loses the lift needed to stay in the air, sounded four seconds
before the crash.  There were two calls by pilots to abort the landing -- the
first made three seconds before the plane hit the barrier and
the other 1.5 seconds later.  Asiana published a letter of apology in  China ’s official
People’s Daily newspaper. The airline said it would make every
effort to win back the trust of the Chinese people. Of the 291
passengers on the flight, 141 were Chinese, Asiana has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in San Francisco at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  