-- BAE Says Cyber-Security Is Survival of Fittest as Field Shrinks
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-12T14:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/bae-says-cyber-security-is-survival-of-fittest-as-field-shrinks.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest
defense company, predicted the field of military contractors
selling data-protection contracts will shrink as increasingly
sophisticated demands from clients push out some competitors.  “While there are 20 companies piling in and competing,
that is not the long-term outcome,” David Garfield, managing
director for cyber-security at BAE’s Detica unit, said in an
interview. Only four or five providers will likely prevail, with
Detica trying to assure it is among them, he said.  BAE acquired Detica Systems for 531 million pounds ($800
million) in 2008 to expand in security sales as rivals including
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and defense-market leader  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  began pursuing the sector. Companies are increasingly
targeting business from commercial and foreign clients, rather
than solely from their main governments.  “We’re getting pulled into almost every sector,” Garfield
said. While the defense and financial services industries have
led efforts to thwart so-called cyber-attacks, other segments
are starting to recognize the threat to their business, he said.  The BAE unit has seen a shift away from a U.K. market that
accounted for more than 90 percent of sales before the takeover.
Today, about 50 percent of revenue comes from overseas, Martin Sutherland, Detica’s managing director said in the interview.  Government Endorsement  “Certainly the most interesting market for us is the
commercial market,” Sutherland said. Cyber-security activities
account for about 25 percent of Detica’s sales, with the rest
from data-management services and financial compliance.  BAE is seeking to use credentials gained from working with
military and intelligence agencies. Efforts are being aided by
the British government amid concern that cyber intrusions
targeting theft of intellectual property at U.K. companies may
harm long-term growth prospects.  To help build awareness, the government has sponsored
initiatives such as naming four companies, including BAE and
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., as endorsed entities
for others to call on if networks are attacked.  BAE is also working with the Government Communications
Headquarters spy agency to protect the defense establishment.  Detica is betting that a strategy focused on analyzing
complex data to catch attackers that have infiltrated a
company’s network will prevail over simple efforts to keep
attackers from breaking in.  “The days of trying to build a castle around your systems
and keep the bad guys out are gone,” Sutherland said. “You
have to continuously monitor your networks to look for things
that are anomalous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  