-- BNP Paribas Leads Record Uridashi Sales Tied to SoftBank
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-07-12T06:53:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/bnp-paribas-leads-record-uridashi-sales-tied-to-softbank-shares.html
Sales of uridashi notes tied to
 SoftBank Corp. (9984)  shares surged to a record last month, led by BNP
Paribas SA, as the Japanese mobile-phone carrier clinched a deal
to buy  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)   Issuance jumped more than six times to 7.32 billion yen
($74 million) in June from May, the most for uridashi securities
linked to SoftBank’s stock in any month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg going back to 2004. BNP Paribas sold 6.62
billion yen of the reverse-convertible notes in three offerings
starting on June 25, four days after  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  said it
would no longer compete with the Japanese carrier to buy Sprint.  Shares of SoftBank have more than doubled since its plan to
buy a controlling stake in Sprint was announced in October.
Shareholders of the third-biggest U.S. carrier on June 25
approved SoftBank’s sweetened $21.6 billion offer, and the
Federal Communications Commission cleared the deal this month.  Officials at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  weren’t immediately available to
comment on the notes, said Christine Chan, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for the bank.  The average  12-month price estimate  on the stock is 6,204
yen, compared with today’s close at 5,760 yen, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BNP Paribas analyst Hiroshi Yamashina
last boosted his target price on the shares by 79 percent to
5,200 yen on April 24, raising his rating to “buy” from
“hold,” the data show.  The buyer of a reverse convertible receives a fixed coupon
and risks principal only if the linked stock drops by more than
a buffer that can be 20 percent or more.  High Volatility  Such notes can be more attractive to investors when
expected volatility in the underlying stock increases, as that
boosts the value of the embedded put option and allows the
issuer to sweeten terms. The  three-month at-the-money implied
volatility  for SoftBank jumped 8.8 to 60 at the end of June from
the end of May, almost twice as high as  the gauge  for the  Nikkei
225 (NKY)  Stock Average index.  Uridashi notes are issued outside  Japan  and sold to
ordinary investors in the nation.  Securities tied to SoftBank’s debt meanwhile have dried up
this year, dropping to zero issuance from 9.8 billion yen in
2012, according to Bloomberg-compiled data. Investors buying
such products take default risks of the underlying bonds in
exchange for higher coupons.  Standard & Poor cut SoftBank’s credit rating to junk this
week, citing exposure to “intense competition” in the U.S.
telecommunications market. The acquisition of Sprint will more
than double SoftBank’s total liabilities to 9.35 trillion yen
from 4.42 trillion yen last fiscal year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Bedard at 
 rbedard2@bloomberg.net  