-- Boehringer Wins U.S. Approval for Targeted Cancer Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-07-12T13:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/boehringer-wins-u-s-approval-for-targeted-cancer-drug.html
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, the
German family owned drugmaker, won U.S. approval for a  lung
cancer  therapy to be used with a  Qiagen NV (QGEN)  gene test that
pinpoints patients who will best respond to the medication.  The  Food and Drug Administration  in a statement today said
it cleared the drug afatinib for people with advanced or
spreading non-small cell lung cancer along with a Qiagen
diagnostic to test for the gene mutation that makes patients
respond more effectively. Qiagen’s therascreen diagnostic tests
for a mutation in the epidermal growth factor receptor, or EGFR.  Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the
U.S., according to the  American Cancer Society . Almost 160,000
Americans will die from the disease this year. As many as 90
percent of patients have the non-small cell type, the Atlanta-based advocacy group said.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  gained approval in May for a diagnostic to
check for EGFR mutations that accompanies the lung cancer drug
Tarceva from Roche and  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)   Tarceva also was approved for wider use at the same time as
an initial treatment for patients with the EGFR mutation. As a
second- and third-line therapy and a maintenance treatment for
the disease, the drug  generated  $1.4 billion in 2012 sales for
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Ten percent to 30 percent of people worldwide with
lung cancer have tumors that test positive for certain EGFR
mutations, Roche said.  Patients taking Ingelheim, Germany-based Boehringer’s
afatinib in a clinical trial lived for almost a year before
their tumor started to grow again compared with less than half a
year for those on standard chemotherapy, the company said in a
June 1 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  