-- Boeing Dreamliner Fire at Heathrow Renews 787 Concerns
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-13T15:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/boeing-dreamliner-fire-at-heathrow-renews-787-safety-concerns.html
Two incidents involving  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s
787 Dreamliners have renewed safety concerns about the airplane
following battery malfunctions that grounded the fleet earlier
this year.  Boeing’s  shares  had their biggest drop in two years after a
fire on a parked 787 operated by Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise
was put out by crews at  London ’s  Heathrow airport  yesterday. No
one was on board and there were no injuries.  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) ’s
charter arm Thomson Airways Ltd. said one of its 787s turned
back to Manchester,  England , because of an unspecified fault
after it left for Orlando Sanford International Airport in
 Florida .  While the causes aren’t yet known, the events are a blow to
Chicago-based Boeing as it tries to restore confidence in the
787, which was grounded worldwide in January after the melting
of  lithium-ion batteries  on two of the planes. Airlines began
restoring the twin-engine Dreamliners to commercial flights in
April after U.S. regulators cleared the model for service.  “Another battery-related incident would represent the
worst-case scenario for Boeing shares as it might cause
investors to revisit financial consequences associated with
another grounding of the aircraft, potential production
stoppages and any sort of redesign,” Carter Copeland, a New
York-based analyst with Barclays Plc who rates the company’s
shares overweight, said in a research report. “This is not
something that appears to be highly likely based on the
information we have so far, but again it’s still early.”  Stock Drop  Boeing slid 4.7 percent to $101.87 at yesterday’s close in
 New York , the biggest daily decline since Aug. 18, 2011. Earlier
in the day, before news of the fire, the stock reached an
intraday record high of $108.15. The  shares  have risen 35
percent this year, as the  Standard & Poor’s 500  gained 18
percent.  The stock pared some of its losses after analysts said
scorch marks indicated the fire at Heathrow probably wasn’t
related to the lithium-ion batteries.  The Thomson flight that turned back yesterday took off on
schedule today, said John Greenway, an airport official in
Manchester. While a “small number” of components was replaced,
Thomson isn’t disclosing details, Marc Heley, a spokesman for
the company, said in an e-mailed statement. The company’s two
other 787s were scheduled to fly from London’s Gatwick Airport,
according to the statement.  Crew Area  The damage to the Ethiopian Airlines 787 appears to be
above the crew rest area and “should have very little
connection to electrical systems,”  Douglas Harned , a New York-based aerospace analyst with Bernstein Research, wrote in a note
to clients. He rates Boeing shares outperform.  “Most importantly, the two key lithium-ion batteries are
far away from the location of the fire,” Harned said. He said
he doesn’t see the incident as a risk to the 787 program.  “We have to wait for the investigation,” Henok Teferra,
head of corporate communications at Ethiopian Airlines in Addis
Ababa, the capital, said in a text message. “At this point all
that we can say is that there was no flight safety issue and the
aircraft was parked for hours, waiting for the scheduled return
flight time, when smoke was observed.” The airline hasn’t
grounded its three other 787s, the company said today in an e-mailed statement.  Chicago-based  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the only
U.S. carrier to fly the Dreamliner, and Japanese airline ANA
Holdings said today they were operating their 787 aircraft as
scheduled.  Boeing Investigators  Boeing personnel and investigators from the U.K. and U.S.
plan to try to find out what caused the blaze on the Ethiopian
Airlines jet, which had been parked for eight hours. Boeing is
working to fully understand and address the incident at
Heathrow, Doug Alder, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “The matter is still under investigation,” Lynn Lunsford,
a U.S. Federal Aviation Administration spokesman, said by phone
today. At the invitation of the U.K. authorities, the FAA is
sending an official to Heathrow Airport in support of the
investigation, the FAA said yesterday.  The Heathrow fire appears to have been in “a very
complicated area of the structure that ties together the
fuselage barrel, the tail cone and vertical fin loads,”  Robert Mann , an aviation consultant in  Port Washington , New York, said
in an e-mail. “It will be a complicated repair -- if it is
repairable. I think every current and prospective operator will
be looking at the outcome.”  January Grounding  Rick Whittington, a New York-based aerospace analyst with
Drexel Hamilton LLC, said that “we think this was a galley fire
or perhaps some other piece of electrical equipment.” He said
that “this shouldn’t have any measurable impact on earnings.”  “Let’s see what the safety investigators come up with over
the weekend,” Whittington, who rates the shares buy, said in a
phone interview. “I’m sure we’ll know by Monday.”  The FAA grounded the Dreamliner on Jan. 16 after the
lithium-ion batteries overheated on two aircraft, with one
catching fire in  Boston  with no passengers aboard. In that
incident, a  Japan  Airlines Co. 787 experienced what U.S. safety
investigators called an uncontrolled  chain reaction  that charred
the battery. The second malfunction occurred on an  ANA Holdings
Inc. (9202)  plane that took off from Japan and was forced to make an
emergency landing.  The  FAA  cleared the plastic-composite 787 to fly again
after Boeing redesigned the battery to include more protection
around individual cells to contain any overheating, a steel case
to prevent fire and a tube to vent any vapors outside the
fuselage.  Grounding Lifted  Ethiopian Airlines on April 27 made the first Dreamliner
flight after the grounding was lifted, traveling from  Addis
Ababa  to Nairobi. The carrier has four 787s.  Through June, Boeing had delivered 66 Dreamliners to 11
airlines and a leasing company, including six to United
Continental Holdings Inc. The 787 has a list price of $206.8
million.  “We will not speculate on the cause of this issue, but
will closely monitor the findings,” said Mary Ryan, a
spokeswoman for United Continental Holdings. It received six
Dreamliners in 2012 and will get two this year, Ryan said.  The Japanese carrier ANA has taken delivery of 20
Dreamliners, the most of any airline, and was the first to
receive the plane, in September 2011, according to Boeing’s
 website .  Initial Investigation  Ryosei Nomura, a spokesman for ANA, said in a phone
interview that the company was aware of “what happened to the
Ethiopian Airlines aircraft, but we are still confirming the
details. We are collecting information via Boeing. As of now,
the 20 787 jets we own are all in their regular operation.”  Qantas Airways Ltd., Australia’s largest carrier, said its
Jetstar budget airline had been briefed by Boeing on the initial
investigation into the fire. Jetstar has ordered 14 of the 787
Dreamliners as it attempts to tap Asian demand for low-cost
flights and is scheduled to receive the first aircraft in
September.  “Jetstar has been briefed by Boeing on an investigation
currently under way and we await the outcome,” Qantas Group
spokesman Andrew McGinnes said today in an e-mailed statement.
“Our first priority will always be ensuring these aircraft are
completely safe to fly.”  In addition to the Jetstar order, Qantas has option and
purchase rights for 50 Dreamliner jets for delivery from 2016,
McGinnes said.  While Boeing officials maintain the 787’s reliability is on
par with the  Boeing 777  at this stage in its development, some
industry watchers disagree.  “I’m hard-pressed to find any other aircraft to come into
service with this level of conspicuous problems,” said  Richard Aboulafia , vice president at Teal Group, an aerospace consultant
based in Fairfax, Virginia. The 777 also had operational
glitches and teething problems, “but there weren’t flames,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  