-- BP, Shell, Statoil Face FTC Scrutiny in U.S. Oil Probe
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-07-12T00:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/bp-shell-statoil-face-ftc-scrutiny-in-u-s-oil-probe.html
BP Plc,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and
 Statoil ASA (STL)  are under scrutiny by the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission as the agency probes whether they manipulated oil
benchmarks published by Platts, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The FTC’s early-stage investigation into  oil prices  mirrors
a review by the European Union, which raided the offices of the
three companies and Platts in May, two people familiar with the
probe said last month. Platts, the energy-news and data provider
owned by  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) , publishes the Dated Brent
benchmark that contributes to setting the price of more than
half the world’s oil.  The FTC is looking at the impact possible manipulation of
the benchmark could have on physical and derivative oil markets
in the U.S., said the person, who asked not to be named because
the matter is confidential. The agency is interviewing third
parties to clarify how Platts establishes its benchmark prices.
It’s not clear whether Platts is a subject of the investigation,
the person said.  The opening of the oil-price probe in the U.S. is the
latest in a growing number of simultaneous EU-U.S. inquiries
into areas including the  London  Interbank Offered Rate, standard
essential patents and Internet search manipulation, as well as
merger reviews in the music and airline industries. The extent
to which regulators in each jurisdiction can collaborate with
one another depends on whether the companies under review sign
waivers allowing data about them to be shared.  FTC Monitoring  The FTC routinely monitors wholesale and retail gasoline
prices in the U.S. to look for anticompetitive behavior. The
agency also publishes a guide on its website to complying with
Petroleum Market Manipulation Regulations.  The agency will probably issue civil investigative demands,
which are similar to subpoenas, to  oil companies , trading firms
and pricing services as the investigation progresses, two people
familiar with the matter said last month.  Peter Kaplan , a spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment
on the investigation. Kathleen Tanzy, a spokeswoman for Platts,
wasn’t immediately able to comment.  Scott Dean , a Houston-based
spokesman for BP, and Kayla Macke, a spokeswoman for Shell also
in Houston, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking
comment. Ola Morten Aanestad, a spokesman for Statoil, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail sent after normal business
hours in  Norway .  EU Probe  The EU oil probe, which extends to undisclosed crude-derived products and biofuels, underscores how pricing in some
energy markets lacks the transparency of financial products such
as stocks and U.S. corporate bonds. It also marks the third time
global pricing benchmarks have drawn the regulators’ scrutiny in
the past year following investigations into bank manipulation of
Libor, and ISDAFix, the benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps
market.  Joaquin Almunia , Europe’s top antitrust official, said on
May 28 that if oil price manipulation did take place, it would
have caused “huge” damage to consumers.  Platts’s Dated Brent crude assessment is based on the price
of trades, bids and offers on four grades of North Sea crude and
related contracts. Platts gathers information from traders
through e-mails, phone calls, instant messages and Platts’s
electronic system, called the eWindow. Then the company
calculates the day’s price as of 4:30 p.m. London time.  That benchmark price affects the value of over-the-counter
oil derivatives, Brent futures traded on the ICE Futures Europe
Exchange in London, and cargoes of crude from  Canada  to
Australia.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy markets news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  