-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall as Economy Shrinks in May; Real Declines
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a r a
-- 2013-07-12T15:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/brazil-swap-rates-fall-as-economy-shrinks-in-may-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates dropped after a
report showed Latin America’s biggest economy contracted in May,
spurring speculation that the central bank will limit increases
in borrowing costs to support growth.  Swap rates on contracts maturing in January 2015 declined
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.56 percent at
11:50 a.m. in Sao Paulo, extending their decline this week to 11
basis points. The real depreciated 0.3 percent to 2.2624 per
dollar and has fallen 0.4 percent since July 5.  Brazil’s economic activity  index  dropped 1.4 percent in
May, the central bank reported today. The median forecast of 22
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 1.15 percent decrease
in the proxy for gross domestic product.  “The growth indicators have been predominantly weaker,”
Rafael Bacciotti, an economist at Tendencias Consultoria, said
in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  The central bank raised the  target lending rate  by a half-percentage point to 8.50 percent on July 10 in the third
increase this year from a record low 7.25 percent. They raised
the benchmark by a quarter-percentage point in April and 50
basis points in May.  Inflation in Brazil accelerated to a 20-month high of 6.70
percent in June, exceeding the 6.50 percent upper level of
central bank’s target range.  Brazilian protesters took to the streets in June to oppose
a bus fare increase in Sao Paulo. Discontent later spread to
other metropolitan centers including Brasilia, Porto Alegre and
Rio de Janeiro, as demonstrators expanded their grievances to
include corruption and public services.  Capital Controls  The central bank eliminated yesterday capital requirements
that increased the costs for banks to bring into the country
foreign-currency loans raised by their subsidiaries abroad. The
move added to government efforts to slow a decline in the
currency prompted by concern the U.S. may unwind stimulus.  The real rose yesterday as Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said July 10 that “highly accommodative monetary policy for the
foreseeable future is what’s needed,” buoying demand for
emerging-market assets, which have benefited from U.S. monetary
stimulus. Bernanke told the U.S. Congress in May that the Fed
may taper bond purchases if the economy continues to improve in
line with the central bank’s forecasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 plara6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  