-- California Inmates Refuse Meals in Protest Over Solitary
-- B y   M a r k   M e l n i c o e   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-07-12T00:26:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/california-inmates-refuse-meals-in-protest-over-solitary.html
California  corrections officials
said about 12,400 convicts refused meals as a hunger strike over
solitary confinement practices and prison conditions went into a
fourth day.  The protest involving about 9 percent of the state’s
132,800 prisoners was called by inmates at  Pelican Bay State
Prison , among the most notorious of California’s penitentiaries,
on the far northern coast. About 1,300 inmates statewide also
refused to go to their work assignments or classes, according to
a  Corrections Department  statement.  The protest began July 8, when as many as 31,000 inmates
refused to eat, prison officials said. By yesterday, fewer than
half were still rejecting meals. The strike is affecting two-thirds of the state’s 33 prisons, as well four out-of-state
facilities where some California inmates are housed.  “We have taken up this hunger strike and work stoppage,
which has included 30,000 prisoners in California so far, not
only to improve our own conditions, but also an act of
solidarity with all prisoners and oppressed people,” four
prisoners at Pelican Bay said in a blog post on the California
Prison Watch website.  California is under a federal court order to reduce  inmate 
crowding and improve health care. Governor Jerry Brown has
lowered the prison population by 43,000 since 2006 and is asking
the U.S. Supreme Court to block a ruling to take out almost
10,000 more by the end of the year.  Fourth Biggest  Prisons take the fourth-biggest bite of California’s
budget, at $11.2 billion this fiscal year, behind schools and
colleges, health and welfare, and transportation, according to
the  Finance Department .  The number of inmates refusing meals doesn’t include more
than 5,000 who began observing the Muslim holiday of Ramadan,
which requires fasting, said Terry Thornton, a Corrections
Department spokeswoman.  About 4,500 inmates were held in so-called security housing
units in the state as of July 5, Thornton said. Hundreds of
California prisoners have spent decades in isolation without
access to telephones or being allowed to go outdoors, according
to the  Center for Constitutional Rights  and other advocates.  A prison hunger strike two years ago involving about 10,000
inmates brought a few changes to state policies. Inmates have
since filed a federal lawsuit over solitary confinement, calling
it torture and a violation of the U.S. Constitution’s ban on
cruel and unusual punishment.  In Isolation  Prison officials say many inmates are held in isolation
because of violence behind bars or gang affiliation.  At Pelican Bay, isolation units “are small, with no
windows, no direct access to natural light -- everything is
concrete,” said Carol Strickman, an attorney with San
Francisco-based Legal Services for Prisoners with Children.
“You’re locked in 23 or 24 hours a day. Maybe you go out three
times a week to shower by yourself. You take a few steps and
you’re there.”  Despite the isolation, the inmates were able to spread the
word calling for the hunger strike.  “You have people who have planned this for about six
months,” said Jules Lobel, president of the Center for
Constitutional Rights and a lawyer in a federal lawsuit over
solitary confinement. In solitary, “they can yell across the
wall to the pod next to him or a couple cells down. And you have
enough to get through a prison in that way.”  Advocacy groups also helped spread the word between
prisons, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Melnicoe in Sacramento at 
 mmelnicoe@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  