-- Cambodia Pardons Opposition Leader Sam Rainsy Before Vote
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-07-12T13:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/cambodia-pardons-opposition-leader-sam-rainsy-before-vote.html
Cambodian King Norodom Sihamoni
pardoned opposition leader Sam Rainsy following a request from
Prime Minister Hun Sen about two weeks before a national
election, government spokesman  Phay Siphan  said.  Sam Rainsy has lived abroad since 2009 to avoid a jail
sentence on charges he says were politically motivated,
including falsifying maps and inciting racial discrimination.
Hun Sen sought the pardon to assist peace and reconciliation for
the country, Phay Siphan said.  This “is not because of the election, but because of peace
and stability,” Phay Siphan said by phone, referring to Hun
Sen.  The move may improve Cambodia’s image ahead of the July 28
election as Hun Sen, 60, seeks to extend a nearly three-decade
hold on power. Sam Rainsy last month warned of violence if fraud
taints the election outcome in one of  Asia ’s poorest countries.  Phay Siphan said that Sam Rainsy accepted his guilt as part
of the pardon process. Sam Rainsy didn’t immediately reply to an
e-mail seeking comment.  Cambodia ’s two main opposition parties holding about one
quarter of the seats in parliament united last year to contest
as the  Cambodia National Rescue Party . Sam Rainsy had been
banned from running as a candidate in July’s poll.  Hun Sen’s Cambodian People’s Party won 90 of 123 seats in
an election in 2008 that was described by the U.S. as an
“improvement” over previous votes despite some flaws. The
party is set to win again even though the opposition is poised
to take more seats, Phay Siphan said.  Asked if the party will retain power, he said: “Of course
-- 100 percent.”  Cambodia’s economy grew 7.2 percent last year on higher
consumption and investment, the  Asian Development Bank  said in
April. Gross domestic product is forecast to expand at the same
pace this year and 7.5 percent in 2014 as the U.S. and  Europe 
buy more Cambodia-made garments and footwear, the  ADB  said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  