-- Canada Dollar Falls From 3-Week High on Interest-Rate Difference
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-07-12T21:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/canada-dollar-falls-from-3-week-high-on-interest-rate-difference.html
The Canadian dollar fell from its
strongest level in three weeks as U.S. debt maintained an
interest-rate advantage over Canadian counterparts on that
country’s stronger economic growth prospects.  The currency weakened for the first time in five days as
the  yield advantage  of U.S. 10-year notes to Canadian government
debt was 12 basis points, compared with a 19-basis-point
difference on July 5 that was the highest since 2011. The
Federal Reserve outlined a timeline last month for tapering
policies that have kept interest rates low to stimulate the
economy. The Canadian currency remained lower even as  consumer
confidence  in the U.S. fell to 83.9 in July from 84.1 the
previous month, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan preliminary sentiment index.  “It’s just a bounce in the U.S. dollar after the violent
selloff the other day,” said David Watt, chief economist at the
Canadian unit of HSBC Holding Plc, by phone from Toronto. “The
market came around to the view that’s been reinforced a number
of times that even though the Federal Reserve may not taper as
quickly as we anticipate, talking about a potential change in
direction in Federal Reserve policy is still going to unfold
before most other nations.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known, dropped 0.3
percent to C$1.0395 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
touched C$1.0326 per U.S. dollar yesterday, the strongest level
since June 20. One loonie buys 96.20 U.S. cents.  Options Data  The cost to insure the Canadian dollar against declines
versus its U.S. peer reached its lowest point in two months. The
three-month so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate touched
1.2925, its lowest since May 10. Risk reversals measure the
premium on options contracts to sell Canadian dollars versus
buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Canada ’s 10-year benchmark  bond  rose with yields falling
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.43 percent. The
1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 added 10 cents to
C$91.87.  Sales of floating-rate notes are at a decade-high as Bank
of Montreal and TransCanada Corp. find demand from investors
girding for the end of low interest rates.  Corporate-bond issues with coupons that reset based on
benchmark rates rose to $33 billion this year from $17 billion
during the same period in 2012, with first-half volumes the most
since at least 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Bank of Montreal sold $1 billion of the debt yesterday,
following a same-sized sale by Bank of Nova Scotia July 10.  Global Yields  Worldwide yields have climbed and the loonie reached its
lowest point in two years as an economic rebound is giving U.S.
policy makers cause to consider slowing extraordinary monetary
stimulus.  “We’re getting people pulling back into the dollar even
after the massive selloff we saw yesterday,” said Eimear Daly,
a currency-market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd., by phone from
 London . “In terms of interest-rate differentials, it definitely
favors the U.S. dollar over the Canadian dollar.”  The Canadian dollar reached its highest point versus its
Australian counterpart in almost three years on concern  China 
may tolerate a slower pace of expansion than officials
previously indicated.  The loonie added 1.3 percent to A$1.0629, touching the
highest level since August 2010, after Chinese Finance Minister
 Lou Jiwei  said a 6.5 percent economic-growth rate wouldn’t be a
“big problem.”  Oil Rises  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 1.3
percent to $106.27 per barrel in New York.  The Canadian dollar had its biggest five-day gain this week
since December 2011 after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said July 10 the U.S. economy still isn’t strong enough
to do without monetary stimulus.  “The selloff in U.S. interest-rate markets has determined
the trend,” said Adam Cole, head of G-10 currency strategy at
Royal Bank of Canada, by phone from London. “The expectations
of tapering and ultimately tightening may wax and wane but
ultimately the bottom line is that we are now into the final
stage of easy U.S. monetary policy.”  The Canadian dollar has had the second biggest increase in
the past month among 10 developed nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The loonie’s 1.1
percent gain was second only to the U.S. dollar’s 3.2 percent
jump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  