-- Canada’s Teranet Home Price Index Rises Least Since 2009
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-12T13:58:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/canada-s-teranet-home-price-index-rises-least-since-2009.html
Canadian home resale prices advanced
at the slowest pace in almost four years last month led by a
decline in  Vancouver , according to the  Teranet-National Bank 
Composite House  Price Index .  Prices across 11 cities rose 1.8 percent in June from a
year ago, National Bank Financial said today from  Montreal . That
is the slowest since a 0.3 percent gain in October 2009.
Vancouver prices dropped 2.8 percent, the 11th straight decline,
while Toronto,  Canada ’s biggest city, saw a 3.6 percent gain
that was the slowest in almost four years.  Today’s report of moderating prices supports comments from
policy makers that households are listening to warnings about
becoming overextended with mortgages, and follows Statistics
Canada figures yesterday showing new home price gains also
slowed. Those figures contrast with unexpected strength reported
this week in homebuilding, including record  permits  issued for
multi-unit housing and a smaller-than-expected decline in
housing starts.  “The modest 12-month home price inflation does not
preclude the fact that the real value of household real estate
continues to appreciate,” said Marc Pinsonneault, senior
economist at National Bank, in an e-mailed statement. Canadian
consumer price  inflation  was 0.7 percent in May.  The 12-month gains in the Teranet figures have been slowing
from a recent peak of 7.1 percent in November 2011.  The index, which was set at a reading of 100 in June 2005,
climbed to a record 157 in today’s report, meaning resale prices
have increased 57 percent over that time. Prices rose to record
highs in six of the 11 cities tracked by Teranet.  “While home resale activity has strengthened in recent
months, this resilience may be put to test given the rapid
increase in  mortgage rates  in June,” Pinsonneault said. “We
still expect home price inflation to remain subdued in the
coming months.”  Today’s report also showed that home resale prices rose 1
percent on a monthly basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  