-- Carney Seen Dodging BOE Letter Chore as Inflation Skirts Limit
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-07-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/carney-seen-dodging-boe-letter-chore-as-inflation-skirts-limit.html
Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney 
will escape one of the more embarrassing chores of his job this
month as inflation skirts the government’s limit by just enough
to avoid him writing a public letter, economists said.  Data due next week will show  consumer-price growth 
accelerated to a 14-month high of 3 percent in June, according
to the  median forecast  of 31 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. Anything higher would require open correspondence by the
governor to account to the Treasury for the deviation of more
than a percentage point from the 2 percent target.  Such an outcome would prove an early test for Carney at a
time when he is also implementing a revamped mandate for the
BOE. Letter-writing on consumer prices has been a pillar of the
bank’s framework since 1997, and Carney’s predecessor,  Mervyn King , had to explain two bouts of inflation after 2007 that
pushed the rate above 5 percent.  “If I’m wrong, it’s more likely it’s 3.1 percent and the
governor has to write a letter,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist
at Scotiabank in London, whose prediction is for a 3 percent
result next week. “This is a one-month thing, and we’re very
confident that inflation will trend back down to 2 percent
within the next couple of years.”  Under a new format for the open letters announced by
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  this year, any
correspondence would be published on the day of the minutes of
the next meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee.  That means any letter generated by next week’s data
wouldn’t be released until Aug. 14. Previously, it would have
been published the same day as the inflation data.  Survey Divisions  Clarke said that annual price increases for energy, clothes
and food may push the inflation rate up from 2.7 percent in May.
While economists including  Mark Zandi  at Moody’s Economy.com
predict no change from that reading, 11 of those surveyed
forecast 3.1 percent or higher, including  Morgan Stanley & Co .
and Standard Chartered Plc.  The combination of accelerating inflation and  purchasing
manager indexes  exceeding 50, the level which denotes expansion,
would augur against Carney pursuing more stimulus, Clarke said.  “If we get a near 3 or letter-writing territory, and PMIs
in 50 territory, it’s suggesting that he’s not going to be
particularly dovish,” he said. “It’s a challenging environment
to come in and say we need to press the emergency panic button
and say more quantitative easing.”  The  Office for National Statistics  will release the
inflation data at 9:30 a.m. in  London  on July 16. The next day,
it will publish labor-market numbers that economists predict
will show falling  jobless claims  in June and an unchanged
unemployment rate of 7.8 percent in the quarter through May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  