-- Chance of Immigration Law This Year Dims With House Plan
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-07-12T19:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/chance-of-immigration-law-this-year-dim-with-house-plan.html
The Republican-led U.S. House will
delay consideration of immigration bills until this fall,
diminishing the chances that President  Barack Obama  will sign
his top domestic priority into law by year’s end.  House Republicans’ decision to act in a piecemeal fashion,
instead of on one comprehensive immigration bill, points to a
drawn-out process that may spill into the 2014 midterm election
season and jeopardize final negotiations.  “It’s a long and winding road till we actually get to a
final product,” Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma
Republican, said in an interview yesterday.  Democrats say that if Congress doesn’t agree on legislation
by the end of the year, an immigration-law revision may fall by
the wayside.  “It’s unlikely that it’s going to happen in an election
year,” House Democratic LeaderNancy Pelosi of California told
reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  The House is starting to assemble its strategy for a
rewrite of immigration laws almost six months after the
Democratic-led Senate began negotiations and two weeks after the
Senate passed its broad plan on June 27.  The Senate bill, S. 744, combines a path to citizenship for
11 million undocumented immigrants already in the U.S. with a
$46 billion border-security plan. While 14 Senate Republicans
joined Democrats in passing the bill, many House Republicans
oppose the citizenship path.  Rejecting Senate  “We are not going to do the Senate bill,” House Speaker
John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told reporters yesterday. “I
have said this since May the 23rd.”  After a private two-hour meeting on July 10, House
Republicans reaffirmed their plan to handle immigration
legislation through individual bills, acting first to strengthen
border security before addressing other issues.  “Securing our borders and having the ability to enforce
our  immigration  laws are the first big steps in this process,”
Boehner told reporters.  Action in July is “100 percent unlikely,” Representative
John Fleming, a Louisiana Republican, said after the meeting.  Boehner wouldn’t say whether he thought the House could
pass legislation including a path to citizenship for
undocumented immigrants. Democrats say such a provision must be
part of any immigration plan.  Dream Act  Virginia Republicans Eric Cantor, the House majority
leader, and Bob Goodlatte, chairman of the Judiciary Committee,
plan to draft a proposal that would provide legal status for
those brought illegally into the U.S. by their parents.  “These children came here through no fault of their own
and many of them know no other home” than the U.S., Goodlatte
said in a statement that confirmed he is working on a bill with
Cantor.  The Senate’s immigration plan includes a provision similar
to the Dream Act, which provides a faster path to citizenship
for undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as
children and who attended college or served in the military.  Obama has said he wants to sign immigration legislation by
the end of this year. The issue is his highest domestic priority
thus far in his second term, after he won 71 percent of the
Hispanic vote in November. Republicans, in turn, want to boost
their party’s appeal with Hispanics after 2012 presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  promoted self-deportation as the answer to
illegal immigration.  ‘Own Peril’  If Republicans don’t act on immigration, they do so “at
their own peril because they haven’t learned the lesson of Nov.
6,” Representative Jose Serrano, a New York Democrat, said in
an interview.  Border security and a path to citizenship constitute “the
obstacle” for House and Senate negotiators to figure out, said
Representative Tom Rooney, a Florida Republican.  “There’s going to be the fight, and whether or not you’re
actually going to have immigration reform will lie therein,”
Rooney said.  Chris Van Hollen, a Maryland Democrat, said Republicans
will be persuaded to act only if they are pressed by
“grassroots” supporters in their districts.  “They have to be hearing from their local business
communities; they have to be hearing from different faith
groups,” Van Hollen said in an interview. “Nothing we say is
going to motivate them to action.”  This Session  Representative Trey Gowdy, a leading Republican on
immigration, voiced optimism that the House would pass a plan,
be ready to negotiate with the Senate by year-end, and set the
stage for enacting legislation during this session of Congress,
which continues through 2014.  “I don’t know anyone who doesn’t think the current system
is broken,” Gowdy, chairman of the House Judiciary panel’s
immigration subcommittee, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend. “So if you think the current system is broken, how can
you then fashion an argument that we should do nothing?”  According to a Quinnipiac University  poll  released today 54
percent of voters favor eventual citizenship for undocumented
immigrants in the U.S., while 12 percent want to allow them to
stay without becoming citizens and 28 percent said they should
be deported.  Lawmakers’ Gridlock  Because of gridlock, however, American voters say by a
margin of 69 percent to 27 percent that Republicans and
Democrats in Congress won’t be able to work together to pass
immigration reform, according to the survey conducted from June
28 to July 8 among 2,014 registered voters.  The president met yesterday at the White House with two
authors of the bipartisan Senate bill,  Arizona  Republican John McCain and  New York  Democrat Charles Schumer. Afterward, both
senators said they were encouraged following the July 10 House
Republican meeting.  “A large percentage of the House realized that doing
nothing was not an option,” Schumer said. “Immigration has a
strong future this year in Washington.”  McCain said the senators’ message to “colleagues in the
House is ‘we are ready to negotiate.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  