-- Chicago’s Booth to Move MBA Program to Hong Kong Detention Site
-- B y   K e n n e t h   F o o
-- 2013-07-12T05:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/chicago-s-booth-to-move-mba-program-to-hong-kong-detention-site.html
The  University of Chicago  is moving
its executive MBA program to a former detention center in  Hong
Kong  from a century-old house in  Singapore  to capitalize on the
growing demand for education in  China .  The move is part of the school’s expansion into the country
and other key markets in  Asia , Sunil Kumar, dean of the
university’s Booth School of Business, said in a statement. The
university, whose full-time and executive MBA programs were
ranked No. 1 by Bloomberg Businessweek last year, also opened a
center in Beijing in 2010, it said.  “The proximity to China, the world’s second-largest
economy, is particularly attractive,” according to the
 statement .  Asia’s booming demand for MBAs have drawn U.S. and European
universities to set up campuses in the region. Last year, 27
percent of all foreign applicants for MBA programs globally were
Chinese citizens, according to the Graduate Management Admission
Council’s  survey report .  Harvard Business School  holds a  senior
executive program  for China, while  Duke University  has a
partnership for a campus in the city of Kunshan near  Shanghai .  Hong Kong was named the third-best city globally in terms
of overall returns from an overseas education in the Economist
Group’s Bank of Communications Sea Turtle  Index . Singapore was
ranked 12th, ahead of Chicago, which took the 14th spot.  New Campus  Booth will spend HK$300 million ($38.7 million) to HK$500
million on the new Mount Davis campus in Hong Kong, Sing Tao
Daily reported, citing Wendy Lam, the school’s executive
director of Asia development. MBA classes will be held in June
next year at a temporary location, targeting as many as 100
students, the paper reported. It doesn’t expect to move into the
permanent campus until 2016, according to the report.  “The establishment of a campus of  Chicago  Booth in Hong
Kong will enhance the city’s position as a regional education
hub,” Secretary for Education Eddie Ng Hak-kim said in a
statement yesterday when announcing the site allocation.  The Victoria Road Detention Centre was first used as a mess
for British engineers before being renovated in the late 1950s
to hold political prisoners, according to a  government
statement .  In Singapore, more than 1,000 students have received their
MBAs from Booth’s Asia Executive MBA program since it was
offered 13 years ago, according to the university’s statement.
The school will continue to offer executive education, as well
as recruiting and alumni services in the city-state, it said.  The Singapore campus is located at the House of Tan Yeok
Nee, the residence of a 19th century Chinese merchant.  The property was bought by ERC International Pte from
UniImmo Global, an open-ended real estate fund, for 38.7 million
euros, the seller  said  in September, almost twice what it paid
in 2007. The building, a national monument, was put up for sale
again in May, according to a  statement  by marketing agent  Jones
Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Kenneth Foo in Singapore at 
 kfoo23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  