-- Chile, Peru Keep Rates on Hold to Gauge Effect of Copper Slump
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/chile-peru-keep-rates-on-hold-to-gauge-effect-of-copper-slump.html
Chile  and  Peru  left their benchmark
interest rates unchanged yesterday as policy makers weigh the
impact of lower copper prices and the prospect of less global
stimulus.  Chile’s central bank kept its key rate at 5 percent for the
18th consecutive month, while Peru held its  benchmark rate  at
4.25 percent for a 26th month, matching  Malaysia  for the longest
pause in  developing countries . Both decisions were expected by
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Declining copper prices have damped exports and crimped an
investment boom that made the two countries among the fastest
expanding economies in  Latin America  last year. Rising borrowing
costs overseas amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  will taper
economic stimulus may lead policy makers in Chile and Peru to
ease monetary policy should slowdowns take hold, said  Diego Donadio , a strategist at BNP Paribas SA.  “Chile’s domestic demand is really, really strong but
inflation is pretty much well contained and manufacturing is
suffering,” Donadio said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “Peru is
more likely to change reserve requirements than interest rates
as growth is in line with potential.”  Chile’s inflation rate jumped to a seven-month high of 1.9
percent in June, while manufacturing fell at its fastest annual
pace in more than three years the month before.  Copper, the largest export for both Chile and Peru, has
fallen 13 percent in  New York  this year, deterring investment
and damping growth.  Rate Cuts  While Chilean inflation remains below the 2 percent to 4
percent target range, growth has eased more than forecast,
policy makers said in a report July 1, indicating they probably
will cut  interest rates  later this year.  “The consolidation of the trends outlined in the last
Monetary Policy Report could call for adjustments to the
monetary policy interest rate in the coming months,” the
central bank said in a  statement  accompanying yesterday’s
decision. Minutes of the meeting will be published July 30.  Economists expect the key rate to fall half a percentage
point within five months, according to a central bank survey
released yesterday.  The  Imacec index , a proxy for gross domestic product, grew
3.5 percent in May from the year earlier, below the 3.9 percent
median forecast of economists. Manufacturing tumbled 4.2 percent
over the same period, while a 13.2 percent jump in retail sales
prevented the economy from slowing further.  Peru Growth  In Peru, the  Finance Ministry  has also moved to head off
any downturn in growth triggered by a drop in Chinese demand for
copper and gold by announcing measures to bolster business
sentiment and private investment.  Peru reported a $404 million  trade deficit  for May, the
widest gap in at least seven years, the country’s statistics
agency said July 10. The median estimate of five analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a $250 million shortfall.  After raising reserve requirements five times since May
2012, the central bank set a 20 percent limit on the ratio for
lenders’ sol deposits last month.  Peruvian policy makers in their statement that accompanied
the rate decision also said that the bank will further relax
 reserve requirements  if needed, after adjusting rules in May and
June to spur lending in soles.  Peru’s economy expanded 7.7 percent in April, the fastest
pace in two years, led by construction and retailing. On a
seasonally adjusted basis, the economy expanded 5.4 percent in
April, according to the central bank.  Inflation Accelerates  Annual inflation accelerated to 2.77 percent last month
from 2.46 percent in May. The central bank targets inflation  in
a band of 2 percent plus or minus 1 percentage point.  “Inflation is in the target range, the economy is growing
close to potential and credit growth is within the comfort
zone,” Guillermo Arbe, the head of research at Scotiabank Peru,
said by phone from  Lima . “Peru isn’t in a situation where it
needs to take drastic monetary policy decisions.”  Peru’s central bank forecasts 6.1 percent growth in gross
domestic product this year after a 6.3 percent expansion last
year, the fastest in  South America .  Chile’s policy makers reduced their forecast for economic
growth this year to between 4 percent and 5 percent from 4.5
percent to 5.5 percent on July 1.  “It’s a really tough environment for the central bank of
Chile,” Donadio said. “If manufacturing sector is suffering,
it’s probable the strong performance of the retail sales won’t
last much longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Sanders in  London  at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 