-- China Almost Doubles Foreign Funds’ Access to Capital Markets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-12T10:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/china-almost-doubles-foreign-funds-access-to-capital-markets.html
China  will almost double a program
for foreign funds to invest in its financial markets and expand
a program for inward investment of yuan raised overseas, as the
country loosens rules on capital flows.  The Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program will
expand to $150 billion from $80 billion, while a similar plan
for Hong Kong-based yuan investors will grow to encompass
 Singapore ,  London  and other cities, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported today, citing the China Securities Regulatory
Commission. The report didn’t identify the other locations.  Chinese authorities have expanded channels for cross-border
capital flows and reduced controls over the country’s currency
as part of Premier Li Keqiang’s pledge to give markets a greater
role in the world’s second-biggest economy. Greater access for
foreign investors may also bolster a stock market that’s slumped
more than 10 percent this year.  “This is a gesture to show people the Chinese government
is actually doing something to enhance the market liquidity,”
Ronald Wan, a committee member at Hong Kong Securities &
Investment Institute, said by phone. “This is a major moment
for Chinese government to show they are doing something. It’s
important.”  The changes to the QFII program have been agreed on by the
 People’s Bank of China , the  State Administration of Foreign
Exchange  and the CSRC, Xinhua said.  China is also promoting greater use of the  yuan  in
international trade and finance to decrease the country’s
dependence on the U.S. dollar and move toward making the
currency convertible for investment purposes. Financial centers
from London and Singapore to Zurich and  Frankfurt  are competing
to become regional offshore yuan trading hubs alongside Hong
Kong.  Singapore, London  “It shows that the Chinese government is trying to push
ahead yuan internationalization,” said Wang Qinwei, an
economist with Capital Economics Ltd in London. “Singapore and
London are natural choices to expand the RQFII program, due to
the two cities’ importance on the global financial landscape.”  China’s central bank this week published rules allowing
companies to lend yuan to their overseas subsidiaries or
affiliated companies. The government will also allow companies
to move yuan raised overseas through bond sales back into China
through yuan accounts with local lenders, the People’s Bank of
China said in a statement June 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  