-- China Squeezes Shadow Banking as Li Grapples With Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-13T06:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/china-june-m2-growth-trails-estimates-new-loans-top-forecasts.html
China  made progress in curbing
shadow banking in June and slowed  money-supply  growth, as
Premier  Li Keqiang  seeks to rein in the credit boom that poses
risks for the nation’s financial system.  Data for aggregate financing, the broadest measure of
credit, showed new yuan loans played the biggest role since
September 2011, with non-traditional sources of finance less
prominent. M2 money supply rose 14 percent, down from 15.8
percent the previous month, People’s Bank of China numbers
showed in Beijing yesterday.  A central bank-engineered cash crunch last month helped
squeeze speculative lending and rein in what Vice Finance
Minister  Zhu Guangyao  last week termed “prominent” shadow-banking risks. The danger for the government is that efforts to
protect the financial system only worsen the nation’s slowdown
after  exports  unexpectedly fell and manufacturing contracted.  “The impact of the PBOC’s liquidity crunch operation is
very clear: targeting shadow banking but maintaining regular
bank lending,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia economist at
Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . The surge in the share
of bank loans in aggregate financing reflects “a severe decline
in shadow-banking activities,” he said.  Growth in the world’s second-largest economy probably eased
to 7.5 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter,
according to the median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 45
analysts before data due July 15. That’s down from 7.7 percent
in the first three months of the year.  Stocks Drop  Li has indicated he won’t boost credit to support the
economy even as the pace of expansion slows, with the State
Council pledging last week to improve the effectiveness of
financial support while maintaining its “prudent” monetary-policy stance.  The PBOC released credit data after the stock market closed.
The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 1.6 percent
yesterday, paring the gauge’s biggest weekly gain in two months,
on concern the government’s tolerance for slower growth will
hurt earnings.  Li said this week that the government should keep
restructuring the economy as long as growth, employment and
inflation stay within limits he didn’t specify. Finance Minister
 Lou Jiwei  said in  Washington  on July 11 that expansion as low as
6.5 percent to 7 percent wouldn’t be a “big problem,” without
specifying a timeframe.  Aggregate financing , the PBOC’s broadest measure of credit
that includes bond sales, entrusted loans and bankers’
acceptance bills, was 1.04 trillion yuan in June, yesterday’s
data show. That was down from 1.19 trillion yuan in May and 1.78
trillion yuan a year earlier.  Higher Lending  New local-currency  loans  were 860.5 billion yuan last month,
compared with the 800 billion yuan median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey and up from 667.4 billion yuan in May. They
accounted for about 83 percent of aggregate financing last month,
down from about 52 percent in June last year, PBOC data show.  China’s  foreign-exchange reserves , the world’s biggest,
rose to $3.5 trillion at the end of June from a previous record
of $3.44 trillion at the end of March, according to the PBOC
report. Estimates of seven economists ranged from $3.4 trillion
to $3.55 trillion.  M2 growth has exceeded the government’s 2013 target of 13
percent every month, reaching a peak of 16.1 percent in April.  “The dramatic slowdown in money supply growth explains why
China’s banks were screaming so hard for help during the sudden
tightness in mid-June,” said  Steve Wang , chief China economist
for Reorient Financial Markets Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Given that
all the banks made it through the crunch and we’re just 1
percentage point away from the government’s M2 target, it
signals a much smoother second half ahead for the banks.”  Expose Banks  The nation’s overnight rate jumped to a record 12.85
percent on June 20 as the PBOC withheld cash and restricted its
communication, spurring speculation policy makers wanted to
expose banks using short-term funds too aggressively for longer-term investments.  The central bank injected liquidity to ease the squeeze and
said it would maintain stability in money markets. The official
Xinhua News Agency said in a June 26 commentary that “for the
blessing of a more sustainable economy, banks are the first, but
certainly not the last to suffer the hardship.”  While interbank rates have since declined, China’s credit
squeeze is spreading to the nation’s auto dealerships as they
become increasingly reluctant to ship their vehicles to
neighborhood car lots without upfront payment. “The cash crunch
has led to psychological panic among dealers over access to
financing,” Luo Lei, deputy secretary-general of the China
Automobile Dealers Association, said July 9.  Tension Relieved  At least five companies canceled or delayed scheduled bond
sales of some 32.1 billion  yuan  last month amid the cash squeeze.
China Three Gorges Corp., which operates the Three Gorges
hydroelectric power projects, said June 24 it would delay a 5
billion yuan medium-term note sale.  Yi Gang, a deputy governor of the central bank, said the
nation’s money market has recovered to normal levels and the
financial market is stable. “At the moment, the tension has
been relieved,” Yi said at a press briefing in Washington on
July 11.  The PBOC will continue to ensure “stable and reasonably
sufficient” growth in money supply and aggregate financing to
meet the banking industry’s liquidity needs, an unnamed central
bank official told the Xinhua News Agency.  The volatility in money-market rates last month was
temporary and won’t pose a threat to the economy, the official
said in Xinhua’s report datelined yesterday. Expectations that
the U.S. Federal Reserve would start to taper its quantitative
easing, cash demand during a Chinese public holiday, the need
for banks to meet their  reserve requirements  and tax payment
deadlines all played a role in causing the turmoil, he said.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore  and
Feiwen Rong in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  