-- China Boosts U.S. Grain Imports for Animal-Feed Inventory
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-07-12T16:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/china-boosts-u-s-grain-imports-for-animal-feed-inventory.html
China , the world’s biggest hog
producer, bought 2.04 million metric tons of grain from U.S.
exporters this week to bolster inventory of livestock feed amid
a shortfall in domestic supplies and increasing meat demand.  U.S. exporters, the top corn shippers, today reported sales
of 960,000 tons for delivery in the 12 months after Sept. 1, the
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a  statement . The  deal 
marked the eighth-biggest single-day transaction ever for the
grain. Earlier this week, China bought 240,000 tons.  China’s corn  consumption  in the 12 months that begin Oct. 1
will exceed  production  for the fourth time in five years, the
USDA said yesterday. Imports will more than double to a record 7
million tons next season from this year, the agency said. U.S.
exporters reported sales of 840,000 tons of wheat to the Asian
nation on July 8 for delivery before May 31. Rising incomes are
boosting consumption of meat.  “Chinese prices of wheat and corn are substantially higher
than world prices, increasing demand for imported grain
supplies,” William Tierney, the chief economist at AgResource
Co. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview. “These purchases
are an indication that the Chinese government wants to build
inventories.”  On July 5, corn futures for delivery after the harvest on
the  Dalian Commodity Exchange  reached a record premium above the
December contract on the Chicago Board of Trade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Costs  The  cost  of imported corn delivered to ports in China is
4.3 percent cheaper than domestic cash  prices , according to data
from Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. The country will produce 710.6
million pigs this year, or 56 percent of the global total, USDA
data show.  Today, corn futures in Chicago fell the most in a week,
partly on signs of a rebound in U.S. output.  Corn is the largest U.S. crop, followed by soybeans, hay
and wheat, USDA data show.  The biggest corn sale by U.S. exporters was 3.72 million
tons to the  Soviet Union  on Jan. 9, 1991. Companies are required
to make government reports on transactions of 100,000 tons in
one day to a single destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  