-- China Can Endure Growth Slowdown to 6.5%, Finance Chief Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-12T12:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/china-finance-chief-lou-says-6-5-growth-wouldn-t-pose-problem.html
Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei 
signaled the world’s second-biggest economy may expand less than
the government’s target this year and that growth as low as 6.5
percent may be tolerable in the future.  While the government in March set a 2013  growth  goal of 7.5
percent, Lou said he’s confident 7 percent can be achieved this
year. He spoke yesterday at the U.S.- China  Strategic and
Economic Dialogue in  Washington . The nation’s broadest measure
of  credit  fell to a 14-month low in June during an interbank
cash squeeze, central bank data showed today.  Lou’s comments suggest China is prepared to allow a further
slowdown from a rate that’s already at risk of falling to a 23-year low this year as Premier  Li Keqiang  focuses on policy
changes to create more sustainable expansion. Li said this week
that the government should keep restructuring the economy as
long as growth, employment and inflation stay within limits he
didn’t specify.  “We don’t think 6.5 percent or 7 percent will be a big
problem,” Lou said at a press briefing in response to a
question on whether there’s a limit on slower growth that
officials will tolerate. “It’s difficult to give you a limit.
But from the data we have, we have the confidence.”  He said, “please don’t forget that our expected GDP growth
rate this year is 7 percent.” adding that “there won’t be much
of a problem to meet our expectations this year.”  Growth Targets  Lou’s remarks may add to confusion over the government’s
growth targets and tolerance levels. Li said in May that the
nation seeks 7 percent annual expansion this decade. He said at
a March 17 press conference, his first after becoming premier,
that China must average 7.5 percent growth through 2020. State-media transcripts of the briefing that day said Li gave a 7
percent figure.  China’s current economic growth is within a “reasonable
range” of 7 to 8 percent, the official Xinhua News Agency said
today in a  report  posted on the State Council’s website. The job
market will not be significantly affected if growth does not
fall below 7 percent, Xinhua said, citing unidentified analysts.  China hasn’t changed the official 7.5 percent expansion
target for this year, Market News International reported today,
citing government sources it didn’t identify.  The news office at the Ministry of Finance in Beijing
didn’t immediately respond to faxed questions on Lou’s remarks.  The nation’s stocks had their biggest two-day rally in 18
months through yesterday, amid speculation that authorities will
take measures to bolster growth after Li’s comments on economic
restructuring and parameters. The Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP) 
closed 1.6 percent lower today.  False Rally  “To have said 6.5 percent seems like a new line in the
sand,” said  Tim Condon , head of Asia research at ING Groep NV
in  Singapore , who formerly worked at the  World Bank . “It may
well be that they don’t want people to be suckered into a false
stock-market rally.”  The comment “reinforces the reform credibility of the new
administration,” Condon said.  M2  money supply  rose 14 percent in June, the People’s Bank
of China said today in Beijing, down from a 15.8 percent pace in
May, the biggest slowdown in more than two years. A cash squeeze
designed to stamp out speculation sent interbank borrowing costs
to the highest in at least a decade.  Aggregate financing, the government’s broadest measure of
credit, was 1.04 trillion  yuan  ($169 billion), down from 1.78
trillion yuan in June 2012. New yuan  loans  were 860.5 billion
yuan, accounting for the largest share of aggregate financing
since September 2011.  Yi Gang, deputy governor of China’s central bank, said the
nation’s money market has recovered to normal levels and the
financial market is stable. “At the moment, the tension has
been relieved,” Yi said at a separate press briefing in
Washington.  GDP Report  The statistics bureau reports second-quarter gross domestic
product on July 15, with the median  estimate  of analysts for a
7.5 percent increase from last year. First-half expansion was
probably below 7.7 percent “but not too far from it,” Lou
said.  Lou ruled out the possibility of widening the  budget
deficit  to stimulate the economy. Instead, policy makers have
decided to cut the spending of central government agencies by 5
percent, and may use the savings to reduce taxes or increase
spending on measures to support jobs and growth, he said.  “I want to emphasize that the structural economic
adjustment is a painful process,” Lou said. “It won’t be
possible to enjoy a comfortable life and a rapid growth rate
with the structural adjustment.”  Lou said China shared its plan for further reforms with
U.S. officials during the meetings, Lou said.  Shipyard Aid  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the
nation’s biggest shipyard outside state control, said this month
it’s seeking financial help from the government, as the nation’s
shipowners association forecast a slump in vessel orders will
run through next year.  Macquarie Group Ltd. today lowered its 2013 China growth
forecast to 7.3 percent from 7.8 percent, and to 6.9 percent in
2014 from 7.5 percent. The median projection of 56 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey last month was for 7.7 percent expansion
this year.  China’s economy  expanded less than 8 percent last year for
the first time since 1999.  The slowdown is “necessary” to achieve a structural
transition, Lou said, adding that the government is deepening
reforms in areas including public financing and financial
services to achieve more sustainable growth.  Approval Requirement  Zhang Zhiwei, chief China economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., said Lou’s comments spurred investor inquiries over
whether the 2013 growth target has been cut to 7 percent. That’s
unlikely because the goal was approved four months ago and Li
has failed to mention any revision, which may require approval
from the National People’s Congress, Zhang said in a note today.  Lou said the job market is stable as preliminary data for
the second quarter show employment outgrew job seekers. While
college graduates have difficulty finding jobs, skilled
technicians are in short supply, reflecting the structural
problems, he said.  Chen Xingdong, chief China economist at BNP Paribas SA in
Beijing, said Lou’s comments indicate that the “bottom for the
year to come might be 6.5 percent” and that the finance
minister was probably referring to medium and long-term growth.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  