-- Co-Op Group Names Former Ombudsman Kelly to Lead Capital Review
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-12T13:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/co-op-group-names-former-ombudsman-kelly-to-lead-capital-review.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc hired the
former chairman of the U.K.’s Financial Ombudsman Service,
Christopher Kelly, to lead a study into its need for 1.5 billion
pounds ($2.3 billion) of new capital.  Kelly will investigate the decision to merge the lender
with Britannia Building Society in 2009 and the proposed
acquisition of 632 branches from  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
Manchester, England-based Co-Op Bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. He will start in September and report his
findings in May.  The Co-Op Bank said last month it will swap some debt for
equity and trade on the London Stock Exchange to raise money.
The customer-owned lender is seeking to raise 1 billion pounds
by asking existing bondholders to exchange subordinated debt for
new equity and senior debt, with 500 million pounds more gained
through the sale of insurance assets.  “As we move forward with implementing the detail of this
plan, it is important to learn from the past,” Co-Op Group
Chief Executive Officer Euan Sutherland said in the statement.  Co-Op Bank didn’t specify Kelly’s compensation for the
review.  The bank today said it won’t pay interest due July 31 on
its 13 percent perpetual subordinated bonds after failing to get
permission from the Prudential Regulation Authority. Payment of
the coupon will be deferred until after bank completes the
capital plan, expected in November, it said in a statement.  Separately, a group of bond investors hired investment bank
Moelis & Co. to advise them on Co-Op’s capital increase, the
Wall Street Journal reported today, citing two people it didn’t
identify.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Simone Meier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  