-- Cocoa Processing in Asia Seen Falling as Powder Reserves Persist
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-07-12T07:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/cocoa-processing-in-asia-seen-falling-as-powder-reserves-persist.html
Cocoa processing in Asia may drop
for a second consecutive quarter because some grinders still
have stockpiles of powder after a decline in prices, according
to the chairman of the Cocoa Association of Asia.  The grind, an indication of demand, may have decreased by
as much as 3 percent in the three months to June from 140,062
tons in the first quarter, said Brandon Tay, who said he was
expressing his own opinion. Processing may also fall this
quarter from a year earlier, Tay said in a phone interview.
Grindings will probably slip 3 percent to 5 percent in 2013 from
606,622 tons last year, said the association.  Companies process beans to produce butter and powder, which
goes into the manufacturing of chocolates, drinks and ice-cream.
Grindings produce about 40 percent butter and as much as 60
percent powder after deducting waste, said Tay. When companies
increase processing to meet butter demand, they also boost
stockpiles of powder. The association reports figures from
 Indonesia ,  Malaysia  and  Singapore  early next week.  “The world is still in a shortage of butter,” said Tay,
who is also chief executive officer of Guan Chong Bhd., a
Malaysian cocoa processor. “Most people have some storage of
powder, so they do not want to grind again just to deliver
butter. Powder users are enjoying having an abundance of stocks
ready for them so they don’t have to store themselves.”  Powder Stockpiles  Powder prices fell 11 percent in the second quarter,
according to  KnowledgeCharts , a unit of researcher Commodities
Risk Analysis in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania . Rates in Europe were
1,839 euros ($2,403) a ton on June 28, down from 2,073 euros at
the end of March. Butter was 2.03 times the price of futures,
the  International Cocoa Organization  said in its May report.
That compares with 1.9 times in November, it said.  Futures in New York advanced 2.8 percent to $2,239 a ton
yesterday and are little changed this year.  “There is overcapacity in cocoa processing in Asia, which
is pressurizing prices and margins,” said  Kona Haque , a London-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.,  Australia ’s biggest
investment bank. “This, along with high cocoa powder stocks, is
leading to lower than expected grinding. End-use demand for
chocolate products remains strong, we just need to get over this
bump before things can improve.”  Most butter produced in Asia is exported to the U.S. and
Europe for  chocolate  and the powder is used in this region for
beverages, cookies and other confectionery, said Tay. While
there’s “no culture of eating chocolate” in Asia, total
consumption has been growing, especially in Indonesia, the
 Philippines  and  China , he said.  Indonesia and Malaysia represent about 14 percent of global
bean processing, ICCO data show. The possible drop in Asia in
the second quarter may be countered by expansion elsewhere.  Grindings in Europe, the biggest consuming region, probably
rose for the first time in more than a year as some  companies (GUAN) 
expanded after a slowdown, according to a Bloomberg survey.
Processing in North America probably increased 4.4 percent as an
improving economy spurred demand from chocolate makers, a
separate survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  