-- Commodity Open Interest Jumps to Two-Week High on Oil Rally
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-07-12T11:33:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/commodity-open-interest-jumps-to-two-week-high-on-oil-rally.html
Investors increased commodity
holdings to the highest in more than two weeks as oil’s rally to
a 15-month high boosted the outlook for raw material returns.  Open interest  of contracts outstanding for the 24
commodities tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI spot gauge
gained 0.9 percent this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The GSCI gauge touched a three-month high of 647.57 yesterday,
and is up 1 percent this week.  “Commodities had quite a strong decline relative to other
asset classes in the second quarter,” said Jeremy Baker, a
senior commodities strategist overseeing about $800 million of
assets at Harcourt Investment Consulting AG in Zurich. “Now the
question comes, do you think equities are fairly-valued or are
they overvalued? If investors decide to shift more money into
risk, then commodities are probably not a bad place to be
shifting it to.”  Open interest, or the number of contracts that have yet to
be closed, liquidated or delivered, reached 13.19 million
contracts on July 11, the highest since June 25. It reached 13.7
million contracts on June 17, the highest since at least January
2006. The S&P GSCI gauge fell 6.7 percent in the second quarter
and 1 percent this year, while the MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities, which slipped 1.2 percent in the quarter, is still
9 percent higher since the start of January.  Minutes of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s last meeting released
July 10 showed many policy makers want to see more signs that
employment is picking up before they’ll slow bond purchases. The
central bank is buying $85 billion of bonds a month. European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi this week reiterated that
the bank will keep interest rates low for an extended period.
Hedge funds and other large speculators cut their bets on a
rally in commodity prices by 17 percent to 464,529 futures and
options in the week through July 2, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  data  show.  Oil Futures  Open interest in West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures
is up 3 percent this week as prices head for a third straight
weekly gain. Futures jumped to a 15-month high yesterday after
U.S. stockpiles fell and and amid concern political turmoil in
 Egypt  may spread and disrupt Middle East oil supplies.  WTI for August delivery was at $104.76 a barrel, down 0.1
percent, on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 7:02 a.m. Brent
for August settlement was little changed at 107.78 a barrel on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Open interest in
Brent oil jumped 3.3 percent to the highest since May 13. WTI
makes up 24.7 percent of the GSCI gauge and Brent accounts for
22.3 percent.  Oil Exposure  “For a long-only investor who puts money into a commodity
basket, the hope is that your basket has a higher oil exposure
given decent short-term fundamentals,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov ,
an analyst at VTB Capital in London. “A favorable combination
of geopolitical jitters and robust refining demand in the U.S.
in addition to supply side glitches keeps oil prices well-supported. Short-term supply concerns underpin both
benchmarks.”  Gold open interest slid 0.2 percent this week through July
10, according to the latest data available. Futures are up 4.7
percent this week, a first gain in four weeks. Gold has a 3
percent weighting on the GSCI.  Copper open interest is down 2.3 percent on the Comex this
week through July 10 as futures gained 2.8 percent. Aluminum
open interest is down 0.8 percent on the London Metal Exchange
as prices advanced 3.5 percent. A combination of falling open
interest and rising prices suggests short-covering, or closing
bets on falling prices, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  Open interest in Chicago corn futures slid 1 percent in
three days through July 10 and wheat open interest dropped 1.7
percent before the U.S. Department of Agriculture report
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  