-- Congo Seeks to Lure Investors for $5.7 Billion Farming Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2013-07-12T14:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/congo-altering-law-to-lure-investors-for-5-7-billion-farm-plan.html
Democratic Republic of Congo will
modify a law that restricts foreign ownership of agriculture
projects as it seeks to raise financing for a proposed $5.7
billion expansion plan, the Agriculture Ministry said.  The government has already obtained 15 percent of the funds
required for the program that targets 6 percent annual growth in
the industry, Agriculture Minister Jean-Chrysostome Vahamwiti
told reporters today in the capital, Kinshasa. The government
will hold a conference in September to help attract more
investment, he said.  “We don’t want loans, we want private investment, people
who bring their own capital to invest in this country,”
Vahamwiti said. Legislation requiring that Congolese citizens or
companies own more than 50 percent of agricultural projects is
being revised as part of a process of “reassuring eventual
investors,” he said.  Economic growth in Congo, the world’s eighth-largest copper
producer, is forecast to accelerate to 8.2 percent this year
from 7.2 percent last year, according to the government.
Agriculture makes up about 22 percent of the country’s $15.6
billion economy, African Development Bank and World Bank data
show.  While most of the country’s recent economic growth has come
from higher mineral prices, agriculture will be “the permanent
successor to mining, which is, unfortunately, unsustainable,”
Vahamwiti said.  Reducing Hunger  Congo was tied for last in this year’s United Nations
Development Programme  Human Development Index , which measures
economic and social indicators such as education, health and
income. The government expects investment in agriculture to cut
hunger in half by 2018, Vahamwiti said.  Currently the country, the biggest in sub-Saharan  Africa ,
uses only about 10 percent of its more than 80 million hectares
(198 million acres) of arable land, according to the Food and
Agriculture Organization.  “We have much more land than Congolese can develop
alone,” said Elvis Mutiri wa Bashara, a member of parliament
from the fertile North Kivu province who has proposed
eliminating the shareholding provision from the 2011 agriculture
law.  The 50 percent rule has halted most new investment in the
industry, Mutiri said in an interview in Kinshasa today.
“Investors are all saying they’re waiting for the law to
change.”  20% Share  Parliament will consider Mutiri’s amendments along with a
new proposal by the government reducing the required domestic
shareholding to at least 20 percent as early as September,
Vahamwiti said.  “Even 20 percent is not a solution,” Mutiri said. “We
shouldn’t limit the shareholding in the law. Let the game play
out.”  Vahamwiti reassured current investors like Toronto-based
palm-oil producer  Feronia Inc. (FRN) , which expressed uncertainty
about whether or not the shareholding rules would apply to them
in a July 3 statement on the company’s website. Any new
ownership regulations “will not be retro-active,” he said.
“Investors need guarantees.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  