-- Copper Futures Fall on China Economic-Expansion Concerns
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-12T18:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/copper-drops-on-signs-china-to-accept-further-growth-slowdown.html
Copper futures fell for the first
time in three days on signs that that the economy may expand
less than the government forecast in  China , the world’s biggest
consumer of industrial metals.  Economic growth as low as 6.5 percent may be tolerable in
the future, Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said yesterday.
He expressed confidence that expansion will be 7 percent this
year after the government set a goal of 7.5 percent in March.
Figures on the gross domestic product are due on July 15, and
GDP will weaken for the ninth time in 10 quarters. according to
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg  “This is a rather sobering assessment from a senior policy
maker,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in  New York ,
said in a report. “For now, we would rather be on the sidelines
and watch to see where things settle in light of key macro
announcements that will come out this weekend.”  Copper futures for September delivery declined 0.7 percent
to settle at $3.155 a pound at 1:13 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. The price jumped 3.7 percent in the previous two days,
partly on speculation that China and the U.S. will maintain
policies on economic stimulus.  In the second quarter,  China’s economy  probably expanded
7.5 percent from a year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the
prior three months, the Bloomberg  survey  showed. Macquarie Group
Ltd. reduced its estimates for growth this year to 7.3 percent
and 6.9 percent in 2014.  Copper dropped today as the dollar rebounded against a
 basket  of 10 currencies, eroding demand for commodities as an
alternative investment.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months slid 0.7 percent to $6,954 a ton ($3.15 a pound).  This week, the price climbed 2.4 percent, the most in two
months. Stockpiles monitored by the LME declined 2.9 percent,
the biggest drop since October.  Lead fell in  London , while zinc, tin, aluminum and nickel
rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  