-- Corn, Soybeans Retreat as Record U.S. Crops Seen Boost Supplies
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-07-12T19:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/corn-soybeans-retreat-as-record-u-s-crops-seen-boost-supplies.html
Corn fell the most this month and
soybeans posted the biggest drop since March on signs of ample
global supplies as U.S. farmers rebound from last year’s drought
with record crops in 2013. Wheat also declined.  Stockpiles of corn in the U.S., the world’s top grower,
will more than double to 1.959 billion bushels by the start of
the 2014 harvest, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
yesterday. The agency also reduced its outlook for global
demand, which will fall short of production. Soybean reserves in
the U.S. also will double, boosting world  stockpiles  by 20
percent to a record 74.12 million tons, USDA said.  “We continue to expect a significant recovery in U.S. corn
and soybean production and lower prices” in the second half of
2013, Damien Courvalin, a New York-based analyst at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in an e-mailed report. “Our expectation
for lower prices also reflects the already realized large South
American harvest and current weakness in global demand.”  Corn futures for December delivery, after the harvest, fell
3.4 percent to close at $5.0925 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
 Chicago  Board of Trade, the biggest drop for the most-active
contract since June 28. For the week, prices gained 3.7 percent
amid earlier concerns that warm weather in parts of the U.S. may
hurt crops. Last year, corn rallied to a record $8.49 in August,
as the drought cut output by 13 percent.  Soybean futures for delivery in November dropped 2.6
percent to $12.5725 a bushel on the CBOT, the biggest decline
since March 28. The most-active contract was up 2.4 percent for
the week.  Beneficial Weather  Prices also fell on speculation that warm, sunny days and
cool nights during the next week should help to boost yield
potential for corn and soybeans in most of the Midwest, Jerrod Kitt, the director of research for the Linn Group on Chicago,
said in a telephone interview.  Temperatures the next 10 days will be near normal for most
of the Midwest, with rain developing by the end of next week to
aid crop development, especially in portions of the driest areas
of  Nebraska , western  Iowa , Missouri and  Kansas , T-Storm Weather
LLC said in a report today.  “There is nothing in the  weather forecasts  that is
threatening to crop development across the northern and eastern
Midwest,” Kitt said. “Corn yields are angling higher.”  Also in Chicago, wheat for September delivery declined 0.3
percent to $6.81 a bushel, halting a four-day rally. Prices
gained 3.2 percent this week on increased Chinese demand for
U.S. supplies and shrinking global production.  Yesterday, the USDA cut its forecast for global wheat
inventories to 172.38 million tons, 4.9 percent smaller than
estimated in June, amid rising demand in  China . U.S. export
sales jumped to 1.47 million tons in the week to July 4, more
than double a week earlier, with China buying 1.02 million tons,
according to a separate USDA  report .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net 
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  