-- Cyprus Studies LNG Export Expansion Beyond $12 Billion Terminal
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-07-12T10:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/cyprus-studies-lng-export-expansion-beyond-12-billion-terminal.html
Cyprus, the Mediterranean island
that reported its first offshore natural-gas find in 2011, is
studying an expansion of planned export capacity to help revive
economic growth.  The country may build as many as five liquefied natural gas
production lines, or trains, in addition to a planned $12
billion, three-train terminal near Limassol, according to Cyprus
National Hydrocarbons Co., in charge of all gas developments.
Extra gas for the plants could come from nearby countries.  “Three trains won’t be enough,” Chief Executive Officer
Charles Ellinas said by telephone. “We may have land available
for eight trains, to also make sure we can accommodate gas from
 Israel  and Lebanon.”  Cyprus plans to start LNG exports in 2020 after it invited
international companies to explore offshore. Gas shipments are
part of a plan to boost the sputtering economy following a 10 
billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout agreement with European
partners and the  International Monetary Fund  this year.  The government in June approved a framework for negotiating
construction of the first terminal with Houston-based  Noble
Energy Inc. (NBL)  and Israel’s  Delek Drilling LP (DEDRL)  and  Avner Oil
Exploration LLP. (AVNRL)  A company will be set up this year to run the
plant and arrange LNG sales starting early in 2014, Ellinas
said.  Noble Discovery  Noble has a 70 percent stake in Block 12 off Cyprus and in
late 2011 said it found 7 trillion cubic feet (198 billion cubic
meters) of gas. The company last month began a second phase of
appraisal drilling. Delek and Avner have 15 percent stakes in
the same block.  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  have Cypriot exploration licenses too
and are “keen on joining the LNG project,” Ellinas said
yesterday. Total, which has rights to Blocks 10 and 11, may also
be interested in working with Noble at Block 12, he said.  “We are in discussion with the Cyprus authorities to see
how we can support them to develop a gas monetization scheme
including LNG export,” Anastasia Zhivulina, a spokeswoman for
Paris-based Total, said today, declining to comment on its
potential interest in joining Block 12.  Eni is interested in investing in the terminal if oil and
gas are found at its blocks, CEO Paolo Scaroni said yesterday.  Export of LNG, or gas chilled to a liquid for shipment, may
help revive an economy that’s set to shrink about 13 percent in
the next two years, IMF forecasts show. The plant may create as
many as 10,000 jobs from as early as 2016, when construction is
due to start, Ellinas said. Domestic gas output will also feed
local  power plants , helping to cut electricity bills.  Israel Gas  Cyprus is in talks with Noble on the potential for
additional supplies from its Israeli Leviathan field for export
from the Cypriot LNG plant, Ellinas said.  Cyprus has an advantage over Israel because it has already
chosen a site for a terminal, Noble CEO Charles Davidson said in
April.  Israel, which has found about 950 billion cubic meters of
gas offshore, is studying ways to export the fuel from a region
marked by political tensions. The choices include a floating LNG
platform in its waters or delivery to regional hub  Turkey . Noble
expects commercial output from Leviathan around 2016.  “The government’s gas-export policy has to allow for
multiple options,” Noble said in June. “We will explore every
opportunity, but if the range is too limited, some of those
opportunities will be lost.”  Gas from Noble’s Block 12 off Cyprus, which may contain
“at least one more  gas field ,” will feed the terminal’s first
train, which will produce 5 million tons of LNG a year, Ellinas
said. Construction will cost $6 billion, while the second and
third trains will cost $3 billion each, he said.  The six Cypriot exploration permits awarded so far may hold
as much as 40 trillion cubic feet of gas, according to Ellinas.
The government has other blocks yet to be licensed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  