-- Daimler Earnings Double on Mercedes Margins, EADS Gain
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-07-12T15:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/daimler-profit-jumps-to-5-2-billion-euros-on-eads-exit.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  posted second-quarter
profit that beat estimates as profitability improved at the
Mercedes-Benz luxury-car unit and gains from selling its stake
in the owner of planemaker  Airbus SAS (EAD)  exceeded its forecast.  Earnings before interest and taxes more than doubled to 5.2
billion euros ($6.8 billion) from 2.24 billion euros  reported  a
year earlier, Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said today in a
statement. Profit topped the 3.31 billion euros average of six
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Daimler shares  jumped 
to the highest in almost two years.  Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche, who also leads the
Mercedes-Benz Cars division, sold Daimler’s holding in European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. in April to focus on the auto
business. The gain from the disposal was 3.2 billion euros,
Daimler said today, 19 percent more than it had previously
estimated. Earnings as a proportion of sales at Mercedes
amounted to 6.4 percent versus 3.3 percent in the first quarter.  “The numbers are very, very strong,” Sascha Gommel, a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Commerzbank AG, said by phone.
Profitability at Mercedes “is significantly better than
expected, thanks obviously to the model cycle.” Commerzbank
recommends buying Daimler stock.  Zetsche has vowed that Mercedes will overtake  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in global sales by the end of the decade. The
brand currently ranks third in deliveries after dropping behind
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi division in 2011.  New Models  To win buyers, the Mercedes brand is investing in new
entry-level models, such as the CLA four-door compact coupe and
the A-Class hatchback, as well as revamping its top-of-the-line
S-Class with amenities like a hot-stone massage function in the
rear passenger seats. First-half deliveries at the marque rose
6.4 percent to 694,433 cars and sport-utility vehicles, a record
for the period, Daimler said on July 3.  Daimler stuck to a forecast today that earnings in the
second half of 2013 will be better than in the first half. The
company will publish its full quarterly report on July 24.  Second-quarter Ebit at Mercedes-Benz Cars, which includes
the Smart city-car brand, dropped to 1.04 billion euros from
1.31 billion euros a year earlier, while revenue increased 6
percent to 16.3 billion euros.  Daimler  rose  as much as 6.2 percent to 52.37 euros, the
highest intraday price since July 26, 2011, and was trading up 6
percent at 4:59 p.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has climbed 26
percent this year, valuing the company at 55.8 billion euros.  The Daimler Trucks division, the world’s biggest maker of
heavy vehicles, and the bus unit posted charges totaling 102
million euros for job cuts and other reorganization measures.
Ebit at the truck business fell 17 percent to 434 million euros,
while earnings at the bus operation were a positive 27 million
euros versus a loss of 57 million euros a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in  Frankfurt  at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net  