-- Dark Pools Face New U.S. Disclosure Requirements From Finra
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r
-- 2013-07-12T18:46:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/dark-pools-face-new-u-s-disclosure-requirements-from-finra.html
Securities regulators approved a
plan to require U.S. off-exchange markets such as dark pools to
boost disclosure about the transactions they handle.  The board of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
the private-sector overseer of U.S. brokerages, will propose
rules to the government that would compel alternative trading
systems to disclose the amount of volume they handle for each
stock, according to a  statement  yesterday. Trading systems will
also be assigned unique identification codes so it will be
easier to track where each transaction takes place.  “This will allow Finra to monitor the trading that occurs
in each ATS much more particularly and be able to identify if
any abusive trading appears to occur,” Finra Chief Executive
Officer Richard G. Ketchum said in a  video  posted with the
announcement. This is a “real positive step from a market
integrity standpoint,” he said.  The action, which Ketchum previewed in May, comes after
U.S. exchanges have seen their share of American equity trading
dwindle, prompting them to request regulators to consider
curbing transactions off public markets. About a third of U.S.
volume this year has taken place off exchanges, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Estimates of trading in dark pools are published monthly by
research firm Tabb Group LLC and institutional broker Rosenblatt
Securities Inc. In April, Credit Suisse Group AG, operator of
the largest U.S. dark pool, said it would stop providing data to
Tabb and Rosenblatt.  Ketchum said in the video yesterday that Finra may
eventually start using data sent from dark pools and other off-exchange markets to publicly report how much trading takes place
on each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Baker in Chicago at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  