-- Democrats Resist No New Revenue Pledge Seen Hurting Deal: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r   a n d   A a r o n   E .   L o r e n z o
-- 2013-07-12T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/democrats-resist-no-new-revenue-pledge-seen-hurting-deal-taxes.html
Key Democrats are holding firm and
insisting on wringing more money for the federal government out
of any  tax reform  this year, defying a push to go along with a
revenue-neutral approach to win votes.  Two Democrats considered to be possible swing votes on the
House committee working on a tax overhaul -- Representative
Richard Neal from  Massachusetts  and John Larson of  Connecticut 
-- say they doubt a revenue-neutral proposal would attract
Democratic votes, casting a cloud over what many tax analysts
and lobbyists say is a primary ingredient for any broad deal,
Bloomberg BNA reported.  “I’d be very doubtful about that,” Neal said when asked
whether a revenue-neutral plan could generate support among
Democrats. “That would be problematic for me.”  The issue gained new attention as a compromise on the
Senate side looked possible this week.  Max Baucus , the Montana
Democrat who is Senate Finance Committee chairman, declined to
rule out putting a revenue-neutral bill before his committee.
The ranking Republican on the committee, Senator  Orrin Hatch  of
 Utah , told reporters that Baucus had told him he would, in fact,
propose a revenue-neutral plan.  In the end, Baucus told reporters that new revenue will
probably become part of tax reform as it moves through Congress
and heads to the president for signature. Still, his reported
openness to a revenue-neutral plan in the committee contrasted
with his remarks a day earlier that he was committed to seeking
revenue through tax reform.  After those remarks, spokespersons for Baucus and Hatch
issued a joint statement emphasizing collaboration on tax reform
and downplaying the significance of revenue neutrality.  Code Reset  “The main question is not whether tax reform raises
revenue,” according to the release. “It’s what is done with the
revenue raised through closing loopholes, simplifying the code
and making other adjustments. That is the question that still
needs to be answered and will be resolved through this process.”  The nature and size of those adjustments have mobilized
lobbyists and will help shape the fate of tax reform.  On July 10, the Businesses United for Interest and Loan
Deductibility  Coalition  released a study it commissioned through
Ernst & Young indicating that cutting the interest deduction for
corporations would hurt the economy.  An across-the-board reduction of 25 percent in corporate
interest expenses, to reduce the corporate income tax rate by
1.5 percentage points, would reduce economic growth by 0.2
percent and investment by 0.3 percent, according to the study.  Democratic Holdouts  In general, Republican lawmakers have urged tax revenue-neutral reform, while Democrats have called for reform to
generate additional money to reduce the deficit. Still, House
 Ways and Means  Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  told BNA that he is
continuing to look for ways to attract Democratic votes.  Larson didn’t exclude the possibility of a revenue-neutral
bill if lawmakers can spot another way to boost revenue, perhaps
through assumptions of economic growth and job generation --
although he added that so far, he has not seen evidence that
economic activity will generate the boost Democrats seek.  “I’m not the kind of person who rejects anything out of
hand,” Larson said. He said Republicans refusing to consider
additional revenue is a nonstarter and that continuing meetings
among committee members preserve the potential for a deal.  “Is there maneuverability on their part?” Larson said.
“That’s the whole reason you sit down.”  As long as lawmakers focus on economic growth, jobs and
simplicity in the  tax code , Congress has a “great business
model” for pursuing tax reform, Larson said.  Difficult Vote  One senior Ways and Means Committee member, Representative
Pat Tiberi, an  Ohio Republican , told BNA rank-and-file Democrats
are under pressure to toe the party line on raising revenue.  “It’s going to be extraordinarily difficult for them to do
that if in the end their leadership is going to come out opposed
to everything that we do,” he said.  Still, if Senate Democrats pass tax reform legislation,
that may make it easier for some House Democrats to buck their
leadership, Tiberi said. He said Camp has reached out to
minority members on a daily basis for their input and support.  The ranking Democrat on the committee, Representative
 Sander Levin  of  Michigan , told BNA that additional revenue has
to be part of the equation to move forward on tax reform.  He also tamped down the suggestion that any Democrats on
the panel might consider forgoing revenue to secure a deal to
rewrite tax laws.  “That’s wrong,” Levin said. “I think we all feel that there
have to be additional revenues.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at   fantonelli@bloomberg.net  