-- Detroit’s 20% Offer Jeopardizes Insurers’ Recovery: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-07-12T21:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/detroit-s-20-offer-jeopardizes-insurers-recovery-muni-credit.html
Detroit’s bid to stick investors
with losses as part of an effort to avert a historic bankruptcy
is jeopardizing municipal bond insurers’ recovery prospects.  Insurers, including  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  and FGIC Corp.,
are on the hook for at least 95 percent of the $2 billion of
unsecured Detroit debt that wasn’t issued for city utilities,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Kevyn Orr, the city’s emergency
financial manager, proposes paying investors less than 20 cents
on the dollar on those bonds as the auto-industry capital bleeds
cash.  Even as last month’s surge in muni  yields  to a 26-month
high makes it more economical for localities to pay for the bond
backing, Orr’s plan may damp confidence in the insurers, said
Matt Fabian at Municipal Market Advisors. By serving as a model
for other municipalities facing financial distress, the approach
makes insured bonds a target for cost savings, he said.  “The city is relying on insurers to pay bondholders that
it chooses not to pay,” said Fabian, a managing director at the
Concord, Massachusetts-based research firm. “It does appear
that the insurance companies are sitting ducks.”  Rebound Pitch  Insurers are attempting to win back market share that
shriveled when they lost their top credit ratings during the
recession that ended in 2009. About 3 percent of U.S. muni
issuance had their backing in the first half, the least since at
least 2006 and compared with 44 percent in the same period of
2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The protection was traditionally a draw for individual
investors, who own about 70 percent of the $3.7 trillion
municipal market. Insurance from Assured saved municipalities as
much as 0.25 percentage point on bonds marketed from July 2010
through June 2011, according to research by Alan Schankel at
Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.  Build America Mutual Assurance Co. last year became the
first new muni insurer since 2007, joining the dominant company,
Assured. National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., a unit of  MBIA (MBI) 
Inc., had its rating raised three levels in May after its parent
settled with the last of 18 banks that challenged a 2009
restructuring. Shares of Armonk, New York-based MBIA have risen
77 percent this year, compared with about 18 percent for the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index.  Commitments Honored  Last month, Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured said it was
committed to honoring obligations to holders of debt it insures.
 Kevin Brown , spokesman for National, declined to comment. The
company said last month it will insure principal and interest
payments to investors in Detroit debt.  FGIC didn’t respond to a request for comment placed to its
offices in  New York . Ambac Assurance Corp. said in a statement
July 8 it would honor Detroit bond commitments under its
policies.  Michael Fitzgerald , spokesman for New York-based
Ambac, declined to comment further.  Orr’s plan “is harmful to Detroit and the interests of
taxpayers in  Michigan ” because it may imperil access to the
municipal market, the company said.  The episode gives insurers a chance to highlight their
importance if they can ensure timely principal and interest
payments, said  Richard Ciccarone , chief research officer at  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based McDonnell Investment Management, which
oversees $8 billion of munis.  Validation Chance  “It’s an opportunity for the bond insurance companies to
prove their worth and validate their mission,” Ciccarone said.  Yields on 10-year benchmark  munis  touched 2.96 percent last
month, the highest since 2011. Before yields rebounded from
generational lows set at year-end, the reduced borrowing costs
were giving issuers little incentive to buy insurance.  “A rising rate environment makes bond insurance more
valuable,” said Schankel, Janney’s head of fixed-income
research.  In Orr’s plan, the companies are in the same category as
unions for city workers, who face reductions to pensions and
retiree health care. The Washington restructuring lawyer has
threatened to take the city into Chapter 9 bankruptcy if
creditors don’t accept his June 14 plan. Orr proposed that
unsecured creditors with $11.5 billion in claims receive notes
worth about $2 billion.  The plan doesn’t single out insured debt and treats all
unsecured creditors the same, said Bill Nowling, Orr’s
spokesman.  Best Way  The approach to restructuring  Detroit ’s more than $17
billion of debt and long-term obligations is the best way to get
the city back on its feet, he said. The city has no more legal
capacity to raise taxes, he said. It would be a record U.S.
municipal bankruptcy.  “The investors who bought the insured bonds no doubt
understood the risks that the city faced,” Nowling said. “And
the insurers that wrote the policies understood the risks.”  The insurers remain operational and their guarantees in
place, according to a report last month from Morningstar Inc.
For holders of insured debt, the assumption is that interest and
principal will be protected, the report said.  That conclusion is reasonable, said Jonathan Carmel, a
 money manager  at Carmel Asset Management LLC in New York.  “You’re not talking about a massive amount of exposure
compared to the capital of these insurers,” said Carmel. He
cited the example of Assured, which he said faces a potential of
$360 million of obligations for its $12 billion of claims-paying
resources.  Turning Point  Since 2008, two California cities and Jefferson County,
 Alabama , have filed for bankruptcy with the intention of
imposing principal cuts on insured bonds. Last month, bond
insurers in the bankruptcy of Jefferson County struck a deal to
shift some losses onto their customers, who had coverage on more
than $2.87 billion in sewer warrants.  Under that proposed settlement, warrant holders have a
choice of either collecting 65 cents on the dollar and filing
claims against the insurers, or collecting 80 cents on the
dollar and waiving the insurance.  “Related to the 35 cents due to investors that select the
65 cents option,  Assured Guaranty  will make future policy
payments without the need for a claim being filed by an
individual warrant holder,” Robert Tucker, a managing director
at the company, said in an e-mail.  “There is not a whole heck of a lot that bond insurers
have had to worry about until the last few years,” said Clayton
Gillette, a law professor at  New York University  who has written
about municipal bankruptcies.  Insurers have more to fear from bankruptcy than unions
because a judge will probably side with workers trying to keep
the city operating, said  Mark Schwartz , a former bond lawyer who
tried unsuccessfully to help the city of Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , restructure debt using Chapter 9.  “In court, you are going to try to fund essential city
services,” he said. That doesn’t include “paying some bond
insurer who miscalculated,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  