-- Deutsche Bank Sees Malaysia Comfort for Investor Structured Debt
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-07-12T02:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/deutsche-bank-sees-malaysia-comfort-for-investor-structured-debt.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the fourth-biggest
issuer of structured notes globally outside the U.S., says
increasing comfort with the products is boosting sales in
Malaysia, where the base of affluent investors is expanding.  The bank’s sales of securities tied to credit and foreign-exchange rates surged “multiple times” to “a few hundred
million dollars” in the first half of this year, compared with
the same period a year ago, according to Lavanya Chari, head of
fixed-income, currencies and commodities structuring for  Asia 
including  Japan  at the lender. The products are mostly sold to
wealthy individuals through private banks or asset managers.  Malaysia is leading Southeast Asian nations in wealth
creation, adding high-net-worth individuals as the economy grows
with inflation under control, Julius Baer Group,  Switzerland ’s
third-largest wealth manager, said in a  report  last month.
Structured products are luring the country’s increasingly
sophisticated investors seeking to gain exposure to everything
from currencies to global corporate bonds.  “We have seen a significant increase in structured-product
demand in Malaysia,” Chari said in a telephone interview on
July 5. “Clients look for yield. Client sophistication has also
increased -- clients are becoming more comfortable with
structured products to express their views.”  Until a recent slowdown in sales as expectations for
appreciation in  China ’s currency waned amid signs of economic
deceleration, the most notable products this year had been those
betting on gains in the offshore yuan traded in  Hong Kong , she
said.  Yuan Products  “The dollar-offshore  yuan  has been a very popular  currency
pair  across Asia, and Malaysia is one of the countries where
it’s extremely popular,” Chari said.  The renminbi-related investments helped the German bank’s
currency-tied notes overtake those linked to credit in sales
this year, she said, without providing exact issuance figures.  Popular yuan products include those that earn fixed
coupons, with some paying 7 percent to 8 percent annually, over
a year or two only when the currency is above fixed levels, she
said. Malaysia’s current  12-month banking deposit rate  is 3.15
percent.  A similar trend also contributed to an 88 percent jump in
structured-note sales of all types at Overseas-Chinese Banking
Corp., according to Ng Seow Pang, head of global treasury at the
bank’s Malaysia unit. Currency-linked notes account for half the
Singapore-based lender’s issuance in the country, he said.  Gains in equity markets may encourage investors to buy
riskier, partial-principal protected products tied to stocks,
said Judy Hsu, global head of  wealth management  at  Standard
Chartered Plc. (STAN)   For OCBC, the focus in equities is on products giving
access to individual stocks overseas or exchange-traded funds,
rather than local shares, to meet the preference of its clients,
Ng said.  “Investors in structured products are limited to high-net
worth individuals who seek to participate in investments that
are normally not readily available to non-institutions,” Ng
said. “We structure products according to the investor
appetite.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  