-- Dodd-Frank Overseas Swap Guidance Approved After Europe Deal
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-07-12T15:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/dodd-frank-overseas-swap-guidance-weighed-after-europe-deal.html
The top U.S. derivatives regulator
approved final guidelines allowing greater reliance on overseas
rules for cross-border trades a day after breaking an impasse
with European authorities on how to oversee the $633 trillion
global swaps market.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, meeting in
 Washington , voted 3-1 to complete guidelines allowing many
cross-border trades to be governed by overseas rules when
they’re comparable to U.S. rules. The document will determine
how dozens of regulations increasing collateral and conduct
standards apply to the trades by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.,  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  and other banks and hedge funds.  “We have to remind ourselves that the largest banks and
institutions are global in nature and that when a run starts in
any part of an overseas affiliate or branch of a financial
institution risk comes crashing right back to our shores,” CFTC
Chairman Gary Gensler said at the meeting.  The overseas reach of the CFTC’s rules has been one of the
most controversial aspects of the three-year effort by U.S.
regulators to improve oversight after largely unregulated trades
helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The law calls for most swaps
to be guaranteed at central clearinghouses and traded on
exchanges or other platforms.  The agreement was being considered a day after U.S. and
European officials announced they had reached a deal on how to
jointly oversee the market. Their agreement broke a deadlock on
the reach of the CFTC’s rules, which generated opposition from
European and Asian regulators for more than two years.  Overseas Criticism  Gensler was criticized by foreign officials and banks for
overreaching and seeking to apply Dodd-Frank Act regulations to
too expansively in cross-border trades. Gensler said the 2008
downfall of American International Group Inc., which booked many
swaps in  London , demonstrated the need for the cross-border
reach of regulations to protect taxpayers from risks exposed
overseas.  At the CFTC, Gensler and Mark Wetjen, one of three
Democratic commissioners, spent the last week in negotiations to
reach an agreement on the final guidance document, which was
still being drafted yesterday.  The document makes it less probable that markets will be
fragmented than earlier CFTC proposals would have resulted in,
Wetjen said in remarks prepared for the meeting.  “A global regime such as the one now contemplated in the
guidance is the best means to avoid balkanization of risk and
risk management that would have benefited no one,” Wetjen said.  The commissioners also approved, by a 3-1 vote, a separate
document phasing in the guidance through the end of the year,
with some of the first requirements taking effect in mid-September.  The CFTC will determine when overseas regulations are
comparable and comprehensive to Dodd-Frank rules and available
for substituted compliance.  “The stark reality is that this Commission is not the
global regulatory authority and doesn’t have the resources to
support such a mission,” said  Scott O’Malia , a Republican
commissioner, who opposed the guidance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  