-- Dollar Gains Versus Most Peers on Stimulus Outlook; Aussie Drops
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-12T21:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/dollar-pares-weekly-drop-versus-euro-before-fed-s-bullard-speaks.html
The dollar strengthened against most
major peers as investors bet the  Federal Reserve  will withdraw
monetary stimulus faster than the  European Central Bank .  The greenback pared a weekly loss versus the euro as
Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank
should start slowing monthly asset purchases under quantitative
easing in September. The currency fell for the past two days
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled the bond buying
won’t be dialed back soon. The euro weakened as  Fitch Ratings 
downgraded  France  and Portugal struggled with political turmoil.
Australia’s dollar slid to an almost three-year low.  “Expectation is still that tapering is on the table before
the end of the year,” Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Everyone will be looking at every special
detail, like where growth is coming from and signs of labor-market improvement.”  The dollar gained 0.2 percent to $1.3067 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time after touching $1.3207 yesterday, the weakest
level since June 21. The U.S. currency lost 1.8 percent this
week, the most since the five days ended Jan. 11. It rose 0.3
percent to 99.22 yen, paring a 2 percent decline this week. The
euro was little changed at 129.66 yen.  Futures traders increased their bets that the euro will
decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those on a
gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 40,900 on July 9, compared
with net shorts of 16,090 a week earlier.  Rupee Gains  India’s rupee completed its first weekly gain since May,
rising as policy makers took steps to curb speculation and boost
dollar supply. The currency strengthened 1 percent this week to
59.63 per dollar in Mumbai, the first advance since the five
days ended May 3. The currency gained 0.1 percent today.  Russia’s currency dropped for the first time in five days
as Bank Rossii left  interest rates  unchanged. The ruble weakened
as much as 0.7 percent to 32.7960 per dollar before trading at
32.6265, down 0.1 percent.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.3 percent to 1,037.63
after sliding 1.4 percent yesterday.  The greenback slid for the week against 14 of 16 most-traded peers after Bernanke in a July 10 speech damped
speculation the Fed would reduce its bond-buying program.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy ,” Bernanke said.  Policy Report  The Fed chief is scheduled to deliver a semi-annual
monetary policy report to Congress next week.  The central bank buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage debt each month to put downward pressure on borrowing
costs, which tends to devalue the U.S. currency.  Plosser, who has opposed the current round of asset
purchases, said the Fed should end its bond buying by year-end.  “I don’t want to do it all at once, but I think we should
begin to taper very soon and hopefully end it by the end of this
year,” Plosser said today in an interview in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming . “That would be a healthy thing for the economy. We can
do it gradually.”  Minutes of the Fed’s last meeting, released July 10, showed
“about half” of 19 participants in a Federal Open Market
Committee discussion indicated “it likely would be
appropriate” to end the purchases late this year.  “The general consensus is that QE tapering is still coming
in September, and I don’t think Bernanke’s comments have changed
that,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit, said by phone from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  ECB Pledge  ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged last week to keep
borrowing costs low for an extended period. The ECB’s key
interest rate is a  record-low  0.5 percent.  “We still have the Fed normalizing policy; on the other
hand, we have the ECB, which is clearly on the path of becoming
more expansionary,” said  Ulrich Leuchtmann , the head of
currency strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “People are
betting now on good entry levels for U.S.-dollar long
positions.” A long position is a bet that an asset will gain.  Fitch said it downgraded France by one step to AA+, from
AAA. The cut highlighted concern about lack of growth and the
buildup of debt in Europe’s second-largest economy.  Portuguese 10-year bonds dropped for a third day as
political upheaval in the nation intensified. President Anibal
Cavaco Silva said July 9 that early elections were undesirable
and urged the ruling coalition parties and the main opposition
to reach a “national salvation” pact.  The bond  yields  climbed to 7.84 percent, approaching a
seven-month intraday high of 8.11 percent reached July 3.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $29 billion, compared with $29 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $4.9 billion, the
largest share of trades at 17 percent. Euro-dollar options
totaled $4.5 billion, or 16 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 44 percent less than the
average for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
67 percent more than average.  Australia’s dollar slid against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as traders increased bets the nation’s central bank
will cut interest rates next month from a record low.  Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 66
percent chance the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will cut its 2.75
percent benchmark  rate  to an unprecedented 2.5 percent at its
next meeting on Aug. 6. The probability was 45 percent at the
start of the week.  The Aussie dropped 1.5 percent to 90.49 U.S. cents and
touched 89.99 cents, the weakest since September 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  