-- Draghi Impotent as Fed Trumps ECB on Yield Curve
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-07-12T15:03:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/draghi-impotent-as-fed-trumps-ecb-on-yield-curve-euro-credit.html
The widest gap between two- and 10-year  German yields  in more than a year suggests the  European
Central Bank  is struggling to protect the region’s economy from
a U.S.-led surge in borrowing costs.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged last week to keep
 interest rates  low for an “extended period of time,” capping
yields on bonds with maturities of three years or less. Longer-dated borrowing costs tracked Treasury yields higher after the
U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it may scale back its bond-buying
program. Borrowing costs for companies in the euro region rose
to the most in eight months in June.  “The steeper yield curve in the euro area effectively
means an increase in funding costs for both sovereign and
corporate borrowers without an associated change in inflation or
growth,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in  London . “What Draghi did will
influence shorter-dated rates. They don’t have an efficient tool
at the moment to deal with long-term yields which are being
driven by the Fed.”  The difference between German two- and 10-year yields rose
to 161 basis points on July 5, the widest since April 2012 on a
closing basis, while in  Spain  the gap is within 10 basis points
of its highest in a year.  Italy’s 30-year borrowing cost  has
climbed almost 50 basis points since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers on May 22 that the central bank may
begin tapering bond purchases “in the next few meetings,” as
long as the local economy continues to grow.  Corporate Bonds  The yield on euro-region corporate bonds reached 2.38
percent on June 24, the highest since Oct. 11 and up from a
euro-era low of 1.72 percent as recently as May, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate Index.  “We are now seeing a wholesale rise in bond yields,” said
 Michael Leister , a fixed-income strategist at Commerzbank AG in
London. “It’s clear the ECB is capable of protecting the front
end of the euro market. It’s more difficult further down the
curve because of the influence of U.S. Treasuries on the global
 bond market .”  While U.S. data suggest the recovery there is gaining
traction,  Europe  is struggling to emerge from the longest
recession since the introduction of the single currency in 1999.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey predict the euro-area
economy stagnated in the second quarter.  Unemployment Forecast  Looking ahead, gross domestic product will rise just 0.1
percent in the three months through September and 0.2 percent in
the subsequent two quarters, according to the median forecast in
the survey. At the same time, unemployment is forecast to rise
to a record 12.4 percent this year.  In pledging to keep rates low on July 4, the ECB departed
from a tradition of never “pre-committing” on monetary policy.
While the ECB’s version of forward guidance differs from that of
other central banks, which have tied interest-rate moves to
particular economic indicators or a timeframe, analysts said it
signifies a major change in European central banking.  More than three-quarters of respondents in the Bloomberg
monthly survey of 50 economists said that Draghi’s definition of
an extended period is likely to exceed 12 months, while 10 said
it may be anywhere between six months and a year. The Frankfurt-based central bank will keep its benchmark rates unchanged until
at least 2015, the median of 34 economists shows.  Bond Losses  German bonds due in 10 years or longer handed investors a
5.43 percent loss in May and June, compared with a 0.62 percent
decline in notes that mature within five years, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Italian  two-year notes  yielded 1.71 percent at 3:56 p.m.
London time, up from 1.37 percent at the start of May. The 10-year yield climbed more than 50 basis points in the same period
to 4.47 percent.  The ECB may have to consider a new approach to curb long-term borrowing costs, said Jack Kelly, who helps oversee $250
billion at Standard Life Investments in Edinburgh. The central
bank pledged in September to buy unlimited notes from troubled
countries, under a program called Outright Monetary
Transactions, if officially asked.  German newspaper  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  reported last month
that ECB officials are considering a policy of quantitative
easing in the euro region. ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen later played down the report, saying that discussion
wasn’t “policy-relevant.”  Legitimate Debate  “There will be a more legitimized debate and argument
about QE now than there was before because the justification
will be about keeping borrowing costs low across the board and
not about supporting individual sovereigns,” Kelly said. “The
ECB may not need to use it, but including QE in its lexicon
might be sufficient to keep a lid on yields.”  In the meantime, Kelly said he remains wary of longer-dated
 government securities  in the euro region.  “The recent backup in yields at the front end of the core
market offered an opportunity to buy because there is no risk of
early tightening by the ECB,” Kelly said. “There is little the
ECB can do with its current tools to mitigate the impact of the
Fed’s policy on longer-term rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  