-- Druckenmiller Backs Zuckerberg’s Immigration Reform Group
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-07-12T15:46:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/druckenmiller-backs-zuckerberg-s-immigration-reform-group.html
Stanley Druckenmiller  is backing
 Mark Zuckerberg ’s efforts to bring about immigration reform in
the U.S., becoming the first Wall Street veteran to contribute
to the  Facebook Inc. (FB)  founder’s bipartisan advocacy group.  Druckenmiller, 60, who has one of the best hedge-fund track
records of the last three decades, joins technology titans
including Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates and LinkedIn Corp.
Executive Chairman Reid Hoffman, who’ve donated to Zuckerberg’s
FWD.us. The group, founded earlier this year, lobbied to help
get a comprehensive  immigration bill  passed by the U.S. Senate
on June 27.  “As a New Yorker, it is easy to appreciate the role
immigration has played in making America the dynamic and
competitive economy it has been throughout our history,”
Druckenmiller said in an e-mailed statement. “I was pleased to
see FWD.us and the tech community come together with a new and
innovative approach to play a key role in helping push critical
reforms through Senate passage.”  The Senate bill combines a path to citizenship for 11
million undocumented immigrants already in the U.S. with a $46
billion border-security plan. While 14 Senate Republicans joined
Democrats in passing the bill, many House Republicans oppose the
citizenship path. The Republican-led U.S. House has said it
plans to handle immigration legislation through individual
bills, rather than through the Senate’s broader plan.  Other Donors  Other major donors to FWD.us include Netflix Inc. chief
executive officer  Reed Hastings , Yahoo! Inc. CEO Marissa Mayer
and Google Inc. executive chairman  Eric Schmidt , according to
the group’s website.  “We could not be prouder that Stan Druckenmiller is
joining our efforts to pass comprehensive immigration reform
that boosts our economy and does right by American families,”
Joe Green, the president of FWD.us, said in a statement.  Druckenmiller stopped managing client money in 2010 after
three decades in the business, including more than 10 years as
chief strategist for billionaire  George Soros . From 1986 through
2010, he produced average annual returns of 30 percent at his
hedge fund Duquesne Capital Management LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  