-- Dutch Plan to Stick to Adjusted Discount Rate in Pension Revamp
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-07-12T16:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/dutch-plan-to-stick-to-adjusted-discount-rate-in-pension-revamp.html
Dutch pension funds will be allowed
to calculate liabilities on the basis of an adjusted discount
rate as the government seeks to keep the retirement system
viable amid low  interest rates  and an aging population.  The nation’s retirement funds, which oversee the equivalent
of $1.3 trillion in assets, will be able to keep valuing their
long-term liabilities on the basis of a “stable and realistic
interest rate,” known as the ultimate forward rate, according
to plans  published  today by the government. They will also be
allowed to calculate solvency ratios, a measure of assets
relative to future benefit payments, as a 12-month average.  Out of 415 retirement funds in the Netherlands, 66 said
they would cut pensions by 1.9 percent on average this year as
their financial buffers were below the regulatory threshold at
the end of last year. More than half expected another cut would
be needed next year, the central bank said in April.  The funds’ solvency ratios have been depressed as
liabilities are discounted at a market rate, meaning their value
rises as rates decline. Even more funds would have to resort to
cuts had the government not allowed them to use the ultimate
forward rate as a provisional measure from October.  The adjusted rate is used to calculate liabilities in 20 to
60 years’ time. The funds may use a three-month average swap
rate to calculate liabilities with a maturity of less than 20
years, the government said in September. The plans announced
today are meant to replace the temporary measures announced then
as a longer-term reform. The government invited interested
parties to comment on the proposals by Sept. 6.  ‘Drastic Measures’  The use of an average solvency ratio and the ultimate
forward rate prevents “drastic measures as a result of sudden
swings in the ratio,” the government said.  Under the proposals, funds can choose to offer their
members a contract with guaranteed payouts, implying they have
to maintain higher buffers and limit investment risks, or switch
to a model that allows increases at least in line with
inflation. Under the latter option, the funds will need higher
investment returns and therefore riskier investments, Social
Affair State Secretary Jetta Klijnsma said in the proposals.  The Netherlands had 1 trillion euros in pension assets at
the end of the first quarter, according to  Dutch central bank 
data. The assets are held in collective plans run by industry,
company and occupational pension funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  