-- Leap Wireless Call Options Traded Most Since 2012
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-07-12T23:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/leap-wireless-call-options-traded-most-since-2012-before-buyout.html
Bullish options  trading  in  Leap
Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  reached the highest level since
November prior to the announcement of its takeover by  AT&T Inc. (T)   About 6,700 calls changed hands yesterday on Leap, about
5.6 times the 20-day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
After the close of exchanges, AT&T said it agreed to pay $15 a
share in cash for the San Diego-based wireless services
provider, an 88 percent premium over the closing price of $7.98.  Because options are bought and sold for fractions of the
price of shares and amplify returns, they are often used to
speculate on takeovers. American securities regulators policing
insider trading have stepped up scrutiny of derivatives markets,
most recently alleging on July 1 that a former Dow Chemical Co.
executive and two others made illegal trades with stock and
calls of Rohm & Hass Co. in 2008.  “Someone was very confident the stock was going to go
up,” Stephen Solaka, who oversees about $75 million including
options as co-founder of Belmont Capital Group in Los Angeles,
said by telephone. “It’s fairly common prior to takeovers. That
type of activity will show up in the options markets prior to an
actual announcement.”  Greg Lund, a spokesman for Leap, and Brad Burns, a
spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to comment.  John Nester , a spokesman for the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, didn’t respond to after-hours phone calls and emails
seeking comment.  Bullish Contracts  Calls made up nine of the most-active Leap options
yesterday. August $9 calls, with an exercise price 13 percent
above the last close, were the most traded, followed by July $9
and October $8 calls, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 1,318 calls with a strike price of $9 expiring on
July 20 changed hands, compared with 10 contracts trading
yesterday. The options surged 50 percent to 12 cents. The August
$9 calls jumped 17 percent to 42 cents and the October $8 calls
climbed 9.6 percent to $1.03.  “The July $9 calls definitely seemed to be a case of
uneven information dissemination,” Joe Kunkle, founder of
OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-based provider of options-market data
and analytics, said in an e-mail. “It was clearly speculative
action choosing the far out-of-the-money July $9 calls just one
week from options expiration.”  AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless carrier, will pay
about $1.2 billion for Leap, giving the company 5 million
customers, more airwaves and a larger piece of the pay-as-you-go
market. The shares more than doubled to as much as $17.78 in
extended trading yesterday, reflecting the value of AT&T’s offer
plus proceeds from the separate sale of spectrum in  Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  