-- Hamptons Choppers Lose Challenge to FAA Long Island Route
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-07-12T17:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/helicopter-pilots-lose-challenge-to-faa-long-island-shore-route.html
Helicopter pilots ferrying
passengers to the Hamptons lost their challenge to a  Federal
Aviation Administration  rule requiring them to use a route a
mile off the north shore of Long Island, New York.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  today rejected a
bid by the  Helicopter Association International Inc.  to overturn
an FAA rule requiring helicopters to take the route over the
Long Island Sound after north shore residents complained about
noise from chopper traffic.  Pilots preferred to fly overland along the north shore
because it was faster and weather delays were less common,
according to court documents. After complaints from residents,
local governments, citizen groups, businesses and trade
associations, the FAA made the route mandatory in 2012, with
exceptions for weather and helicopters not adequately equipped
for it.  The FAA found that “residents along the north shore of
 Long Island  emphatically agreed that helicopter overflights
during the summer months are unbearable and negatively impact
their quality of life,” according to the decision.  In rejecting the helicopter pilots’ challenge, U.S. Circuit
Judge Richard Roberts said that the FAA acted within its
authority.  The FAA has the power to “set standards to measure
aircraft noise and to prescribe regulations to control and abate
aircraft noise” as well as to make rules “to protect
individuals and property on the ground,” Roberts wrote in the
unanimous opinion.  “That is exactly what the FAA did here,” he said.  The case is Helicopter Association International v. Federal
Aviation Administration, 12-1335, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  