-- EPA Delay on Greenhouse Gas Biofuel Rules Tossed by Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-07-12T17:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/epa-delay-on-greenhouse-gas-rules-for-biofuels-tossed-by-court.html
A decision by the  U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency  to delay for three years making rules to curb
carbon dioxide emissions from biofuels was thrown out by the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington .  The EPA failed to spell out what the delay, known as the
deferral rule, would accomplish, according to a 2-1 ruling by a
three-judge panel.  “We simply have no idea what EPA believes constitutes
‘full compliance’ with the statute,” U.S. Circuit Judge David Tatel wrote for the majority. “In other words, the deferral
rule is one step towards ... what?”  In a concurring opinion, Judge  Brett Kavanaugh  said the EPA
was improperly treating carbon dioxide emissions from ethanol
and other biofuels differently from other sources of the gas.  “EPA simply lacks statutory authority to distinguish
biogenic carbon dioxide from other forms of carbon dioxide” for
regulatory purposes, Kavanaugh wrote.  Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson dissented, writing that “I
believe EPA can -- and should -- defer regulation until it has
the time it says it needs to study and resolve the issue it is
charged with regulating.”  Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas, which trap heat in the
atmosphere.  David Bloomgren, an EPA spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to telephone and e-mail requests for comment.  Forest Association  The EPA’s position was backed by the American Forest and
Paper Association, which intervened in the case in support of
the agency’s postponement of regulation.  “The court’s ruling creates great uncertainty about the
permitting requirements for biomass energy and underscores the
need for EPA to finalize its rulemaking on the treatment of
biogenic emissions,” Donna Harman, chief executive officer of
the Washington-base trade group, said in an e-mailed statement.  Bill Snape, senior counsel for the  Center for Biological
Diversity , which challenged the EPA delay, said the ruling
undoes an unwarranted concession by the Obama administration to
lobbying by timber and paper groups.  “EPA cannot just carve out exemptions for powerful
industries when they craft regulations for greenhouse gas,”
Snape said in a telephone interview.  The case is Center for Biological Diversity v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 11-1101, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Zajac  in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 