-- Mercosur Summons Ambassadors in Europe Over Snowden Asylum Spat
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-07-12T23:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/mercosur-summons-ambassadors-in-europe-over-snowden-asylum-spat.html
The Mercosur trade bloc will summon
ambassadors to four European nations after Bolivian President
 Evo Morales ’ plane was diverted on his way home from Russia last
week amid suspicion he was harboring Edward Snowden.  Mercosur members Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela and Uruguay
will summon for consultations their ambassadors to Spain,
France, Italy and Portugal and will present a formal note of
protest to each country, the bloc said in a statement issued
during meetings today in Montevideo. Bolivia is in the process
of becoming a full member of the bloc.  Morales’ flight home from a Moscow energy conference last
week was delayed after the four European countries refused him
overflight rights amid speculation he was harboring former U.S.
security contractor Snowden. Spanish insistence on searching the
plane during a planned refueling stop in the  Canary Islands 
further slowed his return home.  “This attitude against international rights constitutes a
grave offense not only against the rank of the president but
also against all of Mercosur, which merits a prompt
investigation,” the bloc said in the statement.  The incident has caused indignation in  Latin America  and
prompted Venezuela,  Nicaragua  and Bolivia to offer asylum to
Snowden, who is wanted by the U.S. after he revealed himself as
the source of leaks of U.S. National Security Agency programs.  Snowden, 30, has been stranded in a Moscow airport for
almost three weeks and today  in a statement  said he will seek
asylum in Russia after exposing classified U.S. programs that
collect telephone and Internet data. He said the U.S. and its
European allies are blocking him from traveling to Latin
America.  ‘Firm Position’  Brazil’s President  Dilma Rousseff  highlighted the
importance of the joint action of Mercosur countries on  cyber
security , and taking a “firm position” in the  United Nations 
to define rules for the protection of privacy. Brazilian
newspaper O Globo this week reported the NSA spied on security-related issues throughout the region, as well as what it called
“commercial secrets” related to oil in Venezuela and energy in
Mexico.  “Even if you need transnational cooperation to combat
terrorism and other transnational crimes, that is no
justification for the violation of individual rights of any
citizen in any country anywhere in the world,” Rousseff told
reporters in Montevideo today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  