-- Merkel Urges Slovenia to Fix Banks Citing Market Confidence
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-07-12T15:54:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/merkel-urges-slovenia-to-fix-banks-citing-market-confidence.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
urged Slovenia to stay the course and resolve its banking
crisis, which helped push the euro-area nation’s default risk to
a nine-week high in June.  “The Slovenian government knows what it needs to do,”
Merkel said after talks with Slovenian Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek in Berlin today. “My impression is that Slovenia is
doing everything it can to get onto a stable course that
overcomes the insecurity among international investors.”  Slovenian banks need stress tests that are conducted in an
“internationally accepted” way, Merkel said at a joint news
conference. She urged Bratusek’s government to carry out planned
privatizations and to ensure state companies are sold  “in a
transparent way.”  Slovenia has pledged to transfer bad loans to a government
agency and inject about 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) into
its top three banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., or
NLB, to avert the international bailout that Bratusek says the
country won’t need. Bad loans have surged at Slovenian banks
with the economy mired in the second recession since 2009.  “I do believe we’re on the right path to get out of the
crisis,” Bratusek said.  Bratusek asked the European Commission to speed up the
approval of state aid for NLB on June 28, while saying the
nation is late with rebuilding its financial industry. The cost
of protecting Slovenian government debt against default using
credit-default swaps rose on June 24 to the highest since mid-April, the month after Bratusek took office as Slovenia’s first
woman premier.  To finance the capital boost for banks, Slovenian lawmakers
approved revised 2013 spending yesterday that almost doubles the
deficit to 7.9 percent of gross domestic product. That would be
the highest shortfall in the European Union this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  