-- Eskom Has $25 Bn Hole Bonds Can’t Fill: S. Africa Credit
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-07-12T08:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/eskom-has-25-bn-hole-bonds-can-t-fill-south-africa.html
Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd. is facing a
$25 billion funding gap over the next five years that the South
African power utility may be unable to fill with bond sales,
jeopardizing timetables for building plants to avoid blackouts.  Yields on the power utility’s dollar bonds due January 2021
rose for the seventh straight day yesterday after Eskom on July
10 said it would need 50 billion rand ($5 billion) more than
planned to meet funding needs in the five years to 2018. The
rate climbed 40 basis points to 6.04 percent in the period,
versus a two basis-point rise in  South Africa ’s dollar debt due
in March 2020 and a nine basis-point jump in the average yield
of emerging-market utilities tracked by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Eskom, which generates about 95 percent of South Africa’s
power, delayed the start of the world’s fourth-biggest coal-fired power plant this week by at least six months after labor
disruptions and the discovery of faulty boiler welds. The
failure to push through big-enough price increases has created a
225 billion-rand cash-flow shortfall as the company struggles to
meet the continent’s biggest economy’s electricity demands.  “The big question is how much they can raise,” Morten Groth, who manages $1.7 billion in emerging-market bonds at
 Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK)  in Silkeborg,  Denmark , said by phone yesterday.
“Raising that money from markets in the traditional way would
be tough. One potential could be raising money from a country
like  China , or a sovereign wealth fund.”  Borrowing Needs  While Eskom had planned to borrow just over 200 billion
rand in the five years through 2018, it plans to add 50 billion
rand to that because of the lower price increase, said Caroline Henry, the company’s treasurer and acting financial director.
The energy regulator will allow Eskom to raise prices by an
average of 8 percent in each of the next five fiscal years that
started in April, half the amount the company had requested.  “We will have to go out to both the domestic and
international markets on bond issues,” she said on a July 10
conference call. “We’re also looking at other forms of
financing.”  Though Eskom said it can fund 15 percent of the shortfall,
it is yet to determine where money for the rest will come from,
Paul O’Flaherty, who left his position as finance director on
July 10, told reporters that day.  Debt Guarantees  Eskom’s costs for coal, which the company uses to generate
85 percent of its power, surged 24 percent in the year through
March, and the regulator has provided for single-digit increases
in the next five years, O’Flaherty said on the call.  Eskom has about 203 billion rand of debt and interest
outstanding, it said in a July 9 presentation. The South African
government guarantees as much as 350 billion rand of the state-owned power utility’s debt.  Because of the government support, Eskom shares South
Africa’s BBB credit rating at  Standard & Poor’s , the second-lowest investment grade. Without the state, the company’s
standalone assessment is six steps lower at B, S&P says. Eskom
isn’t seeking further support at present, Henry said.  “The government needs to guarantee the debt,” Andre Roux,
who as head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management manages
120 billion rand of South African bonds, said by phone
yesterday. “I don’t think anyone would lend Eskom money without
some government support given the uncertainty in the tariff
environment, in the build program and the timing and costs.”  Plant Delays  The rand slipped 0.5 percent to 10.0405 per dollar by 10:19
a.m. in Johannesburg, extending the decline this year to 16
percent. It’s the worst performer against the dollar in 2013
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Delivery of the first power from Eskom’s 4,800-megawatt
Medupi coal-fired plant has been delayed by at least six months
to mid-2014 because of labor unrest and “underperformance” by
contractors, raising its cost by as much as 15 percent to 105
billion rand.  “This is an MBA project on how not to run a company,”
Reuben Beelders, a  fund manager  at Gryphon Asset Management in
 Cape Town , who helps oversee 3.5 billion rand of assets, said by
phone. “It’s absolutely disastrous. They’ve got a lot of work
to do to restore confidence in their ability to manage the
operation.”  Eskom didn’t immediately respond when called for comment.  Electricity Demand  Power demand has threatened to overwhelm Eskom’s capacity,
especially during the winter months. The nation had a peak
power-supply deficit of 515 megawatts on June 13. The target is
for supply to exceed demand by 15 percent.  South Africans  were
confronted by average power-price increases of 25 percent in
each of the past six years to help Eskom finance spending to
overcome the shortage. A megawatt is enough electricity capacity
to power as many as 1,000 homes.  Selling half of the 250 billion rand of debt locally and
half overseas “is not mindblowingly large,” Investec’s Roux
said. A bigger problem for Eskom is the global sell-off of
emerging-market bonds, he said, referring to rising yields since
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last month signaled he
may slow bond buying should the U.S. economic recovery continue.
On July 10, Bernanke called for maintaining stimulus.  Foreign investors have been net buyers of 19.3 billion rand
of bonds this year, 79 percent less than a year earlier,
according to data from JSE Ltd., which runs the nation’s stock
and bond exchanges.  “South Africa government bonds will not escape that
trend,” Beelders said. “The cost of borrowing is likely to
rise. That’s bad for Eskom. They have decided to expand capacity
at a point in time that is not opportune.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  