-- Europe Stocks Little Changed as M&A Offsets Utility Drop
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-12T15:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/european-stock-futures-little-changed-after-rally.html
European  stocks  were little changed
from a five-week high, as investors awaited U.S. earnings next
week, while merger and acquisition activity offset a selloff in
Spanish utility companies.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  surged 15 percent after  Schneider Electric SA (SU) 
offered about 3.3 billion pounds ($5 billion) for the U.K.
company. Phoenix Group Holdings rose 10 percent after saying it
is in talks to combine with a unit of Swiss Re. Spanish
utilities slid on government plans to cut profit for renewable
energy companies and the electric grid operator.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.1 percent to
296.2 at the close of trading, after earlier advancing as much
as 0.6 percent. The gauge has climbed 2.7 percent this week
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S.
economy still needs stimulus and Alcoa Inc. started the earnings
season with better-than-estimated results.  “The earnings seasons starts in earnest next week and that
is going to be key for the market,” said Nick Xanders, an
equity strategist at BTIG Ltd. in  London . “Investors will
likely focus on the full year guidance given a large proportion
of companies were expecting a second half rebound when they gave
guidance at the end of Q1.”  Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are among
companies to  report earnings  in the U.S. next week. Profit at
companies listed on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index probably
rose 1.8 percent last quarter, according to Bloomberg data. That
compares with a projection of 8.7 percent six months ago.  National Indexes  National benchmark indexes climbed in eight of the 18
western-European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose less
than 0.1 percent while  Germany ’s DAX climbed 0.7 percent.
 France ’s CAC 40 dropped 0.4 percent.  Invensys jumped 15 percent to 508 pence after Schneider
Electric, the world’s largest maker of low- and medium-voltage
equipment, offered to pay 505 pence a share for the British
company. The bid comprises 319 pence in cash and 186 pence in
new Schneider shares. Invensys said it indicated to the French
company that it will probably recommend the offer. Schneider
fell 4.1 percent to 55.70 euros in Paris.  Phoenix jumped 10 percent to 719 pence after the U.K.’s
biggest manager of closed life-insurance funds said it’s in
preliminary talks to combine with Swiss Re’s Admin Re unit.  Sky News reported on the talks late yesterday, saying it
would be a 3 billion-pound merger and would create a business
with more than 100 billion pounds under management and close to
10 million policy holders. Swiss Re rose 0.6 percent to 72.30
Swiss francs in Zurich.  Swedish Match  Swedish Match AB gained 2.6 percent to 248.60 kronor in
 Stockholm  after the Daily Mail reported speculation that
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc may make a bid of 350 kronor ($52.51)
a share for the maker of smokeless-tobacco products. The
newspaper did not cite anyone.  Daimler AG jumped 6.2 percent to 52.35 euros. The world’s
third-largest maker of luxury cars posted second-quarter profit
that beat analyst predictions following the sale of its final
holding in the parent company of planemaker  Airbus SAS. (EAD)   Earnings before interest and taxes totaled 5.2 billion
euros ($6.8 billion), the Stuttgart, Germany-based company said
in a statement. Profit exceeded the 3.31 billion euros average
of six analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  SAP AG (SAP)  climbed 1.2 percent to 57.36 euros and  Cap Gemini SA (CAP) 
gained 1.8 percent to 39.95 euros as peer Infosys Ltd. surged
the most in six months in Mumbai trading after first-quarter
profit rose and the company’s sales forecast in dollar terms
beat analyst estimates.  Peugeot Alliance  PSA Peugeot Citroen rallied 4.2 percent to 7.87 euros, its
highest price in a year, amid speculation the carmaker may form
an alliance and succeed in a turnaround.  “The first-half sales weren’t so bad, and the company
seems to be getting its cash burn under control,” said Sascha Gommel, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “There’s
also an expectation that Peugeot will move to find a partner.”  Le Figaro reported that France, which has a seat on the
carmaker’s board, plans to hire an investment bank as an
adviser. The newspaper didn’t say where it got the information.  Spanish Utilities  In Spain, the government announced plans to cut profit for
renewable energy companies and the electric grid operator as
part of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s effort to eliminate a 4.5
billion euro deficit forecast this year for the industry.  Iberdrola SA (IBE) , Spain’s biggest power company, fell 3.4
percent to 3.87 euros.  Endesa SA (ELE)  slumped 4.6 percent to 16
euros, while  Acciona SA (ANA) , which owns more than 4 gigawatts of
wind farms in the country, tumbled 8.5 percent to 37.95 euros.
Red Electrica Corp. slid 7.5 percent to 38.34 euros.  Reckitt Benckiser Plc (RB/)  declined 5.1 percent to 4,677 pence
after CVS Caremark Corp. removed the film version of the
company’s opiod-dependency drug Suboxone from its list of
covered medications, jeopardizing sales and profits at a unit
that makes up one-fifth of Reckitt’s earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  