-- European Stocks Post Weekly Gain Amid Stimulus Optimism
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-07-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/european-stocks-post-weekly-gain-amid-stimulus-optimism.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly gain in two months amid optimism that central banks from
the U.S. to  Japan  will continue their stimulus measures.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, surged 10 percent after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. upgraded the shares. Ashmore Group Plc jumped 15
percent after reporting net inflows of $4.5 billion in its
fiscal fourth quarter. Red Electrica Corp. dropped 6.5 percent
as Spain’s government said it will limit returns for the
transportation and generation of power.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 2.7 percent to 296.2 this
past week, its biggest gain since the week ending April 26. The
gauge has pared its retreat from its 2013 high on  May 22 to 4.6
percent  as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
U.S. economy still needs stimulus and Alcoa Inc. started the
earnings season with results that beat analysts’ estimates.  “Following the Fed’s fairly unequivocal comments on
maintaining loose monetary policy, with specific reference to
the unacceptable  unemployment rate , equities have rallied
again,”  Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown
Plc in London, wrote in an e-mail. “Elsewhere, there have been
mixed messages emanating from China, with some caution ahead of
the impending second-quarter growth numbers due next Monday
being offset by hopes of further stimulus in the region.”  Fed Stimulus  Bernanke said on July 10 that the U.S. economy will
continue to need stimulus measures because of low inflation and
high unemployment.  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy ,” Bernanke said in
response to a question following a speech in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. The  Federal Open Market Committee  released the
minutes of its June 18-19 meeting earlier the same day. They
showed many Fed officials wanted to see more signs  employment  is
improving before agreeing to trim bond purchases. About half of
the 19 participants wanted to halt the $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases by the end of the year.  Alcoa, the first member of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
to report quarterly results, posted profit excluding some
expenses of 7 cents a share. That beat the 6-cent average of 15
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell to $5.85 billion.
That still beat the $5.79 billion average projection.  Bank of Japan  In  Asia , the  Bank of Japan  indicated on July 11 that it
will continue with its accommodative policies.  In a speech in a Singapore on June 12,  European Central
Bank  executive-board member Vitor Constancio said that the euro
area’s slow economic recovery “implies that monetary policy has
to stay accommodative for a longer period of time.”  RBS (RBS)  surged 10 percent after Goldman Sachs increased its
rating on the state-owned lender to buy from neutral. The U.S.
investment bank said a split of RBS would allow the bank to
focus on profitable operations while accelerating a
privatization of the bank.  A gauge of mining companies jumped 5.6 percent this week as
copper and lead climbed. BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group,
the world’s  two biggest mining companies , jumped 8 percent and
6.2 percent, respectively. Anglo American Plc, the world’s
largest platinum producer, rose 6.4 percent.  Ashmore surged 15 percent after reporting net inflows of
$4.5 billion in its fiscal fourth quarter. The U.K. fund manager
focused on  emerging markets  said conditions proved more
challenging toward the end of the quarter.  Invensys Plc soared 21 percent as the British maker of
industrial software and control systems received a 3.3 billion-pound ($5 billion) takeover proposal from Schneider Electric SA.
The French maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment offered to
pay 505 pence a share.  Portugal’s Banks  Portugal’s PSI 20 Index slipped 0.8 percent this week as
President Anibal Cavaco Silva urged the two-party coalition and
the main opposition grouping to reach an agreement to let the
government complete its aid program.  While the president’s stance allows the government to stay
in office for now, he didn’t say if he accepted Prime Minister
 Pedro Passos Coelho ’s proposal to promote Paulo Portas to vice
premier with responsibility for negotiating over austerity
measures with the European Commission, the European Central Bank
and the  International Monetary Fund .  Banco Espirito Santo SA, the nation’s second-biggest listed
bank, retreated 3.6 percent.  Red Electrica dropped 6.5 percent as Spain’s Industry
Minister Jose Manuel Soria said the state will set limits on
returns for renewable-energy generators and cut capacity
payments for gas-fired plants. He added that consumers will have
to pay an additional 900 million euros.  G4S Plc slumped 7.4 percent after the U.K. government
referred the provider of security services to the  Serious Fraud
Office . The Lord Chancellor said G4S overcharged for its
electronic-tagging services and claimed money for monitoring
dead people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  