-- Ex-BOE’s Jenkins Says Basel Bank Rules are a ‘Busted Flush’
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-12T11:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/ex-boe-s-jenkins-says-basel-bank-rules-are-a-busted-flush-.html
Robert Jenkins , a former member of
the  Bank of England ’s Financial Policy Committee, comments on
bank regulation and his tenure on the panel from July 2011 to
April 2013.  On the Basel III framework:  “The new regulatory arrangements rely heavily on a Risk
Weighted Assets regime which is too complex and a leverage ratio
which permits gearing that is too great. Basel III is a busted
flush. The banking lobby would be only too happy to settle for
these ‘tough, new rules.’ The taxpayer should not.”  On whether Basel III leverage limits will be adequate:  “No. Basel III will permit banks to fund 97 percent of
their risk taking with debt. In other words, only 3 percent of
loss absorbing equity funding will stand between a bank’s risk-taking prowess and recourse to the taxpayer. And we know all
about bankers’ risk-taking prowess. Going forward bond holders
will take the hit before the taxpayer. But how long do you
suppose a bank’s creditors are going to hang around as that tiny
sliver of loss-absorbing equity erodes? Bank funding will flee.
No funding -- no lending.  For that matter no bank -- absent
bailout or life support.”  On the British Bankers’ Association’s argument that a  leverage
ratio  is a blunt instrument with potential unintended
consequences:  “It is blunt in that it is more difficult for banks to
evade than the flawed alternative of Risk Weights.  Basel II , the
failed predecessor to Basel III, established the concept of Risk
Weighted Assets. The idea is that some risks are riskier than
others and therefore equity funding should vary with the
particular type of risk run by banks. It is an appealing
concept. Now it is certainly true that risks vary but it is also
certain that bankers and regulators will misjudge those risks.
How much loss-absorbing capital did the boys in Basel require of
investments in Greek  government bonds ? Answer: Zero. How much
loss absorbing capital did they require in support of CDOs
squared? Forty pence for every 100 pounds of the stuff. How much
do the new improved Basel III rules require of these same
securities that neither banker, investors, rating agency or
regulator was able to judge? Answer -- less than 1.4 percent of
the notional exposure.  ‘‘Bankers prefer the RwA approach because they can
currently choose whether to use their own models to calculate
the risks or instead, select the weightings set by Basel --
whichever approach permits more leverage. Studies by the
Financial Services Authority,  International Monetary Fund  and
 Bank for International Settlements  all confirm that different
banks calculate the same risks in widely different ways. It is
an increasingly discredited system. But it is the one preferred
by the banking lobby. Perhaps they know best -- but is that the
way to bet?  On U.K. regulation exceeding Basel requirements:  ‘‘In one sense, the U.K. has done so with its ring-fencing
initiative. But much of bank risk-taking will remain outside the
ring-fence and so we come back to the key question of leverage.
And here government remains wedded to Basel despite non-partisan
advice to the contrary.  As you know, the Independent Commission
on Banking led by Sir  John Vickers  recommended a leverage ratio
of 4 percent (i.e. a limit to gearing of 25 times). Government
rejected it. The Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards
has recommended the same. Government remains reluctant. The
interim FPC of the Bank of England asked for the power to vary
leverage. This key tool has been withheld by government.  ‘‘In other words, three independent bodies made
recommendations which might reduce leverage levels relative to
those permitted by Basel. Government has ignored all three. This
is both tragic and sad.  ‘‘It is tragic because it means that some of the banks of
the world’s largest financial center may be among the most
fragile. It is sad because in the first years of the new
government, the U.K. was at the forefront of financial reform.
It has now been left behind by the Swiss, the Swedes and, if
recent reports of Federal Reserve thinking are accurate -- by
the U.S. as well. Given that the assets of the U.K.’s banks
exceed four times U.K. GDP you would think Her Majesty’s
Treasury would err on the size of caution.’’  On the influence of bank lobbying on government policy:  ‘‘Given the above, you be the judge. I fear that the banks
have bamboozled government into believing that society must
choose between safety and growth; between safer banks and bank
shareholder value; and between a safer financial framework and a
competitive City of  London . These are all false choices. Lower
leverage is compatible with economic growth; it is compatible
with attractive risk-adjusted shareholder returns, and it
compatible with the success of the U.K. as a global financial
center. Higher capital and lower leverage are just not
compatible with past levels of banker pay. And there’s the
rub.’’  On U.S. proposals to raise equity funding requirements to 5 or 6
percent:  ‘‘I would go much further. But the proposals sound like a
step in the right direction. How big a step depends on the
degree to which derivatives are included in the denominator of
the equity-to-asset ratio. I also want to study  Thomas Hoenig ’s
reaction and testimony. The vice chairman of the U.S. Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation is a smart cookie and doesn’t duck
the issues. One thing is for sure: these developments undercut
the argument that more restrictions on leverage here in the U.K.
will cause Britain’s banks to decamp to  New York . It is one of
several guns that bankers have held to the government’s head.
The gun is filled with blanks.”  On  Barclays Plc (BARC) :  “Barclays is the poster child for excess leverage. Its
balance sheet is roughly the size of the U.K.’s GDP. It funds
1.5 trillion pounds of risk-taking with 97.5 percent debt and
2.5 percent loss-absorbing equity. The average hedge fund trades
with less than 3 times leverage. Barclays has chosen to operate
with 45 times leverage.  ‘‘So Barclays deploys gearing 15 times that of most  hedge
funds . If the bank’s assets eroded in value by a mere 1.5
percent, it would be 100 times leveraged. How confidence
inspiring is that? How long would its creditors stick around to
find out? Antony Jenkins has been happy to take the risk. His
board is happy to let him do so.  ‘‘His regulator is a bit less enthusiastic. The  Prudential
Regulatory Authority  has asked Barclays to get to the Basel III
minimum of 3 percent equity sooner rather than later. That will
still leave the largest bank in the land leveraged 33 times.  ‘‘In his first public comments on the regulator’s request,
the new chief executive officer of the ‘new’ Barclays appeared
to threaten to cut back lending if he were forced to become a
tiny bit safer a tiny bit sooner than he had planned. In a
published letter I pointed out half a dozen other ways that the
bank could reach the ratio without hurting the economy. I then
simply asked if the CEO’s statement constituted a threat,
hubris, reflex or just plain stupidity. Whatever you want to
call it, it sure sounded like the old Barclays.  On the European Union cap on bonuses, and whether bankers bought
it on themselves:  ‘‘They brought it on themselves but it won’t solve the
problem. As a member of the FPC, my main concern was that the
structure of pay should not undermine financial stability.
‘Heads I win/tails the taxpayer loses’ is a recipe for
recklessness. Add to the mix a level of leverage of 33 times or
more. Now multiply by trillion pound balance sheets and systemic
shock is assured.  ‘‘More capital can limit the public damage from reckless
risk-taking. More accountability can reduce the recklessness to
begin with. Investment-banking partnerships would never have
dreamed of taking the magnitude of risks with their own money
that they now happily take with the capital of others. So you
either reintroduce a liability-like partnership structure or you
withhold the rewards for risk-taking until the risks taken
mature and the results are known.’’  On the financial-stability impact of unwinding monetary
stimulus:  ‘‘The recent bond market episode constitutes an early
rehearsal for reversal. Market participants now realize that the
great unwind is going to be a rocky road indeed. But they should
also try to understand why that is.  ‘‘Central banks worry about four things: 1) inflation; 2)
economic growth; 3) financial stability; and 4) political
pressure. On the way down and on the way into these
extraordinary policies all four factors favored monetary ease
and liquidity largesse. Inflation was not a concern; economic
depression loomed; financial panic warranted any and all
measures to restore liquidity and confidence; and politicians
were supportive of every intervention that might support the
economy.  ‘‘Now, however, these same four factors threaten to pull in
different directions and to different degrees. And this will
make clarity of policy communication even more difficult on the
way out than it was on the way in.  ‘‘This has implications for the effectiveness of forward
guidance. In short, volatility is likely. More importantly there
is the danger that many of these factors will conspire to lead
policy makers to do too little too late rather than too much too
soon.’’  On his practice of speaking frequently about leverage:  ‘‘We are working our way through the biggest credit bubble
in history. Now bubbles are not new. They are always the same
and always a little bit different. They inevitably involve heavy
doses of greed, stupidity and leverage. What distinguishes our
most recent episode is the extent and magnitude of leverage. We
cannot outlaw greed and we will not abolish stupidity. But we
can and must address the issue of leverage.’’  On his time on the FPC:  ‘‘It was a privilege to serve and enormously satisfying to
do so. I am very grateful to have had the opportunity.  On why he wasn’t appointed to a second term:  ‘‘Her Majesty’s Treasury found more suitable candidates.’’  On the skill set at the FPC:  ‘‘Given the committee’s remit, it would be helpful to
include people expert in insurance and investment management.
When liquidity crises strike, it is useful to understand the
people who have the money as well as the ones who need it.’’  On the government’s Help to Buy program and whether the FPC was
consulted:  ‘‘We were not consulted and I am not sure that we should
have been. But the FPC must monitor the policy’s impact on
housing prices and the potential it or other policies might have
for creating bubbles.’’  On concerns about the independence of the FPC:  ‘‘The FPC was a bold initiative. Government is to be
congratulated on its establishment. To be effective it will need
the appropriate tools and the courage to use them. It is
understandable that government might want to reserve to itself
as many economic levers as possible; understandable but not
easily reconcilable with the objective of the committee to take
unpopular decisions where necessary.’’  On his biggest surprise during his tenure on the FPC:  ‘‘Where is the banker-statesman? I am surprised and
disheartened by the complete absence amongst serving CEOs of
statesman-like qualities. Now there are CEOs of large banks who
are smart and capable. There are chief executives who have the
ear of politicians and influence their thinking. And there are a
few who have been willing to stand up in public and voice a
view.  ‘‘But please name one who has acknowledged the industry’s
failings, embraced the need for reform and then got out and
worked with wisdom, humility, selflessness and objectivity to
structure a sound, stable and fair financial system. Most have
fought the regulatory agenda. None has got out in front of it --
much less set it. Society deserves better of the financial
leaders who claim to be serving Society. I am surprised that
none of the current crop has seized the opportunity.  ‘‘The high point was progress in debunking the banking
lobby’s self-serving propaganda. The low point was the
realization that many still swallow it.’’  Advice to future FPC members, some of whom will serve part-time,
as he did:  ‘‘Be prepared to devote a full three days a week. Take
advantage of the central bank’s enormous and available resources
in order to examine in an unbiased way the issues at hand. Then,
stand up and speak out. We sit at one of the most interesting
and challenging junctures in financial history.  A seat at the
FPC should not be seen as a resume builder. It is an opportunity
to contribute. Members can make a difference -- first and
foremost to the lives of the ordinary citizen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  