-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Bankers Quit Rosneft After Eight Months
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-07-12T16:55:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/ex-morgan-stanley-bankers-quit-rosneft-after-eight-months.html
Three former employees of  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  left OAO Rosneft after eight months at the firm as
Russia’s largest oil company switched its bank’s strategy to
focus on corporate and consumer banking.  Rair Simonyan and Elena Titova, Morgan Stanley’s two top
bankers in Moscow, and Walid Chammah, a former head of its
international unit, departed from the Russian Regional
Development Bank, Rosneft said in an e-mailed statement today.  Igor Sechin, an ally of President Vladimir Putin who runs
Rosneft, hired the trio and Igor Kan, former head of Russian
equities at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in Moscow, to help hedge the
company’s oil risk. Simonyan, Titova and Chammah joined from
Morgan Stanley in November along with 10 of the U.S. bank’s
support staff.  Sechin didn’t respond to requests for more information on
Rosneft’s banking plans. Chammah declined to comment by phone.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former head of the
International Monetary Fund, was appointed to the bank’s
supervisory board, a spokeswoman for Rosneft said on the usual
condition of anonymity. Strauss-Kahn left the IMF in 2011 after
facing allegations including the attempted rape of a hotel maid
in New York. He denied the charges, which were later dropped,
and he settled the maid’s lawsuit last year.  Morgan Stanley, based in New York, was Russia’s top mergers
and acquisitions adviser in 2010 and 2011. It tumbled to seventh
position last year after the Rosneft defections, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S. bank advised Rosneft on its $10.4 billion initial
public offering in 2006,  Russia ’s largest. It was one of the
first U.S. financial firms to enter Russia after the Soviet
Union collapsed, opening an office in Moscow in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  