-- Texas Money Manager Sued by Regulators Over Forex Fraud Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-07-12T16:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/texas-money-manager-sued-by-regulators-over-forex-fraud-claims.html
A Texas money manager was sued by
U.S. regulators over claims that he defrauded investors in a
foreign-exchange trading scheme.  Kevin G. White siphoned away about $1.7 million of the $7
million he raised from investors since September 2011 by falsely
claiming his currency trading strategy yielded returns of more
than 393 percent since its inception in January 2009, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a complaint filed at
federal court in Texas July 9 and unsealed late yesterday.  “White and his companies brandished phony credentials and
a can’t-miss trading strategy to lure investors into a web of
deceit,” David Woodcock, head of the SEC’s Fort Worth, Texas,
office said in a statement. “In reality, White was suffering
forex trading losses and putting investor money to other uses.”  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission filed a parallel
action freezing the assets of White and his firms, KGW Capital
Management LLC, Revelation Forex Fund LP and RFF GP LLC.  The SEC lawsuit was unveiled one day after Commissioner
Luis Aguilar faulted the agency for failing to adopt a rule
required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to address abusive sales
practices and risks associated with the retail foreign-exchange
market. The CFTC adopted related rules in 2010.  Both agencies are seeking trading bans, disgorgement of
ill-gotten gains and unspecified financial penalties.  A phone call to Kelly Crawford, the court-appointed
receiver at Scheef & Stone LLP, wasn’t immediately returned. A
phone call to a Plano, Texas, number listed to White wasn’t
answered. The SEC said White had no known defense counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  