-- Mexico Likely to Hold Rate as Weaker Peso Boosts Inflation Risk
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-07-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/mexico-likely-to-hold-rate-as-weaker-peso-boosts-inflation-risk.html
Mexico’s central bank will probably
keep its overnight rate at a record low as policy makers balance
slowing growth with above-target inflation and a weakening
currency in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  Banco de Mexico , led by Governor Agustin Carstens, will
maintain the overnight rate at 4 percent today, according to all
23 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The peso has plunged 3.7
percent since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  signaled
May 22 that the Fed could dial back its monthly bond-buying
program. Bernanke said July 10 that the U.S. needs “highly
accomodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future.”  Annual inflation remains above the bank’s 2 percent to 4
percent target range and economists have lowered their growth
forecasts for this year to the slowest pace since the 2009
recession. While sluggish growth may seem to favor a rate cut,
the weaker peso has increased risks inflation will accelerate,
complicating Carstens’s decision, said Benito Berber of Nomura
Holdings Inc.  “The outlook for monetary policy has changed,” Berber, a
New York-based strategist at Nomura, said in a telephone
interview. “Cutting in this scenario doesn’t go well with
stopping second-round effects of the foreign exchange
depreciation on inflation.”  Emerging Markets Rally  The decision comes after emerging-market assets rallied
yesterday on Bernanke’s statements and confidence that  China 
will bolster growth, with stocks climbing the most in 10 months.
Mexico’s main stock index climbed 1.2 percent. The peso gained
0.7 percent yesterday to 12.8061 per dollar.  Central banks in Brazil and  Indonesia  raised their
benchmark rates this week, while yields on Egyptian bonds fell
to their lowest in five weeks as the country’s army-backed
government won pledges of support in its efforts to revive the
economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed to a record.  In Mexico, annual  inflation  eased more than economists
expected to 4.09 percent in June from a seven-month high of 4.65
percent in April as fresh food prices slid. The central bank
said in its previous rate decision, on June 7, that price
increases will slow to within the target range in the second
half of the year.  Despite the positive inflation news, the peso yesterday was
6.5 percent below a two-year high reached in May before
Bernanke’s comments about the bond-buying program. A weaker peso
drives up the cost of imports, which can trigger inflation.  ‘Tied Hands’  “Bernanke’s words have generated a material depreciation
of the Mexican currency,” said Alberto Bernal, the head of
fixed-income research at Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami. 
“That has tied the hands of Banxico in terms of providing the 
Mexican economy with additional levels of monetary stimulus.”  Economists now expect Banxico’s next rate move to be a
quarter-point increase in November 2014, according to a July 5
survey by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. In a June 5 poll,
economists had forecast a half-point cut in September.  At the same time, economists cut their median annual growth
projection to 2.7 percent in the Banamex poll, down from 3
percent on June 5 and less than the government’s 3.1 percent
forecast. The government cut its own prediction in May from 3.5
percent after expansion slowed more than expected to 0.8 percent
in the first quarter on falling exports.  Mexico ’s auto exports, which experienced a boom last year
of 9.9 percent growth, declined 1.2 percent during the first six
months of the year compared to the same period in 2012.  Threats to growth have “intensified,” central bank board
members said in minutes of their June 7 meeting. They left the
key rate unchanged after cutting it in March for the first time
since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  