-- Mexico Yields Fall as Policy Makers Hold Rate; Currency Declines
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-07-12T16:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/mexico-yields-fall-as-policy-makers-hold-rate-currency-declines.html
Mexico ’s benchmark bonds gained and
the peso dropped as policy makers left borrowing costs unchanged
amid slowing growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  Yields on the government’s peso-denominated debt due in
December 2024 fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point,
to 5.71 percent at 10:45 a.m. in Mexico City, pushing the drop
this week to 32 basis points. The peso weakened 0.2 percent to
12.8290 per dollar, paring its gain since July 5 to 1.9 percent.  The central bank, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, held
the overnight rate at 4 percent today, as forecast by all 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Investors hoping to capitalize
on Mexico’s higher yields are fueling a rebound in the country’s
debt that has tumbled amid concern that Federal Reserve policy
makers will taper stimulus, said  Enrique Alvarez , the head of
Latin America fixed income at IdeaGlobal.  “The outlook of the market is pretty much stable,” he
said by phone from  New York .  Bernanke said July 10 that the U.S. needs “highly
accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future.”  While forecasting faster growth in the second half of this
year, policy makers said in a statement on the central bank’s
website that Mexico’s economy had significant slowdown in the
second quarter risks to growth had increased. The national
statistics agency said today that May industrial production rose
0.5 percent from a year earlier, compared to the 0.6 percent
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Policy makers also said that inflation will fall below the
ceiling of their 2 percent to 4 percent target range in the
second half of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  