-- Mexico Holds Key Rate as Weaker Peso Undermines CPI Gains
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-07-12T16:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/mexico-holds-key-rate-as-weaker-peso-undermines-cpi-gains.html
Mexico’s central bank kept its
overnight rate at a record low as policy makers balance slowing
growth with above-target inflation and a weakening currency in
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  Banco de Mexico , led by Governor Agustin Carstens, held the
overnight rate at 4 percent today, as forecast by all 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The peso has plunged 3.2
percent since Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled
May 22 the U.S. could dial back its monthly bond-buying program.  Annual inflation has eased more than expected to just above
the 2 percent to 4 percent target range and economists lowered
their growth forecasts for this year to the slowest pace since
the 2009 recession. Policy makers said in today’s statement
keeping the rate unchanged was appropriate as they measure the
risks of a prolonged economic deceleration and new inflationary
pressures.  Policy makers were “dovish, due to the economic slowdown
on a global level as well as in Mexico, and more comfortable
with the inflation trajectory,” Delia Paredes, an economist at
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said in an e-mailed response to
questions. “Nevertheless, the volatility and  Mexico ’s monetary
position relative to other countries are what won’t permit them
to move rates for a period of time.”  The decision comes after Bernanke said July 10 the U.S.
needs “highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future,” triggering a rally in emerging market assets. Mexico’s
main stock index climbed 1.2 percent yesterday. The peso
strengthened 0.7 percent against the dollar.  Rate Outlook  The peso was little changed at 12.8009 per dollar at 9:57
a.m. in Mexico City. The national statistics agency reported
earlier today that May industrial production rose 0.5 percent
from a year earlier, compared to the 0.6 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg survey.  Yields on six-month  interest-rate swaps  fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.29 percent, indicating
traders see about a 20 percent chance the bank will lower rates
this year. As recently as July 8, traders didn’t see any chance
of a rate cut.  While policy makers cited the short-term risk of new
threats to consumer prices, they don’t expect the peso’s recent
weakness to generate inflationary pressures, according to the
statement accompanying today’s decision. They forecast inflation
will ease below 4 percent in the second half of the year and
“very near” 3 percent in 2014.  ‘Recent Evolution’  Today’s decision reflects “the recent evolution in
inflation and its outlook, the significant deceleration in the
Mexican economy, the fragility of the external situation and the
volatility in international financial markets,” policy makers
said in the statement.  Mexico joined  South Korea  in holding rates this week, while
central banks in Brazil and  Indonesia  raised borrowing costs.
Yields on Egyptian bonds fell to their lowest in five weeks as
the country’s army-backed government won pledges of support
among Persian Gulf nations in its efforts to revive the economy.  Mexico policy makers will monitor foreign monetary policy
for its impact on the nation, and emerging-market growth has
slowed more than anticipated, the central bank board said in its
statement today.  In Mexico, annual  inflation  eased more than economists
expected the past two months, slowing to 4.09 percent in June
from a seven-month high of 4.65 percent in April as farm prices
slid. The figure dipped to 3.93 percent in the second half of
June, according to a July 9 report by the national statistics
institute.  Bernanke’s Words  Policy makers said in their previous rate decision on June
7 that annual price increases would slow to within the target
range in the second half of the year.  Still, Mexico’s currency yesterday remained 6.5 percent
below a two-year high reached in May before Bernanke’s comments
about the bond-buying program. A weaker peso increases the price
of some imported goods and services.  “Bernanke’s words have generated a material depreciation
of the Mexican currency,” Alberto Bernal, the head of fixed-income research at Bulltick Capital Markets in Miami, said in an
interview before today’s decision. “That has tied the hands of
Banxico in terms of providing the Mexican economy with
additional levels of monetary stimulus.”  Economists cut their 2013 growth forecast to 2.7 percent on
June 20 from 3 percent on June 5, according to a poll by
Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit. The government cut its estimate
in May to 3.1 percent from 3.5 percent after expansion slowed
more than expected to 0.8 percent in the first quarter.  Energy Changes  Credit Suisse Group AG economist  Alonso Cervera , who sees a
50 percent chance of a rate cut this year, says President
Enrique Pena Nieto’s pledge to open the state oil industry to
more private investment may help strengthen the peso.  Proposed energy changes, which are designed to reverse
eight years of declining output at the world’s fourth-largest
oil producer, may be ready by the end of the summer, Hector Moreira, a board member of state-controlled  Petroleos Mexicanos ,
said July 10 at the Bloomberg Mexico Conference in  New York .  “Approval of key pending reforms would presumably lead to
a stronger currency, under normal conditions,” Cervera said in
an e-mailed response to questions. Cervera added that his call
is also “based on what we see as disappointing GDP growth in a
context of contained inflation.”  Auto Exports  Mexico’s auto exports, which grew 9.9 percent last year,
declined 1.2 percent during the first six months of the year
compared with the same period in 2012, according to data from
the automobile industry association AMIA.  Government spending  fell 5.1 percent in real terms to 1.45
trillion pesos in the first five months of 2013 compared with
the year-earlier period, according to data from the  Finance
Ministry . Public spending under the administration has been the
weakest in the past 12 years, according to a July 5 report by
Deutsche Bank AG.  Spending delays hit construction company  Empresas ICA SAB (ICA*) ,
whose credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  amid declining earnings. The lag was due to a
change in administration after Pena Nieto took office in
December and has been corrected as of June, Finance Minister
Luis Videgaray said earlier this week.  Threats to growth have “intensified,” central bank board
members said in minutes of their June 7 rate meeting, when they
left the key rate unchanged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 