-- Fed’s Bullard Opposes Tapering of QE Amid Slowing Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-07-12T23:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/fed-s-bullard-opposes-tapering-of-qe-amid-slowing-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard , who dissented for the first time last
month over the issue of defending the Fed’s price goal, said the
central bank shouldn’t trim its monthly bond purchases until
inflation accelerates toward its 2 percent target.  “Pulling back on accommodation as inflation is sinking is
not the right combination,” Bullard, who votes on monetary
policy this year, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview
with  Michael McKee  to air July 15. “I’d like to see us do
more” to ensure inflation doesn’t continue to slow.  Bullard last month dissented against a pledge by the
 Federal Open Market Committee  to maintain its $85 billion in
monthly bond buying, saying the panel should “signal more
strongly its willingness to defend its inflation goal in light
of recent low inflation readings.”  Inflation as measured by the personal consumption
expenditures price index rose 1 percent for the year ending May,
below the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  Price gains have been “very low,” Bullard said today.
“I’d at least like to see inflation tick up a little or get
some kind of reassurance” that it “will come back toward our
target.”  If inflation were to fall further, “the committee would
have to rethink its strategy,” Bullard told reporters in a
later briefing. “The simplest thing” would be for the FOMC to
say “we’ll stick to the QE program” longer than investors
expect, he said, referring to quantitative easing.  Stagnant Inflation  If inflation “stagnated at 1 percent” for six months,
that would be “a bit of a concern” as well, he said.  San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  told reporters in
 Vancouver  that low inflation had prompted him to consider the
need for additional accommodation. He had said as recently as
June 3 that the central bank could start trimming its purchases
as early as “this summer,” yet more recently said he supported
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to begin tapering later this
year.  “We’re probably going to need to have more accommodation
than I had been thinking a couple months ago because of the
inflation data,” Williams said after a speech today, adding
that he still expects inflation to speed up in the next several
quarters.  Williams has never dissented from an FOMC decision. He does
not vote on policy this year.  Bernanke’s Timetable  Bernanke said on June 19 that the FOMC may taper bond
purchases later this year and end the program around mid-2014 as
long as the economy performs in line with the Fed’s forecasts.
About half the 19 participants on the FOMC favor ending the
program by year’s end, according to meeting minutes released
this week.  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , who has opposed
the Fed’s current round of asset purchases, said today the
central bank should begin trimming monthly bond buying in
September and end the unorthodox stimulus by year-end.  “I don’t want to do it all at once, but I think we should
begin to taper very soon and hopefully end it by the end of this
year,” Plosser said today in a separate Bloomberg Television
interview to air on July 15. “That would be a healthy thing for
the economy. We can do it gradually,” Plosser said.  Plosser, who doesn’t vote on  monetary policy  this year, has
repeatedly spoken out against additional easing by the Fed.  Recent Surge  In a speech to the Global Interdependence Center in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming , Bullard said a recent surge in U.S. Treasury
yields may stem from “increased optimism” about the economic
outlook, adding that forecasts for growth have proven too
optimistic during the past several years.  Positive indicators include improving real-estate markets,
rallying equity markets, a “subdued” European sovereign debt
crisis, less U.S. “fiscal brinksmanship” and households
improving their financial balance sheets, Bullard said in
remarks prepared for the speech.  “However, given recent forecasting performance, we should
be careful in using an optimistic forecast to justify current
policy decisions,” he said. “A more prudent approach would be
to wait to see if better macroeconomic outcomes materialize in
the months and quarters ahead.”  In response to audience questions, Bullard said asset price
bubbles such as the mid-2000s housing bubble have become
“absolutely a front and center issue.”  In his interview, Bullard said during the June FOMC meeting
“there was a little bit of slippage back to date-based
guidance,” referring to setting a tentative end date for the
bond buying.  Data Dependent  “To have it creep back in was something I found a little
disturbing,” though Bernanke “did mitigate that” to “some
extent” by highlighting that the schedule was contingent on
economic reports, he said.  Bernanke said this week he favored maintaining stimulus
“for the foreseeable future,” even as the FOMC has been split
on how quickly it should reduce bond buying, or  quantitative
easing . He referred to “my good friend Jim Bullard” as he
agreed the central bank should defend the inflation target when
price gains slow too quickly.  U.S. stocks rose a seventh day, sending the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index to a record close after JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Wells Fargo & Co . reported earnings that exceeded analysts’
estimates. The  S&P 500  increased 0.3 percent to 1,680.19 in  New
York . The U.S. 10-year Treasury note yield rose to 2.58 percent
from 2.57 percent.  ‘Mixed Bag’  “There’s a little bit of a mixed bag” on a broad set of
labor market indicators, but the main employment indicators
including payroll growth have improved since September 2012,
Bullard said. The U.S. central bank began its third round of
large-scale asset purchases in September.  The St. Louis Fed president has been an outspoken supporter
of open-ended bond buying, with no limit on the size or duration
of the buying. Fed officials should vary the amount of bond
purchases in response to fresh economic data, Bullard has said.  Since 2010, Bullard has expressed concern that slowing
inflation could lead to deflation, or a sustained decline in
prices, and Japanese-style economic stagnation. He has also said
the FOMC needs to safeguard the credibility of its inflation
target, defending the goal when price gains are either too high
or too low.  Bullard, 52, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes all of  Arkansas  and parts of  Illinois ,
 Indiana ,  Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  