-- Ferragamo Seen as Luxury Target After Loro Piana Deal
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-07-12T15:52:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/ferragamo-seen-as-target-after-loro-piana-deal-real-m-a.html
After  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC) ’s deal for clothier Loro Piana SpA, Italian luxury
companies from Salvatore  Ferragamo (SFER)  SpA to  Tod’s (TOD)  SpA may be the
next targets for cash-laden conglomerates in search of growth.  After LVMH announced the $2.6 billion transaction, shares
of Italian luxury retailers surged, with Ferragamo and  Yoox SpA (YOOX) 
closing at records and Brunello Cucinelli SpA and Tod’s rising
as much as 4.5 percent and 2.8 percent. Shoemakers Ferragamo and
Tod’s are the most likely next targets, Equita Sim SpA said.
Online retailer Yoox and Loro Piana-rival Cucinelli offer sales
growth through 2015 of 88 percent and 45 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  As growth  stalls  at LVMH and Gucci-owner  Kering (KER)  SA, both
conglomerates will be among the most active buyers, said Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. Five years into the global economic crisis
that sent the Italian economy into free fall, it was the Loro
Piana family who approached LVMH about buying a stake in the
maker of $10,500 cashmere cardigans to help fund expansion.
Other Italian companies also may turn to buyers instead of
lenders to help finance growth, said Bryan, Garnier & Co.  “There’s going to be a proliferation and an acceleration
of buyouts in the luxury industry,” Milton Pedraza, chief
executive officer of the Luxury Institute LLC, a New York-based
research and consulting firm, said in a phone interview. “They
have high profit margins, but they need the capital to open
stores all over the world and they need the expertise very often
to globalize. The money is out there today and luxury is
extremely attractive.”  Today, LVMH shares declined 0.3 percent to 133.25 euros as
Kering lost 0.6 percent to 168.05 euros.  Slowing Growth  LVMH, the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, this week
agreed to buy 80 percent of Loro Piana, valuing the company at
2.7 billion euros ($3.5 billion), including net debt. The
acquisition, which would be LVMH’s biggest since its 2011
purchase of jeweler Bulgari SpA, helps the Paris-based company
tap demand for exclusive items amid slowing sales of its more
mass-market Louis Vuitton handbags. LVMH is facing its worst
revenue growth since 2009.  The transaction implies an enterprise value for Quarona,
Italy-based Loro Piana that’s 4.3 times its sales of 631 million
euros last year, or 3.9 times estimated revenue of  700 million 
for this year.  Ferragamo, which sells $675 patent-leather platform  heels ,
could be next on the shopping list for buyers including LVMH,
while Tod’s, a maker of $425 moccasins, also may be an
attractive target, Paola Carboni, a Milan-based analyst at
Equita Sim, wrote in a July 9 note.  Record Highs  Ferragamo shares declined 0.3 percent to 25.18 euros today
after closing at a record yesterday. Tod’s fell 0.2 percent to
117.3 euros. Based on LVMH’s bid for Loro Piana, Ferragamo could
fetch 29 euros a share in a sale, while Tod’s could lure 150
euros a share, Carboni estimates.  Representatives for Tod’s, based in Sant’Elpidio a Mare,
 Italy , and Florence-based Ferragamo, which has a market value of
4.2 billion euros, declined to comment on speculation.  Tod’s and LVMH are already connected. LVMH owns 3.5 percent
of the shoemaker through its Delphine SAS subsidiary, and Diego Della Valle, Tod’s 59-year-old chairman and founder, is on
LVMH’s  board . LVMH may eventually try to increase its stake,
especially when Della Valle looks to retire, according to David Wu, a New York-based analyst at Telsey Advisory Group LLC.  ‘Iconic Footwear’  “It would give them strong exposure to an iconic footwear
and leather-goods brand that is currently performing well,” Wu
said in a phone interview. Tod’s has a market value of 3.6
billion euros.  Cucinelli (BC) , a maker of $1,820 cashmere  sweaters , may lure
buyers with its growth opportunities in  China  and thriving
menswear line, Wu said. Cucinelli, with a market value of 1.4
billion euros, is projected to increase revenue to 406 million
euros by 2015, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “In the end, someone can decide to hand over the reins for
a variety of reasons: generational shift, stronger global growth
goals, physical fatigue -- because the modern pace of work at
times consumes you,” Brunello Cucinelli, founder of the
Solomeo, Italy-based company that bears his name, said in an e-mail. “Selling shouldn’t be considered a defeat but rather the
normal flow of life.”  In response to questions on whether he would sell all or
part of his majority stake in the business, he added: “I
believe in my company. I want to do only this job.”  Cucinelli shares gained 1.2 percent to 20.60 euros today.  Yoox, Versace  Yoox, the 1.1-billion euro operator of e-commerce stores
for brands such as Armani and Zegna, also could be a potential
target, according to Chiara Rotelli of Mediobanca SpA. The
retailer could be valued at 31.9 euros a share in a sale, the
Milan-based analyst estimated in a July 10 report.  A representative for Yoox declined to comment. The shares
advanced 0.2 percent to 19.86 euros today.  Gianni Versace SpA has said it expects to decide by October
or November if it will sell a minority stake publicly or
privately to fund growth.  Sergio and Pier Luigi Loro Piana, the brothers who head
Loro Piana, approached LVMH CEO  Bernard Arnault  a month ago
because they were concerned about the cashmere clothier’s
prospects as a standalone company, according to a spokesman for
LVMH.  Funding Constrained  It’s becoming increasingly difficult for Italian companies
to secure financing amid the economic downturn, according to
Francois Arpels, managing director of Bryan Garnier’s branded
luxury goods practice in Paris. That’s making them more willing
to explore deals with larger companies, he said in a phone
interview.  Italy’s economic output in the first quarter was 8 percent
lower than in the final three months of 2007 and continues to
fall,  Standard & Poor’s  said this week as it reduced the
nation’s credit rating to two levels above junk. At the same
time, Italian banks cut their loans to the private sector by 3.1
percent in May from a year earlier, according to data released
last month by Italy’s banking association, ABI.  “I have never seen the Italian economy in such a parlous
state, ever,”  Luca Solca , a London-based analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas, said in an e-mail. “The cost of finance for large
groups outside of Italy is very low. The cost of finance for
Italian companies is high. The truth is that the big boys are
buying anything that moves in Italy at this point.”  Cash Firepower  LVMH and Kering have the firepower to snap up smaller
rivals. Kering had 2.1 billion euros in cash and equivalents at
the end of 2012, its  biggest  stockpile since 2004, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Paris-based Kering, which acquired Italian
jeweler Pomellato SpA in April, has said it’s interested in
small- to medium-sized deals. LVMH had 2.2 billion euros in cash
at the end of last year.  Representatives for LVMH and Kering declined to comment.  Acquisitions would help them shore up faltering growth and
widen margins, with LVMH the most capable of exploiting
synergies because of its scale, Mario Ortelli, a London-based
analyst at Bernstein, said in a June 19 note.  “Our M&A strategy is opportunistic,” LVMH Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Jacques Guiony said on a July 8 conference call
after the Loro Piana deal. “We buy only the finest and most
attractive brands if they become available.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  