-- Financial Services Debated as U.S., EU Wrap Sessions
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-07-12T15:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/financial-services-debated-as-u-s-eu-wrap-sessions.html
Negotiators from the U.S. and
European Union will discuss financial services, agriculture and
environmental issues today as they wrap up the first round of
talks on what would be the world’s largest trade deal.  Throughout the week, negotiators outlined their positions
on issues including government procurement,  market access  for
industrial goods, intellectual property and labor, U.S. chief
negotiator Dan Mullaney said today at a news conference.  “The goal of this first round was to walk through, cover,
all of the major areas that may be addressed,” Mullaney said.  The U.S. and 28-nation EU, which already have the world’s
largest bilateral economic relationship, are seeking to deepen
ties and overcome sluggish growth on both sides of the Atlantic.
The accord, known as the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment
Partnership, would create a zone with about $33 trillion in
annual output.  Officials are trying to eliminate tariffs on trans-Atlantic
trade, worth about $10.5 billion a year, and drop regulatory
barriers to trade. The two sides for years have sparred over
farm support and health and safety standards for goods including
foods and chemicals. Negotiators are also discussing the extent
to which financial services and digital privacy may be part of a
final accord.  Ignacio Garcia Bercero, the EU’s chief negotiator, said it
would be premature to determine which issues will be the most
difficult areas as the talks unfold.  The discussions this week were overshadowed by allegations
of U.S. spying at EU diplomatic mission buildings in  Washington 
and  New York .  U.S. and EU officials are meeting separately to discuss
intelligence gathering, Mullaney said. “Those topics did not
come up among the trade negotiators this week,” Mullaney said.  The next round of talks will be in Brussels in October,
Garcia Bercero said.  “It’s important to us that we arrive at a deal quickly,”
Mullaney said. “It’s even more important that we get the
agreement right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  