-- Flaherty Policy Director Speer Quits Canada Government
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-07-12T20:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/flaherty-policy-director-speer-quits-canada-government.html
Sean Speer, who advised both
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  on economic issues, announced he is leaving the
government for a research position.  Speer said in an e-mail to friends and colleagues he is
leaving after one year as Flaherty’s director of policy. He
joined Flaherty’s office after about two years in the Prime
Minister’s Office, where he had stints as director of
stakeholder relations and senior economic policy adviser.  The departure comes amid speculation that Harper is
preparing to re-tool his cabinet as the Conservative government
reaches the midpoint of its current mandate. Harper told a
Calgary radio station last year he intended to make cabinet
changes this summer, and some ministers, including Public Safety
Minister Vic Toews and Environment Minister Peter Kent, have
either resigned or have said they are prepared to leave cabinet.  Flaherty has said he wants to remain as finance minister
until the country eliminates its deficit, which is scheduled for
the fiscal year beginning April 2015. Kathleen Perchaluk, a
spokeswoman for Flaherty, didn’t immediately return a telephone
call and email requesting comment. Speer didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking aditional comment.  During Speer’s time with the government, Harper and
Flaherty turned their focus to structural issues such as the
increasing exposure in Asian markets and boosting labor
mobility, transitioning away from stimulus measures to boost
domestic demand.  Speer said he is joining the Fraser Institute, a Vancouver-based research organization that promotes free markets, as a
director of its Centre for Fiscal Studies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  