-- France Loses Top Credit Rating as Fitch Cites Lack of Growth
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-07-12T17:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/france-loses-top-credit-rating-as-fitch-cites-lack-of-growth.html
France lost its top credit rating at
 Fitch Ratings , which highlighted concern about  lack of growth 
and the buildup of debt in Europe’s second-largest economy.  France was cut by one step to AA+ from AAA, Fitch said
today, joining Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s 
in removing France from the shrinking club of top-rated
governments. The outlook is stable.  Budget risks “lie mainly to the downside, owing to the
uncertain growth outlook and the ongoing euro zone crisis, even
assuming no wavering in commitment to fiscal consolidation,”
Fitch said in a statement.  The downgrade is a reminder of the challenges President
 Francois Hollande  faces in reviving an economy that has barely
grown in more than two years and cutting the highest
unemployment since 1999. The  International Monetary Fund  expects
French gross domestic product to shrink 0.2 percent this year.  France was cut one level to AA+ from AAA in January 2012 by
Standard & Poor’s. Moody’s followed in November, reducing France
to Aa1 from Aaa. Investors have largely shrugged off those
announcements, reflecting a shift from reliance on  ratings
agencies  to a focus on in-house analysis.  Through July 12, French  government bonds  had gained 9.6
percent since the S&P decision and 0.3 percent since the
statement by Moody’s, according to the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch  France  Government Index.  Bond Yields  France’s 10-year government bond yield was at 2.193 percent
today at the close, compared with 1.56 percent for Germany’s
equivalent security. Its peak this year was 2.533 percent in
June, up from a low of 1.659 percent in May.  Yields on sovereign securities last year moved in the
opposite direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of
32 upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.  Hollande nevertheless faces pressure from France’s
international partners to revamp the economy following a decade
in which the nation lost its share of world exports to countries
ranging from Spain to China and  Germany .  The European Commission told Hollande in May that he needs
to press ahead with an overhaul of the pension system and labor
market, while the IMF said the French government has no more
room to raise taxes to plug its  budget deficit .  Labor Contracts  Since winning office a year ago, Hollande pushed through
measures making it easier for companies to sign labor contracts
outside the framework of national union accords and offered a
payroll tax credit to businesses. He plans changes to the
pension system for later this year. More has to be done to
create flexible contracts for low wage earners and to reduce
legal uncertainty for companies in firing procedures, the IMF
said.  “France has more than just cyclical problems, it has
structural problems,” the IMF’s  Edward Gardner  told journalists
in Paris last month. “But the number of reform that have been
passed in the past six months shows that the government
appreciates it has problems. But we see it as a first step in a
long process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  