-- FSOC’s Role in Money-Fund Rule Sparks Probe by House Republicans
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-07-12T17:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/fsoc-s-role-in-money-fund-rule-sparks-probe-by-house-republicans.html
House Republican investigators have
asked five U.S. financial regulators to produce records showing
the extent to which their rulemaking has been influenced by the
Financial Stability Oversight Council.  The House Government Oversight and Reform Committee sent
the request Wednesday after obtaining what its members say is
evidence of interference by the FSOC in rulemaking by the
Securities and Exchange Commission last year. Those records show
former SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  and her aides coordinated with
FSOC officials to build support for and write a money-market
mutual funds rule before other SEC commissioners had seen the
proposal.  FSOC is an umbrella group of financial regulators led by
the  Treasury secretary . It was created by the Dodd-Frank Act to
identify and respond to threats to financial stability. The SEC
is an independent agency charged with overseeing  capital
markets .  “The committee is concerned that the council may be
structured and operating in a manner that vitiates the
independence and core competence of the council’s constituent
regulatory bodies,” committee chairman Darrell E. Issa and
Representative  Jim Jordan  wrote in a letter seeking more records
by July 21.  The letters were sent to Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler , Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg, National Credit Union Administration Chairman Debbie Matz, and SEC Chairman Mary Jo White.  Judy Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  Robert E. Plaze, a former SEC official who previously
oversaw regulation of money funds and participated in the
drafting of the rule, said cooperation among regulators to
address systemic risk was required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Issa’s
investigation could harm the willingness of regulators to
communicate about threats to the financial system, Plaze said in
a telephone phone interview.  “Everything you see going on, the dynamics and the
correspondence, was set up by Congress in Dodd-Frank,” said
Plaze, now a partner at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP. “One can
argue that Dodd-Frank compromised the SEC’s independence, but if
so, this is a product of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  