-- Funding Pressures Mixed as Dollar Libor at Almost Two-Year Low
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-07-12T14:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/funding-pressures-mixed-as-dollar-libor-at-almost-two-year-low.html
Money-market forward indicators
signaled short-term dollar funding conditions were mixed as the
rate banks say it would cost them to borrow from one another for
three months fell to the lowest in almost two years.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
declined  to  0.2676 percent, the lowest since Aug. 2, 2011, and
down from 0.306 percent at the start of the year, according to
the British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge
of banks’ reluctance to lend, narrowed to 16.3 basis points from
16.8 basis points yesterday.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
what the Federal Reserve’s effective funds rate will average for
the term of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, widened to 20.9 basis points from 19.4 basis
points, according to the second rolling three month contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 0.45 basis point to 17.4 basis points. The gap
is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking-sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $45.2 billion to $990.5 billion in the week ended July 10,
according to Fed data.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 10.9 basis points below Euribor, compared with
9.6 basis points below.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps widened. The
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 11.9
basis points compared with 11.3 basis points.  Repo Rates  The overnight Treasury general collateral repurchase
agreement rate opened today at 0.05 percent, according to ICAP
Plc, the world’s largest inter-dealer broker.  The  average rate  for borrowing and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.036 percent yesterday,
according to a GCF repo index provided on a one-day lag by the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at interest
rates close to the Fed’s target rate are called general
collateral. Those in highest demand have lower rates and are
called “special.”  The  average rate  for overnight federal funds, known as the
fed effective rate, was 0.09 percent yesterday. The rate opened
today at 0.1 percent. The effective rate is a volume-weighted
average of trades between major brokers for overnight funds,
reported on a day lag by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 liedtka@bloomberg.net  