-- Gay-Marriage Foes Seek to Order Clerks to Enforce Ban
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-07-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/gay-marriage-foes-seek-to-order-clerks-to-ban-weddings.html
Backers of  California ’s Proposition
8 asked the state’s high court to order county clerks to enforce
the gay-marriage ban, claiming a U.S. Supreme Court ruling last
month didn’t rule the measure was unconstitutional.  A petition filed yesterday in San Francisco on behalf of
the voter-approved measure’s supporters against California
Governor  Jerry Brown  and county clerks around the state alleges
that local officials are violating their “ministerial duties”
by issuing marriage licenses to gay couples because Proposition
8 is still valid.  The “filing by the proponents of Proposition 8 is yet
another attempt to deny same-sex couples their constitutionally
protected civil rights,” California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  said yesterday in a statement. “It is baseless and we
will continue to fight against it.”  A federal judge’s 2010 decision striking down the measure
only applies to the gay couples who sued to overturn the law and
doesn’t require the 56 county clerks that weren’t defendants in
that case to stop enforcing Proposition 8, the backers’
attorneys said in the filing.  “Proponents’ latest effort to stop loving couples from
marrying in California is a desperate and frivolous act,”
 Theodore Olson , the attorney representing gay couples who argued
the case before the U.S. Supreme Court, said in an e-mail.  ‘Collateral Attack’  The petition seeks an immediate injunction blocking county
clerks from issuing marriage licenses to gay couples.  In a court filing yesterday opposing the request, Harris
argued that the plaintiffs were unlikely to win the case,
calling the the petition “an unpermissible collateral attack”
on the federal court’s final judgment.  “To revive Proposition 8, as petitioners have asked, by
ordering county officials to enforce it would command the
violation of gay and lesbian Californians’ federal
constitutional rights,” according to a copy of the filing
provided by Harris’s office. The filing couldn’t be immediately
confirmed in court records.  California Chief Justice Tani Cantil-Sakauye gave
Proposition 8 proponents until July 15 at 9 a.m. to reply to the
governor. She also set a July 22 deadline for Brown to respond
to the petition and an Aug. 1 deadline for proponents to reply.  Gay marriage resumed in California after the U.S  Supreme
Court  court on June 26 ruled that the sponsors of Proposition 8,
the 2008 ballot initiative that defined marriage as being
between one man and one woman, lacked the legal right to appeal
a federal trial judge’s ruling that the measure was
unconstitutional. State officials had refused to defend the
measure, so groups that introduced the proposition stepped in.  Supreme Court  A federal appeals court in San Francisco considered the
appeal and upheld the judge’s ruling while putting it on hold
pending a further appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.  In a 5-4 decision, the high court last month reinstated the
trial judge’s order allowing same-sex marriage, without deciding
whether gays have a constitutional right to marry or even ruling
directly on the voter-approved proposition. After the decision,
the appeals court in  San Francisco  removed its hold and state
officials ordered gay marriages to resume.  Same-sex marriage was legalized by the California Supreme
Court in 2008, before Proposition 8 was approved by 52 percent
of voters in November of that year.  Alliance Defending Freedom, a legal group siding with
Proposition 8 supporters, said in the petition to the California
Supreme Court yesterday that county clerks should abide by the
state constitution.  “The more than 7 million Californians that approved
Proposition 8 have a right to see the rule of law -- and the
constitutional initiatives that the people enact -- respected,”
Austin Nimocks, a lawyer for the group, said in an e-mail.  Olson said any county that refuses to marry gay couples
would risk being held in contempt of court and facing a lawsuit
under federal civil rights laws.  The petition case is Hollingsworth v. O’Connell, S211990,
California Supreme Court. The appeals court case is  Perry v.
Brown, 10-16696,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit
(San Francisco). The U.S. Supreme Court case is Hollingsworth v.
Perry, 12-144.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in federal court in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  