-- GE to Best Buy Lead Most Bond Sales in U.S. in Seven Weeks
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2013-07-12T17:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/ge-to-best-buy-lead-most-bond-issuance-in-u-s-in-seven-weeks.html
Sales of corporate bonds in the U.S.
surged to the fastest pace in seven weeks, reaching at least $23
billion as relative yields narrowed.  General Electric Co. (GE) , the largest maker of  jet engines ,
raised $3.5 billion in three parts and Richfield, Minnesota-based  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  issued $500 million in its first sale since
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings rose
from  $1.3 billion  last week, the slowest this year, and were the
most since $36.8 billion for the period ended May 24.  Sales recovered, following six weeks of below-average
issuance, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  committed
to maintaining accommodative monetary policy after telling
Congress in May that the central bank may begin curtailing
unprecedented stimulus. The “panic selling” by investors
subsided this week and stemmed outflows from mutual funds,
according to Janney Montgomery Scott’s Jody Lurie.  “The market was able to digest the news and go through
that hump of volatility,” Lurie, a Philadelphia-based corporate
credit analyst, said in a telephone interview. Investors may be
finding “a window of opportunity for getting things cheaper
than a few weeks ago, ” she said.  Bernanke said July 10 after a speech in  Boston  that
“highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy .”  Spreads Tighten  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than government debentures fell to 230 basis points
yesterday from 236 basis points on July 5, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields decreased to 4.13
percent from 4.3 percent, and compare with a record low 3.35
percent on May 2, index data show.  Global high-yield funds reported $760 million of inflows
this week while U.S. investment-grade funds reported a $320
million outflow, according to report yesterday from Bank of
America Corp.  GE Capital’s finance unit sold $900 million of two-year,
floating-rate notes on July 9 to yield 38 basis points more than
the three-month London interbank offered rate and $1.35 billion
of floaters due July 2016 to pay a relative yield of 65 basis
points, Bloomberg data show.  The technology and financial services provider’s $1.25
billion of 1.5 percent, three-year debt yielded 83 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries, the data show. Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE’s bonds are expected to be rated A1 by
Moody’s Investors Service.  Best Buy, the world’s largest consumer-electronics
retailer, sold $500 million of 5 percent, five-year securities
yesterday, Bloomberg data show. The debentures paid a spread of
359.9 basis points and are expected to be rated Baa2 by Moody’s.  Issuers planning sales include TMX Finance LLC with $500
million of five-year notes and financial services company  INTL
FCStone Inc.  with seven-year bonds, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in  New York  at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 