-- Zimmerman Jury Resumes Deliberating in Teen’s Shooting
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   C h r i s   B o y d
-- 2013-07-13T16:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/george-zimmerman-jury-starts-deliberating-in-teen-s-shooting.html
A six-woman jury in Sanford,
 Florida , is weighing whether the shooting of Trayvon Martin, a
black teenager, by George Zimmerman, a Neighborhood Watch
volunteer, was a crime or an act of self-defense.  In a case that has drawn national attention for its
implications on race and guns, jurors heard closing arguments
yesterday that offered contrasting stories of the events in the
Florida townhouse complex on the night of Feb. 26, 2012, that
left Martin dead from a single gunshot through the heart.  Prosecutors argue Zimmerman profiled, pursued and then
murdered Martin, who was carrying a can of iced tea, a bag of
Skittles and $40 in cash at the time of the shooting. Zimmerman,
29, told police in videotaped statements that he acted in self-defense after Martin, 17, punched him in the face, knocked him
to the ground and threatened to kill him.  Jurors, who resumed deliberations today, will have to
“consider the circumstances surrounding the killing” to decide
whether it was second-degree murder or manslaughter, or whether
it “resulted from justifiable use of deadly force,” Seminole
County Circuit Judge  Debra Nelson  said, reading from jury
instructions.  The killing of the unarmed black youth by a man whose
father is white and mother is Hispanic sparked protests in
several U.S. cities led by civil rights figures including  Jesse Jackson  and  Al Sharpton .  First Decision  The anger followed the initial decision of law enforcement
officials not to arrest Zimmerman, citing the state’s laws on
self-defense. Those statutes included the controversial Stand
Your Ground law.  The shooting prompted President  Barack Obama  to comment
that if he had a son, the child would have looked like Martin.  While Florida officials aren’t predicting unrest after the
verdict, they have prepared plans to facilitate peaceful
protests while discouraging lawbreaking.  Sanford Police Chief Cecil Smith and Seminole County
Sheriff Donald Eslinger, of surrounding Seminole County,
appeared together in the courthouse after the case went to the
jury and asked people to refrain from violence.  Eslinger urged businesses to operate as usual, he said.
Lawbreaking in response to the verdict would not be tolerated,
he said, urging citizens to “allow the judicial system to run
its course.”  Deadly Force  Nelson’s  instructions  to the jury included language on
justifiable use of deadly force, including Florida’s Stand Your
Ground law, which allows individuals who feel threatened in a
public place to “meet force with force.” The 2005 statute
removed the obligation to retreat if possible to avoid a deadly
clash.  “If George Zimmerman was not engaged in an unlawful
activity and was attacked in any place where he had a right to
be, he had no duty to retreat and had the right to stand his
ground and meet force with force,” Nelson told jurors.  Zimmerman could use deadly force if he reasonably believed
it was necessary to prevent death or great bodily harm, she
said.  Zimmerman, who had a license to carry a concealed weapon,
is charged with second-degree murder though Nelson also gave
jurors the option by of finding him guilty of the lesser charge
of manslaughter.  Murder Punishment  Second-degree murder carries a minimum of 25 years in
prison if the crime involved a firearm and the possibility of a
life sentence. A manslaughter conviction involving a firearm
might result in 30 years in prison, according to Zimmerman’s
lawyer, Mark O’Mara.  The events that led to the shooting began when Zimmerman
spotted Martin walking in his gated townhouse complex, and
called police to report a suspicious person. Martin, dressed
that night in a hooded sweat shirt, was staying in the
development at the home of his father’s girlfriend.  Zimmerman, who was driving to Target when he saw the youth,
told police he got out of his vehicle to look for a street name
to give the dispatcher. As he walked back to his SUV, he said,
Martin approached from behind and asked whether he had a
problem. Zimmerman said he told him he did not. Martin said,
“Well, you do now,” and punched Zimmerman in the nose,
according to a recording of Zimmerman’s Feb. 26, 2012, interview
with police.  Zimmerman told officers he fell and that Martin got on top
of him and began slamming his head into the sidewalk. Police
photos show Zimmerman bleeding from the nose and back of the
head.  ‘Die Tonight’  Zimmerman told police that Martin covered his nose and
mouth with his hands. Martin then told him “You’re going to die
tonight,” and reached for the 9 mm pistol, a Kel-Tec PF-9, that
Zimmerman had holstered around his waist, according to
Zimmerman.  Zimmerman said he got to the gun first and fired the
hollow-point bullet into Martin’s chest.  In the absence of eyewitness accounts that Zimmerman was
the aggressor, prosecutors in their closing arguments used
Zimmerman’s own comments to police to portray him as a vigilante
whose story can’t be trusted.  Assistant State Attorney Bernie de la Rionda told jurors
that Zimmerman was a police officer wannabe with martial arts
training who profiled Martin as a criminal and then followed the
youth after being told by a dispatcher to stop. De la Rionda
played Zimmerman’s call to police to report Martin, highlighting
Zimmerman’s remarks that criminals always get away.  The Neighborhood  “He wanted to make sure Trayvon Martin didn’t get out of
the neighborhood,” de la Rionda said. “The rest of them would
flee and this defendant was sick and tired of it. That night he
decided he would be what he wanted to be: a police officer.”  In closing arguments yesterday, Zimmerman’s lawyer, Mark
O’Mara, said Martin “did something” that led to the
confrontation. Zimmerman isn’t guilty of anything “except
protecting his own life,” O’Mara said.  He accused prosecutors of making biased assumptions about
Zimmerman being the aggressor and told jurors they must not try
to fill in the gaps in the government’s case.  Sitting silent for four minutes, O’Mara demonstrated the
length of time between the end of Zimmerman’s call to police and
a 911 call made by a neighbor, at the end of which a gunshot
could be heard in the background. During that time, O’Mara said,
Martin chose to fight Zimmerman rather than run back to where he
was staying.  Prosecution Criticized  The prosecution “dared to tell you that Trayvon Martin had
no decision, that my client planned this,” O’Mara said.  In rebuttal, Assistant State Attorney  John Guy  said
Zimmerman ignored his Neighborhood Watch training by getting out
of his car to follow Martin.  “The bottom line is if the defendant had done only what he
was supposed to do -- to see and call -- none of us would be
here -- none of us,” Guy said.  The case is State of Florida v. Zimmerman, 1712FO4573,
Florida Circuit Court, 18th Judicial Circuit, Seminole County
(Sanford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at
   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Boyd in the 18th Judicial Circuit Court
in Sanford, Florida.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 