-- Portuguese Bonds Tumble Amid Political Upheaval as Bunds Rally
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-07-12T16:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/german-government-bonds-rise-before-euro-area-industrial-output.html
Portugal ’s bonds fell, with 10-year
securities set for the longest stretch of weekly declines since
at least 1997, amid concern a political dispute will result in
new elections and endanger the nation’s financial-aid program.  Ten-year Portuguese yields climbed toward the highest since
November after the nation’s debt agency said it would sell bonds
regularly should market conditions be conducive. German, French
and Dutch bonds advanced after European Central Bank Executive
Board member Vitor Constancio said euro-region monetary policy
would stay accommodative. Ireland’s 10-year yields dropped the
most in a week after  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook for
the nation’s debt rating to positive.  “Portugal is being sold on the back of the political
commentary,” said  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in  London . “There doesn’t seem to be a lot of
common ground between the parties and with a small  bond market 
like Portugal, the move gets exaggerated.”  Portuguese 10-year yields climbed 61 basis points, or 0.61
percentage point, to 7.51 percent at 4:54 p.m. London time,
after rising to 8.11 percent on July 3, the highest level since
Nov. 21. The rate has averaged 7.38 percent in the past year.
The 4.95 percent security maturing in October 2023 fell 3.845,
or 38.45 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,305) face amount, to 82.09.
Two-year note yields rose 58 basis points to 5.78 percent.  Portugal will explore opportunities to do a bond exchange,
the nation’s debt agency said today, reiterating plans set out
earlier this year. The nation last year exchanged securities due
in September 2013 for notes maturing in October 2015. It has
started to pre-fund for 2014 borrowing needs, it said.  ‘National Salvation’  Excessive friction among political parties doesn’t solve
any of Portugal’s problems, Foreign Affairs Minister Paulo
Portas told the nation’s parliament today. Elections in a hurry
would be a mistake, he said.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva said this week that early
elections would be undesirable and urged the ruling coalition
parties and the main opposition to reach a “national
salvation” pact allowing Portugal to complete its aid program.  The 10-year yield rose 38 basis points since July 5, its 
eighth-successive weekly increase.  There’s “a danger that Portugal is slipping into a bit of
a negative spiral,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin. “At the same time, Portugal is still very highly
regarded in terms of what they’ve tried to do.”  The cost of insuring Portuguese government debt rose to the
highest since November today, with credit-default swaps on the
nation rising as much as 75 basis points to 562 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  German Bunds  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Germany ’s  10-year yield  fell six basis points to 1.56
percent and reached 1.54 percent, the lowest since June 19.  France ’s 10-year yield declined four basis points to 2.19
percent and similar-maturity Dutch rates dropped six basis
points to 1.97 percent.  The ECB’s forward guidance on  interest rates  has been
“successful in stabilizing financial markets unduly affected by
spillovers from the recent Fed announcement of future tapering
of quantitative easing,” Constancio said in a  speech  in
 Singapore . “ Europe  is behind the U.S. in economic recovery and
inflation risks which implies that monetary policy has to stay
accommodative for a longer period.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged last week to keep
interest rates low for an “extended period” in a bid to cap
yields that threaten to stifle economic growth.  Irish Rating  “Central banks are giving a clear indication that stimulus
will remain,” said Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank
NV in Brussels. “Policy will remain accommodative for a very
long time and that is positive for bonds.”  Ireland’s bonds rose for the first time in three days after
S&P said the economy is recovering and the government’s budget
deficit may narrow faster than planned. The company kept
Ireland’s credit rating at BBB+, the third-lowest investment
grade ranking.  Ireland’s  10-year yield  declined seven basis points to 3.90
percent, the biggest decline since July 2.  S&P’s outlook “shows that a decoupling process is in train
in which Ireland is viewed more positively than other periphery
countries,” Colin Bermingham, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London, wrote in a note to clients. “The political instability
in Portugal was barely transmitted to Irish debt.”  German bonds handed investors a loss of 1.1 percent this
year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond
Indexes. Italian securities gained 2.3 percent and  Spain ’s
returned 5 percent. Portugal’s debt is little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  