-- GM Focused on Completing Peugeot Programs, Girsky Says
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-07-12T22:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/gm-focused-on-completing-peugeot-programs-girsky-says.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Vice Chairman
Steve Girsky reiterated that the automaker doesn’t plan to
invest further in  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and called speculation
about expanding ties between the automakers a distraction.  “All I want to do is get the programs, the current
programs, to work,”Girsky said in an interview at Bloomberg
News headquarters in New York. French newspapers reported
yesterday that  France  has decided to hire a bank for advice
about Peugeot. The move indicates a further alliance with GM or
with Chinese automaker Dongfeng is being negotiated, Le Figaro
said.  GM spent 320 million euros ($418 million) last year for its
 7 percent  stake in Paris-based Peugeot as part of an alliance
that includes joint purchasing and vehicle development intended
to improve results for both companies in Europe, where
industrywide sales are shrinking for a sixth consecutive year.  Girsky, 51, is overseeing Detroit-based GM’s efforts to
stem losses in Europe by mid-decade and rebuild the Opel brand.
He put together the Peugeot deal and was the interim head of
GM’s European operations until he hired former  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
executive Karl-Thomas Neumann to lead Opel.  Girsky yesterday referred to comments by Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson last month in  Shanghai  that the automaker
doesn’t intend to invest more money into Peugeot “at this
time.”  “If we see something change we will re-evaluate that,”
Akerson said. “It’s kind of steady as she goes.”  Girsky said yesterday the CEO “was pretty clear about
that.”  Peugeot’s Finances  Peugeot posted a loss of  5.01 billion euros  last year, with
an operating deficit of 576 million euros. The company’s sales
declined 9.8 percent during 2013’s first half. GM wrote down its
Peugeot investment by $220 million earlier this year.  Girsky said yesterday Peugeot is viable, citing how the
company is working on projects with other carmakers including
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   “Peugeot is a very good company,” the GM executive said.
“They know how to operate when capital is tight because that’s
what they’ve done.”  GM rose 0.7 percent to $36.40 at the close yesterday in New
York. The shares have gained 26 percent this year, compared with
an 18 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  ‘Still Terrible’  While GM has lost more than $18 billion in Europe since
1999, GM narrowed its first-quarter loss in the region,
outpacing Ford and helping the company beat analysts’ earnings
estimates.  GM is introducing new models in Europe, including the new
Opel Adam subcompact car and Mokka sport-utility vehicle. The
automaker also is reducing spending, including plans to cut $500
million in annual costs during the next three years. GM plans to
shutter its Bochum assembly plant at the end of next year, which
would mark the first automobile factory in  Germany  to close
since World War II.  While Girsky said he sees positive signs for GM’s European
business, he wasn’t upbeat about industry sales in the region.  “Things are starting to slowly stabilize but it’s market
by market,” Girsky said. “Things are still terrible. I don’t
want to leave anyone with the impression that things are going
to get better any time soon there because that’s not what we’re
planning on.”  He categorized Germany as a “little soft” and  Russia  as
weakening while the U.K. is doing better and Italy and Spain are
stabilizing at “low levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in New York at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  