-- Godzilla Lives in ‘Pacific Rim’; ‘Fruitvale’ Shocks: Film
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/godzilla-lives-in-pacific-rim-fruitvale-shocks-film.html
Guillermo del Toro’s booming,
cocksure “ Pacific Rim ” stomps all over the rubble of old
Japanese creature features, scorching away much of the rubber-suited fun of those early atomic age fancies.  Del Toro’s Godzillas -- here called Kaiju -- are towering
reptilian monsters, rising from the ocean floor and stoppable
only by giant, human-controlled Jaegers, which are knock-off
Transformers.  Del Toro, the Mexican director who set a high visual bar
with the gorgeous “ Pan’s Labyrinth ,” doesn’t skimp on the
rock-’em sock-’em action, coming up with more ways than would
seem possible to depict metal fists pummeling lizard flesh.  The human story lines are as serviceable as they are
superfluous (the script is by Travis Beacham and del Toro).  To fight the recently awakened Kaiju, mankind has built
humongous clinking, clanking warriors, each carrying two
telepathically connected copilots.  Traumatized from the death-by-Kaiju of his brother and
copilot, Raleigh Becket (Charlie Hunnam, of FX’s “ Sons of
Anarchy ”) only reluctantly answers the call from his old boss
(Idris Elba). The lizard apocalypse is nigh.  Becket’s new copilot has her own monster sob story (and
actress Rinko Kikuchi, Oscar-nominated for “ Babel ,” does lots
of sobbing).  Lizard Bait  Del Toro populates the digital destruction with comic-relief scientists (Burn Gorman and Charlie Day), a macho
father/son gladiator team (Max Martini, Rob Kazinsky) and
assorted lizard bait.  Though “Pacific Rim” grows battle weary, the elaborate
visual effects by John Knoll and James E. Price reflect tireless
imagination. No two Kaiju look alike, and none would be caught
dead wearing rubber.  “Pacific Rim,” from  Warner Bros. Pictures , is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *** (Evans)  ‘Fruitvale Station’  Early on New Year’s morning, 2009, one of the police
officers who had handcuffed Oscar Grant, a 22-year-old black
man, at an Oakland BART station in the course of investigating a
fight shot him in the back. Grant died a few hours later.  The killing was captured on cell-phone videos, leading to
wide media coverage and national outrage.  Ryan Coogler’s “ Fruitvale Station ” follows Oscar on his
last day. A 26-year-old writer-director not long out of film
school, Coogler was lucky to attract the support of Forest Whitaker’s production company.  He was even luckier with his cast: Michael B. Jordan (from
“ The Wire ”) as Oscar; Melonie Diaz as his girlfriend; and
Octavia Spencer (she was Minny in “ The Help ”) as his mother.  The first two-thirds are fairly standard kitchen-sink
drama, competent and absorbing but essentially familiar. The
last half-hour -- the violence and its aftermath -- is something
else.  BART allowed Coogler to shoot on location and the young
filmmaker, working with a score of actors and a crowd of extras,
shows more competence in placing the camera coherently than many
action directors with access to multimillion-dollar budgets.  It isn’t just about camera and crowd control, though. These
incidents are still fresh, and the actors -- even the extras --
rise to the seriousness of the occasion. You leave as Coogler
means you to: shaken.  “Fruitvale Station,” from the Weinstein Company, is
playing in  New York ,  San Francisco  and L.A. Rating: ***
(Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 