-- Icahn Adds Perk to Dell Offer in Latest Buyout Challenge
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2013-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/icahn-adds-perk-to-dell-offer-in-latest-buyout-challenge.html
Billionaire Carl Icahn made a 11th-hour effort to derail Michael Dell’s $24.4 billion buyout bid
for  Dell Inc. (DELL) , offering shareholders a chance to own a bigger
stake in the personal-computer maker.  Shareholders  vote  July 18 at Dell’s Round Rock,  Texas ,
headquarters on the $13.65-a-share offer by Dell and Silver Lake
Management LLC. Icahn, who holds 8.7 percent of Dell, is adding
a warrant to his $14-a-share rival proposal that holders could
exchange for additional stock, he said yesterday.  Icahn’s latest move is his fourth attempt to scuttle the
chief executive officer’s efforts to turn the manufacturer he
founded into a private business. Icahn has said that Dell can
still compete in the PC market as a public company. Still, the
proposal remains risky because the benefit depends on shares
surging about 50 percent higher than their current price, said
Jeff Fidacaro, an analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co.  “This deal is not a home run,” said Fidacaro, who rates
the shares neutral. “Carl’s got a fight in front of him.”  Dell and Silver Lake’s offer represents a premium of 25
percent over the computer maker’s closing share price of $10.88
on Jan. 11, the last trading day before news of a deal surfaced.
The shares  fell  less than 1 percent to $13.32 at yesterday’s
close in New York.  Icahn said his latest proposal’s value to shareholders
would be about $15.50 to $18 a share.  Key Endorsements  Michael Dell  is seeking to take the company he founded in
1984 into a contender in tablets and cloud computing. His
proposal won key endorsements this week from Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc. and two other influential proxy
advisory firms, and it also has the backing of the special
committee of Dell’s board that’s evaluating potential
transactions on the company’s behalf.  “ISS has done a great disservice to stockholders by making
a recommendation focused on the criticism” that shareholders
can’t immediately reap the benefits of Icahn’s offer, he said in
the letter. “We continue to view our proposal, particularly
with the addition of the warrant, as economically better for
stockholders.”  In response, ISS said in a report that it still sees risks
to Icahn’s proposal with warrants. The advisory firm repeated
its recommendation that shareholders should vote for the Silver
Lake-led offer.  The board’s special committee also rejected Icahn’s latest
proposal, saying that it’s still “highly speculative.”  Icahn’s Offers  The warrants act like equity options and are common in
takeovers as a way of enhancing value. Icahn is offering one
transferable warrant for every four shares bought in the self-tender offer, according to the letter. The warrant would permit
the investors to buy Dell shares for $20 for as long as seven
years, the document shows. Dell last traded above $20 in 2008.  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment on
Icahn’s most recent proposal.  Icahn said on July 10 that he was preparing to exercise
appraisal rights that are available to shareholders of companies
incorporated in  Delaware  and urged other shareholders to do the
same. By seeking an appraisal, investors can seek a higher price
for their shares in court.  In March, Icahn offered $15 a share in cash for as much as
58.1 percent of the stock. Then, in May, he teamed up with
Southeastern Asset Management Inc. to offer investors $12 a
share in cash or additional Dell stock while letting them retain
stakes in a public company. Last month, he offered to help
finance the last $14-a-share buyback proposal.  “Obviously,  Carl Icahn  has a phenomenal track record and
he’s trying to extract a little bit more money out of the Dell-Silver Lake party,” Brian Marshall, an analyst at ISI Group,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Makers” today. “He is unlikely to get any more out of it, and
shareholders should take the other deal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  