-- Microsoft Sues U.S. Customs for Failed Google Phone Ban
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-13T01:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/microsoft-sues-u-s-customs-for-failed-google-phone-ban.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  accused  U.S. Customs 
officials of refusing to follow a trade agency’s order to block
imports of phones made by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
in a lawsuit that seeks to alter how such cases are handled.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in  Washington 
issued the import ban in May 2012 after deciding that Motorola
Mobility devices infringed a Microsoft patent for a way mobile
phones synchronize calendar events with other computers.
Microsoft’s lawsuit, filed yesterday in Washington, says that
order isn’t being enforced.  U.S. Customs and  Border Protection , after having secret
meetings with Google, continued to let the Motorola Mobility
mobile phones enter the country even though Google has done
nothing to remove the feature at the heart of the ITC case,
Microsoft said in the complaint. The case illustrates what
 Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  and Lutron Electronics Co. in May
called an “increasingly ineffective and unpredictable
enforcement” of import bans imposed by the trade agency.  “Customs has a clear responsibility to carry out ITC
decisions, which are reached after a full trial and rigorous
legal review,” Microsoft Deputy General Counsel  David Howard 
said in a statement. “Here Customs repeatedly ignored its
obligation and did so based on secret discussions.”  Motorola Mobility convinced the agency that the order
didn’t apply to syncing through Google rather than Microsoft
servers, and to give it a grace period to allow changes to take
effect. Both of those requests had previously been rejected by
the ITC, according to Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft.  Google Response  “U.S. Customs appropriately rejected Microsoft’s effort to
broaden its patent claims to block Americans from using a wide
range of legitimate calendar functions, like scheduling
meetings, on their mobile phones,” Matt Kallman, a Google
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We’re confident that
the court will agree.”  Jenny Burke, a spokeswoman for Customs, said the agency
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The complaint filed yesterday in Washington also named
Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano , who oversees the
Customs agency. She announced yesterday she was stepping down to
head the  University of California  system.  The ITC  order  is in effect until Microsoft’s patent expires
in April 2018. An appeal in the case is scheduled to be heard
Aug. 6 in Washington.  ‘Secret Presentations’  Meetings between  Mountain View , California-based Google and
Customs were held in secret in April, with Microsoft not privy
to their existence until after the June 24 Customs decision
allowing the continued importation of the phones, according to
Microsoft’s filings asking the court to halt the Motorola
Mobility shipments.  “The only conclusion that can reasonably be drawn from
CBP’s pattern of conduct is that CBP will not enforce the
commission’s exclusion order absent a court order compelling it
to do so,” Microsoft said in the filing. “CBP has repeatedly
allowed Motorola to evade that order based on secret
presentations that CBP has refused to share with Microsoft.”  The ITC’s job is to protect U.S. markets from unfair
competition, including infringement of patents or theft of  trade
secrets . It’s become a key forum for disputes between smartphone
manufacturers.  Once the import bans are ordered, it’s common for both
patent owners and importers to lobby Customs and neither side is
told what the other is saying for fear of exposing trade
secrets, lawyers involved in ITC cases said in March.  Apple, Samsung  A ban on some older models of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone is
scheduled to take effect Aug. 5 unless it’s overturned by
President  Barack Obama  or put on hold pending appeal. The models
were found to infringe a  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  patent for a
way data are transmitted. On Aug. 1, the agency is scheduled to
announce whether it will order an import ban on some models of
Samsung’s phones based on patent allegations filed by Apple.  The trade agency is  compiling  information on how well its
orders are being enforced, and Obama last month  called for  a
review of ITC and Customs procedures. In their joint letter to
the ITC, Lexmark and Lutron said the “current problems with
enforcement of orders requires immediate attention.”  Criticism of Customs comes in large part because an agency
in charge of protecting the U.S. border from terrorists and
unauthorized foreigners also has to analyze increasingly complex
electronics and compare them to patents that are often written
in jargon only specialists can understand.  ‘Red Flags’  “They want to focus their efforts on terrorism, and the
issues related to intellectual property is not their concern,”
said patent lawyer Robert Stoll of Drinker Biddle & Reath LLP in
Washington.  Past surveys had no “huge red flags” of the process in
part because they often involved less complicated products, said
former ITC Chairwoman Deanna Tanner Okun, who left the agency
last year after 12 years and is now with Adduci Mastriani &
Schaumberg in Washington. The commission has the authority now
to take a greater role to address disputes about how the import
bans are being enforced, she said.  “Both agencies are working with outdated policies and
procedures that need to be changed to make the commission orders
effective,” she said in an interview.  It’s not just patents that companies are complaining about
with regard to Customs. The  National Association of
Manufacturers , in a July 2012 letter to the Senate Finance
Committee, supported legislation that would boost customs
enforcement of anti-dumping orders imposed by the ITC.  ‘Duty Evasion’  “Industries have continued to see increases in unlawful
duty evasion,” the manufacturers lobbying group wrote. “There
are significant implications from continued duty evasion,
including job losses.”  Corning Inc. (GLW) ’s Corning Gilbert, a manufacturer of coaxial
cables for televisions, was shut out of the U.S. market for more
than a year after Customs officials decided it was subject to a
broadly worded order won by a competing company. Corning Gilbert
had not been named in the complaint, and sued. A U.S. trade
judge ruled last year that Customs had failed to conduct a
proper analysis before blocking the Corning Gilbert imports.  Apple had to file an enforcement action after Customs
allowed Taoyuan, Taiwan-based  HTC Corp. (2498)  to continue shipments of
some of its mobile phones that had been found to infringe the
iPhone manufacturer’s patent for data-detection technology. The
two companies settled their patent fights before that issue was
heard.  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. Department of  Homeland
Security , 13-1063, U.S. District Court for the  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  