-- High Cost Delays Senate Student-Loan Relief Plan a Week
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-07-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/high-cost-delays-senate-student-loan-relief-plan-a-week.html
A tentative deal among senators to
move  student loans  to market-based variable  interest rates 
instead of fixed percentages fell apart after budget analysts
pegged its cost at $22 billion over 10 years, Senate aides said.  The high price means that Congress won’t be able to act
until next week at the earliest to roll back the July 1 doubling
of interest rates -- from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent -- on new
subsidized Stafford loans, which are available to undergraduates
based on financial need.  The cost estimate from the  Congressional Budget Office 
forced members of the bipartisan group to redraft their plan to
tie rates on Stafford and PLUS loans to changes in 10-year
Treasury note yields, said Republican and Democratic aides who
spoke on condition that they wouldn’t be identified in
discussing the private talks.  Earlier yesterday, prospects seemed brighter for the plan.
The lead Republican negotiator, Senator  Lamar Alexander  of
 Tennessee , said: “We have only one number to get back. I think
we have an agreement in principle.”  The deal was dependent on the budget office estimate, which
showed how the plan would affect the  federal deficit . New
variables will be submitted to CBO analysts for another review,
aides said.  Rate Caps  A big element in the expense, the aides said, is the caps
negotiators placed on the variable rates. The upper limit on
Stafford undergraduate loans was set at 8.25 percent; on PLUS
loans, which go to graduate students and parents of
undergraduates, it was 9.25 percent.  Alexander and other lawmakers have warned that interest-rate caps are expensive. Republicans want to minimize the cost
to taxpayers, while Democrats have sought to reduce the profit
that the Treasury makes off students financing their education
through the loan program.  Lawmakers were unable to agree on a solution to avert the
July 1 increase before leaving for last week’s holiday break.
The interest rate on unsubsidized Stafford loans, which are
available to any undergraduate, was already at 6.8 percent.  Senators redoubled their attempts to find a solution after
Republicans on July 10 blocked a Democratic effort to bring up a
bill, S. 1238, that would restore the 3.4 percent rate for a
year on subsidized Stafford loans disbursed after July 1.
Students take out new loans for each academic year.  That followed the Senate Democrats’ failure last month to
advance another bill, S. 953, that would have extended the lower
subsidized Stafford loan rate for two years. Republicans blocked
that measure, arguing that Congress should adopt a long-term
solution and peg the rates to 10-year Treasury notes.  Concession to Democrats  Including limits on annual interest-rate increases was a
concession to Democrats, who have balked at tying the loans to
market benchmarks that fluctuate.  That concept was proposed by President  Barack Obama  and
embodied in a measure that passed the  House of Representatives 
and would link rates to 10-year Treasuries. That bill, H.R.
1911, would charge students 2.5 percentage points more than the
yield of the last 10-year Treasury note auction before June 1 of
each year and would cap rates at 8.5 percent.  Under the tentative Senate deal that fell apart, the
interest rate for all Stafford undergraduate loans, subsidized
and unsubsidized, would be set annually at 1.8 percentage points
above the 10-year Treasury yield from the last auction before
June 1. This year, that figure was 1.81 percent; if the plan’s
provisions were effective now, the rate for 11 million students
taking out undergraduate Stafford loans this year would be 3.61
percent, the aides said.  Larger Markup  The markup for PLUS loans would be larger under the Senate
proposal, the aides said. Those borrowers would be charged 4.5
percentage points more than that Treasury-note yield, the aides
said. They currently pay 7.9 percent interest; according to the
aides, they would pay 6.31 percent under the Senate compromise.  In addition to Alexander, senators involved in the
negotiations included Illinois Democrat  Dick Durbin , the Senate
majority whip; Iowa Democrat  Tom Harkin , chairman of the Health,
Education, Labor and Pensions Committee; West Virginia Democrat
 Joe Manchin ; Maine independent Angus King; North Carolina
Republican  Richard Burr  and Oklahoma Republican  Tom Coburn .  Burr told reporters earlier this week that the Obama
administration is pressuring Congress behind the scenes to end
the impasse because “the White House would like to have this
behind them.”  The administration has urged that any plan passed by
Congress apply to loans disbursed after June 30, according to a
July 3 Education Department memo.  If the law is changed, the agency and its loan servicers
will adjust rates for all affected borrowers, including those
who have already received their first subsidized loan
disbursement, according to the Education Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  