-- Lilly Aims Alzheimer’s Treatment at Early Stage Patients
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-07-12T20:10:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/lilly-aims-alzheimer-s-treatment-at-early-stage-patients.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said it will test
its experimental Alzheimer’s drug in patients with early stages
of the disease after the medicine failed to slow the condition
in more advanced patients.  The trial of 2,100 patients, called Expedition III, will
use new measures of cognitive function, such as the ability to
do tasks like cooking or driving, or remembering words after a
delay. It’s meant as a more-targeted, more-sensitive trial than
two earlier ones that had a wider range of patients, said Eric
Siemers, a senior medical director at Indianapolis-based Lilly.  Lilly is pushing ahead with the drug, called solanezumab,
in an effort to gain the first medicine approved that treats
Alzheimer’s causes rather than just the symptoms. The therapy
targets the buildup of plaque known as beta amyloid in the brain
that’s thought to be a basis of Alzheimer’s. Clearing or
preventing it may help slow or halt progression of the disease,
though that theory hasn’t been proven.  “Since we saw the signal in the mild patients,” in the
earlier trials, “we’re restricting the patient population,”
Siemers said in an interview. The trial should take about 22
months to enroll, he said in a conference call today.  The company will also use new tests for biological signs of
the disease to help enroll patients and see whether their
illness is advancing. Lilly  shares  fell less than 1 percent to
$51.45 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.  By testing people for evidence of the brain plaques that
are thought to be a cause of Alzheimer’s, Siemers said the
company can avoid accidentally enrolling patients who have some
other form of cognitive impairment and wouldn’t be affected by
solanezumab.  More Accurate  “The technology wasn’t available to test during Expedition
I and II, but now we can for every patient going into the
trial,” Siemers said in a telephone interview. “It’s just
better medicine, we have a more accurate diagnosis and a
treatment that targets it.”  More than 5 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, the most-common form of dementia, and the number is expected to surge to
as many as 16 million by 2050 as the population ages, according
to the  Alzheimer’s Association . No drugs currently on the market
have been shown to slow progression of the disease.  The market for medicines may be worth $20 billion annually,
Deutsche Bank estimated last year. Merck & Co.,  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
Roche AG and other large drugmakers are pursuing treatments. A
final-stage trial of bapineuzumab, a drug developed jointly by
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Elan Corp. failed last year
after it didn’t show a benefit.  Beta Amyloid  Lilly and other drugmakers have struggled to show that
success in affecting beta amyloid translates into clinical
improvement in patients. It’s possible that the patients in
previous trials were treated too late, after damage from the
disease was already done. Or it could be that beta amyloid is
the wrong target. Sanofi, the Paris-based drugmaker, has said it
won’t start developing an Alzheimer’s treatment until more is
known about the causes of the disease.  Lilly said in December that it planned to go ahead with a
third Phase III trial of the drug, after two other final-stage
trials showed that solanezumab slowed progression of the disease
in people with a mild form of the disease. Drugs typically
require three stages of testing before approval. In an analysis
of the first two Phase III trials, solanezumab slowed memory
loss and cognitive decline by about 30 percent in early stage
patients, researchers said.  “Clinicians feel that’s clinically meaningful,” Siemers
said. “That’s an effect we think would be worthwhile in
clinical practice.”  Expedition III will be run in 11 countries, with about two-thirds of the patients in the U.S. The rest will be in  Japan ,
Australia and  Europe , Siemers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  