-- IMF Urges Malta to Closely Monitor Local Property-Exposed Banks
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2013-07-12T14:05:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/imf-urges-malta-to-closely-monitor-local-property-exposed-banks.html
Malta must closely monitor its
banks, which are exposed to the local property market, and also
needs to watch liquidity risks for financial companies abroad
that do business there, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  The euro-area member has shown “remarkable resilience”
during the European fiscal crisis, the Washington-based fund
said today in a report. The island nation in the  Mediterranean
Sea  has maintained one of the best growth rates and lowest
unemployment rates in the euro area, expanding at 0.8 percent in
2012 as unemployment stood at 6.3 percent.  Risks from Malta’s large international banks “appear
contained because of limited balance-sheet exposures to the
domestic economy,” the IMF said in the report.  Still, “economic growth slowed in 2012 and remains below
potential, reflecting a weak external environment and subdued
domestic demand,” according to the report, part of an annual
review. Fund directors recommended that Malta make “stronger
efforts to monitor developments in all banks, given the size of
the banking sector relative to GDP.”  While banks have performed satisfactorily despite
turbulence in the euro area, and all banks report adequate
capitalization, liquidity and profitability, banks are “heavily
exposed” to the local  property market  and loan loss provisions
are low, the fund said.  “Recent events in  Europe  have heightened perceptions about
risks of hosting a large banking segment in a small country,”
the fund said. A group including the  European Central Bank  and
IMF in March agreed to a deal to pull Cyprus back from the brink
of crisis, after banks heavily exposed to problems in  Greece 
suffered huge losses.  The IMF projects that Malta’s real  gross domestic product 
will climb 1.3 percent this year and 1.8 percent next. Growing
domestic demand will drive the increase, the fund estimates.  Malta  joined  the European Union in 2004 and has been a
member of the euro-zone currency bloc since 2008. The nation’s
economy is 22 percent trade and communication, 18 percent
industry and construction, and 44 percent other services, the
IMF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  