-- India Factory-Output Unexpectedly Dips as Inflation Quickens
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-07-12T13:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/india-factory-output-unexpectedly-contracts-as-economy-falters.html
India ’s industrial output contracted
unexpectedly in May, adding pressure for more government steps
to revive the economy as a sliding rupee curbs scope for further
interest-rate cuts.  Production at factories, utilities and mines  declined  1.6
percent from a year earlier after a revised 1.9 percent climb in
April, the Central Statistical Office said in New Delhi today.
The median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
1.4 percent gain. Another report showed consumer-price inflation
accelerated to 9.87 percent in June.  The rupee’s plunge to a record low against the dollar this
year threatens to stoke inflation and prompted the Reserve Bank
of India to leave borrowing costs unchanged last month, snapping
a run of three reductions. The government has eased foreign-investment limits in industries such as aviation and retail,
seeking to steady the currency and spark an economic revival.  “The industrial-production data is bad and it’s a surprise
that it’s a negative, while consumer price inflation remains
high,” said Prasanna Ananthasubramanian, an economist at ICICI
Securities Primary Dealership Ltd. in Mumbai. “There is an
immediate need to release food stocks to cool down food
prices.”  The rupee strengthened 0.1 percent to 59.63 per dollar at
the close in Mumbai, while the S&P BSE Sensex index advanced 1.4
percent. The yield on the 8.15 percent note due June 2022 rose
to 7.65 percent from 7.57 percent yesterday.  The rupee touched an all-time low of 61.2125 on July 8 and
is the worst performer in 2013 after the yen in a basket of 11
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg, dropping 7.8 percent.  Deficit Pressure  India’s record current-account  deficit  and the possibility
of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus have hurt the currency.  The nation is considering selling sovereign bonds abroad
for the first time as policy makers weigh measures to help stem
rupee declines, two officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said.  The trade deficit narrowed to $12.2 billion in June from
$20.1 billion the previous month as gold and silver imports
slid, a separate government release and previously reported data
showed today. India has raised import taxes on the yellow metal
twice in 2013.  The Reserve Bank left  borrowing costs  at 7.25 percent in
June, after 25 basis-point cuts in January, March and May each.
Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 5 percent last fiscal
year, the slowest pace in a decade.  Consumer-price inflation in June quickened from 9.31
percent in May and remained the second-fastest in the Group of
20 major economies.  Wholesale-price inflation probably accelerated to 4.94
percent in June from 4.7 percent in May, according to the median
estimate in another Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  