-- India Rupee Set to Snap Nine-Week Drop as Speculation Curbed
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-12T05:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/india-rupee-set-to-snap-nine-week-drop-as-speculation-curbed.html
India ’s rupee headed for its first
weekly gain since May, rebounding from a record low as policy
makers took steps to curb speculation and boost dollar supply.  The rupee is set to snap the longest run of weekly declines
in more than a year after the  Federal Reserve  and  Bank of Japan 
indicated this week they will maintain stimulus that fueled
inflows into  emerging markets . Indian regulators this week
reined in derivatives trading and the central bank extended
easier rules for overseas loans until September, after the rupee
plunged to an unprecedented 61.2125 per dollar on July 8.  The rupee strengthened 0.6 percent this week to 59.89 per
dollar as of 9:59 a.m. in Mumbai, the first advance since the
five days through May 3, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency fell 0.3 percent today. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, this week to 12.69 percent.  “To us, speculative activity is not the problem,”
analysts at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., including New York-based  Marc Chandler , wrote in a research report yesterday.
“Twin deficits, high inflation, and sluggish growth all argue
for continued rupee weakness. We fully expect more measures
designed to help slow the move.”  India’s current-account deficit widened to a record 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the year ended March 31,
official data show, and the government aims to narrow the budget
gap to 4.8 percent in the current fiscal year from 4.9 percent
in the previous period. The rupee’s 8.2 percent decline this
year kept the central bank from adding to its three interest-rate cuts even as growth slowed to a decade-low.  Policy Steps  India’s government plans to meet as many as eight bankers
as it weighs selling debt abroad to raise dollars and help
steady the rupee, according to two Finance Ministry officials
with direct knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified as the matter is confidential.  Companies can continue to pay higher  interest rates  until
the end of September to borrow from overseas, the  Reserve Bank 
of India said in a  statement  yesterday. The ceiling for such
loans had been raised in March 2012 for an initial period of six
months.  The RBI may lower banks’ net open position limits,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who asked
not to be named as the information is confidential. The
authority barred lenders from proprietary trading in currency
futures and exchange-traded options, according to a July 8
statement on its website. The  Securities and Exchange Board of
India  said separately it will raise margin requirements and cap
open positions in such contracts.  Forwards Gain  The RBI also asked India’s oil refiners, the largest buyers
of foreign currency, to purchase dollars only from the  State
Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest lender, CNBC-TV18 television
channel reported July 9, citing people it didn’t identify.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards rose 0.9 percent to
60.86 per dollar this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Offshore non-deliverable contracts gained 1.9 percent to 61.01.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  