-- Indian Bonds Head for First Weekly Gain in Five on Fed, Rupee
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-07-12T05:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/indian-bonds-head-for-first-weekly-gain-in-five-on-fed-rupee.html
Indian bonds due 2022 are poised for
their first weekly gain in five on optimism global funds will
resume buying local debt and as the rupee’s recovery from a
record low eases concern inflation will accelerate.  The U.S. economy will continue to need stimulus, Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said July 10, damping
speculation that the central bank’s bond purchases that have
spurred the flow of funds to  emerging markets  will be tapered
soon. The rupee has risen 2.2 percent from an all-time low of
61.2125 touched on July 8 as regulators took steps to curb
speculation. A weaker currency makes imports costlier and
threatens to spur gains in  consumer prices , which have stayed
close to 10 percent for more than a year.  “The Fed’s comments and the rupee’s gain have come as a
relief to bond markets,” said M. Natarajan, Mumbai-based head
of treasury at Bank of Nova Scotia. “In the short-term, things
are not as bad as they appeared a fortnight ago.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent notes due June 2022 slid one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.60 percent as of
10:43 a.m. in Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate, which has fallen four basis points this week,
climbed 18 basis points last month, the most since the
securities were issued in June 2012.  Reserve Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left the
repurchase  rate  unchanged at 7.25 percent on June 17, citing
inflation risks. A sustained 10 percent drop in the rupee adds
150 basis points to 200 basis points to  wholesale-price 
inflation, according to a Standard Chartered Plc research note
last month.  Inflation was 9.3 percent in June, a Bloomberg survey of
economists showed before data due today. Wholesale prices, which
are more frequently used for policy decisions, rose 4.7 percent
in May from a year earlier, the least since 2009, official data
show.  Overseas Debt  India’s government plans to meet as many as eight bankers
as it weighs selling debt abroad to raise money in dollars and
help steady the rupee, according to two Finance Ministry
officials with direct knowledge of the matter. HSBC Global Asset
Management and Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. say they are attracted
to  India ’s sovereign bonds, Asia’s best performers, while
Barclays Plc predicts the rupee will rebound.  The RBI barred banks from proprietary trading in currency
futures and exchange-traded options this week, while the
Securities and Exchange Board of India said it will raise margin
requirements and curtail open positions. The rupee slid 0.3
percent to 59.8800 per dollar today.  Global Funds  Global funds have  cut holdings  of local bonds by $8.1
billion from an all-time high on May 21 after the Fed signaled
the following day that it may taper its $85 billion-a-month of
asset purchases should the U.S. economy improve. That
contributed to the rupee’s 4.9 percent plunge last month, the
most since May 2012.  “It is only a  durable receding  of inflation that will open
up the space for monetary policy to continue to address risks to
growth,” the RBI said in its latest policy. The next review is
on July 30.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivative contract used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, was up one basis
point at 7.53 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  