-- Inflation Forecasts Give Fed Room to Trim Purchases: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2013-07-12T20:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/inflation-forecasts-give-fed-room-to-trim-purchases-economy.html
Economists project inflation is as
low as it’s going to get this year. The outlook will help give
the Federal Reserve room to reduce its monthly asset purchases
in 2013.  Consumer prices will rise 1.2 percent in the third quarter
and 1.4 percent in the fourth, based on the personal consumption
expenditures index, according to a Bloomberg survey of 38
economists conducted July 5 to July 10. That signals a reduced
risk that disinflation could weaken the economy.  Statistics published today support the view that inflation
won’t slow further. Prices paid to the nation’s producers
climbed 2.5 percent in the year ended in June, the biggest year-over-year increase since March 2012. A pickup in price gains
would bring inflation closer to the Fed’s goal of 2 percent,
supporting policy makers who want the central bank to start
scaling back its $85 billion in monthly asset purchases later
this year.  “Expectations are pretty well-anchored close to the Fed’s
goal,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in  New York  and a former Fed economist. “That gives
the Fed some leeway to trim back on purchases.”  Prices in May rose 1 percent from the same month last year,
according to the PCE measure, the Fed’s preferred inflation
gauge. That was down from a 1.5 percent gain in the year ended
in May 2012.  Bullard’s Dissent  The slowing rise in prices prompted St. Louis Fed President
 James Bullard  to dissent at the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s
meeting June 18-19, arguing for a stronger signal of the central
bank’s “willingness to defend its inflation goal in light of
recent low inflation readings.”  Since 2010, Bullard has expressed concern that slowing
inflation could lead to deflation, or a broad decline in prices,
and Japanese-style economic stagnation. He has said the FOMC
must safeguard the credibility of its inflation target,
defending the goal when price gains are either too high or too
low.  The FOMC’s June minutes released this week revealed Bullard
wasn’t the only one concerned that slumping inflation might sap
the economic recovery.  “Many others worried about the low level of inflation, and
a number indicated that they would be watching closely for signs
that the shift down in inflation might persist or that inflation
expectations were persistently moving lower,” the minutes said.  Bernanke Rally  Hours after the minutes were published, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called for maintaining “highly accommodative monetary
policy,” setting off a rally in Treasuries and pushing stock
indexes to record highs.  Treasuries fell in today’s trading, pushing the yield on
the 10-year note up 1 basis point to 2.58 percent as of 4:33
p.m. in New York. The cost of insuring  U.S. government debt  from
losses for five years with credit-default swaps fell 2 basis
points this week to 26 basis points, the lowest since October
2009. Stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining
0.3 percent to 1680.19.  Today’s report on producer prices showed a 0.8 percent
increase in June from the prior month, more than projected and
the most since September.  Some companies are already marking up retail prices in
anticipation of higher raw materials costs.  La-Z-Boy Inc. (LZB)  of
Monroe,  Michigan , raised prices effective May 1 because it
expects to pay $11 million to $13 million more for materials in
2014, Chief Financial Officer Louis Riccio said on a June 19
conference call.  Consumers surveyed in July expect an  inflation rate  of 3.3
percent over the next 12 months, up from the June projection of
3 percent, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan survey of consumer  sentiment  published today.  Inflation Expectations  The FOMC said in its June 19 statement that the recent
slowdown in inflation was “partly reflecting transitory
influences,” and that “longer term inflation expectations have
remained stable.”  A plurality of economists in a June 19-20 Bloomberg survey
said the central bank will reduce the pace of its asset
purchases at the FOMC’s Sept. 17-18 meeting.  “You really want to make this announcement into
strengthening data and turning inflation -- you don’t want to
make this announcement when the economy is slowing down and
inflation is grinding to a low,” said  Julia Coronado , chief
economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas SA in New York, and a
former Fed economist.  Coronado, who sees inflation at 1.1 percent by year-end
compared with the 1.4 percent median in the survey for the
fourth quarter, said the economic data probably won’t be strong
enough to persuade policy makers to begin reducing the purchases
until December.  Growth Estimates  The Bloomberg survey also showed that economists’ estimates
of gross domestic product were little changed for this year, and
unchanged for 2014 and 2015. The economy expanded at a 1.6
percent annualized rate in the second quarter, according to the
median of 68 responses. That’s down from a median of 1.7 percent
in the previous survey.  The economists still project the world’s largest economy
will grow at a 2.3 percent pace in the third quarter and 2.6
percent in the fourth.  The growth projections follow a forecast this week from the
 International Monetary Fund , which said world economic growth
will struggle to accelerate this year as a U.S. expansion
weakens, China’s economy levels off and Europe’s recession
deepens. Global growth will be 3.1 percent this year, unchanged
from the 2012 rate, and less than the 3.3 percent forecast in
April, the Washington-based fund said as it trimmed its
prediction for this year a fifth consecutive time.  Pent-Up Demand  Pent-up demand, including in the housing market and
automobile industry, may help boost growth in the  U.S. economy 
beyond 2013, said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania .  “Unlike this year, where it’s trickling out into certain
segments of the economy, I think next year we’ll start to see
more pent-up demand being released, and that’s what’s going to
take an economy that’s growing below its potential to back above
it,” Sweet said. “I think that’s really going to be what
propels us above potential GDP growth and really starts to help
bring down the  unemployment rate .”  The  jobless rate  is projected to fall to 7.5 percent in the
third quarter and 7.3 percent at year-end from its current rate
of 7.6 percent, according to another Bloomberg survey released
yesterday. The median estimate of 65 economists shows the rate
will fall to 7 percent sometime next year, in line with the
Fed’s projections.  Bernanke said June 19 that “when asset purchases
ultimately come to an end, the unemployment rate would likely be
in the vicinity of 7 percent,” which would probably happen
around mid-2014.  Good Inflation  Jeffrey Mezger , president and chief executive officer of
Los Angeles-based homebuilder  KB Home (KBH) , is among those who, like
Bullard, view a little inflation as a good thing.  Mezger referred to recent increases in  mortgage rates  on a
June 27 conference call. The average rate on a 30-year fixed
mortgage was 4.51 percent in the week ended July 11, the highest
in almost two years, according to data from  Freddie Mac . The
rate fell to 3.31 percent in November, the lowest in records
dating to 1972.  “If rates go up, it’s because price inflation is
occurring, and inflation is occurring because there’s job
growth,” Mezger said. “And if there’s job growth, there’s a
better economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in Washington at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  