-- Infosys Shares Jump as Dollar Sales Forecast Beats Estimates
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-07-12T10:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/infosys-net-income-beats-estimates-after-rupee-drops-to-a-record.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  surged the most in six
months in Mumbai trading after first-quarter profit rose and the
company’s sales  forecast  in dollar terms beat analyst estimates.  Infosys expects dollar revenue to increase by 6 percent to
10 percent in the 12 months ending March, unchanged from its
April forecast, India’s second-largest software exporter said in
a statement today. Ten analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
predicted Infosys to cut the top end of its guidance range to
7.5 percent.  “The numbers are all in all better than what we’d been
expecting,” said Ankita Somani, an analyst at Angel Broking
Ltd. in Mumbai. “They maintained their dollar revenue guidance
from before, which is positive.”  Net income  rose 3.7 percent to 23.7 billion rupees ($396
million) in the three months ended June, from 22.9 billion
rupees a year earlier, as the rupee’s fall to a record boosted
the value of overseas sales for the Bangalore-based company.
Profit exceeded the 23.2 billion-rupee median of 45  analyst
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The Indian currency fell 8.6 percent in the April-June
period, its biggest drop in seven quarters, helping cut the cost
of India’s software services to overseas buyers. Infosys’s share
of  revenue  from  North America  rose from the quarter ended March
to 61 percent as it won  orders  from customers in the U.S.
including a $49.5 million contract from the District of Columbia
to develop a health-benefit exchange.  Sales Beat  Infosys surged 11 percent, the most since Jan. 11, to
2,804. 20 rupees at the close in Mumbai trading. The stock was
the  best performer  on the 30-company S&P BSE Sensex and the
biggest contributor to the benchmark’s 1.4 percent  increase .
Larger competitor  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  climbed 2.9
percent and third-ranked  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  rose 3.2 percent.  Sales climbed to 112.7 billion rupees from 96.2 billion
rupees after the software-services provider won seven contracts
worth between $50 million and $100 million. That exceeded the
109.9 billion-rupee median of 48 analyst estimates.  “Despite facing an uncertain macro environment, changing
regulatory regime and a volatile currency environment, we have
done well,” Chief Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal said in the
statement. The company is “cautiously optimistic” about the
rest of the year, he said.  Lodestone Contribution  Profit was also boosted by the first income contribution
from Lodestone Holding AG, the Swiss management consulting
company that Infosys  acquired  for 330 million Swiss francs ($348
million) in October. The business posted $1.88 million profit on
revenue of $90.7 million, Infosys said.  “Consulting and package implementation had a great
quarter,” Jesse Hulsing, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities
LLC, said in an interview on BTV  India . “They’ve been focused
on winning deals, even if it’s at the expense of margins.
They’re shifting toward grabbing as many of these big
operations-focused deals as possible.”  Spending on IT services worldwide is estimated to climb 2.2
percent this year, up from 2 percent in 2012, Gartner said July
2. The  Stamford , Connecticut-based research company had in March
forecast a 4.5 percent increase in 2013.  Top offshore information technology service providers are
predicted to post “double-digit” quarterly sales growth as a
recovery in the U.S. and in financial services stokes demand,
according to Anurag Rana, an analyst at Bloomberg Industries.
Tata Consultancy Services, India’s largest software exporter, is
estimated by analysts to report this month a 14 percent jump in
first-quarter profit.  Infosys, which designs and builds software programs,
maintains computers and provides IT and outsourcing services for
 customers  including the  District of Columbia  and RWE Supply &
Trading, added 66 clients last quarter, the company said.  Immigration Bill  The  software company  hasn’t faced any adverse impact from
proposed visa restrictions in U.S. immigration legislation,
Shibulal told reporters today.  “The immigration bill has not had any impact on the deal
pipeline,” the chief executive said. “There is a lot of energy
and enthusiasm right now.”  Among the various changes in the proposed immigration law
that has been passed by the Senate is a measure to restrict
companies with a U.S.-based staff comprised of visa holders in
excess of 15 percent from placing those employees at domestic
client locations.  This rule “really just shuts you off from the entire
business,” Infosys’s Chief Financial Officer Rajiv Bansal said
at the Sanford C. Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference on
May 31.  Accenture’s Forecast  Larger competitor  Accenture Plc (ACN)  last month forecast sales
that trailed analysts’ estimates and said customers were slowing
the pace and level of spending and deferring short-term
contracts. Billionaire co-founder N.R. Narayana Murthy, who
returned as executive chairman last month to help revive growth,
had said June 15 that sales recovery may be painful and take at
least 36 months.  “Discretionary spending has gone up, including at
Lodestone, giving us some momentum in that space,” Shibulal
said today.  Tata Consultancy Services will report earnings on July 18.
The Mumbai-based company’s first-quarter profit is expected to
rise to 37.5 billion rupees, according to the median of 37
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  