-- Intuitive Surgical May Not Have Tested Devices Properly
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-07-12T20:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/intuitive-surgical-may-not-have-tested-devices-properly.html
Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG) , the maker
of the da Vinci Surgical System robots, informed customers that
30 devices may not have been tested properly, according to the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration .  The FDA, calling it a “ class 2 recall ,” said the action
affects Intuitive’s da Vinci  Si Vision System Cart ,  Si Surgeon
Side Cart ,  Instrument Control Box  and  Dual Camera Controller , in
notices posted on its website yesterday. Factory testing on the
systems may not meet compliance standards, the regulator said.
Intuitive sent the Urgent Device Correction notice to all
affected customers on June 27, the FDA said.  “We discovered that one piece of testing equipment wasn’t
recording results properly,” Angela Wonson, an Intuitive
spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. The 30 systems were
re-tested in the field. “All systems have passed,” she said.
No complaints were received.  Intuitive, based in Sunnyvale,  California , sold 143 da
Vinci Surgical Systems in the second quarter, generating $215
million in sales, according to a statement earlier this month.
The FDA defines a class 2 recall as “a situation in which use
of or exposure to a violative product may cause temporary or
medically reversible adverse health consequences or where the
probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote.”  Bloomberg News  reported in February that U.S. regulators
were surveying surgeons about the robots following a rise in
adverse event reports that include as many as 70 deaths since
2009. The reports, from doctors, patients and companies, don’t
necessarily mean the robots caused any deaths, only that they
were involved in procedures in which deaths occur.  Intuitive fell less than 1 percent to $429.04 at the close
in  New York . The shares have declined 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Larkin in Indianapolis at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  