-- Lions Gate Disavows Card’s Views on Gay Marriage
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/lions-gate-disavows-ender-s-game-author-s-gay-marriage-views.html
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) 
disavowed “Ender’s Game” author Orson Scott Card’s opposition
to gay marriage, saying his opinions are “irrelevant” to the
movie based on his science-fiction novel.  Lions Gate , maker of the “Hunger Games” and “Twilight
Saga” pictures, responded to calls for a boycott of the
forthcoming movie with a statement yesterday citing a longtime
policy of offering benefits to same-sex unions and the
distribution of critically praised, gay-themed films including
the Oscar-winning “Gods and Monsters.”  The website  Geeksout.org  is  urging  a boycott of the movie,
scheduled for release on Nov. 1, starting a debate that is
dominating discussion of the film. Card is an outspoken critic
of same-sex marriage,  saying  in a 2008 newspaper article in the
Deseret News of  Salt Lake City  that legalization would mark
“the end of democracy in America.”  “We obviously do not agree with the personal views of
Orson Scott Card,” Lions Gate said. “They are completely
irrelevant to a discussion of ‘Ender’s Game.’ The simple fact is
that neither the underlying book nor the film itself reflect
these views in any way, shape or form.”  The book is the first in a series about Ender Wiggin, a boy
recruited to become a leader of elite warriors who fight hostile
aliens. Published in 1985, “Ender’s Game” won both the Hugo
and Nebula awards for best science-fiction novel. With its focus
on tactics and leadership, the novel is on the Marine Corps’
 recommended reading  list for enlisted personnel.  Key Plank  “Ender’s Game” the movie represents a key plank of Lions
Gate’s strategy to expand its library of franchises aimed at
teens and young adults. The film stars Asa Butterfield as Wiggin
and  Harrison Ford  as the military officer who mentors him.  The film delivers an “ennobling and life-affirming
message,” Lions Gate said in its statement. The studio, run
from  Santa Monica ,  California , also pledged to host a benefit
premiere of the film to support gay and lesbian causes.  “‘Ender’s Game’ is set more than a century in the future
and has nothing to do with political issues that did not exist
when the book was written in 1984,” Card said in a statement
earlier this week on  Entertainment Weekly’s website . “With the
recent Supreme Court ruling, the gay marriage issue becomes
moot,” he said.  Card’s agent, Wendi Niad, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment.  “Ender’s Game” is scheduled to open three weeks ahead of
“The Hunger Games: Catching Fire,” the second of four planned
Lions Gate movies based on the  Suzanne Collins  novels.  Prospects for the company’s new films, and its other
potential franchises, including “Divergent,” scheduled for
release next year, have helped the stock to more than double in
the past 12 months. The shares rose 3.4 percent to $32.89 at the
close in  New York  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  