-- Ireland’s Lower House Passes Legislation Allowing Abortions
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-07-12T08:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/ireland-s-lower-house-passes-legislation-allowing-abortions.html
Ireland’s lower house of parliament
passed a bill shortly after midnight in Dublin providing a legal
framework for abortions in the nation for the first time.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s government won the ballot by
127 votes to 31. The bill will now be considered by Ireland’s
upper house of parliament.  The law would create a legal framework for a 1992 Supreme
Court ruling granting women the right to an abortion if the
mother’s life is at substantial risk, including suicide. Until
now, there’s been no legislative basis for abortion in Ireland.  Kenny pushed for the legislation after an Indian woman died
in an Irish hospital last year after being refused a
termination. Opposition to the bill resulted in the expulsion of
five members of Kenny’s Fine Gael parliamentary grouping,
including former European Affairs Minister Lucinda Creighton.  Creighton voted against the government on an amendment to
the bill at about 9 p.m. yesterday and Kenny replaced her as a
junior minister with Paschal Donohoe. Four members of Kenny’s
Fine Gael party were expelled last week after casting ballots
against the bill in an earlier vote.  Successive Irish governments, fearing a backlash in the
traditionally Catholic nation, have avoided introducing laws to
pin down the meaning of the Supreme Court ruling. The death of
Savita Halappanavar, who died of septicaemia in October,
reignited the battle over abortion, which remains among the most
divisive issues in Irish society.  Health Minister James Reilly said in parliament yesterday
that the bill “isn’t a change in the law, it is a clarification
of the existing law.” About 4,000 women travel to the U.K.
every year for an abortion, he said.  Lawmakers, including Creighton, opposed the suicide clause
in the legislation that allows for an abortion.  Kenny’s Fine Gael party and coalition partner Labour now
have 102 members out of 165 in the parliament, excluding the
speaker of the house.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  