-- Thirty Glaxo Employees Under China House Arrest, Telegraph Says
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-07-12T05:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/thirty-glaxo-employees-under-china-house-arrest-telegraph-says.html
At least 30  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
employees are under house arrest and constant surveillance in
China as part of an ongoing investigation into the company, the
Telegraph reported.  Those detained include five or six executives, among them
Glaxo’s legal counsel in China, who has been cut off from
communication with the head office, the newspaper said, citing
an unidentified person familiar with the situation. Glaxo isn’t
commenting further on the investigation at this stage pending
more information from Chinese authorities, the London-based
company said in an e-mail today.  Some Glaxo executives admitted to corruption in China,
after authorities found evidence of serious commercial bribery
and tax-related crimes, the nation’s Ministry of Public Security
said yesterday in the first government statement detailing its
probe into allegations against the company. Glaxo has found no
evidence of bribery or corruption of doctors or officials in
China, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker said in an e-mail yesterday.  At least one British national is involved and being given
consular assistance, the Telegraph reported.  “We are aware of an incident in  Shanghai , China, involving
a British national,” Kate Alden, a spokeswoman at the British
Embassy in Beijing, said in an e-mail. “We are providing
Consular assistance.” She declined to give more details or
confirm whether the person worked at Glaxo.  Glaxo has hired Jun He  law firm  to represent the company,
the newspaper reported. Two calls and an e-mail sent to the
Beijing offices of Jun He seeking comment weren’t returned.  Bribery Allegations  The drugmaker is suspected of trying to increase sales
channels and prices by using avenues such as travel agencies to
bribe or sponsor projects of government officials, medical
associations, hospitals and doctors, and faking tax receipts,
the Public Security Ministry said yesterday.  The suspected executives from Glaxo and officials from
relevant travel agencies confessed to the crimes in a
preliminary interrogation, according to the ministry’s statement
on its website. It didn’t identify the individuals or travel
companies.  “We are willing to cooperate with the authorities in this
inquiry,” Glaxo said in yesterday’s statement.  Public security officials in the city of Changsha were
investigating senior executives at Glaxo  China  on suspicion of
economic crimes, the city’s police said on its official blog on
June 28, without elaborating.  Earlier Claims  Glaxo said July 8 that it was probing a complaint about how
employees in China sell Botox to doctors, and its inquiries had
found no evidence of bribery or corruption in relation to sales
of the wrinkle treatment. The company found no evidence of
wrongdoing after completing a four-month investigation into a
whistle-blower’s claims of corruption and bribery at its China
business, the drugmaker said June 13.  Glaxo  fell  0.6 percent to 1,742.50 pence in  London  trading
yesterday. The stock has returned 31 percent this year,
outpacing the 17 percent gain for the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index.  The company doesn’t break out revenue from China in its
earnings reports. Sales in China make up just under 3.5 percent
of its global pharmaceutical revenue, according to  Mark Clark ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  