-- Ivanplats Slide on Africa Belies Value Seen by Analysts
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-07-12T07:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/ivanplats-slide-on-africa-belies-value-seen-by-analysts.html
Ivanplats Ltd. (IVP) , the mine developer
founded by billionaire Robert Friedland, is the worst performer
among its global peers this year. Analysts say its stock should
be almost three times higher.  Ivanplats has dropped 69 percent this year in Toronto, the
 most  among 115 companies in a Bloomberg mining index, which has
fallen 30 percent.  The Vancouver-based company’s capital-expenditure needs,
the geopolitical risk inherent in its African projects and the
general doldrums in the global mining industry have spurred the
decline, said John Goldsmith, deputy head of equities with
Montrusco Bolton Investments in Toronto.  “The big issue with them right now is they do have a
substantial amount of capex requirements,” Goldsmith, whose
company manages C$5.5 billion ($5.3 billion), said in a July 10
phone interview. The riskiness of operating in  Africa  also is
being factored into the way the shares are valued, he said.  Five analysts who rate the company have an average target
price of C$4.19, almost triple Ivanplats’ closing price of
C$1.54 a share yesterday, and the biggest spread in the
Bloomberg World Mining Index. Six analysts rate the stock a buy,
two have the equivalent of hold, and none recommend selling,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Ivanplats is optimistic that the value of the company’s
projects will be more broadly recognized as the company
continues to make good progress advancing its three principal
projects in South Africa and the Democratic Republic of Congo,”
the company said in an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘World-Class’  The statement also noted that Ivanplats’ shares only began
trading out of step with its peers in the S&P/TSX Global Mining
Index in late April, about the time that lock-ups related to its
initial public offering last year started to expire.  “Ivanplats has the potential to realize significant value
as it advances its three main projects through development and
into production over the next five years,” Fraser Phillips, a
Toronto-based Royal Bank of  Canada  analyst with a buy rating,
said in a June 10 note.  Each of the company’s “world-class” projects have the
potential to be “one of the largest mines in terms of
production in their respective metals,” Alex Terentiew, a
Toronto-based analyst at Raymond James Ltd., said in a June 11
note. Ivanplats is evaluating copper, zinc and platinum-group-metals projects in Democratic Republic of Congo and South
Africa, the company said on its  website .  Ivanplats has an experienced management and board that can
advance the company’s projects to the point at which market
confidence is boosted, leading to a “significant appreciation”
in the company’s value, Terentiew said.  Oyu Tolgoi  Friedland, 62, Ivanplats’ chairman, has succeeded in the
past with large deposits. His most recent promotion was Ivanhoe
Mines Ltd., now renamed  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , the owner
of 66 percent of the Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold project in
Mongolia. Rio Tinto Group, which now controls the company, said
this week it made the first commercial shipment of copper from
the $6.6 billion mine.  Friedland has been advancing mine projects for more than
two decades and led the C$4.3 billion sale of the Voisey’s Bay
nickel deposit in Canada in 1996, according to the Ivanplats’
IPO prospectus.  Friedland has shown that he’s able to raise the money for
big projects, said Frank Holmes, chief executive officer of San
Antonio-based U.S. Global Investors Inc., which oversees $1.3
billion of assets including Ivanplats shares.  “I’ve bought some more on the down days because it will
have its day,” Holmes said in a July 11 phone interview. “It’s
Robert Friedland and he’s a visionary and he’s relentless.”  Worst IPO  Ivanplats’ C$300.8 million initial public offering last
October was the biggest Canadian mining IPO since  Tahoe
Resources Inc. (THO)  raised C$348 million in 2010. Ivanplats has been
the worst-performing IPO bigger than $100 million globally in
the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Copper has fallen 14 percent in New York since Oct. 17, the
date of the Ivanplats offering, while platinum has dropped 14
percent. Over the same period, the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Materials Index has declined 33 percent.  Ivanplats’ Kamoa copper project in Congo may produce at
least 143,000 metric tons (315 million pounds) of copper
annually in its first 10 years of operations, according to a May
15 statement. It’s the world’s biggest undeveloped high-grade
copper discovery, Ivanplats said.  ‘Political Risk’  The company owns 95 percent of the project and Congo holds
the balance. Ivanplats has offered to sell another 15 percent to
the government, according to the company’s website. It also said
in April it was in “detailed discussions” with major
international mining industry “participants” for financing and
developing the project and associated infrastructure.  Ivanplats also is studying developing Kipushi, a base-metals mine in Congo that has operated on and off since 1924,
and is evaluating the Platreef platinum-group-metals discovery
in South Africa, the company said May 15.  Concerns around Ivanplats are “the insufficient installed
power capacity, the political risk of higher taxes, royalties or
asset expropriation, and the need to raise over $4 billion to
bring these projects into production,” according to Raymond
James’ Terentiew.  The decline in Ivanplats’ shares makes equity financings
difficult, said Goldsmith, whose company has a policy of only
investing in mine developers within a half year of starting
production. The geopolitical risk will also be an issue for
Ivanplats, he said.  “Because of where it’s located it’s never going to fetch
premium valuation,” Goldsmith said. “It is what it is: great
asset, wrong location, means you don’t get premium price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  