-- Liverpool Wants at Least $61 Million for Suarez: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-12T10:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/liverpool-wants-at-least-61-million-for-suarez-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Asking Price  Liverpool won’t consider any bids less than 40 million
pounds ($61 million) for striker  Luis Suarez ,  the Sun  said.  Arsenal had a club-record offer of 30 million pounds for
the Uruguayan rejected earlier this week, the Sun said. The
Gunners may increase it by 5 million pounds, but will get the
same response, the newspaper said.  Arsenal’s increased bid comes as its attempt to sign Real
Madrid striker Gonzalo Higuain continues to falter, the Evening
Standard said.  No Quit  Real Madrid will not give up on signing Tottenham’s Gareth Bale until the transfer period finally ends at the end of
August,  the Star  said.  Real yesterday released a photo of a mocked-up shirt with
Bale’s No. 11 on it and insist it will keep it for the Welshman
until he joins, the Star said. Club President  Florentino Perez 
plans to fly with the team for its July 21 exhibition against
Bournemouth so he can hold face-to-face talks with Tottenham
chairman  Daniel Levy , the newspaper said.  Take Your Pick  Tottenham is ready to give Aston Villa the pick of four
players in order to sign Christian Benteke,  the Sun  said.  Villa wants for 25 million pounds for the striker, while
Spurs value him at 20 million, the Sun said. Tottenham is
willing to offer at least one of Benoit Assou-Ekotto,  Scott Parker , Jake Livermore and  Tom Huddlestone  as part of the deal,
though Villa wants a cash-only sale, the newspaper said.  City Setback  Manchester City’s bid to sign Sevilla’s Alvaro Negredo may
have hit a snag after the striker claimed he was happy to stay
in Spain, the  Daily Mail  said.  Negredo was expected to leave for free after Sevilla signed
Carlos Bacca from Bruges but says he is happy with his personal
life in the Spanish city, though faces a dilemma on a
professional level, the Mail said.  Reunited Again?  Harry Redknapp  wants striker  Peter Crouch  to join him for a
fifth time, this time at relegated QPR, the  Mirror said .  Crouch, 32, has twice played for Redknapp at Portsmouth,
along with Southampton and Tottenham. Redknapp wants to sign
players he can trust as he looks to bring QPR straight back up
from the Championship, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 