-- Jeter Is Out of Lineup With Thigh Strain as Yankees Beat Twins
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-07-13T04:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/jeter-is-out-of-yankees-lineup-this-weekend-with-thigh-strain.html
Derek Jeter will miss the  New York 
Yankees’ games this weekend because of a strained thigh, and
General Manager Brian Cashman says the club hopes to avoid
returning the 13-time All-Star shortstop to the disabled list.  The Yankees defeated the Minnesota Twins 2-0 on run-scoring
singles by Brett Gardner and Robinson Cano in the fifth inning
of a home game delayed by rain for one hour, 13 minutes. Hiroki Kuroda (8-6) allowed no runs on six hits and struck out five in
five innings.  Jeter, 39, sustained a low-grade strain of his right
quadriceps two days ago when he played his first Major League
Baseball game in nine months, Cashman said yesterday at a
televised Yankee Stadium news conference. He had been sidelined
after fracturing his left ankle twice.  “It’s frustrating, I don’t know what else you want me to
say,” Jeter said in a statement released by the Yankees. “I
worked hard to get to the point of rejoining the team yesterday.
It’s not how you draw it up, but hopefully I’ll be back out
there soon and help this team win some games.”  Jeter will recuperate by sitting out a weekend series
against the Twins, and then the four-day break for the All-Star
Game.  The team’s initial plan was to have Jeter be the designated
hitter for Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre two days ago and then
promote him to play shortstop last night against the Twins. With
injuries to teammates, the Yankees decided to promote him two
days ago as DH.  “It’s open for question, but it’s my call to call him
up,” Cashman said. “Obviously, the intensity at Yankee Stadium
or the major league environment is more and stuff can happen.”  First Hit  Jeter, the team captain, played four minor-league rehab
games before being promoted. He broke his ankle during the 2012
major league playoffs in October, underwent surgery and then
attempted to come back during spring training, only to be shut
down after a small crack was found in the area of his initial
injury.  “I think the ankle’s fine,” Cashman said.  Two days ago, Jeter hit a ground ball weakly down the
third-base line that he beat out for a single in his first at-bat. He also hit a ball toward third in his next plate
appearance.  “The way the game unraveled in his first two at-bats, they
were go-get-’em situations and Derek is going to do everything
he can to succeed and a piece of his body said ‘not yet,’”
Cashman said. “I don’t want to say it’s Father Time knocking on
his door as much as it really is coming back from something
that’s significant.”  A .313 career hitter, Jeter ranks 11th in major league
history with 3,305 career hits, 10 behind Hall of Famer Eddie
Collins. His 216 hits last season led the American League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  