-- Wells Fargo Joins JPMorgan in $6.5 Billion Equity Hit on Rates
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-13T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/jpmorgan-joins-wells-fargo-in-6-5-billion-equity-hit-on-rates.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , the most-profitable U.S. banks, lost $6.5 billion in
combined equity as rising  interest rates  and falling bond prices
threaten capital levels across the industry.  JPMorgan suffered a $3.1 billion decline in accumulated
other comprehensive income, a measure of shareholder equity, in
the second quarter while Wells Fargo reported a $3.35 billion
hit, according to results released yesterday. The equity figure
includes unrealized security gains, which fell to $5.1 billion
at Wells Fargo from $11.2 billion at the end of March.  Bond losses sparked by rising interest rates may force
banks to hoard more profits as they build capital to meet
stricter regulatory requirements. Pending rules let lenders
count unrealized bond gains as core equity in regulatory capital
calculations, reducing the need to sell shares or retain
earnings.  “The banks want that in their capital levels,” said  Todd Hagerman , a Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. analyst and former Federal
Reserve bank examiner. “If they lose that they have to raise
that much more equity.”  Accounting rules require banks to record unrealized gains
and losses from securities characterized as “available-for-sale” under accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI.
Those are excluded from net income and instead counted in
balance sheet equity. Under rules proposed by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , known as Basel III, Tier 1
common equity will include AOCI.  Bernanke’s Comments  Bond losses were sparked by rising interest rates after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated May 22 the
central bank could slow bond purchases as employment improves.
Ten-year Treasury yields rose from this year’s low of 1.63
percent on May 2 to 2.74 percent on July 5, the highest since
August 2011.  At JPMorgan, AOCI dropped to $389 million in the second
quarter from $3.49 billion in the first quarter, according to
figures on the New York-based bank’s website. Wells Fargo’s
tally fell to $1.8 billion from $5.15 billion.  Even with the slide in bond values, second-quarter earnings
at the two banks were strong enough to boost the firms’ total
capital levels. JPMorgan, the largest U.S. bank by assets,
boosted net income 31 percent to $6.5 billion from the year-earlier period. Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, said
profit climbed 19 percent to a record $5.52 billion.  ‘Paper’ Losses  JPMorgan’s Basel III Tier 1 common ratio rose to 9.3
percent at the end of June even with a 0.2 percentage point hit
tied to security losses, Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake
said on the company’s conference call.  “Higher long-term rates and wider spreads drove a
significant reduction in the unrealized gains in our securities
portfolio,” Lake said. That affected the bank’s Basel III ratio
“negatively,” she said.  Wells Fargo’s ratio rose to 8.54 percent, even with a 0.24
percentage point decline tied to the drop in other comprehensive
income. The San Francisco-based bank bought $21.1 billion in
securities during the second quarter to take advantage of higher
yields and the increased income. The lender bought $6 billion in
July, CFO Timothy Sloan said on an earnings conference call.  “When you have a large security portfolio like we do, and
most of the portfolio is at a fixed rate, it’s worth less on
paper” when interest rates rise, Sloan said in a phone
interview. “It’s not as if rising rates make the income coming
off those securities any lower. It’s the same income, it’s just
the value that’s different.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  