-- JPMorgan’s Dimon Sees Banks Hurt by Emerging Market Drop
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-12T16:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/jpmorgan-s-dimon-sees-banks-hurt-by-emerging-market-drop.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  praised his traders’ handling of a plunge in
emerging-market assets last month and cautioned that other banks
may not have fared as well.  “Our folks in  emerging markets  also did a spectacularly
good job, because I think you might see some real
differentiation there from some other folks on how their numbers
come out,” Dimon said today on a conference call with analysts
after the New York-based bank reported second-quarter earnings.
“Obviously, when spreads widen out, certain businesses are more
at risk than others. In emerging markets, we probably saw the
most volatility.”  Risk premiums on emerging market debt widened after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated the central bank
might taper its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, which
have boosted demand for higher yielding assets. Prices of
emerging-market government and corporate bonds fell 6.23 percent
in the quarter, according to Bank of America Corp. data.  Stocks also fell as manufacturing in  China  contracted and
protests erupted in Brazil and Turkey. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index  dropped  16 percent from May 21 to June 24.  JPMorgan, whose emerging-markets trading is overseen by
London-based James Kenny, generated $4.08 billion in revenue
from fixed-income trading during the quarter, up 17 percent from
a year earlier. That topped the 5 percent increase expected by
Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Matt O’Connor  and the 4 percent rise
predicted by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Matt Burnell. Equity-trading
revenue rose 24 percent from a year earlier to $1.3 billion.  Goldman Sachs  While Dimon warned about divergence among banks’ trading
performance, some analysts took the firm’s better-than-expected
revenue as a good sign for the industry, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , which reports results on July 16.  “Traders know how to manage money in a volatile fixed-income environment -- nothing really blew up,” Brad Hintz, an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said on “The Hays
Advantage” Bloomberg Radio program. “So I’m optimistic about
Goldman going forward, because if Jamie did well, this is
usually a good sign that the other trading house did well.”  JPMorgan’s results in June weren’t as strong as those in
April and May, Chief Financial Officer Marianne Lake said. That
month featured declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
corporate and Treasury bonds after Bernanke said the Fed would
consider cutting back stimulus efforts if economic growth
improves.  The bank’s value-at-risk, an estimate of potential trading
losses, fell to $40 million in its corporate and investment bank
during the quarter, the lowest since JPMorgan bought Bank One
Corp. in 2004. The drop in the measure, which climbed in June,
was driven by lower volatility in asset prices and a reduction
in JPMorgan’s own risk appetite, Lake said.  “The client flows, they held up,” Lake said on the call.
“So if you surround that with robust and strong trading risk
discipline, that’s pretty much how it panned out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  