-- JPMorgan Trails Proposed U.S. Capital Rule Dimon Dislikes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-07-12T15:25:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/jpmorgan-trails-proposed-u-s-capital-rule-dimon-dislikes.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s ratio of
capital to total assets falls short of a proposed U.S. minimum
that Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  criticized for
diverging from the standard other nations’ lenders face.  JPMorgan’s so-called leverage ratio at its holding company
is 4.7 percent, below the 5 percent proposed U.S. minimum, the
New York-based bank said today in a  presentation . The ratio at
its deposit-taking subsidiary is even lower, creating a wider
gap to the 6 percent proposed standard for those units, Chief
Financial Officer Marianne Lake said on a conference call.  The U.S. plan goes beyond the 3 percent global minimum
requirement that the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
approved to help prevent a repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.
The changes would make lenders fund more assets with capital
that can absorb losses instead of using borrowed money.  “If one is 3 percent and one is 6 percent, that becomes
just too big, and over time it can have huge competitive
effects,” Dimon said on the conference call with analysts. “We
always ran with higher capital and liquidity than most of our
competitors.”  JPMorgan said it plans to be in line with the holding
company standard by the first quarter of 2015. The company plans
to bring the federally insured bank subsidiary into compliance
by the end of that year, Lake said.  Dividends  The bank said it can increase its holding company  leverage
ratio  by 60 basis points, or 0.6 percentage points, with capital
generated from earnings through the next six quarters if it
keeps payouts to shareholders constant. JPMorgan could also
boost the ratio as much as 1 percentage point by issuing
preferred shares and making adjustments such as unwinding
derivative bets, according to the bank’s presentation.  Dimon said the company can achieve the new ratios and
accelerate share buybacks and  dividends  over the next few years.  The proposed U.S. rule will add unfunded commitments and
some derivatives exposure to banks’ stated assets. That will
increase JPMorgan’s total assets by about $1 trillion from the
$2.4 trillion on its balance sheet.  The Basel committee has proposed additional increases to
asset calculations, which Lake said could have a “not
insignificant” impact on the ratio. Lake also said there is a
“strong argument” that the firm’s more than $450 billion of
cash and highly liquid assets should be excluded from the
calculation.  The leverage ratio provides an additional measure of
capital to Basel III ratios that weight assets based on risk,
which results in an asset figure that is half of that under the
leverage ratio. The firm said its Basel III Tier 1 common ratio
climbed to 9.3 percent and plans to reach 9.5 percent by the end
of the year.  “We believe the leverage ratio is an appropriate
complement to a Tier 1 common ratio, if properly calibrated,”
Lake said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  