-- Juncker Rallies After Spying Scandal, Fires First Campaign Shots
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-07-12T08:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/juncker-rallies-after-spying-scandal-fires-first-campaign-shots.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , the European Union’s longest-serving head of
government, shook off the collapse of his ruling coalition amid
a spying probe and said he’ll fight for re-election.  “I’ve said that I feel like it,” Juncker said late
yesterday at a rally of his Christian Social People’s Party in
the town of Hesperange. “And I do so more and more.” The party
selected Juncker as its candidate in the election that may be
held as soon as October.  Luxembourg was thrown into political turmoil on July 10
when Juncker’s coalition partner, the Luxembourg Socialist
Workers’ Party, called for the snap vote after he was implicated
in a security-service spying probe. Juncker defended his record
during a marathon hearing in parliament to no avail.  “Instead of giving a speech about my imperfections and
abuses, which I rejected point by point, I could have talked
about the  Tour de France  or the Muppet Show,” he told the party
meeting. Juncker has said repeatedly that the socialists decided
to call for an early election before the parliamentary hearing
began.  Juncker, 58, who has been Luxembourg’s premier since 1995,
met yesterday with Grand Duke Henri, the country’s head of
state. Under Luxembourg’s constitution, the grand duke has the
power to dissolve parliament. In that case, an election must be
held within three months.  ‘Intense Manner’  The grand duke said he would “pause to reflect” before
undertaking a “series of consultations” on the political
situation.  Juncker yesterday rejected criticism that he was too often
absent from Luxembourg when he served as head of the group of
euro-area finance ministers from 2005 until January of this
year.  “The euro is also our currency,” he said. “If one
engages in the most intense manner to help ensure that  Greece 
doesn’t exit the euro zone, that the euro zone survives and
becomes more solid -- and today it’s more solid than a year ago
-- then one fights also for the Luxembourg currency and our
buying power.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  