-- Europe Junk Bond Sales Surge to 10-Week High as Debt Risk Falls
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l   a n d   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-12T13:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/junk-bond-sales-surge-to-10-week-high-as-credit-risk-declines.html
Fiat SpA (F)  and  Continental AG (CON) ,
Europe’s second-largest auto-parts supplier, led the busiest
week of junk bond sales in Europe for more than two months as
corporate credit risk fell this week.  Sales surged to 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) this week
from 500 million euros in the previous period, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring European high-yield
bonds against losses had dropped as much as 5 basis points to
422 basis points today, the lowest in 10 weeks, before rising to
433 at 2:27 p.m. in  London .  Junk bond issuance increased after central banks from the
U.S. to the U.K. to  Japan  signaled they plan to maintain
stimulus measures. The  Federal Reserve  eased this week a rout in
bond markets triggered after it outlined last month an eventual
end of its bond-buying program. The Markit iTraxx Crossover
index tied to 50 companies in Europe with speculative-grade
ratings fell 23 basis points this week, the third week of
declines.  “High yield was a bit oversold during the panic, and
people are now getting back in as they realize that they sold
too much, too quickly,” said Axel Potthof, who manages sub-investment-grade debt at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
which oversees the world’s biggest bond fund. “We could have
maybe one more week of this and then the market will slow down
for summer.”  The debt returned an average 1.09 percent this month after
losing 2.14 percent in June, the biggest loss since November
2011, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Non-Financial High Yield Constrained index.  Yield Drop  The average yield investors demand to hold the securities
fell to 5.85 percent, the lowest since June 19, the day Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank will begin
scaling back quantitative easing later this year if the  U.S.
economy  shows sustained improvement. He said this week monetary
policy will remain “highly accommodative” for the
“foreseeable future.”  The yield premium over benchmark  government bonds  narrowed
to 501 basis points, the least since June 27.  “Spreads are tightening now and there is appetite again
but there’s still huge volatility,” said Matthias Glueckert,
Munich-based global head of debt syndicate at  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
which helped manage Fiat’s and Continental’s deals. “You have
to listen carefully to investors at the moment and you can’t
stress both size and price.”  Investors placed $848 million into European high-yield
credit funds in the week to July 10, the second week of inflows,
while they pulled $629 million from investment-grade funds, Bank
of America analysts led by Barnaby Martin wrote in a report
today.  Findus Group Ltd., the London-based frozen-food maker that
restructured its debt last year, issued its first high-yield
bonds to repay credit facilities, according to a person familiar
with the sale.  The company that owns the Young’s Seafood brand sold 305
million euros of five-year notes that were priced to yield 9.125
percent and 150 million pounds ($226 million) of five-year bonds
at 9.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net ;
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  