-- Justice Tightens Guidelines on Reporter Leak Inquiries
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-07-13T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/justice-department-said-to-boost-oversight-of-reporter-subpoenas.html
The U.S.  Justice Department 
tightened the guidelines its prosecutors use in investigations
that involve members of the news media, restricting the use of
subpoenas and search warrants that target journalists.  Attorney General Eric Holder, responding to an uproar
caused by the department’s investigations of government leaks,
released the standards yesterday and briefed President  Barack Obama  on the changes after the completion of a review requested
by the White House in May.  “These revised guidelines will help ensure the proper
balance is struck when pursuing investigations into unauthorized
disclosures,” Holder said in a statement that accompanied the
department’s seven-page report.  Holder undertook the review of how the Justice Department
investigates cases involving journalists’ news-gathering
activities. Two inquiries -- one involving the  Associated Press ,
the other  Fox News  -- stirred criticism from lawmakers,
journalists and free-press advocates about the administration’s
attempts to crack down on leaks of classified information.  Holder held meetings with 30 news organizations,
associations and First Amendment advocates as part of the almost
two-month review. The Justice Department will begin implementing
yesterday’s changes immediately.  The revisions will include a default requirement that news
organizations be informed of any subpoena related to their news-gathering activities. In the AP case, the organization wasn’t
told of a subpoena and subsequent search of the phone records of
some of its journalists and editors.  Notification Rules  Under current rules, notice is only provided to the news
organization if an assistant attorney general agrees that it
would not pose a clear or substantial threat to the
investigation. The new standards stipulate that the department
give notification except when the attorney general finds that it
would pose a threat to the investigation.  “This is an effort to examine an issue in a way that
reflects the president’s belief about the importance of the job
that reporters do,”  Jay Carney , the White House press
secretary, told reporters yesterday.  Should a subpoena be issued without a media organization’s
knowledge, the Justice Department would be required to inform
the organization within 90 days, regardless of the impact on the
investigation.  Erin Madigan White, a spokeswoman for the AP, said the
organization was “heartened” by the steps taken by the Justice
Department and would be closely reviewing the language.  “The description of the new guidelines released today
indicates they will result in meaningful, additional protection
for journalists,” Madigan White said in an e-mail.  ‘Unprecedented Intrusion’  The search of the AP’s phone records was an “unprecedented
intrusion” on First Amendment free-speech protections, Gary Pruitt, chief executive officer of the news service, said in a
speech last month.  Pruitt called on the U.S. to strengthen rules protecting
journalists, including by passing a federal shield law that
would let reporters protect anonymous sources, and toughening
the Justice Department guidelines to discourage the secret
collection of records.  The revisions announced yesterday also place a higher
burden on prosecutors seeking search warrants in cases involving
journalists. Holder’s proposal modifies the guidelines based on
the Privacy Protection Act, which currently contains a
“suspect” exception that allows for a search warrant to be
issued if a reporter is labeled as a suspect in an
investigation.  Search Warrants  Under the revised guidelines, a search warrant can no
longer be issued if the reporter is engaged in ordinary news
gathering activities and if that journalist isn’t the explicit
target of the investigation.  The pressure on the Justice Department from lawmakers grew
after it was disclosed in court documents that prosecutors had
obtained a search warrant for the e-mails and telephone records
of Fox New reporter James Rosen as part of an investigation into
a 2009 leak about  North Korea ’s nuclear program.  Holder, who was recused from the investigation that led to
the AP seizure, participated in the decision to seek the warrant
for Rosen’s materials.  An affidavit filed in the case by a  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation agent said Rosen may have acted as “an aider,
abettor and/or co-conspirator” in the leak -- something that
raised questions from lawmakers about whether they were
targeting Rosen for prosecution, as well as whether past
testimony to Congress from Holder was accurate.  Holder Investigated  Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee are
investigating whether Holder lied when he told the panel the
Justice Department hadn’t and wouldn’t pursue prosecutions of
journalists. Holder met with a bipartisan group of lawmakers on
the panel about the testimony and the leak investigations. The
Justice Department has said his testimony was truthful.  Holder and Deputy Attorney General  James Cole , who was
supervising the AP leak investigation, met with Senate lawmakers
this week to discuss the proposed revisions to the guidelines,
according to Senator  Patrick Leahy .  Leahy, a Vermont Democrat and chairman of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, said his panel will start considering
legislation this month that would implement a shield for
reporters from investigations. Holder and Obama have said they
support the proposal, which would include an exception for
certain national security-related matters.  Additional Protections  “While these reforms will make a meaningful difference,
there are additional protections that only Congress can
provide,” Holder said yesterday. “For that reason, we continue
to support the passage of media shield legislation.”  Senator  Charles Schumer , the sponsor of the media shield
legislation, said the Justice Department’s revised guidelines
“make a good deal of sense.”  Along with congressional action, the new standards “should
provide the bank shot necessary to deal with the longstanding
problem of how the government seeks answers from the media about
leaks,” said Schumer, a  New York  Democrat.  Pruitt said the U.S. attorney’s office in  Washington 
informed the AP in May that prosecutors had obtained a subpoena
for telephone records for editors and reporters. The monitoring
continued for 40 days. The leak investigations have hurt the
organization’s news-gathering abilities, Pruitt said during his
June 19 remarks at a National Press Club luncheon.  Investigators have been looking into the origins of a May
7, 2012, AP report on details about an operation that foiled a
plot to blow up an airliner. The story included information
about an intelligence operation in Yemen.  Review Panel  Holder will create a new full-time media review committee
comparable to the department’s review panels for death-penalty
and state-secret cases, according to the report. The new
committee will include the department’s public-affairs director,
as well as its privacy and civil liberties officer, giving both
officials the opportunity to weigh in on any decisions to seek
subpoenas or search warrants against reporters.  The new guidelines also require that at least 30 days
before a subpoena goes to the attorney general for approval, the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence would have to
certify that the leak in question posed a national security
risk.  The Justice Department will begin releasing annual reports
that list the number of subpoenas and search warrants targeting
journalists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  