-- Kazakhmys Calls Aug. 2 Shareholder Vote on ENRC Founders’ Offer
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-07-12T13:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/kazakhmys-calls-aug-2-shareholder-vote-on-enrc-founders-offer.html
Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  set Aug. 2 as the date
for shareholders to vote on the sale of its 26 percent stake in
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. to  ENRC (ENRC) ’s three founding
shareholders and the Kazakh government.  Alexander Machkevitch , Patokh Chodiev and Alijan Ibragimov
are seeking to take ENRC private and have offered shareholders
$2.65 in cash and 0.23 of Kazakhmys stock for each share.
Kazakhmys,  Kazakhstan ’s biggest copper producer, has said it
backs the bid. Investors will vote on the proposal in  London ,
Kazakhmys said in a statement today.  The founders are seeking to take ENRC off the market five
years after selling shares at 540 pence apiece in a London
initial public offering. The stock has dropped about 27 percent
this year amid allegations of corruption at its operations in
Kazakhstan and Africa. ENRC mines iron ore, produces ferroalloys
used in steelmaking, generates power in Kazakhstan and extracts
metals in  Africa .  The bidders, who formed Eurasian Resources Group BV, said
June 24 their offer for ENRC is equivalent to 234.3 pence a
share and values the company at 3.04 billion pounds, ($4.6
billion).  Kazakhmys will receive $887 million and 77 million of its
own shares under the offer, and its proportion of freely
tradable shares will increase to about 58 percent from about 37
percent, it said June 24. The shares fell 1.9 percent to 252.5
pence by 1:54 p.m. in London.  Eurasian Resources said in a separate statement that if
Kazakhmys passes the necessary resolutions at the shareholder
meeting, it will post its offer document to ENRC investors by
Aug. 7.  An independent committee of ENRC directors said June 24 it
is “very disappointed” by the offer and can’t recommend it.
The stock dropped 0.6 percent to 208.6 pence by 1:50 p.m.  The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office said April 25 it began an
investigation into alleged fraud and bribery at London-based
ENRC operations, including in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.
The company is “cooperating fully in the reporting process with
the SFO,” ENRC Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis said May 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  