-- Napolitano Choice for UC President Favors Clout Over Academics
-- B y   L i s a   W o l f s o n
-- 2013-07-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/napolitano-choice-for-uc-president-favors-clout-over-academics.html
Janet Napolitano’s national profile
and government experience trump the fact that she’s never held
an academic post as she prepares to lead the financially
challenged University of  California , college administrators and
professors said.  The university’s Board of Regents will vote July 18 on the
nomination of Napolitano, 55, the U.S. Homeland Security
secretary and former governor of Arizona. She was unanimously
recommended by a 10-member search committee, Regent Sherry Lansing said yesterday in a  statement .  Napolitano would be the 10-campus university’s first woman
president, taking over a system from Mark Yudof with more than
234,000 students and an operating budget topping $24 billion,
almost triple the size of the Arizona state budget. The
challenge is formidable as California lawmakers have slashed
support for the university by more than $1 billion since 2007 as
they grappled with the recession and resurgent budget deficits.  “She has experience in working effectively with
legislators, and that is important for the UC system
president,” said Peter Likins, who served as president of the
University of  Arizona  from 1997 to 2006, overlapping with
Napolitano’s term as governor. “She does have to work hard to
earn the acceptance, approval and support of the academic
community.”  Lansing said that while some might consider Napolitano “an
unconventional choice,” she cited her advocacy for public
education as governor and her sponsorship of a policy protecting
undocumented immigrants pursuing a college education from
deportation.  ‘Outsider’s Mind’  “Secretary Napolitano has the strength of character and an
outsider’s mind that will well serve the students and faculty,”
California Governor Jerry Brown said in a statement yesterday.
“It will be exciting to work with her.”  As colleges face funding challenges, several public
universities have turned to politicians to help seek a more
secure financial footing. Mitch Daniels, the former governor of
 Indiana , took the helm at Purdue University in West Lafayette in
January. David Boren has led the University of  Oklahoma  since
1994, after serving in the U.S. Senate and as governor of
Oklahoma.  Napolitano attended Santa Clara University as an
undergraduate, and was its first female valedictorian. After law
school at the University of Virginia, she clerked for a judge on
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. She was
Arizona’s attorney general before serving as governor from 2003
to 2009, when she joined President  Barack Obama ’s cabinet. As
governor, she sat on the Board of Regents of the University of
Arizona, based in Tucson.  ‘Demanding Circumstances’  Robert Powell, chair of the  UC Academic Senate , was part of
an advisory committee that vetted all the candidates and advised
the regents. Napolitano’s leadership ability under “demanding
circumstances” compensated for her lack of academic experience,
he said.  “Faculty are always more comfortable with one of their
own,” said Powell, a professor of chemical engineering and
materials science at UC Davis. “In this case, we have someone
who the faculty can get behind.”  Yudof, 68, is stepping down at the end of August after five
years as president. Unlike Napolitano, his entire career has
been in academics. He previously served as chancellor of the
University of Texas System and the University of Minnesota and
was a faculty member at the University of Texas at Austin for 26
years.  Clout, Savvy  “The good side is obviously this is someone who will have
clout and savvy in  Sacramento ,” Henry Reichman, first vice
president of the  American Association of University Professors ,
said of Napolitano.  Reichman, a professor emeritus at California State
University, East Bay, said Napolitano would need to do a better
job than Yudof did in consulting with faculty on curriculum and
research. She should also stand up to pressure coming from state
lawmakers to increase online learning across the campuses.  A call and e-mail to Yudof’s office for comment weren’t
returned.  Since 2007, the regents raised tuition by 84 percent to
make up for lost state funding. The cuts forced the system to
declare in 2011 that it could no longer guarantee admission to
the top 12.5 percent of the state’s high-school seniors.  Brown, 75, persuaded voters last year to pass the highest
statewide sales tax in the U.S., at 7.5 percent, and to boost
levies on annual income of $250,000 or more to avert cuts to
schools. He promised to freeze in-state  tuition  in the UC and
California State University systems this year.  State Budget  The state budget for the year beginning July 1 provides a 5
percent funding increase to the University of California and
$125 million to pay for the tuition freeze. The budget projects
that funding for the system will increase another 5 percent next
year and 4 percent in each of the two years after that.  Napolitano’s experience in government will be valuable,
especially in negotiating budgets, said Likins, the former
University of Arizona president, who also spent 12 years at the
University of California, Los Angeles.  As a Democrat, “she did her job very well within the
framework of a Republican legislature,” he said. “That
required both skill and strength, and she had both in
abundance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Wolfson in Boston at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Staiti at 
 cstaiti@bloomberg.net  