-- Natural Gas Gains in Survey on Outlook for Hotter U.S. Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-07-12T11:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/natural-gas-gains-in-survey-on-outlook-for-hotter-u-s-weather.html
Natural gas futures may climb next
week as hotter weather boosts demand for the power-plant fuel, a
Bloomberg survey showed.  Seven of 14 analysts, or 50 percent, predicted that futures
will advance on the New York Mercantile Exchange through July
19. Six, or 43 percent, said gas will decline and one predicted
prices will stay the same. Last week, 42 percent of participants
said gas would fall.  Temperatures will be above-normal across most of the lower
48 states next week, according to MDA Weather Services in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland . Gas prices have slumped 19 percent from
a 21-month high reached on May 1 as  stockpile gains  topped five-year averages for six consecutive weeks amid mild weather.  “We see prices moving marginally higher as rising air-conditioning demand provides increased competition with storage
injections,” Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy
at BNP Paribas SA in New York, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Natural gas futures slipped 0.4 cent, or 0.1 percent, to
$3.613 per million British thermal units during the first four
days of this week on the Nymex. The futures are up 7.8 percent
this year.  The temperature in  Washington  on July 17 may rise to 94
degrees Fahrenheit (34 Celsius), 5 above the usual high, and
 Cleveland  may be 7 degrees above normal at 89, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in State College,  Pennsylvania .  Power Plants  Power plants will account for 32 percent of U.S. gas
consumption this year and are the biggest users of the fuel in
the lower 48 states, said the Energy Information Administration,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  U.S.  gas stockpiles  increased 82 billion cubic feet to
2.687 trillion in the week ended July 5, above the five-year
average gain for the period of 74 billion, according to an EIA
report yesterday.  A  deficit  to the average narrowed for a sixth week,
dropping to 0.8 percent from 1.1 percent the previous period.
Supplies were 14.2 percent below  levels a year earlier , the
smallest year-on-year spread since Feb. 22.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex gas futures will probably
rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This week’s
results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  7      6      1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  