-- NE Opco Reaches Deal Allowing for Consensual Bankruptcy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-07-12T21:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/ne-opco-reaches-deal-allowing-for-consensual-bankruptcy.html
NE Opco Inc., the largest closely
held envelope maker in  North America , reached a settlement with
creditors and lenders that will allow for a consensual ride
through the bankruptcy process, a company lawyer said.  The envelope maker was set to seek court approval at a
hearing today in Wilmington,  Delaware , to obtain access to the
final $7.5 million of a $67.5 million bankruptcy loan. Instead,
the company announced that it had reached an agreement on how
the bankruptcy will proceed, gaining the support of the official
unsecured creditors committee.  “We have come up with a fully negotiated comprehensive
settlement” with key stakeholders, John Knight, a lawyer for NE
Opco, told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  today. “It
sends a message to the market that buyers that are interested
are not buying into” a litigious or contentious case, he added.  NE Opco will return to court July 19 to seek approval of
the settlement and final amount of financing.  Under the agreement, $25,000 will be put into a trust every
week for 10 weeks for general unsecured creditors and those with
503(b)(9) claims, referring to the section of the  bankruptcy
code  about creditors that have supplied goods within the 20 days
preceding a company’s bankruptcy filing.  In addition, $500,000 would be deposited when the company
reaches a sale agreement with a buyer, according to Robert J. Feinstein, a lawyer for unsecured creditors.  Sale Proceeds  After the lenders providing bankruptcy financing are
repaid, the next $4 million from sale proceeds would be split
75 percent with second-lien lenders and the other 25 percent to
the unsecured creditors’ trust, giving them potentially another
$1 million, according to Knight. Everything over $4 million
would be allocated 97 percent to the secured creditors and
3 percent to the trust.  This “sounds like very positive developments, I’m happy to
hear them,” Sontchi told the lawyers at today’s hearing.  NE Opco, formerly known as National Envelope, sought
 bankruptcy protection  June 10 for the second time as the
Internet continued to supplant mail for communications. The
Frisco, Texas-based company listed as much as $500 million in
both assets and liabilities in Chapter 11 filings.  The envelope maker has eight plants and two distribution
centers capable of producing 37 billion envelopes a year, giving
it a 15 percent share of the U.S market.  The case is In re NE Opco Inc. 13-11483,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  