-- Netflix Rises on Analyst Optimism About Subscriber Gains
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-07-12T20:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/netflix-rises-on-analyst-optimism-about-subscriber-gains.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the largest
subscription video-streaming service, rose to its highest in
more than 23 months as expectations for strong customer growth
prompted Barclays Plc to boost its price target for the shares.  Netflix advanced 5.4 percent to $257.26 at the close in  New
York , the highest level since Aug. 3, 2011. The shares have more
than doubled this year, making the  Los Gatos , California-based
company the  top performer  in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in
2013.  Netflix, which is adding original programming such as
“House of Cards” starring  Kevin Spacey , may report second-quarter results showing strong growth in new viewers, said
 Anthony DiClemente , an analyst for Barclays in New York. The
company, which is scheduled to report earnings on July 22, also
is benefiting as people use the service on mobile devices.  DiClemente, who rates the shares the equivalent of  hold ,
raised his price target to $250 from $220, in an investor note.  Chief Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  has called “Arrested
Development” and other “Netflix originals” integral to his
strategy for transforming the company from a purveyor of rerun
programming into a Web-based television network offering a mix
of Hollywood movies and new shows, comparable to Time Warner
Inc.’s HBO.  Netflix had more than 36 million streaming customers in 40
countries as of March 31.  The streaming service is in talks for another season of
“Arrested Development,”  Brian Grazer , co-chairman of the
production company, Imagine Entertainment, said.  “Arrested Development”  “We are in conversations with them to do another,” Grazer
said in an interview yesterday with Bloomberg Television at the
Allen & Co. conference in  Sun Valley , Idaho. “They are
interested in doing that.”  Netflix declined to comment on the negotiations, said Joris Evers, a spokesman.  “We have said before that we’d be interested in doing
another season of ‘Arrested Development’ if it is logistically
possible,” Evers said.  All-new episodes of the show and the horror series
“Hemlock Grove” began streaming on Netflix in the second
quarter, and Hastings has said both exceeded viewing
expectations, without offering numbers. The revived “Arrested
Development,” produced with 21st Century Fox Inc., follows the
comedic exploits of the Bluth family. Hastings originally said
it was a one-season undertaking.  Investors are expected to focus on subscriber figures to
see if the company has parlayed its original programs into new
signups and better customer retention. Netflix makes it easy to
sign up for a first month free and then quit.  The company recently ordered a second season of “Orange Is
the New Black” and “Hemlock Grove,” joining new orders for
“House of Cards,” and “Lilyhammer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  