-- New China Life Falls as Zurich Insurance Sells: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-12T04:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/new-china-life-falls-as-zurich-insurance-sells-hong-kong-mover.html
New China Life Insurance Co. (1336)  shares
are on track for their biggest fall in four months in Hong Kong
after Zurich Insurance Co. sold 97.5 million shares in the
third-biggest Chinese life insurer by premium income last year.  The  stock  dropped as much as 5 percent, the most since
March 13, and was down 4.8 percent at HK$22.90 at the midday
break. Zurich Insurance sold the shares at HK$22.50 each,
according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Investors aren’t very optimistic on New  China  Life
improving profitability,” said Xie Jiyong, a Shanghai-based
analyst at  Capital Securities Corp. (6005) , citing the company’s
reliance on bank-counter sales and unstable investment
performance. “But we guess it’s more likely its own reasons
that Zurich Insurance is selling because the share price is near
its lowest” since the initial public offering in 2011.  New China Life’s premium income fell 8.5 percent in the
first five months from a year earlier as higher-yielding assets
such as banks’ wealth management products attracted clients
away, causing the insurer to temporarily lose its title as the
third-biggest life insurer it held since 2010.  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s biggest insurer,
in May reported a 7 percent drop in first-quarter profit after
investment returns declined amid low interest rates.  The Swiss insurer held 390 million Hong Kong-traded New
China Life shares, or 12.5 percent, as of Dec. 31, according to
the Chinese insurer’s 2012 annual report.  Cash flows at China’s life insurers will be squeezed this
year by customers canceling contracts out of frustration with
low returns and an increase in maturing policies, according to
BoCom International Holdings Co. and Capital Securities.
Redemptions jumped 62 percent at China Pacific Insurance and 55
percent at New China Life in the first quarter, the insurers
said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  