-- New York Times Editor Plans ‘Need-to-Read’ Digital Magazine
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-07-12T18:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/new-york-times-editor-planning-need-to-read-digital-magazine.html
New York  Times Executive Editor Jill Abramson said she’s planning a new digital magazine that will be
a “need to read” with multimedia content.  The project, separate from the newspaper’s weekly Sunday
print magazine, is being led by Sam Sifton, formerly the
national editor at the Times, Abramson said today in a memo to
employees. Sifton, who used to cover food for the newspaper,
will also develop a new dining-news product, she said.  The executive editor cited the success of the Times’  "Snow
Fall"  feature -- a multimedia story about an avalanche in the
Cascade Mountain range -- as an example of the kinds of articles
the new magazine could include.  The Times, the second-largest U.S. newspaper after the Wall
Street Journal, is hastening the development of online features
as the Internet siphons away print advertising. Chief Executive
Officer Mark Thompson announced plans in April to create a
lower-priced subscription to access the Times site and
specialized rates for coverage of topics such as technology or
politics.  The new lower-priced initiative, called Need to Know, will
be designed for “quick and periodic dips into the news,”
according to Abramson’s note to staff. Its content will be
shaped by Cliff Levy, a deputy metro editor, she said.  Skunk Works  In addition, Abramson announced the creation of a “skunk-works team,” which will come up with new digital offerings for
the publisher. The group will be led by Arthur Gregg Sulzberger,
the son of Times Co. Chairman Arthur Sulzberger. Arthur Gregg,
currently a metro editor, has been a national correspondent and
metro reporter since joining the Times in 2009.  David Perpich, Arthur Gregg’s cousin and a member of the
Ochs-Sulzberger family that controls the newspaper, will also be
working on the company’s new digital efforts, according to the
memo.  Other staff changes include the promotion of Tom Bodkin to
deputy managing editor in addition to his title as chief
creative officer. Alison Mitchell has been named editor of the
national desk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  