-- News Corp. Agrees to Lease Building Next to London’s Shard
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-07-12T14:46:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/news-corp-agrees-to-lease-office-building-next-to-london-shard.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company
controlled by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch , plans to move all its
London businesses into offices built together with the Shard
skyscraper on the south bank of the River Thames.  The publisher’s News U.K., Dow Jones and HarperCollins
units will move to the Place in the summer of 2014, the New
York-based company said in a statement today. News Corp. will
lease the entire 17-story building, spokeswoman  Ashley Huston 
said by e-mail.  Murdoch, bowing to investor pressure, last month split his
publishing business from the entertainment operations, now
called 21st Century Fox. The publishing group includes the Wall
Street Journal, the London-based Times and Sun newspapers and
Australian businesses including REA Group, an online real estate
listings service.  “Our new London location in the vibrant borough of
Southwark will allow us to realize one core objective as the new
News -- to work more closely and creatively, and leverage our
collective resources,”  News Corp . Chief Executive Officer
Robert Thomson said in the statement.  Under Construction  The Place, across the road from the Shard, has about 40,000
square meters (430,000 square feet) of space and will be
completed next year. Both are part of a development by Sellar
Property Group Ltd. and Qatar’s central bank called London
Bridge Quarter. News Corp. didn’t disclose the terms of the
lease.  News U.K. will move to the building from its offices at
Thomas More Square in east London, while Dow Jones will relocate
from its premises in the  City of London  financial district and
Holborn neighborhood, according to the statement. HarperCollins
will use the building as its London headquarters and will also
have offices in Glasgow and Yorkshire.  Berkeley Group Holdings Plc (BKG) , a Cobham, U.K.-based
homebuilder, bought the former U.K. headquarters of what was
then News Corp.’s News International unit for 150 million pounds
last year. Murdoch had moved his newspapers there in 1986, using
the transition to break the power of labor unions, which
resisted new printing technology.  The 72-story Shard, which opened about a year ago, is the
tallest building in western Europe.  News Corp. competes with units of Bloomberg LP, owner of
 Bloomberg News , in selling financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  