-- Obama Tells Chinese He’s Disappointed Over Snowden Case
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   M i c h a e l   S h e p a r d
-- 2013-07-12T03:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/obama-expresses-disappointment-to-chinese-officials-over-snowden.html
President  Barack Obama  told Chinese
officials that he’s disappointed with  China ’s treatment of U.S.
demands that  Hong Kong  hand over fugitive security contractor
Edward Snowden, who instead was allowed to flee to  Russia .  The issue surfaced during a meeting in  Washington  yesterday
between Obama, Vice Premier Wang Yang and State Councilor Yang Jiechi, who were representing China at strategic and economic
talks in the city, according to a White House statement.  “The President expressed his disappointment and concern
with China’s handling of the Snowden case,” according to the
White House statement summarizing the meeting.  Snowden, who exposed classified U.S. programs that collect
telephone and Internet data, left Hong Kong for Russia on June
23 even as American authorities were pressing for his return to
face prosecution. He’s believed to be at a Moscow airport, where
he’s pursuing asylum in another country.  The U.S. pursuit of Snowden has emerged as a sticking point
in international relations, particularly with Russia and China.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  last month warned China and Russia
of “consequences” for their actions and ridiculed Snowden for
choosing them “as assistants in his flight from justice because
they’re such powerful bastions of Internet freedom.”  U.S. officials have since softened their tone, with Obama
saying June 27 that he wouldn’t jeopardize cooperation on
broader issues with China or Russia over Snowden. The 30-year-old systems administrator was in Hong Kong when he revealed
himself last month as the source of leaks on the top-secret
National Security Agency surveillance programs.  Trust ‘Undermined’  Prosecutors in the U.S. are seeking Snowden’s return and
have brought theft and espionage charges against the former
employee of McLean, Virginia-based government contractor  Booz
Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)   Earlier yesterday, Deputy Secretary of State  William Burns 
said at an event concluding the strategic and economic talks
that the decision by authorities in Hong Kong and Beijing to let
Snowden leave for Moscow “undermined the trust needed to manage
difficult issues.”  Yang, China’s State Councilor, who spoke next, said Hong
Kong officials’ treatment of the case was “beyond reproach.”  “With regard to Snowden case, the central government of
China has always respected” the Hong Kong government’s handling
of cases in accordance with law, Yang said. Hong Kong “handled
the Snowden case in accordance with law and its approach is
beyond reproach,” Yang said.  Hacking Concerns  Obama’s Oval Office meeting with the Chinese officials
covered a range of economic and strategic matters, including
cooperation on curtailing  North Korea ’s nuclear ambitions and
efforts to open  China’s economy  to further U.S. investment,
according to the White House.  The discussions also touched on the issue of computer
hacking, a subject that has been complicated by the Snowden
case. Obama reiterated U.S. concerns over the computer theft of
 trade secrets  and welcomed joint U.S.-Chinese efforts to develop
norms for behavior in cyberspace, the White House said.  While U.S. officials have accused the Chinese government of
orchestrating attacks on American networks, Snowden has asserted
that the U.S. has been hacking into computers in Hong Kong and
mainland China since 2009. Yang alluded to Snowden’s allegations
in his remarks yesterday.  “China is a victim of hacking attacks,” Yang said.
“China’s view is that the relevant international cyber rules
should be developed” by the  United Nations , he said.  ‘Sunnylands’ Spirit  Snowden, who’s believed to be in the transit lounge of
Moscow’s Sheremetyevo International Airport, had been based in
 Hawaii  while working as a contractor at the NSA. He fled to Hong
Kong before his revelations were made public. Officials in Hong
Kong let him to travel to Russia, despite U.S. requests to
extradite him.  “Over the past two days, we have made clear that China’s
handling of this case was not consistent with the spirit of
Sunnylands,” the private estate in  California  where Obama held
a summit last month with Chinese President Xi Jinping, “or with
the type of relationship, the new model that we both seek to
build,” Burns said.  With his U.S. passport revoked, Snowden can’t leave the
Moscow airport transit zone without a new travel document. He
dropped his request for asylum in Russia after President
 Vladimir Putin  said July 1 that the American must stop hurting
U.S. interests if he wants to remain there.  Snowden has instead sought refuge in 26 other countries.
While most have spurned his requests, the leaders of Venezuela,
Bolivia and Nicaragua have indicated they would be willing to
take him in.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Shepard in Washington at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  