-- Hong Kong Home Prices Decline Most Since 2008, Centaline Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-07-12T09:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/hong-kong-home-prices-decline-most-since-2008-centaline-says.html
Hong Kong home prices fell the most
in four-and-a-half years in the week ended July 7, on concerns
that interest rates will begin to rise if the U.S.  Federal
Reserve  phases out its monetary easing program later this year.  Prices  fell  1.8 percent during the week, the most since
November 2008, according to an index compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd., the city’s biggest closely held realtor by
agent numbers.  Home  transactions  fell to the lowest since 1996 in the
first half after the government doubled stamp duty taxes on
property deals in February to quell concerns that an asset
bubble is forming. Homebuyers’ sentiment was further damped by
signals that  interest rate  will soon begin to increase as the
U.S. economic recovery gather strength.  “The drop reflects the impact of the Federal Reserve’s
comments,” Wong Leung-sing, an associate director of research
at Centaline, said in a e-mailed statement. “The local buyers
are worried and we are seeing some homeowners agreeing to cut
prices. The market is very weak.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on June 20 signaled that the
central bank is prepared to begin phasing out its monetary
easing programs later this year. Hong Kong’s interest rates
track those of the U.S. because of the city’s currency peg to
the  U.S. dollar .  Bernanke on July 10 called for maintaining accommodation,
saying it’s what is needed for the  U.S. economy  ’’for the
foreseeable future,’’ even as the minutes of policy makers’ June
meeting showed them debating whether to stop bond buying by the
Fed in 2013.  The price index level posted by Centaline today reflected
mostly transactions that were agreed between June 17 and 23, the
realtor said.  Even with last week’s drop,  Hong Kong  home prices have more
than doubled since early 2009 on an influx of mainland Chinese
buyers, near record-low interest rates and a lack of new supply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  