-- Hong Kong Pollution Kills 1,600 Prematurely: Study Finds
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-07-12T11:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/hong-kong-pollution-kills-1-600-prematurely-study-finds.html
Hong Kong ’s air pollution caused
more than 1,600 premature deaths in the first half of the year,
almost 40 times the number of fatalities attributed to the H7N9
avian flu virus, according to a study by the Clean Air Network.  The air pollution also cost HK$18.7 billion ($2.4 billion)
in the six months ended June 30, showed the study, which cited
data from the Hedley Environmental Index. It was responsible for
76,361 days spent in the hospital and 3.6 million visits to
doctors, the data show.  All pollutants measured by the  Environmental Protection
Department  at all of Hong Kong’s 14 monitoring stations exceeded
the World Health Organizations’s annual average air quality
guidelines, with the exception of nitrogen dioxide levels at Tap
Mun, the report found. The average levels of nitrogen dioxide,
suspended particulates and sulfur dioxide were higher in the
first half of 2013 from a year earlier, the study shows.  “This mid-year  air quality  review shows just how critical
it is that the government take immediate action to implement
effective policies in order to safeguard public health,” Kwong
Sum-yin, chief executive officer of Clean Air Network, said in a
statement today. He pointed to what he said was a lack of
progress in government initiatives to retire old diesel
commercial vehicles, the development of optimized traffic
policies and feedback on a petition to install onshore power
facilities to curb emissions from ships.  Air Quality  The Clean Air Network also called on the government to
speed up the replacement of catalytic converters for taxis and
mini-buses, expedite bus route rationalization, create low-emission zones and continue efforts with the Pearl River Delta
administration to improve regional air quality.  Hong Kong’s Central and Western districts saw a 22 percent
increase in the levels of nitrogen dioxide from a year earlier.
Leung Chun-ying, chief executive of the Special Administrative
Region, announced in January that the city is offering HK$10
billion in subsidies to replace old diesel vehicles after a
government audit last year showed that air quality has worsened
since 2007.  Hong Kong University’s Hedley Environmental Index uses a
peer-reviewed methodology to indicate the public-health impact
of air pollution.  The air quality in Beijing was at hazardous levels for 20
days in January this year, according to U.S. Embassy readings.
The measure showed that the average level of PM2.5 pollution in
the city during that period was similar to an airport smoking
lounge, based on comparisons with data from the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  PM2.5 refers to fine air particles that pose lung and heart
disease risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  