-- Hong Kong Stocks Retreat, Paring Hang Seng Index’s Weekly Gain
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-07-12T02:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/hong-kong-stocks-retreat-paring-hang-seng-index-s-weekly-gain.html
Hong Kong stocks dropped after
recording their biggest single-day gain since January yesterday,
paring a third weekly advance for the city’s  equity benchmark .
Declines were limited amid investor optimism the U.S. will
maintain its monetary stimulus.  Daphne International Holdings Ltd. (210) , the footwear maker that
sells Aldo and Aerosoles shoes in  China , slumped 13 percent
after saying it expects first-half profit to fall.  Belle
International Holdings Ltd. (1880) , the nation’s largest footwear
retailer, gained 4.8 percent after its same-store sales growth
beat analyst estimates. CSR Corp., the country’s biggest
trainmaker, gained 5.7 percent after Shanghai Securities News
reported the nation may start taking bids for bullet trains in
the second half.  The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.2 percent to 21,393.76 as of
10:02 a.m. in Hong Kong, with about the same number of companies
falling and rising. The index is headed for a 2.6 percent
increase for the week, its third straight gain. The Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index dropped 0.3 percent to 9,518.90 after
yesterday notching its biggest single-day advance since January.  “Investors are still focused on potential downside risk of
the Chinese economy to see whether there will be any changes to
the macro-economic policy in favor of growth stimulus,” said
 Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at brokerage KGI Asia Ltd.
“After a strong rebound yesterday investors tend to be a bit
cautious.”  June Slump  The Hang Seng Index posted its  biggest monthly decline  in a
year in June, slumping 7.1 percent as China’s money-market rates
surged to a record and after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
policy makers may start dialing down stimulus if the  U.S.
economy  shows sustained improvement.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share index, fell as much as 27 percent from a Feb. 1 high
through June 27, meeting some investors’ definition of a  bear
market . The  measure traded  at 1.15 times the value of net assets
yesterday, compared with its five-year average of 1.79.  Shares rallied yesterday on speculation China will take
steps to boost growth and after Bernanke said the U.S. needs to
maintain stimulus for the foreseeable future.  China’s statistics bureau is scheduled to release second-quarter economic data on July 15. Growth may have slowed to 7.5
percent from 7.7 percent in the first three months, according to
the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. June
figures on industrial output, fixed-asset investment and retail
sales will be released on that day as well.  Trade Slows  China’s trade unexpectedly declined in June in a sign
weakness in global and domestic demand will intensify the
nation’s economic slowdown. Exports fell 3.1 percent from a year
earlier, the government said this week, compared with an
estimated 3.7 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey. It’s the
 biggest decline  since a 14 percent slump in October 2009.  Shares on the  benchmark   Hang Seng Index (HSI)  traded at 10.2
times estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 15.2 times for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.2 for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Resources and energy companies  lead declines this year on
the Hang Seng Composite Index, the city’s broadest equity
measure. The gauge fell 6.1 percent since the end of December,
with  information technology , utilities and services the only
sectors to gain among 11 industry groups.  Futures on the  S&P 500  slipped 0.1 percent after rising 1.4
percent yesterday in New York.  Hang Seng Index futures were little changed at 21,405. The
HSI Volatility Index retreated 3 percent to 20.29, indicating
traders expect a swing of 5.8 percent for the equity benchmark
in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  