-- Orix Plans to Spend $500 Million for Asian, Middle East Buyouts
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2013-07-12T00:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/orix-plans-to-spend-500-million-for-asian-middle-east-buyouts.html
Orix Corp. (8591) ,  Japan ’s most acquisitive
financial firm, plans to spend 50 billion yen ($506 million) on
takeovers in Southeast  Asia  and the  Middle East  in the next 12
months to tap faster-growing economies.  The company is working toward deals in countries including
Vietnam, Myanmar and  Cambodia , Corporate Executive Vice
President Kazuo Kojima said in an interview. The targets include
consumer lenders, banks and asset managers, according to Kojima,
who oversees investments at the Tokyo-based firm.  Orix is among Japanese companies that are expanding in
 emerging markets  as a shrinking population limits growth
potential at home. This year, it announced deals to buy stakes
in firms such as Tenger Financial Group, which owns Mongolia’s
fourth-biggest bank, and Saudi Arabian insurer  Mediterranean &
Gulf Insurance & Reinsurance Co. (MEDGULF) , known as MedGulf.  “Our overseas takeovers focus on the financial sector and
tend to be strategic investments so that Orix and the companies
can work together to expand business,” Kojima, 57, said on July
10. “Asia is growing rapidly. In such a growth phase, companies
expect us to help them increase capital. It’s a win-win
situation.”  Operations abroad accounted for about 20 percent of Orix’s
1.1 trillion yen in revenue for the year ended March, according
to an  earnings statement  posted on its website. The firm is
trying to diversify its business in emerging markets away from
leasing, Kojima said.  “We’re interested in companies that do financing for small
and medium-sized enterprises or consumer lending,” he said.
“We feel an affinity with them because those are business areas
that we’re good at.”  To Africa  The  company , which operates in 27 countries and regions
outside of Japan, also wants to enter  Africa , Kojima said,
without elaborating. It currently has no presence there.  Orix has announced 15 acquisitions and joint ventures over
the past year, the most of any Japanese enterprise apart from
trading companies Mitsui & Co.,  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Itochu
Corp. (8001) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Eleven of those
deals were investments valued at more than $3.5 billion in
companies abroad, the data show.  Its biggest takeover in the past year was a $2.6 billion
dollar-purchase of Rabobank Groep’s Robeco Groep NV asset-management unit in the Netherlands.  At home, Orix expects to spend 50 billion yen buying
companies in the coming year even as competition with private-equity rivals may intensify amid a recovery in the Japanese
economy, said Kojima.  The company has spent about 42 billion yen so far this year
on buyouts of domestic companies such as Asahi Fiber Glass Co.
For private equity investments, Orix usually seeks an exit after
five years, he said.  “Demand is likely to increase as private-equity funds hit
by the Lehman shock have been able to raise funds lately and
Abenomics may fuel competition,” said Kojima, referring to
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s growth policy. “We’re looking at
information-technology, food and health-care companies worth
between 10 billion yen and 50 billion yen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  