-- Emerging Stocks Rise on Stimulus Bets as Infosys Surges
-- B y   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s ,   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-07-12T21:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/most-emerging-stocks-rise-as-infosys-china-rail-shares-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks rose,
extending a weekly rally, amid speculation global central banks
will keep economic stimulus measures.  Infosys (INFO)  Ltd.’s better-than-estimated sales forecast lifted technology companies.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index rose 0.3 percent to 945.36,
driving its weekly gain to 3 percent. Infosys surged the most in
six months in Mumbai and banks paced rally in the Borsa Istanbul
Stock Exchange National 100 Index. Chinese stocks tumbled on
concern the government may tolerate a slower-than-indicated pace
of growth, while the nation almost doubled foreign funds’ access
to capital markets.  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  and the real led declines
among major developing-nation stock benchmarks and currencies.  European Central Bank executive board member Vitor Constancio said the euro area’s slow recovery implies that
policy has to stay “accommodative for a longer period of
time,” following this week’s comment by Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke that the U.S. economy will continue to
need stimulus.  China ’s Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said a 6.5
percent growth rate wouldn’t be a “big problem.”  “Anything that delays the idea of tightening is overall
beneficial to emerging markets,” Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment Management
which oversees $180 billion, said by phone. “There’s still a
lot of confusion about what is going to happen in China. We’re
not going to step in until we see a bottoming of expectations.”  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 1.1 percent to $38.94. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
advanced 6.6 percent to 27.29.  Eight out of  10 groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose today as health-care, phone and energy companies had the
biggest gains. The broad measure has slumped 10 percent this
year, compared with a 12 percent jump in the MSCI World Index.
The developing-nation gauge  trades  at 9.9 times projected
earnings, lower than the MSCI World’s valuation of 13.7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped 2.3 percent after the economy
contracted more than forecast in May. LLX Logistica SA, OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA and  MMX Mineracao e Metalicos
SA , which are controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , were the
worst performers on the index. The real slid 0.5 percent.  Mexican Shares  Mexico’s stocks and the peso declined after the nation’s
central bank kept its overnight rate at a record low as policy
makers balance slowing growth with above-target inflation and a
weakening currency in Latin America’s second-biggest economy.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rallied 2.2 percent in Moscow as Russia’s
central bank said it will start a new loan facility to improve
banks’ access to cash after leaving interest rates unchanged
today. OAO Sberbank added 2.7 percent.  Turkish stocks led gains among major emerging-market
indexes, rallying 3 percent. Asya Katilim Bankasi AS, a Turkish
Islamic lender, posted its biggest gain in five weeks after Bank
of America Corp. recommended buying the stock. Czech Republic’s
benchmark gauge rallied a third day and stocks in Hungary and
Poland also rose.  The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  soared to a six-week high as Infosys,
the second-largest software exporter, climbed 11 percent. The
rupee completed its first weekly gain since May.  The Shanghai Composite slid 1.6 percent as China Minsheng
Banking Corp.,  China Shenhua Energy Co. (601088)  and Jiangxi Copper Co.
led declines for financial and commodity companies. Finance
Minister Lou said he’s confident in achieving a 7 percent growth
rate this year. That’s below the government’s official growth
target of 7.5 percent.  Foreign Funds  The Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program will
expand to $150 billion from $80 billion, while a similar plan
for Hong Kong-based  yuan  investors will grow to encompass
 Singapore ,  London  and other cities, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported today, citing the China Securities Regulatory
Commission. The report didn’t identify the other locations.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries slid 0.06 percentage point to 332 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Summers in  New York  at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  