-- Most Chinese Stocks Decline as Benchmark Index Pares Weekly Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-12T01:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/most-chinese-stocks-decline-as-benchmark-index-pares-weekly-gain.html
Most  Chinese stocks  fell, paring the
benchmark measure’s biggest weekly advance in five months.  China Construction Bank Corp., Jiangxi Copper Co. and China
Shenhua Energy Co. led declines for financial and commodity
companies after Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said a 6.5 percent
economic-growth rate wouldn’t be a “big problem,” signaling
the government may tolerate a slower pace of expansion than
officials have previously indicated.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.3 percent to
2,065.97 at 9:39 a.m. local time. It has advanced 2.9 percent
this week, the most since the five days ended Feb. 1. The CSI
300 Index dropped 0.4 percent to 2,318.23, while the  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong 
slipped 0.2 percent.  The Shanghai Composite has gained this week on speculation
the government will take measures to bolster economic growth.
Premier  Li Keqiang  said in a July 9 speech that economic growth
and employment must stay above a certain floor, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported. The comment signaled that the
government’s monetary policy stance may soften in the second
half of the year, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  Investors should sell cyclical stocks amid the recent
rebound as the Shanghai index is unlikely to repeat a 24 percent
gain from December to February, analyst Wang Sheng at
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co., writes in a report today.  The outlook for China’s economic recovery and liquidity
isn’t as good now as it was in December and investors should
switch to pharmaceutical, consumer and property stocks, he said.  Lower Target  The statistics bureau is scheduled to release data on
second-quarter economic growth on July 15. Growth may have
slowed to 7.5 percent from 7.7 percent in the first three
months, according to the median estimate of 43 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Industrial output, fixed-asset investment and
retail sales data will be released on that day as well.  Finance Minister Lou said he’s confident in achieving a 7
percent growth rate this year. That’s below the government’s
official growth target of 7.5 percent. He made the comment while
attending a two-day U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue
in  Washington .  The slowdown is “necessary” to achieve a structural
transition, said Lou, adding that the government is deepening
reforms in areas including public financing and financial
services to achieve more sustainable growth.  He also urged the  Federal Reserve  to be “highly alert” to
the global impact from any decision to begin reducing stimulus
by tapering $85 billion in monthly bond buying known as
quantitative easing.  Fed’s Bernanke  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed at a record
yesterday after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said that “highly
accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future” was
needed in the world’s largest economy.  Bernanke spoke after the central bank released minutes of
the June 18-19 gathering showing that about half of the 19
participants in the  Federal Open Market Committee  wanted to halt
bond purchases by year end.  The Shanghai index has fallen 8.6 percent this year as data
from industrial production to exports pointed to a slowdown in
the economy and as money-market rates reached record highs last
month. The index trades at 8.5 times 12-month projected profit
after valuations fell in June to the lowest level in at least
five years,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volumes in the Shanghai Composite were 70 percent
higher than the 30-day average today while 30-day  volatility  was
at 26.1, the highest since December 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index, the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 4.1 percent in  New
York  yesterday. Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. added 8.9 percent
and Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. climbed the most since October 2011.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  