-- Mourners Pack L.A. Vigil for Asiana Teens They Never Met
-- B y   P e t e r   J .   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-07-12T05:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/mourners-pack-l-a-vigil-for-asiana-teens-they-never-met.html
About 400 mourners filled a Los
Angeles church auditorium to standing-room-only yesterday
evening, praying and paying tribute to two Chinese teenagers
they had never met.  Two white wreaths adorned a platform at West Valley
Christian Church, holding the names of the 16-year-old students,
Ye Meng  Yuan  and Wang Lin Jia, who died in the July 6  Asiana
Airlines Inc. (020560)  plane crash in San Francisco. Pictures of the two
girls, close friends who attended the same high school, were
shown on big screens. A nearby red wreath, symbolizing the
nation of  China , said, “Our Love.”  The sweet, sad sounds of “Amazing Grace,” sung in
Mandarin by 10 Chinese members of a nearby church, drifted over
the assembly, held about 30 miles (48 kilometers) northwest of
downtown. The crowd included worshipers, members of the public
and media. Attendees signed posters with messages of support for
the victims’ families.  “In the blink of an eye, everything changes,” Eliu
Elisara, chairman of the church, said at the event, his voice
cracking. “We do what we always do. We pray.”  Americans identify with the Chinese parents who were
striving to give their children opportunities, Elisara said.  The girls were members of a group of 35 Chinese students
scheduled to begin a three-week summer camp to be held on the
premises of West Valley Christian, which houses both a church
and a school. They were the only fatalities among 307 passengers
and crew on Asiana Flight 214, a Boeing Co. 777 that crash
landed at San Francisco International Airport. One may have been
killed by a rescue vehicle, said  Mindy Talmadge , a San Francisco
Fire Department spokeswoman.  ‘Our Own’  The girls attended the same high school in Zhejiang
province, according to the Los Angeles Times and other news
outlets, which cited the Beijing Morning Post. Wang was an
outgoing student leader who, authorities said, may have been run
over during the rescue. Ye was described as an outstanding
student who played piano and competed in aerobics.  Summer camp abroad has grown in popularity for Chinese
students as parents with means look for ways to expose their
children to other cultures. One of the girls liked Latin dancing
and the other played ping pong, Elisara said.  “The more we find out about these two girls, the more we
feel like they lived down the street,” Elisara said. “I never
even met them but I feel like they were two of our own.”  School, Sightseeing  The church rents its facilities to groups such as the one
the girls belonged to, school administrator Derek Swales said in
an interview. This group hired its own teachers for the planned
summer camp and selected families to stay with, he said.  “They were primarily here for the academics,” Swales
said. “They show up on Monday. In the morning they have two
classes, language arts and math. In the afternoon, they go
sightseeing.”  After the plane crash, the group decided to cancel the
summer session, Swales said. As a result, no one in the church
or school met any of the members of the Chinese delegation,
which was arranged by an agent. He said before the vigil that he
didn’t expect anyone associated with the group to attend.  Members of the church and school community wanted to
demonstrate their sorrow and offer support for the Chinese
families, according to Swale. Empty classroom chairs represented
the missing students.  “I was going to greet them when they came in,” said
Tuesday Bowen, 14, who just finished eighth grade at West Valley
Christian School. “My mom told me about the plane crash.”  Silicon Valley  The purpose of the trip was to “broaden students’ views of
life, let them personally experience a different culture,
customs and habits, and to learn authentic American spoken
English,” according to a statement from the Chinese delegation
provided to West Valley Christian.  The students were to stay with host families who had been
vetted by advance scouts to make sure they were acceptable. The
requirements included not having large dogs.  On weekends, such groups usually traveled to San Diego or
to Silicon Valley where they would visit the headquarters of
companies including Google Inc. and  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Swales said.  West Valley Christian Church is a non-denominational church
with a school providing education from pre-school to eighth
grade. During the vigil, Swales discussed the effect of losing
children, including when his 10-year-old niece, Jennie, died.  Some of the host families were in attendance at the
memorial, Swales said. The school is hosting a fundraiser for
the victims. A video of the ceremony will be given to the girls’
parents, Swales said.  “We wanted them to know we care for their children when
they are in our homes,” Swales told reporters after the
service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter J. Brennan in Los Angeles at 
 pbrennan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  