-- Oxford Instruments Shares Gain as Asia Demand Boosts Earnings
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-07-12T11:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/oxford-instruments-shares-gain-as-asia-demand-boosts-earnings.html
Oxford Instruments Plc (OXIG) , a U.K. maker
of high-technology tools such as X-ray tubes and cryogenic water
pumps, rose the most in almost three years as earnings and sales
picked up in the third month of its fiscal year.  “The year started slowly with performance in the first two
months of the year down against a very strong comparative period
in the prior year,” the company, which originated at the
University of Oxford, said in a statement today. “In the third
month of the quarter, orders, sales and profits were much
improved compared to each of the first two months and were also
ahead of the same period in 2012/13.”  The stock climbed as much as 15 percent to 1,438 pence in
London trading and was up 10 percent as of 11:59 a.m., valuing
the company at 782 million pounds ($1.2 billion). Before today,
the stock had dropped 12 percent this year.  Oxford Instruments, whose testing and analytical equipment
is used by companies such as  Siemens AG (SIE) , is benefitting from
rising demand in  Asia , where the average monthly order intake in
the quarter rose 18 percent from the monthly average in the last
financial year. At the same time, the average monthly order
intake dropped by 20 percent in  North America  and 1 percent in
 Europe .  “This was a more resilient trading update than many had
feared”, said Andrew Douglas, an analyst at Jefferies.  Oxford Instruments said its business will continue to make
progress in line with its expectations for the remainder of the
financial year.  “Our broad spread of geographies and technologies and our
strong pipeline of new products continue to underpin the long-term prospects for the group,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  