-- Pakistani Schoolgirl Shot by Taliban Calls for Education
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-12T16:50:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/pakistani-schoolgirl-shot-by-taliban-calls-for-education.html
Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani
schoolgirl who was shot in the head by the Taliban for her
advocacy of education rights, marked her 16th birthday seeking
support for her cause at United Nations headquarters.  Having made a remarkable recovery after her medical
evacuation to the U.K, Yousafzai looked poised and confident
today as she addressed a UN youth assembly and called on
governments to ensure free compulsory schooling for girls as
well as boys.  “Let us wage a global struggle against illiteracy, poverty
and terrorism,” she said. “Let us pick up our books and our
pens -- they are our most powerful weapons. One child, one
teacher, one book and one pen can change the world. Education is
the only solution.”  Yousafzai said the attack on her and two schoolmates by a
Taliban hit man -- and more recent attacks against students and
teachers in  Pakistan  -- shows the violent means that the
militants use in their effort to block womens’ rights and
education for girls.  “The extremists were, and they are, afraid of books and
paper,” she said, making her first high-level public appearance
since her recovery. “The power of education frightens them.
They are afraid of women. The power of the voice of women
frightens them.”  “They were and they are afraid of change, afraid of the
equality that we will bring into our society,” she said.  ‘Malala Day’  The Taliban assassin who failed to silence her has sparked
a massive response around the world, said Yousafzai. She was
dressed in a pink hijab and said she was wearing a shawl from
the late Pakistani Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto , who died in a
2007 terrorist attack which Pakistan authorities and the CIA
have attributed to the Pakistani Taliban and al-Qaeda.  The UN declared today “Malala Day.” Introducing her,
former U.K Prime Minister  Gordon Brown , now the UN special envoy
for education, called her “the most courageous girl in the
world.”  While traveling to school in Pakistan’s Swat Valley, she
was shot in the head and neck in October in retaliation for her
support of girls’ education rights, defying the violent anti-education campaign by Taliban militants.  “The terrorists thought they would change my aims and stop
my ambition,” she said. “But nothing changed in my life except
this: weakness, fear and hopelessness died; strength, power and
courage was born.”  Misusing Islam  Now attending school in the U.K., Yousafzai decried the
continuing attacks against girls and women in her homeland and
denounced the Taliban, who seek to impose their strict
interpretation of Islam in Pakistan and  Afghanistan .  The Taliban “think that God is a tiny, little conservative
being who would send girls to the hell just because of going to
school” and misuse Islam “for their own personal benefits,”
 she said .  “I am not against anyone, neither am I here to speak in
terms of personal revenge against the Taliban or any other
terrorist group,” she said. “I am here to speak up for the
right of education of every child. I want education for the sons
and daughters of the Taliban and all the extremists.”  Brown and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said one of the
UN’s Millennium Development Goals is to achieve universal
primary education by 2015. About 57 million primary school-aged
children aren’t getting an education, Brown said.  “As that end date approaches -– and despite significant
progress -– it appears that the international community will
fall short of this goal,” according to a  report  by the aid and
advocacy group Save the Children.  Conflict Impact  Coinciding with “Malala Day,” Save the Children’s report
says that almost 50 million primary and lower-secondary-age
children are out of school in countries affected by conflicts.
Of these, 28.5 million are primary age, and more than half of
them are girls, according to nonprofit group, based in Westport,
 Connecticut .  “Malala’s case involves an attack on a student whose
‘crime’ was a desire to learn,” according to the report. “But
attacks on education can take a number of forms. They are
defined as any intentional threat or use of force directed
against students, teachers, education personnel and/or education
institutions, carried out for political, military, ideological,
sectarian, ethnic, religious or criminal reasons.”  “Based on UN data, we estimate that there were more than
3,600 separate, documented attacks on education in 2012,” the
group said.  Save the Children called on governments to investigate all
such attacks and prosecute those responsible, and said the UN
should give greater attention to reporting on them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  