-- Penn State Approves Settlement Offers to Sandusky Victims
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-13T04:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/penn-state-approves-settlement-offers-to-sandusky-victims.html
Pennsylvania State University  said
it approved settlement offers to some victims of Jerry Sandusky,
the former assistant football coach convicted of sexually
abusing 10 boys.  The offers will be made to some people who made claims
against the university related to Sandusky, the university said
yesterday in a statement. It didn’t specify the number of claims
or whether they involved the victims who testified against
Sandusky during his trial last year. No dollar amounts were
given for the settlements.  “Today’s action is yet another important step toward the
resolution of claims from Sandusky’s victims,” Penn State
President Rodney Erickson said in the statement. “The
University intends to deal with these individuals in a fair an
expeditious manner, with due regard to their privacy.  Sandusky is serving a minimum 30-year prison sentence for
abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period. Sandusky, who was
convicted by a jury in June 2012 on 45 criminal counts,
committed some of his crimes in campus buildings and while he
was employed by the school.  A report by  Louis Freeh , the former FBI director, found
that red flags involving Sandusky were numerous and university
officials ignored them to avoid bad publicity. Penn State faces
at least six lawsuits over the abuse. The university has said it
plans to compensate victims with money from insurance policies
and funds set aside from interest on loans.  Feinberg Hired  The university hired attorney  Kenneth Feinberg  of Feinberg
Rozen LLP to facilitate negotiations with Sandusky victims.
Feinberg is the mediator who oversaw claims by victims of the
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and also served as
administrator of the $20 billion fund to pay victims of the 2010
 BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill.  No settlement agreements have been signed, according to the
statement. The school said it will not comment further until the
settlements have been completed and agreements executed.  “ Penn State  has no definitive timetable set for the signed
agreements, but officials hope to conclude the process with the
majority of the claimants within the next several weeks,”
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  