-- Petrobras Share Gap to Narrow on Accounting, Santander Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a r a   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-07-12T15:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/petrobras-preferred-voting-share-gap-to-narrow-santander-says.html
The gap between Petroleo Brasileiro
SA’s preferred shares and voting shares will probably narrow as
the Brazilian oil producer changes the way it accounts for
currency swings, Banco Santander SA said.  The state-controlled company’s preferred stock may trade at
a premium of as little as 95 centavos ($0.42), Santander’s
analysts Christian Audi and Vicente Falanga Neto wrote in a note
to clients. The  gap  between the two classes of shares reached a
11-week high of 1.53 reais on June 14.  Petrobras, as the company is also known, began adopting
accounting practices in May that allow exporters to reduce the
impact currency fluctuations have on earnings, according to a
July 10 regulatory filing. The change will boost 2013 earnings
by 4.7 billion reais, Citigroup Inc. analysts Pedro Medeiros and
Fernando Valle wrote in a note to clients.  The new accounting method benefits voting shares because
dividends on that class of stock are linked to the company’s net
income, which will not be as affected by currency swings,
according to Citigroup’s analysts.  Voting shares have risen 7.8 percent to 14.87 reais in the
past two days, narrowing the gap with preferred shares to 88
centavos as of 11:28 a.m. in  Sao Paulo .  The real weakened 0.4 percent to 2.2640 today, pushing its
decline this year to 9.4 percent. The currency’s implied three-month volatility, a measure of price swings, increased to 14.2
percent, the highest among major dollar peers after the South
African rand.  Taxable Income  A weaker real hurts Petrobras’s profit as the value of its
dollar-denominated debt increases, Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said in an interview last year. The full effect of the
changes won’t be felt until the third quarter because it was
implemented in May, according to the Citigroup analysts.  While reducing debt service costs, the new accounting
policy also increases the taxable income of the world’s biggest
producer in deep waters, according to Citigroup.  “We estimate the change will lead to 1.8 billion reais in
higher taxes paid in 2013,” the Citigroup analysts wrote. “In
the long term, the change makes it more difficult to forecast
Petrobras’s results.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 plara6@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  