-- Philippine Peso Forwards Complete Weekly Gain on Growth Outlook
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-07-12T08:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/philippine-peso-forwards-set-for-weekly-gain-on-economic-outlook.html
 Philippine peso forwards completed
a weekly gain as the Southeast Asian economy’s growth outlook
improved and the Federal Reserve damped speculation a reduction
in stimulus was imminent. Bonds advanced.  The  International Monetary Fund  raised its 2013 growth
forecast for the Philippines to 7 percent from 6 percent on July
10. The lender’s resident representative Shanaka Jayanath Peiris
said remittances from Filipinos working overseas and outsourcing
revenues will keep the nation’s current account in surplus this
year. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week
the U.S. needs a “highly accommodative monetary policy” for
the foreseeable future.  “The Philippines’ growth potential is positive and
remittances are resilient,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at Manila-based  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  Bernanke’s comments
“caused some profit-taking on the long dollar trade,” he said.
“Near term, it’s favorable for the peso.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.7 percent this
week to 43.39 per dollar as of 4:08 p.m. in Manila, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts, which fell 0.3
percent today, are at a 0.05 percent discount to the spot rate.  The peso was little changed from last week and was 0.2
percent lower today at 43.412 per dollar, according to prices
from Tullett Prebon Plc.  Citigroup Inc., the second-biggest currency trader and
most-accurate forecaster for Asia over the last four quarters,
rates the peso its best pick for the second half of 2013.  Current Account  The  Philippines ’ current-account surplus widened 56 percent
to $3.4 billion in the first quarter of 2013 from the previous
three months, official data show. The central bank forecast
remittances by Filipinos living abroad will rise 5 percent this
year to $22.5 billion.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 15 basis
points, or 0.15 percentage point, this week to 7.39 percent. The
gauge dropped one basis point today.  Government bonds  gained this week. The yield on the 8
percent notes due July 2031 slid 35 basis points to 4.85
percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.
The rate dropped three basis points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  