-- Philippine Airlines Plans Daily Flights to Five European Cities
-- B y   F r a n k   L o n g i d   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-07-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/philippine-airlines-plans-daily-flights-to-five-european-cities.html
Philippine Airlines (PAL)  Inc., controlled
by billionaire Lucio Tan, plans to fly daily to five cities in
 Europe , with flights to resume this year after the European
Union took the country off its safety blacklist.  The flag carrier will use its six Boeing Co. 777 aircraft
for direct flights to London, Frankfurt, Paris, Amsterdam and
Rome, President Ramon Ang said in an interview in  Manila .  The EU on July 10 said it’s lifting a three-year-old flight
ban on Philippine Airlines, citing its ability to ensure
compliance with safety regulations and oversight improvements by
the Southeast Asian nation’s aviation authorities. “The
 Philippines  may attract about 600,000 European visitors, 50
percent more than last year, helping the nation meet its
target” of 5.5 million tourists this year, ABS-CBN News
reported on July 11, citing Tourism Secretary Ramon Jimenez.  “After the EU lifting, we need to make arrangements with
the airports, which may take one to two months,” Ang said
yesterday. “We will be flying to  London  by October at the
latest. By November, we should be flying to all.”  PAL Holdings, which yesterday traded for the first time
this year after raising its public float to a level required by
the Philippine Stock Exchange, rose 42 percent to 6.95 pesos.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the nation’s biggest company and of which
Ang is also president, in April last year acquired 49 percent of
Philippine Airlines from businessman Lucio Tan for $500 million
as part of its expansion into industries that include oil, power
and infrastructure.  Labor Union  “The flights to Europe might be able to return it to
profit,” Harry Liu, president of Summit Securities in Manila,
said by phone. “A Philippine Airlines under  San Miguel  might be
able to deal with its  labor  union in ways that Tan wasn’t able
to.”  Philippine Airlines, majority owned by Tan through PAL
Holdings Inc., was in talks for 35 wide-body Airbus or Boeing
jets after signing a purchase agreement for 10 A330s, Ang said
Oct. 20.  San Miguel on July 8 said it has held talks with ANA
Holdings Inc. about investing in the flag carrier, without
elaborating.  There is a “very good understanding” with a potential
investor, Ang said yesterday, declining to provide further
details or identify the suitor..  Ang, a flying enthusiast, said he will probably sell all
but one of the aircraft he owns. “Why would I need them? We
have to patronize PAL.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  