-- Philippines Can’t Agree With Muslim Rebels on Wealth-Sharing
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-07-12T05:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/philippines-fails-to-agree-with-muslim-rebels-on-wealth-sharing.html
The  Philippines  failed to resolve a
deadlock with Muslim rebels in the latest round of talks over a
revenue-sharing plan that’s crucial to sealing the end of a
four-decade insurgency in the country’s south.  The Moro Islamic Liberation Front is seeking 75 percent of
revenue from any energy-resource development, while the
government wants an equal split, Ghadzali Jaafar, the rebels’
vice chairman, said in an interview aired on ABS-CBN News today
after talks this week in the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur.  The continued deadlock reflects the challenge President
Benigno Aquino’s government faces in turning a framework
agreement with the rebels, signed last year, into lasting peace
on the southern island of Mindanao. Ending the insurgency, which
has killed as many as 200,000 people, could help unlock mineral
deposits worth an estimated $312 billion.  “The government is not backing down because it wants a
position that will be accepted by lawmakers later on,” Benito
Lim, a political science professor at the Ateneo de  Manila 
University, said by telephone. “It would be a waste” if
Congress refuses to pass a law granting autonomy to areas in
southern Philippines, he said.  The two sides agreed to keep talking, Aquino spokeswoman
Abigail Valte told reporters in Manila today. The Philippines is
still seeking a compromise, government negotiator Miriam
Coronel-Ferrer said in a separate interview with ABS-CBN.  “We’re committed to the process and ready to go into all
the details of the text we’re trying to put together,” she told
ABS-CBN. “It will be unfortunate if further delays will
happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  