-- Portugal President Urges Quick Party Accord as Bond Yields Rise
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-12T15:47:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/portugal-president-urges-quick-party-accord-as-bond-yields-rise.html
President Anibal Cavaco Silva said
he wants Portugal’s two ruling parties and main opposition group
to quickly reach an agreement of “national salvation” and
implement a bailout program as the nation’s bond yields surge.  “Talks between the political parties should be concluded
in a very short period of time,” the president’s office said in
a statement on its  website . Silva met with the party leaders
yesterday to explain the terms of such an agreement and all
showed willingness to start discussions as soon as possible,
according to the statement.  Silva on July 10 called on Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho ’s Social Democrats and its smaller conservative CDS party
ally, along with the main opposition Socialist Party, to reach
an agreement that will allow Portugal to complete its aid
program through June 2014, set early elections to take place
after that date and ensure that debt will be sustainable with a
new government after the bailout.  While ruling out early elections right away, Silva hasn’t
endorsed a new coalition agreement between Coelho and CDS leader
Paulo Portas, and opted to make the call for a broader pact that
would also involve the Socialists. The two parties in government
last week had settled a split over budget policy with Coelho
offering Foreign Minister Portas the post of vice premier and
control over economic policy.  “The longer the current political uncertainty lasts, the
higher Portuguese bond yields could go, making  market access 
more difficult,”  Ricardo Santos , an economist at BNP Paribas SA
in  London , said in a note today.  Yields Jump  The country’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  bond yield jumped 67 basis points to
7.57 percent at 4:39 p.m. in London. The yield jumped to a
seven-month high of more than 8 percent last week after the rift
in the coalition emerged. The country pays 3.2 percent on its
bailout loans.  Portuguese debt agency IGCP today said it plans to resume
“regular issuance” of bonds “only if market conditions are
conducive.” Financing needs for 2013 are “fully covered” and
in the second quarter the debt agency started to “pre-fund”
for borrowing needs in 2014, IGCP said in an e-mailed statement.  The eighth and ninth review of Portugal’s progress on
meeting terms of the 78 billion-euro ($102 billion) aid program
will now both take place at the end of August or beginning of
September due to the “political situation,” the  Finance
Ministry  said yesterday. The ministry said last month the eighth
review was due to start on July 15.  Parties’ Agreement  “We are totally committed to finding an agreement with
substance,” Coelho said in parliament today. “We don’t need to
cancel the political differences between the coalition that
supports the government and the Socialist Party. Those
differences persist and they are natural and healthy in
democracy.”  “The Socialist Party is available to start a dialogue with
all the political parties,” party leader Antonio Jose Seguro
told parliament today. The Socialists have ruled out the
possibility of supporting or taking part in any government
resulting from the current distribution of seats in the assembly
and Seguro reaffirmed calls for renegotiating aid package terms.  The Socialists have voted alongside the governing coalition
on certain key policy decisions including the European Stability
Mechanism treaty, the fiscal compact and the country’s budget
framework law. The party led Coelho’s Social Democrats by 12
percentage points in a poll published today and has called for
early elections.  Dissolve Parliament  Silva, who has the power to dissolve parliament, said on
July 10 that “the start of the process that leads to elections
should coincide with the end of the financial aid program” in
June 2014. The Social Democrats and the conservative CDS party
now have a majority in parliament and the government’s term ends
in 2015.  “This dialogue can and must start,” CDS leader Portas
said today in parliament about talks between the three parties.  Portas handed in his resignation as foreign minister last
week. Coelho, who leads the Social Democrats, had seen Finance
Minister Vitor Gaspar quit the day before and refused to accept
Portas’s resignation, citing his role as leader of a coalition
party.  While not involved in daily government business,  Portugal ’s
president is more than just a ceremonial figure. In addition to
dissolving parliament, the head of state is directly elected and
can veto laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  