-- Gilts Advance for a Fifth Day on Stimulus Optimism; Pound Drops
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-07-12T15:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/pound-set-for-weekly-gain-versus-dollar-before-construction-data.html
U.K. 10-year government bonds
advanced for a fifth day, the longest streak of gains since
March, amid speculation that central banks from the U.K. to the
U.S. will maintain policy stimulus.  Two-year gilts stayed higher after a report showed
construction output contracted more than economists forecast.
The pound dropped versus the dollar, paring its biggest weekly
gain in a month, before the  Bank of England  publishes the
minutes of its most recent meeting next week, which will reveal
how policy makers voted at new Governor  Mark Carney ’s first
meeting. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week
the  U.S. economy  still needed stimulus.  “Gilts are underpinned by a view that liquidity will
remain ample after what Bernanke said this week brought a bit of
balance to the market,” said  John Wraith , a fixed-income
strategist at Bank of America Corp. in  London . “People are
buying after a big backup in yields last month was seen as
excessive. The economic outlook in the U.K. has improved, but
perhaps not enough to warrant that kind of selloff.”  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield fell seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 2.31 percent at 4:15 p.m. London
time, the lowest since June 20. The 1.75 percent bond maturing
in September 2022 rose 0.53, or 5.30 pounds per 1,000-pound
($1,510) face amount, to 95.38. The rate has dropped 17 basis
points  this week , the steepest decline since the period ended
March 1.  Two-year (GUKG2)  gilt yields slipped two basis points to 0.35
percent.  Debt Supply  Gilts handed investors a loss of 3.9 percent in the past
three months through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World
Bond Indexes. German bonds declined 1.4 percent and Treasuries
fell 3 percent, the indexes show.  Gilts rose alongside German bonds as investors sought
safety amid concern a political dispute in  Portugal  will result
in new elections and endanger the nation’s financial-aid
program.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva said on July 9 that early
elections were undesirable and urged the ruling coalition
parties and the main opposition to reach a “national
salvation” pact allowing Portugal to complete its aid program.  U.K. bond gains were underpinned by a lack of debt supply
in the coming few weeks. The next auction for regular gilts will
be on Aug. 6, according to data from the Debt Management Office.  Construction Data  The pound slipped 0.4 percent to $1.5117 after declining to
$1.4814 on July 9, the lowest level since June 2010. It has
gained 1.5 percent this week, the most since the period ended
June 7. Sterling was little changed at 86.36 pence per euro.  The pound has weakened 2 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 6.3 percent and the
euro gained 5 percent.  U.K. construction output contracted 3.4 percent in May from
a year earlier. The median estimate of seven economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 2.8 percent decline.  Futures traders increased bets the pound will weaken
against the dollar, according to the latest data from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the pound compared with
those on a gain totaled 31,324 contracts on July 2, compared
with so-called net shorts of 19,429 a week earlier. The
difference was as much as 77,738 on June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  