-- Prisa Is Said to Seek Alternative to Unanimous Creditor Accord
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-07-12T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/prisa-said-to-seek-way-around-unanimous-creditor-accord-on-debt.html
Promotora de Informaciones SA  is
considering alternative ways to restructure 2.9 billion euros
($3.8 billion) of debt as it struggles to get support from some
lenders, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Prisa, as the company is known, is looking for a way to
avoid having to reach unanimous agreement with its 38 creditors
to restructure the debt, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the deliberations are private. Some lenders
are still not on board with the current restructuring plan,
making it very unlikely Prisa could get total accord, they said.  British, German and Portuguese creditors are among the ones
reluctant to join the refinancing plan, one of the people said.
Prisa, Spain’s  biggest media  company, also told its banks it’s
checking with lawyers in the U.S. on a potential Chapter 11
bankruptcy filing there, one of the people said.  “It’s very difficult for a company such as Prisa to reach
a unanimous debt restructuring agreement with so many lenders,
especially if there are any hedge funds” involved, said
Cristobal Cotta, a lawyer at Cuatrecasas, Goncalves Pereira in
Madrid, who isn’t involved in the reorganization.  Spain’s bankruptcy law was amended in 2011 to adopt the
British practice known as a “scheme of arrangement.” It allows
qualifying companies that have a restructuring agreement with
creditors accounting for at least three-quarters of their debt
to force dissenters to accept it. Spanish steel producer  Celsa
Group  has recently used this method.  Still Trying  Last month, Madrid-based Prisa said 72.9 percent of its
creditor banks approved a plan to restructure its debt and it
was confident it would reach unanimous agreement in weeks. Prisa
is seeking more liquidity and to extend syndicated and bilateral
debt maturities for more flexibility, it said.  Prisa is still trying to reach a deal to restructure its
debt, which is a lengthy process given the number of lenders
involved, according to a spokeswoman at Prisa, who asked not to
be named citing company policy. She declined to comment on any
details of the debt negotiations.  “This Spanish version of the scheme of arrangement could
be a potential solution for many other companies facing a
similar situation in order to avoid the bankruptcy,” Cotta
said.  Prisa  shares  dropped 11 percent to 19.5 euro cents
yesterday in  Madrid . The stock has lost 17 percent this year,
valuing the publisher of El Pais newspaper at 201 million euros.  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday Prisa has
considered filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the
U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  