-- Pro-Mursi Protesters Gather in Egypt Demanding His Return
-- B y   T a m i m   E l y a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-07-13T02:24:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/pro-mursi-protesters-gather-in-egypt-demanding-his-return.html
Protesters against the Egyptian
army’s removal of Islamist President Mohamed Mursi plan to
maintain their sit-ins and rallies after a day when tens of
thousands of people demonstrated in the capital.  While protest leaders such as Safwat Hegazy, an Islamic
scholar and Muslim Brotherhood supporter, told crowds in the
Nasr City neighborhood of Cairo yesterday that rallies wouldn’t
end until Mursi is reinstated, the U.S. and  Germany  called for
the ousted leader to be released from army custody.  Crowds gathered in front of Cairo University, in Ramsis
Square and in Nasr City, where some erected tents. Banners
described Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi as a “traitor”
and Mursi as the legitimate president.  “It is not in our hands anymore,” Hussein Ibrahim,
secretary-general of the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice party, said by phone. “The protests are spontaneous and
any means of peaceful protesting are encouraged.”  Security forces have detained Brotherhood officials since
the military swept Mursi from power July 3 on a wave of protests
from critics who accused him of monopolizing power for the
Islamists.  Prosecutors issued arrest warrants on July 10 for Mohammed Badie, the group’s top official, and nine other Islamists on
grounds they incited a confrontation in Cairo on July 8 in which
more than 50 people, most of them Mursi loyalists, were killed
in clashes with the army.  Cabinet Plans  Amid the turmoil, the new prime minister, Hazem El-Beblawi,
is trying to form a government that will be asked to revive a
crumbling economy and end deep political rifts.  El-Beblawi said in a phone interview yesterday that he
plans to announce the Cabinet by the end of next week. “The
shape of the Cabinet is 90 percent completed,” he said.  Yesterday’s protests included supporters of Mursi and
others who, while they opposed him, believe “they are facing a
complete military coup,” Ibrahim said.  The U.S. call yesterday for Mursi’s release was the first
time it’s made such an appeal since he was taken into army
custody. German Foreign Ministry spokesman Martin Schaefer also
said he should be freed.  “We do agree” that Mursi should be released, U.S. State
Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said. “We’ve expressed
concerns from the beginning” about Mursi’s detention and “the
politically motivated arbitrary arrests of other Muslim
Brotherhood members.”  Obama Call  U.S. President  Barack Obama  discussed the situation in
 Egypt  by phone yesterday with Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah, the
White House said in a statement. The two leaders agreed on the
need to ensure Egypt’s stability, and Obama voiced his concerns
over political violence there, the White House said.  A police officer was killed and another was wounded
yesterday when a rocket-propelled grenade fired by unidentified
attackers hit their armored vehicle while on patrol on El-Arish
airport road in the Sinai peninsula, the Interior Ministry said.
Early today, Egyptian army helicopters fired missiles at two
sport-utility vehicles in the northern Sinai, setting them on
fire, the Al-Shorouk newspaper said on its website, citing
eyewitnesses.  Among the protesters in Cairo yesterday were Egyptians who
said they didn’t show up to support the Brotherhood or Mursi.  “I am afraid of chaos, I am not a member of the
Brotherhood, but I am here to protect my voice,” said Hany
Belal, 40, a laborer. “Coups can’t depose an elected
president.”  Leaflets Scattered  Egyptian army helicopters flew over Mursi supporters in
Rabaa el-Adawiya square and scattered leaflets on the crowd, Al-Jazeera reported. One leaflet, posted on the Facebook page of
Freedom and Justice Party, the Muslim Brotherhood’s political
arm, called on protesters to end their rallies, promising
exemption from prosecution if they did.  The government’s priority will be “security first, then
the economy,” El-Beblawi said in an interview with the Asharq
Al-Awsat newspaper, expressing confidence the army will be able
to restore security in the Sinai.  The political unrest and security incidents won’t affect
the safety of shipping in the Suez Canal, he said. The 193-kilometer (120-mile) waterway handles 8 percent of world trade,
connecting the Mediterranean and Red Seas.  Brotherhood Refusal  El-Beblawi faces a challenge from the Brotherhood’s refusal
to participate in talks. The group rejects the opposition’s
argument that the military intervened in response to mass
protests fueled by complaints that Mursi hijacked the democratic
process to try to impose an Islamist agenda and monopolize
power.  The new government must tackle an economy that’s stuck in
its worst slowdown in two decades. Unemployment is at a record
high, and foreign reserves are less than half their levels in
December 2010, two months before longtime leader  Hosni Mubarak 
was toppled in the popular uprising that eventually ushered
Mursi into power.  The U.S. has said it will continue to provide assistance to
Egypt.  Egypt has received aid pledges from Arab countries:  Kuwait 
extended a $4 billion aid package on July 10, adding to the $8
billion promised by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.  Yields on the government’s $1 billion of Eurobonds due 2020
gained 4 basis points as of 8:30 p.m. in Cairo yesterday,
reversing two days of declines. The EGX 30 Index of stocks on
July 11 slipped 0.9 percent, bringing a drop in the week to 1.1
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamim Elyan in Cairo at 
 telyan@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  