-- Quebec Train Crash Taints Railroad CEO’s Legend Status
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-07-12T17:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/quebec-train-crash-taints-railroad-ceo-s-legend-status.html
Rail World Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Edward Burkhardt has gone from railroad industry legend
to  Canada ’s public enemy No. 1 in less than a week.  The executive, 74, once named Railroader of the Year by
Railway Age magazine, has gotten death threats after a freight
train operated by his Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railways
crashed in Lac-Megantic,  Quebec , killing as many as 50 people.
Quebec Premier Pauline Marois criticized him for taking too long
to visit the accident site and Maclean’s, Canada’s largest
newsmagazine, called him “the most hated man” in the town,
which sits 16 kilometers (10 miles) from the Maine border.  “I don’t see how he can survive this without being
tarnished or worse,” Anthony Hatch, an independent analyst
based in New York who has tracked railroad companies for almost
three decades, said in a telephone interview. “That would be a
shame for someone who’s done a lot of good for the industry.”  The July 6 disaster, which Burkhardt has blamed on the
train operator’s failure to properly set hand brakes, threatens
to mar a career spent buying and building railroads from the
U.S. to the U.K. to New Zealand.  “You go forward and let the chips fall where they may,”
Burkhardt said in a July 9 interview at  Rail World ’s offices in
Rosemont,  Illinois , when asked whether the Lac-Megantic incident
would tarnish his legacy. “If it does, so be it.”  Death Toll  About 2,000 people were forced to flee their homes after
the runaway train hauling 72 cars of crude oil jumped the tracks
and burst into flames, incinerating 30 buildings. The confirmed
death toll was 24, Chief Inspector Michel Forget of the Surete
du Quebec police said yesterday, after saying on July 10 that a
total of about 50 people are “probably dead.” At 50 deaths, it
would be the worst rail disaster in Canada since 1910, when a
derailment in Spanish River, Ontario, killed 63 people.  Burkhardt, who is also chairman of  Montreal , Maine &
Atlantic Railways, paid his first visit to Lac-Megantic four
days after the unmanned train rolled from an overnight parking
spot into the center of town. He initially said a local fire
department may have been responsible for shutting down power on
the train’s lead locomotive while responding to a blaze, causing
the air brakes to release.  Later, Burkhardt questioned whether the Montreal, Maine &
Atlantic engineer operating the train was truthful about the
number of hand brakes he’d applied.  “We think he applied some handbrakes, the question is, did
he apply enough of them?” the CEO said. “He’s told us that he
applied 11 handbrakes and our general feeling now is that that
is not true.”  Engineer Suspended  The engineer on the train was Tom Harding of Farnham,
Quebec, according to Guy Farrell, assistant to the Quebec
director of the United Steelworkers Union. The union represents
75 MM&A workers. Harding has been suspended with pay, Farrell
said. Calls to a Tom Harding in Farnham weren’t answered.  Farrell, speaking in an interview about Burkhardt, said
that “I have no respect for a person like this who cannot take
his responsibilities and tries to find a scapegoat.”  Robin Sears, a communications adviser for Earnscliffe
Strategy Group in Ottawa, said Burkhardt damaged his credibility
by laying blame before all the facts had come to light.  “I do not understand why he thought it was all right to
freelance on his views of what he thought had happened,” Sears
said in a telephone interview. “Everybody knows in a situation
like this that it’s so incredibly fraught with risk because
there are so many pieces of information that are unknown.”  Rail Jobs  Burkhardt’s first job on a railroad came at age 16, when he
worked on a track gang, and he held other positions including
brakeman and machinist’s helper before graduating from Yale
University in New Haven,  Connecticut  in 1960, he told the
Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel in October 2000.  After spending more than two decades at Chicago & North
Western Transportation Co., Burkhardt formed Wisconsin Central
Transportation Corp. in 1987 to buy a rail network that its
owner, Soo Line Railroad, considered unprofitable in the wake of
the U.S. industry’s 1980 deregulation.  He built on that experience by investing in government-run
railroads that were being turned into private companies,
boosting efficiency and profitability, Carl Ferenbach, an
advisory partner at Berkshire Partners LLC in  Boston  who was a
Wisconsin Central board member from 1987 to 2001, said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Deserves Credit’  “It’s a remarkable industry that made an amazing comeback,
and Burkhardt was really at the forefront of that and he
deserves credit for it,” Ferenbach said.  Wisconsin Central was part of a group that acquired New
Zealand Rail Ltd. from that country’s government in 1993. It
also bought freight rail operations that were being turned into
private companies by the U.K. government in 1996.  Railway Age magazine recognized him with its annual award
in January 1999. Six months later, he was pushed out at
Wisconsin Central after 60 percent decline in the company’s
stock over a 2 1/2-year period.  The same month he resigned from Wisconsin Central,
Burkhardt formed Rail World. Wisconsin Central was acquired by
 Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  in 2001, after Burkhardt
unsuccessfully sought to regain control of the company.  Burkhardt continued to invest in national railroads their
governments no longer wanted to run, joining a group that helped
turn Estonian Railways private in 2001.  Divergent Views  “Ed is a living legend,” Henry Posner, CEO of Railroad
Development Corp., which also invested in Estonian Railways,
said in a telephone interview. “He’s had a long and industrious
career.”  That’s not the way he’s being viewed in Canada. Marois, the
Quebec premier, called Montreal, Maine & Atlantic’s response to
the accident “reprehensible,” and the Toronto Star in a July
10 editorial said the town “deserved better” than Burkhardt’s
“tardy” visit.  “It creates the question of how committed are some
railroad CEOs to safety,” Frank Wilner, a former chief of staff
for the U.S. Surface Transportation Board who was a spokesman
for the United Transportation Union and has written six books on
the railroad industry. “I just don’t understand why the CEO
didn’t show up within hours. It’s his railroad.”  The accident has reduced Burkhardt’s wealth in addition to
damaging his reputation. He told reporters Lac-Megantic on July
10 that he’s worth “a whole lot less than I was on Saturday,”
the day of the accident. He said he waited to visit the town
because he first wanted to give rescue crews time to put the
fires out and deal with the disaster.  Insurance Coverage  His company may suffer financially as well, as the limits
of insurance coverage probably will be tested by costs
associated with the crash, Burkhardt said, without specifying
how much coverage it carries.  XL Group Plc (XL)  is one of the
insurers for Montreal, Maine & Atlantic, according to Christine
Weirsky, a spokeswoman for the Dublin-based insurance company.  There will “undoubtedly” be a class-action lawsuit over
the disaster, Dimitri Lascaris, who heads the securities class
action group at law firm Siskinds LLP in Montreal, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “You’re going to have claims from
loss of business, from the families of the deceased, damage to
property -- it’s substantial.”  Lascaris said his firm is looking into representing the
Lac-Megantic victims in court.  Burkhardt acknowledged that his rail safety record will be
in question after the Quebec crash.  “We actually had, I think, quite a reasonable safety
record up until Saturday and then we blew it all,” he told
reporters in Lac-Megantic. “I feel absolutely awful about this.
I have never been involved in anything remotely approaching this
in my life.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  