-- Raytheon’s Jammer Deal Opens Way for $7.4 Billion Program
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-07-12T16:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/raytheon-s-jammer-deal-opens-way-for-7-4-billion-program.html
Raytheon Co. (RTN) ’s win this week of a
$279 million contract to continue developing the U.S. Navy’s new
radar-jamming system holds promise for more: It clears the way
for as much as $7.4 billion in future work, according to Navy
officials.  Raytheon beat a bid from  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in tandem
with  Exelis Inc. (XLS)  and another led by  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  to advance
into a “technology demonstration” phase for the Next
Generation Jammer.  The equipment will be carried on all 135  Boeing Co. (BA)  EA-18G
Growler aircraft the Navy plans to buy this decade, and that may
make the contract announced July 9 a winner-take-all opportunity
for Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon.  “Provided they meet the conditions of the current
contract, the program’s acquisition strategy is to award follow-on” engineering, manufacturing and development and production
contracts “sole-source to Raytheon,” Naval Air Systems Command
spokesman Rob Koon said in an e-mail statement.  The jammer is designed to defeat the radar of integrated
air-defense systems such as those fielded by  Iran ,  China ,  North
Korea  and  Syria  that detect aircraft and direct surface-to-air
missiles. It’s also intended to jam ground communications. The
Navy wants the jammer in operation by 2020.  “Raytheon provided the U.S. Navy with an innovative and
efficient design capable of jamming current and future
threats,” Rick Yuse, president of the company’s space and
airborne systems business, said in a statement this week.
Raytheon also is the world’s largest maker of missiles.  Northrop’s Bid  Northrop Grumman is the maker of the current jammer for
Navy electronic-warfare aircraft, the ALQ-99. In making its bid
for the new system, the  Falls Church , Virginia-based company
said in November that it would be “leveraging four decades of
expertise in designing, developing and delivering advanced
weapons systems that support the customer’s electronic warfare
and airborne electronic attack missions.”  The Navy’s announcement this week of the $279 million
contract didn’t disclose the scope of the work that Raytheon is
in line to get. The Navy’s current rough estimate is that the
service will spend as much as $7.4 billion on the initial phase
of the jammer program.  Dollar Breakdown  That includes $3.1 billion through 2018 for four and half
years of additional development, testing and evaluation that
Raytheon will perform, according to Navy budget documents. An
additional $4.3 billion is projected to produce the first 114
jammer pod sets, spare parts, logistics and support for the
Navy’s initial requirement.  “Procurement costs are expected to increase in future
years,” said Koon, as an additional 21 Growlers are bought,
bringing the total to 135.  While the Navy’s current five-year budget plan includes the
jammer funding, that doesn’t take into account the budget cuts
called sequestration that Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said
this week could trim 15 percent to 20 percent from some programs
in fiscal 2014.  The jammer “may have to compete with other Navy programs
for increasingly scarce modernization funds,” according to
Kevin Brancato, a defense analyst for Bloomberg Government who
follows the program.  The Growler’s on-board systems “detect hostile emitters
and generate tailored signals that overwhelm or confuse enemy
receivers, precluding successful tracking and targeting of U.S.
aircraft,” according to  Loren Thompson , a defense analyst with
the Arlington, Virginia-based Lexington Institute in a note this
week.  Thompson said the award “underscores the growing
importance of electronic warfare in U.S. military strategy, and
in particular the central role that the carrier-based EA-18G
Growler will play in executing that strategy.”  Randy Belote , a spokesman for Northrop Grumman, said in an
e-mailed statement, “While we are disappointed that our
solution was not selected, we remain confident” its team’s
proposal “offers the warfighter the lowest risk and technically
superior solution. We look forward to the Navy’s debrief to
understand why our offering was not selected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  