-- Treasury Fall 1st Time in Five Days on Plosser Comments
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-07-12T21:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/treasuries-head-for-steepest-weekly-gain-in-13-months-after-rout.html
Treasuries fell for the first time
in five days after Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank should begin
reducing its monthly bond buying in September.  Plosser’s comments snapped the longest consecutive streak
of gains since February. Yields on  10-year notes  dropped this
week from the almost two-year high of 2.75 percent reached July
8 as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that the asset
purchases would continue for the foreseeable future to support
the economy. The Treasury Department asked the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the central bank to comment on demand
for inflation-indexed securities.  “The Fed is just trying to pull away from this
accommodation -- they don’t want rates to spike up, so they will
keep  interest rates  lower for longer,” said Tom Tucci, managing
director and head of Treasury trading in New York at CIBC World
Markets Corp. “Most central banks want to get out of the bond-buying business.”  The U.S.  10-year yield  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.58 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell earlier as
much as five basis points to 2.52 percent, the lowest since July
5. The 1.75 percent note due May 2023 fell 2/32, or 63 cents per
$1,000 face value, to 92 26/32.  The yield fell 16 basis points  this week , the most since
the period ended June 1, 2012. It dropped for a fourth straight
day yesterday, the longest stretch since Feb. 25.  ‘Short’ Bets  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their net-short positions in 10-year note futures to the most
since March in the week ending July 9, according to U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative  short positions , or bets prices will fall,
outnumbered long positions by 47,110 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Net-short positions rose by 24,193 contracts, or
106 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-based
commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  U.S.  10-year yields  climbed 36 basis points in June when
Bernanke said the Fed was prepared to slow asset purchases,
known as quantitative easing, this year if the economy improved.
Bernanke will deliver his semi-annual monetary policy report to
the  U.S. Congress  next week.  ‘Too Fast’  “Rates were rising too fast, too quickly for their
liking,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading in New
York at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , one of 21 primary dealers that
trade directly with the Fed. Bernanke “walked it back by
telling the market that even when QE goes away, they are still
going to be accommodative.  While about half of the 19 participants in the  Federal Open
Market Committee  wanted to halt the $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases by year-end, many said in minutes of the June policy
makers meeting released July 10 they wanted to see more signs
that employment is improving before they’ll begin slowing the
bond purchases.  The U.S. Treasury Department asked the 21 primary dealers
that trade government debt directly with the Fed to discuss
supply and demand dynamics in the market for Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities.  Dealers were also requested to comment on ‘‘specialness and
fails’’ of the repurchase-agreement market in March and June in
‘‘on-the-run’’ 10-year Treasuries. The Treasury plans to meet
with the firms July 25-26, before it releases guidance on the
amount of bill, note and bond sales in the quarter.  The U.S. will sell $15 billion in 10-year inflation-indexed
securities on July 18.  Auction Demand  Demand at this week’s  U.S. Treasury  debt auctions suggests
the exodus from  government bonds  is slowing.  Investors bid an average of $2.89 for each $1 of the $66
billion in three-, 10- and 30-year securities auctioned over the
past three days. The bid-to-cover ratio was 2.71 for $99 billion
of two-, five- and seven-year notes sold in the three days ended
June 27.  Fed purchases have increased the central bank’s  balance
sheet  to a record $3.5 trillion from below $1 trillion five
years ago.  Treasuries due in a decade or more are at almost the
cheapest level in more than two years relative to global peers
with comparable maturities, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes. Yields on  U.S. debt  were 81 basis points higher
than those in an index of other sovereign debt yesterday. The
yields were 86 basis points higher on July 10, the most since
March 2011.  France, Portugal  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index was at 94.46, down from
117.89 on July 5, the highest since December 2010. The one-year
average is 64.27.  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , dropped 26 percent to
$258.28 billion from $349 billion yesterday, the highest since
July 5. The 2013 average is $321.5 billion.  France  was cut by one step to AA+ from AAA, Fitch said
today, joining Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s 
in removing France from the shrinking club of top-rated
governments. The outlook is stable.  Treasuries were higher earlier amid concern the  European
debt crisis  may worsen as a political dispute in  Portugal 
ensues. Portuguese 10-year bonds dropped for a third day as
parliament debated the state of the nation. President Anibal
Cavaco Silva said on July 9 that early elections were
undesirable and urged the ruling coalition parties and the main
opposition to reach a ‘‘national salvation” pact allowing
Portugal to complete its aid program.  “There’s pressure on Portugal, which is significantly
higher in yields,” said Dan Mulholland, head of Treasury
trading at BNY Mellon Capital Markets in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  