-- Reckitt Benckiser Falls on Suboxone Removal: London Mover
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-07-12T15:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/reckitt-benckiser-falls-on-cvs-s-suboxone-removal-london-mover.html
Reckitt Benckiser Plc (RB/)  fell the most
in more than two years after  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  removed the film
version of the company’s opiod-dependency drug Suboxone from its
list of covered medications, jeopardizing sales and profit at a
unit that makes up one-fifth of the company’s earnings.  The stock  tumbled  5.1 percent to 4,677 pence in  London , the
biggest drop since April 2011. Spokespeople from both companies
confirmed that Suboxone film was removed from CVS Caremark’s
formulary, a list of medicines covered by insurance in the drug
plans it manages for big companies.  The move, effective January 2014, led Credit Suisse to cut
its  earnings  estimate by 5 percent for 2014 and by 10 percent
for 2015. Credit Suisse also reduced its valuation of Suboxone
by about two-thirds to 1.1 billion pounds ($1.7 billion).  Suboxone accounted for 21 percent of Slough, England-based
Reckitt Benckiser’s profit last  year , yet the business now faces
threats from generic and branded competition after several years
of dominating the $1.7 billion opiod-dependence treatment
market. Analysts including  Andrew Wood  at  Sanford Bernstein  have
said that Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Kapoor should look to
sell the business.  Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based CVS Caremark “clearly
appears to have decided that film and tablet are effectively the
same product and so is steering its customers to the cheaper
version,” Credit Suisse analyst Charles Mills said in a note
today. “The fear is that others follow suit and Suboxone
profits fall sharply.” Reckitt Benckiser stopped selling the
tablet version of the drug in March.  Withdrawal Symptoms  Suboxone combines the medicines buprenorphine and naloxone
to ease withdrawal symptoms and block the high of opioids.
Reckitt Benckiser claims that its film version, introduced in
2010, is preferred by patients, who stick with their treatment
longer on it. Two generic copies of the tablet version of
Suboxone emerged in March, and have eroded the product’s U.S.
prescription volume. The generics attract cash-paying Suboxone
users, who account for about 15 percent of the market. CVS
Caremark’s move could lure “a decent proportion” of those on
insurance plans, who make up 70 percent of users, Mills said.  Reckitt Benckiser spokeswoman Andraea Dawson-Shepherd said
Suboxone sales through CVS Caremark prescription-drug plans were
“small,” comprising less than 10 percent of all Suboxone
insurance-plan provider sales in the U.S. The company also does
not have a contract with CVS Caremark, as it does with other
pharmacy-benefit managers such as  Express Scripts Holding Co. (ESRX) 
She declined to disclose Suboxone’s sales through CVS Caremark-managed drug plans.  Materially Worse  Credit Suisse estimates that CVS Caremark accounts for as
much as 20 percent of the market, managing prescription drug
plans for corporations and managed-care companies. Mills
estimates Reckitt Benckiser will lose half of Caremark’s insured
patients in 2014, which is “materially worse than we had
before.” Credit Suisse maintained its  recommendation  to hold
the stock, yet dropped its price target to 4,650 pence from
4,900.  “If they are 20 percent of the market, there could be a
domino effect,” said Eamonn Ferry, an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas. “It’s not impossible that substantially all of the
film business evaporates in a short space of time.”  CVS Caremark spokeswoman Christine Cramer confirmed that
Suboxone film is off its “Preferred Drug List” for 2014, and
said “a number of the drugs” removed are “high-cost, non-preferred drugs with very low utilization.”  Dawson-Shepherd, the Reckitt Benckiser spokeswoman, said
the company is not concerned that other drug-plan managers, who
do have contracts with Reckitt Benckiser, will follow CVS
Caremark’s lead. “It’s a unique situation with CVS,” she said.  Potential Sale  CVS Caremark’s move should also not influence any decision
by Reckitt Benckiser to sell Suboxone, according to Canaccord
Genuity analyst Alicia Forry. “We think a sale is two or three
years away” and is more likely to happen once more generics and
alternative products come on the market, allowing prospective
buyers to properly value Suboxone, she said.  Suboxone also faces competition from  Orexo AB (ORX) ’s tablet
Zubsolv, which won U.S. regulatory approval this month. Orexo,
which specializes in reformulating drugs in sublingual form,
estimates Zubsolv will hit drugstores by September and has a
market potential of at least $500 million in annual sales.  The FDA rejected a buprenorphine implant called Probuphine
in April from  Titan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TTNP)  The regulator asked for
more data on the effect of higher doses of the medication and
training for doctors on insertion and removal of the implant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  