-- Renault First-Half Vehicle Sales Fall 1.9% on Europe Drop
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-07-12T11:14:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/renault-first-half-vehicle-sales-fall-1-9-on-europe-drop.html
Renault SA (RNO) ,  France ’s second-biggest
carmaker, said first-half vehicle sales fell 1.9 percent as a
sixth annual contraction in Europe’s car market more than offset
increases abroad.  Deliveries dropped to 1.3 million cars and light commercial
vehicles from 1.33 million a year earlier, the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based company said today in a  statement .
Renault stuck to a forecast of a 5 percent decline in
 industrywide European car sales  in 2013 while lowering its
prediction for world auto-market growth to 2 percent from an
estimated 3 percent gain.  The economic climate in Europe “remains tense,”
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , the region’s biggest carmaker, said today as it
reported global first-half sales growth of 5.5 percent. Renault
is pushing sales in  Russia , North Africa and  South America  to
reduce reliance on Europe, where demand for mass-market cars is
set to fall to a two-decade low. The company reiterated today
that its worldwide deliveries will rise in 2013.  “These are good results,” said Florent Couvreur, an
analyst at CM-CIC Securities with an accumulate  recommendation 
on Renault stock. “These sales show they have a strong
geographical mix, as they managed to increase their global sales
in the second quarter, despite the slumping European market,”  Dacia Growth  First-half sales dropped 4.6 percent to 1.06 million
vehicles at the main Renault brand. Deliveries of budget Dacia
models jumped 17 percent to 211,438. Sales at the Renault
Samsung Motors division slumped 12 percent to 29,136 units.  European sales fell 7.3 percent to 656,580 vehicles,
Renault said. Deliveries outside  Europe , which rose 4.3 percent,
accounted for 50 percent of the global total compared with 47
percent a year earlier.  That compares with Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen’s
first-half group sales increase to 4.7 million cars, sport-utility vehicles and commercial vans that included gains of 4.4
percent at the main VW nameplate and 6.4 percent at the luxury
Audi marque. Volkswagen is also including the Porsche sports-car
brand’s figures in the period for the first time.  Renault was trading up 1.2 percent at 56.70 euros at 1:10
p.m. in Paris, paring back from a  gain  of as much as 1.9 percent
earlier today, before the sales figures were published.
Volkswagen rose as much as 1.4 percent to 167.55 euros and was 1
percent higher in  Frankfurt .  New Models  The French company is updating its model line in an effort
to attract customers. Vehicles introduced in the last year
include Renault’s first compact crossover, the Captur; the Dacia
Duster compact SUV; and new versions of the Renault Clio and
Dacia Sandero hatchbacks and Dacia Logan sedan and wagon.  Entry-level models accounted for 40 percent of Renault’s
group deliveries in the first half, and that range of vehicles
gives the company a “global advantage,” Jerome Stoll, head of
group sales, told journalists today on a conference call. Dacia
has reached a target market share in Europe of 2 percent, and
the division will continue to post sales gains, he said.  The company is sticking to a global sales-increase forecast
even with auto-market slowdowns in Russia and  India , which
haven’t affected the carmaker’s deliveries so far, Stoll said.
Renault is still awaiting final regulatory approval in China,
the world’s biggest auto market, to form a joint venture for
assembling vehicles in the country with Dongfeng Motor Group Co.  Russian Increase  Sales in Russia, where Renault cooperates with Lada maker
 OAO AvtoVAZ (AVAZ) , jumped 9.5 percent to 104,633 units, said Francois
Rouget, a spokesman for the French company. Russia has overtaken
 Brazil  as the carmaker’s second-biggest national market, with
France ranking first.  Renault Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , who is also
head of Japanese partner automaker  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , predicted
on July 6 that the European car market will probably shrink
further in 2014 and 2015 as rising unemployment continues to sap
consumer demand, and that he sees no “trigger” to revive the
economy.  The company’s prediction for the European car market’s
decline this year matches the estimate reiterated on July 8 by
Paris-based competitor  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the region’s second-biggest automaker. Peugeot said about one in five of the
vehicles it sells is in the premium segment, as it pushes up-market models to make up for declines in Europe.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-biggest U.S. automaker, said
yesterday that it doesn’t plan to widen production-capacity cuts
in Europe amid signs the market is beginning to stabilize.
Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s first-half deliveries in its
main 19 European markets fell 8.3 percent, with the drop
narrowed by a 6.4 percent increase in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  