-- Review of 5,500 IRS E-Mails Found No Political Targeting
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-07-12T16:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/review-of-5-500-irs-e-mails-found-no-political-targeting.html
An inspector general’s review of
5,500 e-mails among Internal Revenue Service employees found
“no indication” that their scrutiny of Tea Party groups was
politically motivated, according to documents being released
today by Democrats.  An  e-mail  from a top investigator in the inspector
general’s office bolsters Democrats’ claims that anti-tax Tea
Party groups received extra scrutiny because of confusion and
unclear direction, rather than an attempt to hurt Republican-leaning organizations.  “The e-mail traffic indicated there were unclear
processing directions and the group wanted to make sure they had
guidance on processing the applications so they pulled them,”
the investigator said in the e-mail, dated May 3, just 11 days
before the inspector general’s report criticizing the IRS came
out. “This is a very important nuance.”  The partially redacted documents also contain information
that supports Democrats’ contention that “progressive” groups
were scrutinized and Republicans’ assertions that Tea Party
groups applying for nonprofit status were treated differently.  The documents  are being released by Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the top Democrat on the Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, who is questioning the quality of
the report from J. Russell George, the inspector general for tax
administration.  ‘One-Sided’  “This investigation has been characterized by one-sided
and partial information leading to unsubstantiated accusations
with no basis in fact,” Cummings wrote in a letter sent today
to the committee’s chairman, California Republican Darrell Issa.  The documents further muddy the picture of what happened at
the IRS in 2010. The controversy following the inspector
general’s report has prompted six congressional inquiries and a
criminal probe. At least four IRS executives have been pushed
out of their jobs.  Issa has pressed agency officials to explain their handling
of applications for tax-exempt status, accusing the IRS of
unfairly giving extra scrutiny to those submitted by small-government groups.  The documents released today include  minutes  from a July
28, 2010, meeting of IRS screeners in Cincinnati, where
nonprofit applications are processed.  ‘9/12 Project’  At one point, the minutes list “progressive” alongside
“9/12 Project” as words meriting further review, suggesting
that the groups on either side of the political spectrum were
treated similarly. The “9/12 Project” is a reference to an
effort promoted by commentator Glenn Beck, a small-government
advocate.  At another point, the minutes say, “‘Progressive’
applications are not considered ‘Tea Parties.’”  That latter line fits Republican arguments that
“progressive” groups received less attention. It also tracks
with what Elizabeth Hofacre, who reviewed Tea Party cases in
Cincinnati in 2010, told congressional investigators. She said
she was assigned to handle Tea Party groups, concentrating on
them to the exclusion of self-identified progressive and
conservative groups.  ‘Misleading Attempts’  “These documents, once again, refute misleading attempts
to equate routine scrutiny of other groups involved in advocacy
to the systematic scrutiny of Tea Party groups by IRS
officials,” Ali Ahmad, a spokesman for Issa, said in a
statement today. “As has been documented, while 100 percent of
Tea Party applications were systematically stopped and
scrutinized for a 27-month period, at the same time dozens of
progressive applications were approved by the IRS.”  Democrats reached the opposite conclusion. Representative
Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the Ways and Means
Committee, said the documents were further evidence that the
inspector general’s audit was “fundamentally flawed and created
widespread misperceptions that Republicans seized on in an
effort to attack the White House.”  The inspector general’s report made clear that many Tea
Party groups experienced delays and extra scrutiny. What’s less
clear is what happened to Democratic-leaning groups during the
same period, including how many of them applied for nonprofit
status and what level of scrutiny they received.  The documents  also include a so-called Be On the Lookout,
or BOLO, list from 2012 showing that  Occupy Wall Street  groups
were on a watch list.  ‘Historical’ Issue  Tea Party groups were on several versions of the BOLO watch
list as an emerging issue, while progressive groups were listed
separately as a “historical” issue -- a fact that didn’t
emerge until more than a month after George’s report.  In his letter, Cummings writes that these documents
undercut George’s recent contention that he hadn’t found
evidence that the IRS used the term “progressive” to select
groups for scrutiny. The letter said the inspector general’s
office has “suggested recently” that it was unaware of some of
those documents when preparing its report.  Among the IRS’s responsibilities is to ensure that groups
applying for tax-exempt status aren’t too involved in politics.
Campaign intervention is prohibited for charities organized
under section 501(c)(3) of the tax code and limited for social-welfare groups organized under section 501(c)(4).  Republicans have turned their attention away from the
Cincinnati-based employees and toward the involvement of
Washington-based lawyers in the delays and inappropriate
questions that Tea Party groups received.  Those issues will be the subject of a July 18 hearing at
which IRS employees from Washington and Cincinnati are expected
to testify. Cummings wants George to testify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  