-- Russia Stocks Extend Weekly Gain Led by Gazprom on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-07-12T14:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/russia-stocks-increase-before-nabiullina-s-first-rates-meeting.html
Russian stocks extended the biggest
weekly gain in 10 months, led by OAO Gazprom, as oil climbed and
comments from Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  eased
concern stimulus reduction may be imminent.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  surged 1.9 percent to 1,394.25 by
3:50 p.m. in Moscow, the highest since May 28 on a closing basis
and bringing the advance this week to 3.8 percent. That’s the
steepest gain since the week ended Sept. 14. The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose 1.4 percent and crude oil, Russia’s
chief export, headed for a third weekly increase. Gazprom, the
nation’s biggest company, added 2.8 percent.  Bernanke said July 10 that the world’s biggest economy will
continue to need stimulus, triggering a rally in emerging-market
stocks. Minutes of the Fed’s June meeting showed officials want
to see more signs of job growth before scaling back $85 billion-a-month in bond purchases. Bank Rossii left its main rates
unchanged at  Elvira Nabiullina ’s first policy meeting as
chairman, matching estimates.  “The main reason for today’s optimism is Bernanke’s
comments, especially since our market had been oversold,”
Kirill Bagachenko, who manages about $3 billion in Russian
equities at TKB BNP Paribas Investment Partners in  St.
Petersburg . “Investors are primarily buying stocks with large
weightings in the index.”  The 50-member Micex’s 5.5 percent decline in 2013 compares
with a 2.7 percent increase for  India ’s benchmark Sensex Index
and a gain of 7.1 percent for Hungary’s Budapest Stock Exchange
Index. The Micex slid 2 percent on June 20 after comments by
Bernanke that signaled the central bank may wind down its bond
buying if the  U.S. economy  performs in line with projections.  Continuing Course  Russia’s economy grew 1.6 percent in the first three
months, spurring calls for easing. Bank Rossii’s Nabiullina is
continuing a course set by predecessor Sergey Ignatiev, who
eased policy by lowering longer-term rates while keeping the
refinancing rate unchanged since September 2012.  “The market is expecting a rate cut in the near future but
expectations for today’s meeting were low,” Bagachenko said.  Gazprom, which has the largest  weighting  on the Micex,
climbed to 120.65 rubles today. OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest
oil producer, added 2.6 percent to 246.51 rubles, the highest
since March 15.  OAO Pharmstandard, Russia’s biggest drugmaker, reversed a
decline of as much as 7.3 percent, trading 0.6 percent higher at
1,481.30 rubles. The shares have lost 34 percent in Moscow since
a July 8 shakeup in which the company said it offered $630
million for Bever Pharmaceutical Pte Ltd., without disclosing
why, and announced the spin off of its own branded, non-prescription drugs business.  Planned Spinoff  The company will offer to buy out shareholders who vote
against the planned spinoff of its over-the-counter unit for
2,180 rubles a share, equivalent to $16.50 per GDR. The GDRs
were trading at a 20 percent premium before the plan was
announced. The stock gained 0.5 percent in  London  today after
earlier tumbling as much as 5.8 percent.  Brent oil advanced 0.5 percent to $108.29 a barrel in
London. Crude climbed as much as 0.9 percent to $105.87 in  New
York , on course for its longest run of weekly gains since May.
The commodity is forecast to rise next week in a Bloomberg News
survey on speculation U.S. stimulus measures will continue.  Global growth will reach 3.1 percent in 2013, less than the
3.3 percent forecast in April, the  International Monetary Fund 
said this week. The Micex climbed to a five-week high on July 4
as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to keep
 interest rates  low.  Europe  is Russia’s biggest trade partner.  Cheapest Valuations  Russian equities have the cheapest valuations among 21
emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg. The volume of shares
traded on the benchmark today was 69 percent above the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thirty-eight
stocks increased, while 12 declined, the data show.  The 14-day  relative strength index  on the Micex rose to 64
from 59 yesterday. The RSI measures how rapidly prices have
advanced or dropped during a specified time period. Readings
below 30 indicate a security may be poised to rise, while those
above 70 signal a potential drop.  The Russian Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in RTS futures, tumbled as much as 3.9 percent today. The
Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian
companies in the U.S. jumped 3.7 percent to 89.02 yesterday.  The Micex trades at 5.2 times its 12-month estimated
earnings, compared with a multiple of 9.9 for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  