-- Nabiullina Holds Russian Rates While Offering New Cash
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-07-12T11:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/russia-holds-rates-in-nabiullina-debut-as-inflation-above-target.html
Russia’s central bank left its main
interest rates unchanged at  Elvira Nabiullina ’s first policy
meeting as chairman and introduced a new loan facility to
improve lenders’ access to cash.  The  refinancing rate  will remain at 8.25 percent, the
central bank in Moscow said on its  website  today. That matched
the forecasts of 15 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey, with
seven predicting a cut. Bank Rossii introduced a one-year
floating-rate facility with a starting cost of 5.75 percent,
compared with its 7.5 percent fixed-rate similar maturity loans.  Nabiullina, a former economy minister, became the first
female central bank governor in the Group of Eight as corporate
leaders and politicians urged monetary stimulus for a slowing
economy. She is continuing a course set by predecessor Sergey Ignatiev, who eased policy by lowering longer-term rates while
keeping the refinancing rate unchanged since September 2012.  “The effect of introducing the floating rate will be
greater than lowering the main rates by 25 basis points because
it may result in a sharp drop in money market rates” Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for  Russia  at VTB Capital in Moscow,
said by telephone. “The central bank has taken its biggest step
yet in this monetary easing cycle.”  The ruble traded 0.4 percent weaker at 37.2284 against the
central bank’s target basket as of 3:01 p.m in Moscow. The  Micex
Index (MOSBIRZ)  of 50 stocks added 2 percent to 1,394.83.  Inflation Slows  Ignatiev, 65, had said consumer-price growth would need to
slow further before Bank Rossii would cut its main policy rates.
Inflation decelerated to 6.6 percent from a year earlier as of
July 8 from June’s pace of 6.9 percent, according to the
statement. The  Economy Ministry  said today that price growth may
slow to 6.5 percent this month.  Bank Rossii sees  inflation (RUCPIYOY)  falling back into this year’s
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent in the second half given
“the current direction of monetary policy and barring negative
food-price shocks,” according to the statement.  Faster inflation in major emerging economies is undermining
economic growth and fueling social unrest, pushing central banks
in countries including Brazil and  Indonesia  to increase
borrowing costs this month.  Russians see inflation as the second-biggest challenge
facing the country behind issues in housing and utilities,
according to a  poll  published yesterday by the state-run VTsIOM
research center.  Inflation Expectations  Inflation expectations continued to ease in May and June,
according to a survey published by Bank Rossii yesterday.
Economists surveyed last month forecast the overnight auction-based repurchase rate would be cut a quarter point in the third
quarter followed by a similar move in the fourth quarter.  Bank Rossii will offer 500 billion rubles ($15.3 billion)
on July 29 at the first 12-month auction using the floating-rate
loan backed by non-marketable assets, the regulator said in a
second  statement . The rate on the funds will be linked to the
central bank’s main one-week lending rate.  “Conducting long-term operations with a floating rate will
allow for increased precision in sending monetary-policy
signals,” according to the statement. Central bank changes to
short-term interest rates will now feed through to the costs for
earlier-issued longer term loans.  The new instrument effectively means Bank Rossii cut one-year borrowing costs by as much as 175 basis points from 7.5
percent on the current one-year facility backed by the same
assets, Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Russia at  Bank
of America (BAC)   Merrill Lynch in  Moscow, said in a note to clients.  ‘Drastic’ Reduction  The “drastic” reduction should “attract considerable
interest,” he said. Bank Rossii said at a recent meeting that
it had registered as much as 1 trillion rubles in eligible
collateral.  The government is also seeking to roll out a series of
measures intended to reduce corporate borrowing costs. The
Finance Ministry estimates the measures may reduce loan rates
for low-risk borrowers by 2 percentage points if fully
implemented.  Nabiullina helped develop those plans as Putin’s chief
economic aide before moving to the central bank on June 24.  “Bank Rossii will continue to monitor inflation risks and
risks of an economic slowdown,” policy makers said in the rate-decision statement. “Under the conditions of weak investment
activity and a slow recovery in foreign demand, risks remain of
the Russian economy slowing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  