-- Russian Yields Drop to Six-Week Low on Nabiullina’s ‘Bazooka’
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-07-12T15:58:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/russian-yields-drop-to-six-week-low-on-nabiullina-s-bazooka-.html
The yield on  Russia ’s five-year
government bond fell to the lowest level since May as the
central bank announced a new refinancing facility for lenders
that may spur their appetite for government debt.  Bank Rossii, which met for the first time under Chairman
 Elvira Nabiullina , introduced a one-year floating-rate repo
facility with a starting cost of 5.75 percent, compared with a
7.5 percent rate on similar fixed-rate loans it gives to
commercial lenders. It kept all key  interest rates  unchanged,
including the overnight repo rate at 5.5 percent.  “The central bank rolls out the MTRO bazooka,” Vladimir Kolychev, economist and strategist at OAO  Rosbank (ROSB)  in Moscow,
said in e-mailed comments, referring to  European Central Bank ’s
long-term refinancing operation, a process by which the ECB
provides financing to euro-region banks.  The yield on OFZs due March 2018 tumbled 15 basis points to
6.45 percent, the lowest level since May 30. It declined 66
basis points this week, the biggest fall since October 2011. The
yield implied from 12-month currency swaps dropped 13 basis
points to 6.09 percent, as the ruble weakened 0.2 percent to the
dollar-euro basket to 37.1481 by 7:55 p.m. in Moscow.  It’s “very positive for the local bonds market, as it
creates a completely new, longer-term funding source for OFZs,”
Vladimir Osakovskiy, chief economist for Russia at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in Moscow, said by e-mail.  “It’s also positive for banks, which will most likely find
this source of funding very appealing for further lending and
fixed-income positioning,” he added.  Slowing Inflation  Bank Rossii (RREFRANN)  said it will continue to monitor economic
slowdown risks and said consumer price growth slowed to 6.6
percent as of July 8 from 6.9 percent in June, approaching the
bank’s 5 percent to 6 percent inflation target.  “The market had priced in the rate cut, so the first
reaction was a disappointment, but the central bank confirmed
lower inflation, so the rate cut is possible as soon as next
meeting,” Dmitry Igumnov, head of fixed income trading at BCS
Financial Group in Moscow, said by e-mail.  The ruble declined 0.5 percent against the dollar to
32.6785, paring the weekly increase to 1.9 percent, the biggest
since November 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  