-- Ireland Debt Outlook Raised at S&P on Impact of Budget Cuts
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-07-12T15:05:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/s-p-raises-outlook-on-irish-debt-citing-economic-recovery.html
Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook
on Ireland’s sovereign rating, saying the government may exceed
its targets for debt reduction as the economy recovers.  The ratings company lifted the outlook on the nation’s BBB+
grade to positive from stable, it said in a statement today.
There is a one-in-three chance the rating will be raised in the
next two years.  “Ireland could over-achieve its fiscal targets and reduce
its government debt faster than we currently expect,” S&P said.
“Ireland’s economic recovery is under way.”  S&P also affirmed Germany’s AAA rating today with a stable
outlook. That judgment and its view on Ireland contrasts with
the company’s decision earlier this week to cut its rating on
Italy’s debt to BBB from BBB+, with a negative outlook, because
of that country’s continued recession.  Of the three major ratings companies, S&P now has the most
positive outlook on Ireland.  Fitch Ratings  has the nation on
BBB+ rating with a stable outlook, while Moody’s Investors
Service has it at non-investment grade and a negative outlook.
Investors often ignore ratings, evidenced by the rally in
Treasuries after the U.S. lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.  While today’s S&P revision is “good news” for Ireland,
Moody’s “stubbornness in holding on to its sub-investment grade
rating remains an unhelpful overhang on the sovereign” and its
banks, Philip O’Sullivan, an economist at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in
Dublin, said in a note.  Fiscal Program  The Irish government is pressing on with budget savings
after needing a bailout in 2010 and is also working on a plan to
recoup some of the money it plowed into failing lenders from the
euro area’s backstop fund. Ireland’s  Finance Ministry  said on
its Twitter feed that S&P’s improved outlook highlights the
success of the country’s fiscal-consolidation program.  The National Treasury Management Agency said the move
acknowledges the country’s improved access to  capital markets 
and fiscal situation. Ireland is aiming to be the first euro-area country to exit a bailout at the end of the year.  S&P said government debt will peak at 122 percent of gross
domestic product this year and decline to 112 percent by 2016.
It said the “strong consensus” among the country’s largest
political parties for fiscal consolidation “supports Ireland’s
policy and institutional effectiveness.”  Outlook Risks  While the economy is recovering, S&P said weak foreign
demand means growth will remain slow this year and next and
risks to the outlook remain. Banks still have “very high
levels” of non-performing loans and the country’s access to
external funding is “fragile.”  Economic data for the nation has been mixed in recent
weeks. The Irish economy slipped back into recession in the
first three months of the year to mark a third consecutive
quarter of contraction. In contrast, tax revenues exceeded the
government’s target by 1 percent in the first half, and the
nation’s budget deficit declined.  The yield on 10-year Irish bonds was 3.9 percent today.
While it’s up from a low of 3.41 percent in May, it reached a
peak of 14.219 percent in 2011.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by Standard and Poor’s. That’s
worse than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more
than 300 changes since 1974.  On  Germany , S&P said today that it predicts the economy
will maintain “steady” growth in the medium term.  “The stable outlook on our long-term rating on Germany
reflects our expectation that its public finances will continue
to withstand potential financial and economic shocks and that
consensus in favor of prudent economic policies will remain,”
S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  