-- San Miguel Raising $4 Billion to Fund Brewer Transformation
-- B y   F r a n k   L o n g i d   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2013-07-15T02:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/san-miguel-eyes-about-4-billion-in-power-asset-sales-ang-says.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) ’s plan to raise
about $4 billion by selling power assets brings it closer to
funding the Philippines’  biggest  company’s expansion into
industries and infrastructure.  The Southeast Asian nation’s most acquisitive company plans
to spend $35 billion to complete President Ramon Ang’s strategy
to transform itself from a brewer and foodmaker into an investor
in energy, mining, airlines and roads.  San Miguel, which started making beer before the country
declared independence from  Spain  more than 100 years ago, has
made more than $5.6 billion worth of purchases since 2008, when
it announced an investment in  Manila Electric Co. (MER)  That stake has
more than tripled in value, while Ang acquired control of  Petron
Corp. (PCOR) , the country’s largest refiner, and bought three of the
nation’s biggest power plants.  “Ang has been an opportunistic entrepreneur and he has
seen better opportunities so he’s selling assets that have
already paid off to fund these new ventures,” said Marvin Fausto, who oversees about $20 billion as Manila-based chief
investment officer at  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  “He’s moving assets from
one to the other, liquidating those where he has made money, and
financing opportunities that will eventually pay off like toll
roads and airlines.”  Manila  Electric, also known as Meralco, rose as much as 0.7
percent to 319 pesos and traded at 317.40 pesos as of 10:21 a.m.
in Manila. The stock has  climbed  22 percent this year, and more
than tripled in 2009, the year after  San Miguel  announced its
purchase. San Miguel  traded  as much as 1.2 percent lower at
88.50 pesos and has lost 16 percent this year.  Asset Sales  Completion of Ang’s plan to sell a 32.8 percent stake in
Manila Electric and 49 percent of SMC Global Power Holdings Corp.
would bring his asset sales in the past seven years to about $10
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If we can sell something, good,” Ang said in an
interview at his office in Manila on July 12. “We’re not in a
hurry. Does San Miguel need the money? No. We can always borrow
to fund any opportunity.”  A San Miguel exit from Meralco could be the third-largest
asset sale in the  Philippines , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We were really lucky with the Meralco purchase,” Ang
said at San Miguel’s Manila headquarters. “I meet management
and we sit down and plan,” he said, when asked what he does
first after a takeover. “I make sure I’m nice to them.”  Power Generation  Unit SMC Global Power is the country’s biggest electricity
generator with assets accounting for a fifth of the nation’s
capacity. The generation unit’s equity value is at least $1.6
billion, Ang said, declining to say how the sale will be made.  Meralco, which serves a quarter of the country’s population
in an area that accounts for half of gross domestic product, is
returning to generation after a four-decade hiatus with plans to
build 2,700 megawatts of coal- and gas-fired plants. The company
is 48.3 percent owned by units of billionaire Anthoni Salim’s
First Pacific Co. Ltd.  “Ang is probably trying to rationalize some of these
investments because there may be some investment opportunities
that are more suitable,” said Astro del Castillo, managing
director at Manila-based First Grade Holdings Inc. “He was in
an aggressive buying spree during the crisis years when cash was
king.”  San Miguel’s biggest sale was of  Australia ’s National Foods
to Japanese brewer Kirin Holdings Co. for about $2.6 billion,
including debt, in 2007. It had acquired control of the
foodmaker for about $1.5 billion in 2005. Unit San Miguel
Brewery is 48 percent owned by Kirin, which paid about $1.5
billion in 2009.  Tripling Return  San Miguel seeks to boost revenue to $50 billion in five
years. Sales rose 30 percent to 699 billion pesos ($16 billion)
last year, missing a $20 billion goal. Oil and energy account
for 60 percent of sales, Chief Finance Officer Ferdinand Constantino said.  The company has announced 40 acquisitions worth about $8
billion since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
it expanded into heavy industries to triple the return on equity
it used to earn from food and drinks alone. Its most recent
purchase was 35 percent of Northern Cement Corp. for 3 billion
pesos.  San Miguel’s  profit  in the first half of the year “won’t
be good” as declining fuel prices hurt Petron, Ang said. Fuel
and oil accounted for 62 percent of sales in the first quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company and its units have 272 billion pesos worth of
 debt  due by 2018, while  cash and near-cash  items total 152
billion pesos, the data show.  “Our debt levels are too low,” Ang said.  Bank of Commerce, controlled by San Miguel, plans to sell
new shares to a new investor, boosting its capital to 32 billion
pesos from about 19 billion pesos, Ang said, after a sale to
 CIMB Group Holdings Bhd (CIMB)  was scrapped. It may sell 40 percent of
the Manila-based lender’s expanded equity, he said.  Philippine Air  Philippine Airlines Inc., a venture of San Miguel and
billionaire Lucio Tan, plans to fly daily to five cities in
 Europe  this year after the European Union took the country off
its blacklist, Ang said.  The company paid the government 11 billion pesos for a
contract to build an elevated road connecting Manila’s airport
to several casinos, has been qualified to bid for a 17.5
billion-peso airport in Cebu province and plans to build a $6
billion airport in Manila. It has rail and road projects that
will connect the capital to nearby provinces.  San Miguel started its brewing business eight years before
the Philippines declared independence from Spain in 1898. The
country later became a colony of the U.S., which only recognized
its independence after World War II.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net  