-- Scotiabank Drops Bid to Buy Bank of Guangzhou Stake
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-12T20:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/scotiabank-withdraws-deal-for-19-99-stake-in-bank-of-guangzhou.html
Bank of Nova Scotia , Canada’s third-largest lender, said it has withdrawn its bid to buy a 20
percent stake in  China ’s Bank of Guangzhou.  “Since announcing the proposed investment in September of
2011, Scotiabank and the City of Guangzhou have re-evaluated the
proposed partnership in light of changing conditions,” the
Toronto-based bank said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Richard Waugh , 65, said during
Bloomberg’s May 21 Canada Economic Summit that he had been too
optimistic about a swift completion of the C$719 million ($692
million) deal to buy a stake in the city-owned Chinese lender.
Waugh said that political changes at the federal and municipal
level in China affected negotiations.  “Those partners are now re-evaluating their position -- do
they need a strategic partner?” Waugh said at the conference.
“The issue isn’t Scotiabank.”  Scotiabank  rose  0.2 percent to close at C$57.05 in Toronto.
The stock has declined 0.7 percent this year, compared with the
0.9 percent  advance  of the eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Commercial Banks Index.  Calls made after hours to Bank of Guangzhou’s headquarters
weren’t answered.  The decision is “not a game changer,”  Jeff Young , chief
investment officer at Toronto-based  NexGen Financial Corp. (NFX) , said
in a telephone interview.  ‘Something Smells’  “It’s more of a setback,” said Young, who manages about
C$1 billion including Scotiabank shares. “It’s not going to
impact long-term Scotiabank’s international expansion plans.”  Darko Mihelic, an analyst at Cormark Securities Inc. in
Toronto, said he viewed the aborted acquisition as a positive
for Scotiabank.  “If you announce a deal and it takes this long to close,
something smells,” he wrote in a note to investors. “Better to
walk away than to get tangled up in a long-term painful
partnership.”  Scotiabank has expanded throughout Asia, with operations in
countries including China, Japan,  Korea , India, Thailand and
 Vietnam . The bank has been in China for more than 30 years, and
has a minority stake in China’s Bank of Xi’an.  “Scotiabank will continue to consider future opportunities
for investment in China that are in line with our strategy and
footprint in the region,” Dieter Jentsch, group head of
international banking, said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  