-- Singapore Regulator Fined 22 Firms Over Money-Laundering
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-07-12T14:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/singapore-regulator-fined-22-firms-over-money-laundering.html
Singapore ’s central bank fined 22
financial institutions and restricted operations at seven for
failing to comply with rules to prevent money laundering and
terrorism financing in the past three years.  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  also issued 47 warnings
and reprimands and ordered “a few” financial firms to review
their anti-money laundering framework, Lee Boon Ngiap, an
assistant managing director at the regulator, said in a speech
today. Lee didn’t identify the firms involved.  Singapore tightened money laundering laws in an effort to
guard its reputation as the hub of Asia’s private banking and
offshore industry. The city made tax evasion a money laundering
offense on July 1 and boosted the number of jurisdictions with
which it trades information on tax issues by 11.  “Like any international financial center, we recognize
that Singapore is vulnerable to being used as a conduit for
illicit funds,” Lee said. “This is a clear message that
Singapore neither wants nor will tolerate such illicit flows.”  Lee didn’t specify in his speech the penalties that were
imposed on the financial institutions. Individuals may be fined
as much as S$500,000 ($397,000) and jailed for as long as seven
years for money laundering offenses. Companies may be fined as
much as S$1 million.  Financial firms can be punished for weak controls “even if
no actual money laundering has occurred,” MAS said in an e-mailed statement, which didn’t identify the companies involved.
“Such sanctions incentivize financial institutions to take
measures” to make improvements, it said.  Financial institutions are required to update the authority
on follow-up actions taken, Lee said. The regulator did 108
inspections related to anti-money laundering and terror
financing controls on financial firms from 2010 to 2012.  Thirteen money changers and remittance agents had their
licenses revoked or not renewed because of their lax controls,
Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  