-- Spreadtrum Surges After Tsinghua Unigroup Boosts Offer
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t   a n d   R o b e r t   V a l p u e s t a
-- 2013-07-12T20:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/tsinghua-unigroup-to-purchase-spreadtrum-for-1-78-billion.html
Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a
Chinese mobile-chip maker, surged to a record in New York after
agreeing to a $1.78 billion takeover in the largest proposed
acquisition of a semiconductor maker in about a year.  Tsinghua Unigroup Ltd., a Chinese state-owned company
backed by Tsinghua University, will pay $31 per ADR, 8.8 percent
more than it offered last month for the Pudong, China-based
company. The American depositary receipts jumped 13 percent to
$29.76, the highest since trading began in 2007.  The bid, which Spreadtrum and Tsinghua valued at $1.78
billion, is equivalent to 11.1 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, exceeding the median ratio
of 10.4 in a survey of almost 90 comparable deals over the past
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A takeover
would allow the Chinese government to boost its 3G network
offerings using Spreadtrum’s semiconductor technology, according
to  Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan Capital Markets.  “ China  is definitely trying to build up its technology
expertise and 3G prowess,” said Srivatsa, who is ranked first
among 17  analysts  who cover the stock after his recommendations
delivered the best total returns over the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. “Keeping Spreadtrum within the
confines of the Chinese government is important to Tsinghua.”  Muddy Waters  Spreadtrum, led by Chief Executive Officer Leo Li, reported
2012 revenue of $725 million and net income of $93.3 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock had jumped 50
percent this year through yesterday. Tsinghua Unigroup and
Tsinghua University’s intellectual property portfolio will give
Spreadtrum greater IP protection, Li said in the statement.  The acquisition would be the largest in the industry since
Micron Technology Inc. offered to buy Elpida Memory Inc. for
$4.4 billion in July 2012. There have been $111 billion of deals
in the industry announced in the past decade, including the
$16.2 billion private-equity led buyout of Freescale
Semiconductor Inc. in 2006.  Spreadtrum was targeted by short seller Muddy Waters LLC in
June 2011 with accusations that the company’s accounting was
erroneous. Spreadtrum denied any problems, and the shares have
doubled since Muddy Waters’s report on the chipmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Valpuesta in London at 
 rvalpuesta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  