-- Spain Power Reforms to Cost Companies 2.7 Billion Euros
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-07-12T16:40:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/spain-says-power-reform-to-cost-companies-2-7-billion-euros.html
Spain slashed profit for renewable
energy companies and the electric grid operator, part of Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s effort to eliminate a 4.5 billion euro
($3.9 billion) deficit forecast this year for the industry.  Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria said the measures will
cost utilities 2.7 billion euros and consumers 900 million
euros. The government will absorb a further 900 million euros of
costs. The changes take effect tomorrow.  Rajoy is working to rein in a debt owed to utilities that
ballooned to 26 billion euros as successive governments forced
power generators to sell electricity to consumers at below the
cost of production. Spanish utilities led by  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and
 Endesa SA (ELE)  slumped along with  Acciona SA (ANA) , which owns more than 4
gigawatts of wind farms in the country.  “The measures in this reform aren’t easy for anyone, but
they’re absolutely necessary,” Soria said at a press conference
in  Madrid  today. “If we did nothing, the only two alternatives
would either be bankruptcy of the system or an increase of the
price to consumers of more than 40 percent.”  Grid operator  Red Electrica Corp. (REE)  SA and  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS) 
suffered their biggest declines in more than four years, closing
down 7.5 percent and 8.1 percent respectively in Madrid trading.
Iberdrola fell 3.4 percent Endesa by 4.6 percent and wind farm
operator Acciona plunged 8.5 percent.  ‘Unfair’  The measures are “unfair and disproportionate,” according
to the industry group UNESA, which represents Endesa, Iberdrola,
Gas Natural, Energias de Portugal SA and EON SE. It said more
than 1 billion euros of the burden will fall on its five
members.  The government’s plan  “makes the financial situation of
UNESA’s members even more serious,” the group said in an e-mailed statement. “These cuts and the regulatory uncertainty
they generate will force UNESA’s companies to drastically cut
jobs and rethink their investments in  Spain .”  Spain along with  Germany ,  Italy  and the U.K. are reducing
subsidies for clean energy because the cost of incentives is
driving up power bills for consumers. In Spain, subsidies
accounted for almost half of its 20 billion-euro regulated power
system, a level the government deems unsustainable.  Profit for renewable power producers such as wind and solar
farms will be capped at about 7.5 percent, Soria said. A
government official said authorized returns were calculated
before taxes. Technologies such as photovoltaics that require
the most subsidy will be hit hardest.  ‘Lesser Evil’  “The philosophy of giving a guaranteed rate of return is a
lesser evil, but we think the level is very low,” Luis Crespo,
general-secretary of Protermosolar, the industry association for
thermal solar companies, said in a phone interview.
“Entrepreneurs would never have invested so much money in an
area with so much risk for such a small return.”  Crespo said the industry group needs to find out more
details of the reforms before assessing their impact. He said
after taxes, the allowed rate of return would be about 5
percent.  “This implies a very nasty revenue cut for wind and
solar,” Shai Hill, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in
 London , said in an e-mail. He said the package is also “very
nasty for transmission, for Red Electrica.”  The distribution grid’s earnings will be limited to 6.5
percent, Soria said. Consumers will suffer a 3.2 percent
increase in their power bills, bringing to 8 percent the gain
since the government began tackling the tariff deficit last
year, he said.  Wind Concerns  Spain’s wind industry lobby froup, the Asociacion
Empresarial Eolica, said it expects a “cascade of financial
problems” as a result of the reforms, which it said are
“clearly retroactive.”  “This changes the conditions for investments made by the
sector over more than 20 years,” the wind association said in
an e-mailed statement. “With this reform, the government is
increasing even more the uncertainty affecting the industry.”  The government also said it would mothball natural gas
fired  power plants  with a total capacity of 6 gigawatts and cut
payments made to those companies to maintain generation
capacity. Regulated returns for utilities will be reduced.  ‘Particularly Sensitive’  “Gas Natural is particularly sensitive to the 60 percent
cut in capacity payments, and Red Electrica to the proposal to
move to a regulated return of government bond yields plus just
200 basis points,” said  Chris Rogers , an analyst at Bloomberg
Industries in London.  Soria said the shortfall would have widened to 10.5 billion
euros this year if the government hadn’t taken action, forcing a
42 percent jump in power prices. Last year’s measures slashed
that by 6 billion euros, and today’s are designed to eliminate
the remaining 4.5 billion euros. The total gap built up over a
decade now stands at 26.06 billion euros.  Spain will also put in place stabilizers for the power
system that will help prevent such deficits accumulating in the
future, Soria said without defining the measures in detail.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said
today’s announcement will be the “definitive reform” of the
electricity system, after a series of stop-gap measures that
failed to end the deficit.  Rate Cap  The debt has grown for a decade because regulators cap
rates, also known as tariffs, at levels not high enough to
reimburse services such as power transmission and generating
from more expensive renewable sources.  Renewable energy operators that earn about 9 billion euros
a year in subsidies were already hit by a 7 percent tax on their
revenue in December and a lower allowance for inflation in
February. Spain’s biggest solar power operators are Fotowatio SL
and Grupo T-Solar Global SA.  For renewables, the government will authorize a minimum
rate of return for projects and calculate what subsidy if any is
required to reach that level, a government official said, asking
not to be named.  In previous weeks, Soria has warned banks including  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  to prepare for refinancing loans to
the industry, which top 25 billion euros for both solar
photovoltaic and wind projects and another 5 billion euros for
solar thermal projects, according to Macquarie Bank Ltd.  Normal projects should have no problem meeting debt
payments, though highly-leveraged ones expecting returns over
short periods may need to be refinanced, a government official
said at a briefing.  The Spanish Photovoltaic Union, UNEF, said that while it
doesn’t have sufficient information on the reforms, it’s
“convinced they may lead directly to the bankruptcy of a
sizeable portion of the sector, because previous cutbacks
already amount to as much as 40 percent of the earnings expected
when the investments were committed to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  