-- Swatch Allowed to Cut Only Movement Sales, Regulator Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-07-12T11:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/swatch-allowed-to-cut-only-movement-sales-regulator-says.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest
manufacturer of components for Swiss watches, won a partial
reprieve from the country’s competition regulator on rules
forcing it to sell mechanical watch mechanisms to third parties.  Swatch will be allowed in 2014 to reduce shipments of
mechanical movements to other watch producers in  Switzerland  to
75 percent of the level in 2010, the antitrust overseer, known
as  Comco  in French and Weko in German, said in a  statement 
today. Comco said it will renegotiate a preliminary agreement
with Swatch that would have ended sales of all movements and
other watch parts by 2025, saying it now sees scaling back
supplies of component sets as premature.  Comco’s stance on letting Swatch reduce its role as a
supplier “is more about the timing rather than being ruled
out,” said Jon Cox, a Zurich-based analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux.
“The components are the sticking point.”  The owner of the Omega brand has been required to supply
movements, the mechanisms that make watches tick, to other Swiss
watchmakers because of its dominant position. The ETA unit of
Biel-based Swatch is estimated by analysts to make about two-thirds of the mechanical movements used in the timepieces made
in the country. Swatch’s operating profit from components jumped
37 percent last year, helping generate a 23 percent  increase  in
group earnings.  Stock Declines  Swatch fell as much as 2.1 percent to 545 Swiss francs, the
biggest intraday decline since June 21, and was trading down 1.7
percent at 1:33 p.m. in Zurich. That pared the stock’s  gain  this
year to 19 percent.  A temporary measure allowing Swatch to reduce component
sales to 95 percent of the 2010 level will run to the end of
this year, Comco said. The regulator said Swatch needs to ensure
that it treats all customers the same.  Swatch said it’s disappointed that Comco wants to revise
the preliminary terms for the company to end its role as an
industry supplier, given that no competitors have emerged.  “The lack of interest of the players in the Swiss watch
industry to create novelties or to become more independent from
Swatch Group is amazing,” Chief Executive officer Nick Hayek
said in a statement. “We regret that Comco has not taken a
definite decision.”  Reviewing Market  Comco said it wants to see how the market for components
develops in coming years before agreeing to reductions in that
segment. Makers of Swiss watches such as  Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA (CFR)  and  Hermes International SCA (RMS)  have been competing to
acquire producers of components in recent years.  “This may just be a postponement of complete
deregulation,” Allegra Perry, an analyst at  Cantor Fitzgerald ,
wrote in a note to investors.  Swatch, which is also the world’s biggest watchmaker, won
provisional backing from the regulator in 2011 to start cutting
deliveries to competitors, forcing some of the companies to find
other suppliers or invest in their own capacity.  Sellita Watch SA, a competitor of ETA, is continuing to
invest in boosting production to eventually become independent
of deliveries from Swatch, Miguel Garcia, owner and chief
executive officer, said by e-mail.  “The competition commission has understood the situation
very well,” he said. “I’m satisfied with the decision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva  at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  