-- Swiss Re Says It’s in Talks With Phoenix on Admin
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-07-12T15:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/swiss-re-says-it-s-in-talks-with-phoenix-over-admin-re-merger.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, said it’s in preliminary talks about
combining its Admin Re business with  Phoenix Group Holdings. (PHNX)   “There is no certainty that these discussions will lead to
any transaction,” the Zurich-based reinsurer said in a
statement today. Swiss Re said it was reacting to media
speculation over Admin Re and will make further statements “if
and when appropriate.”  Swiss Re said in February that it had “work to do” in
relation to Admin Re, a unit that manages so-called closed life
insurance funds mainly in the U.K. and no longer sells new
contracts. The sale to the U.K.’s largest manager of such funds
would free up capital and may prompt the reinsurer to pay a
special dividend for a second straight year, said analysts
including Fabrizio Croce at Kepler Cheuvreux with a buy rating.  “This is good news for Swiss Re,” said Stefan Schuermann,
a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG, with a buy
rating on Swiss firm’s shares. “The more capital they can take
out of Admin Re, the better.”  Swiss Re closed at 72.30 francs in Zurich, up 0.6 percent
on the day, valuing the company at 26.8 billion francs ($28
billion).  Phoenix Group  jumped 10 percent in  London , the biggest
gain since June 15, 2012.  The reinsurer earlier this year paid out a special dividend
of 4 francs a share and boosted the ordinary dividend to 3.50
francs from 3 francs.  ‘No Certainty’  Phoenix Group said today that if talks are successful, it
would result in Swiss Re taking a minority shareholding as
payment. Still, there is “no certainty” on “the terms on
which any such transaction might proceed,” it said.  Sky News  reported on the talks late yesterday, saying it
would be a 3 billion-pound ($4.6 billion) merger and adding that
it would create a business with more than 100 billion pounds
under management and close to 10 million policy holders.  Phoenix Group, which buys life-insurance policies and
profits by releasing capital from them as they mature, said in
January it plans to raise 250 million pounds in a share sale to
lower its debt burden. The company last year ended takeover
talks with CVC Capital Partners Ltd., saying the private-equity
firm’s valuation of the company was too low.  Swiss Re booked a $1 billion loss in the second quarter of
last year after agreeing to sell its U.S. Admin Re holding
company to  Prudential Plc (PRU)  for 398 million pounds. At the time,
the insurer said the transaction unlocked capital for use across
the group, boosting return on equity, earnings per share and
economic net worth growth targets.  The reinsurer split up its business units and formed a new
holding company in 2011 that overarches its reinsurance
operations, which accounts for about 80 percent of revenue, plus
the smaller corporate solutions and the Admin Re units.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  