-- Swiss Stocks Rise for Fifth Day; Ems-Chemie Shares Climb
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-07-12T08:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/swiss-stocks-rise-for-fifth-day-ems-chemie-shares-climb.html
Swiss stocks  climbed for a fifth
day, extending the Swiss Market Index’s highest level in six
weeks, as health-care companies advanced.  Ems-Chemie (EMSN)  Holding AG rose 3 percent after the chemical
producer posted first-half earnings and said it plans a dividend
increase. Galenica AG increased 1.1 percent after UBS AG added
the pharmaceutical stock to its most preferred list. PubliGroupe
SA fell the most in more than two months.  The  SMI (SMI)  rose 0.4 percent to 8,020.96 at 10:14 a.m. in
Zurich. The gauge is heading for a 3.1 percent gain and third
weekly advance this week amid optimism that economic data and
corporate earnings will improve. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also added 0.4 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 40 percent lower than the 30-day average today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swiss stocks rose yesterday as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  backed sustained monetary stimulus to support the
world’s largest economy.  Chinese Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  signaled the world’s
second-biggest economy may expand less than the government’s
target this year and that growth as low as 6.5 percent may be
tolerable in the future.  While the government in March set a 2013 growth goal of 7.5
percent, Lou said he’s confident of achieving a 7 percent rate
this year. He spoke yesterday at the U.S.-China Strategic and
Economic Dialogue in  Washington .  Ems-Chemie Earnings  Ems-Chemie rose 3 percent to 304.25 Swiss francs after
posting first-half earnings before interest and taxes of 210
million francs ($221 million), up from 167 million francs a year
earlier. The chemical producer also confirmed its outlook and
said it plans a dividend increase of 43 percent to 10 francs.  Galenica rose 1.1 percent to 620.50 francs. UBS added the
world’s biggest maker of iron-replacement drugs to its most
preferred list, saying that U.S. approval of its Injectafer
anaemia treatment by the end of July may boost sentiment.  A gauge of European health-care shares was among  the best
performers  of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  Roche Holding AG , the worlds’ largest maker of cancer
drugs, rose 0.7 percent to 244.20 francs and Actelion Ltd.
increased 1.1 percent to 60.65 francs.  Swiss Re Talks  Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN)  added 0.8 percent to 72.45 francs. The
world’s second-biggest reinsurer said it’s in preliminary talks
about combining its Admin Re business with  Phoenix Group 
Holdings.  Swiss Re said in February that it had “work to do” in
relation to Admin Re, a unit which manages closed life insurance
funds. Phoenix Group, the U.K.’s biggest manager of closed life-insurance funds, said today that if talks are successful, it
would result in Swiss Re taking a minority shareholding in
Phoenix as payment. Still, there is “no certainty” on “the
terms on which any such transaction might proceed,” it said.  PubliGroupe (PUBN)  slumped 6.5 percent to 114.50 francs after the
advertising company said it will post a half-year single-digit
million loss and miss a break-even target when it reports
results on Aug. 26.  “The new CEO presented its strategy and its targets last
December and above everything else there has been this break-even media-sales target,” Andy Schnyder, an analyst at Vontobel
Holding AG, wrote in a note to clients today. “Investor
confidence, which started to build up, is now gone and it will
take time to regain it. Therefore we expect the stock to be dead
until the company can prove, by publishing good results, that
they can turn around the media-sales business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  