-- Syrian Coalition Says It Won’t Let Weapons Reach Extremists
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-07-12T08:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/syrian-coalition-says-it-won-t-let-weapons-reach-extremists.html
The opposition Syrian National
Coalition said it is committed to ensuring any weapons it
receives won’t reach extremists fighting President Bashar al-Assad.  The coalition understands the concerns of the  U.S. Congress 
and the American public, and has already introduced necessary
measures to ensure “full and comprehensive vetting of all armed
forces under our command” along with the Free Syrian Army, the
group said in a statement on its Facebook page.  The group is seeking to allay concerns in Western countries
reluctant to provide rebels with game-changing weapons for fear
they would end up with radical Islamists. One such group is the
al-Qaeda-affiliated Jabhat al-Nusra, designated a terrorist
organization by the U.S. in December.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has authorized the provision of
small arms to the Syrian opposition. He has stopped short of
backing air strikes against Assad’s forces, a no-fly zone over
 Syria  or heavier weaponry to battle the regime’s tanks and
aircraft, a U.S. official familiar with the decision said last
month.  The “urgency of delivering these arms cannot be
overstated” as the regime continues to attack “population
centers at will,” the coalition said in the statement.  Syria’s civil war, which began with peaceful protests in
March 2011, has killed more than 94,000 people, according to the
activist Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . It has also driven
hundreds of thousands of Syrians into neighboring countries.  “We will strictly enforce” controls to ensure weapons
remain in the control of moderate opposition forces, the
coalition said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  