-- U.K. Seeks to Tighten Client-Money Rules After Lehman, MF
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-07-12T12:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/u-k-seeks-to-tighten-client-money-rules-after-lehman-mf.html
The U.K. markets regulator is
seeking to strengthen rules for protecting ring-fenced client
accounts after the collapses of Lehman Brothers International
Europe and MF Global Holdings Ltd. exposed failings in the
current framework.  The Financial Conduct Authority said it is seeking input
from the industry on whether to make changes to current rules to
allow client money to be returned faster if a firm is bankrupt.
Client-asset rules apply to about 1,500 banks, brokerages and
other companies in the U.K. which hold more than 100 billion
pounds ($151 billion) of client money, the regulator said in a
 statement  today.  “Under the current regime, accuracy is effectively
prioritized, leading to a regime that takes months, and in some
cases years, to return client money,” the regulator said in a
consultation paper.  The agency stepped up enforcement of client-money rules
after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
The New York-based bank’s former U.K. unit failed to segregate
billions of dollars of client funds from its own accounts,
leaving creditors with competing claims that resulted in years
of litigation. The issue resurfaced in the administration of MF
Global’s U.K. unit.  The regulator has said that it will overhaul rules on the
treatment of margin assets posted by failed companies for their
derivatives trades. It also proposed that investment companies
could divide up clients’ money into ring-fenced sub-pools, so
not all clients would face the same losses in the event of
insolvency.  The regulator, in its previous incarnation as the Financial
Services Authority, began an investigation into whether firms
were properly segregating client money from their own. It fined
units of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , JPMorgan Chase & Co., and Barclays Plc
for failing to properly protect the accounts. No clients
suffered losses in any of those instances.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  