-- U.K. Stocks Rise, Heading for Biggest Weekly Gain in 2013
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-07-12T08:20:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/u-k-stocks-rise-heading-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-2013.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, with the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  heading for its biggest weekly rally
since November, on optimism that central banks around the world
will continue to support their economies.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  surged 14 percent after saying Schneider
Electric SA offered about 3.3 billion pounds ($5 billion) to
acquire the company.  Phoenix Group Holdings (PHNX)  jumped 4.4 percent
after saying it is in talks to combine with Swiss Re Ltd.’s
Admin Re unit.  Prudential Plc (PRU)  gained 1 percent after Nomura
Holdings Inc. advised investors to buy the shares.  The FTSE 100 Index rose 23.11 points, or 0.4 percent, to
6,566.52 at 9:18 a.m. in in London. The gauge has rallied 3
percent so far this week. The FTSE All-Share Index climbed 0.3
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index gained 0.4 percent.  European Central Bank  executive-board member Vitor Constancio said Europe needs accommodative monetary policy for a
longer period as it trails the U.S. in economic recovery and
inflation risks.  ECB’s pledge to keep interest rates low has been
“successful in stabilizing financial markets unduly affected by
spillovers from the recent Fed announcement of future tapering
of quantitative easing,” he said in a speech in Singapore.  Stocks rallied around the world yesterday as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s policy
would remain “highly accommodative.” The Bank of Japan also
indicated this week it will maintain stimulus. The European
Central Bank and Bank of England said last week they will keep
key interest rates low for the foreseeable future.  The number of shares trading hands in FTSE 100-listed
companies was 7.9 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  