-- U.K. Risks EU Market Access in Bank-Rule Fight, Barnier Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-07-12T13:03:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/u-k-risks-eu-market-access-in-banking-rule-fight-barnier-says.html
The European Union’s top financial
services official warned the U.K. it won’t be allowed to “pick
and mix” its relationship with the EU and must accept rules
governing the City of  London  in exchange for access to the
single market.  Michel Barnier , the EU commissioner responsible for
proposing financial laws, stepped into the U.K.’s debate over
its relationship with the bloc, saying that a more nationalized
approach to financial regulation is “the wrong cause to fight
for.”  “By definition, there can’t be two single markets: one for
financial services and one for the rest of the economy; one for
the City, and one for the rest of the EU,” Barnier told a
conference of industry representatives and policy makers today
in London. “Repatriating full policy responsibility for
financial services would mean leaving the single market as a
whole and de facto the EU.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has promised to seek a
new settlement with the EU amid a rising tide of opposition that
saw the U.K. Independence Party, which advocates a divorce from
the bloc, gain seats in local elections in May. While Cameron
has said he plans a referendum on EU membership by the end of
2017, this has failed to quell calls from members of his
 Conservative Party  for Britain’s European destiny to be put to
the people sooner.  EU membership brings  market access  to more than 500 million
 Europeans  across 28 nations, with Croatia the latest state to
join the bloc on July 1.  Cameron Split  At the end of 2011, Cameron split with other EU leaders
when he refused to support a treaty to underpin euro area
nations’ fiscal policies unless he was given guarantees that the
U.K. couldn’t be overruled on financial laws. Leaders
sidestepped the move by going ahead with the fiscal treaty in a
different legal form.  Barnier played down the risk that the U.K. would fall
victim in EU negotiations to euro area nations acting in
concert.  “It is not and has never been true that euro zone member
states always have coinciding views, or vote as a caucus,”
Barnier said, according to a copy of his prepared remarks.
“Indeed, some are closer to the U.K. in outlook than to many of
their euro zone counterparts.”  Bonus Curbs  The U.K. has clashed with the EU on financial rule changes
ranging from banker bonus curbs to short selling restrictions,
with the nation often finding itself on the defensive.  Britain’s Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has
said that plans being discussed by 11 other EU nations for a
common financial-transaction tax are “unlawfully
extraterritorial” and “poorly designed.”  The country started a legal challenge over the draft
measures in April. The U.K. is suing the  European Central Bank 
over policies that it says push clearing of some derivatives
away from London and into the euro area, and has started a court
challenge against an EU law that hands the Paris-based European
Securities and Markets Authority banning powers over short-selling.  Barnier acknowledged that moves by euro area nations to
create a banking union, with centralized oversight of lenders,
will need to be worked through carefully to avoid threats to the
single market.  Swap Clearing  “The interaction between the single market and the  euro
zone  is complex,” he said, citing the U.K. swap clearing
dispute with the ECB as an example.  Barnier, a former French foreign minister, said he would
continue to push for financial regulation to be included within
the scope of trade talks with the U.S., a move resisted by U.S.
authorities.  “The U.K. and the commission both strongly believe that
financial services should be part of the mandate” for the
talks, which began this week, he said.  Barnier, who is approaching the last year of his European
Commission mandate, said that he would present a draft law in
October that would force banks to partly separate their retail
and trading activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  