-- U.K. Postpones Plans for Plain Cigarette Packaging
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n ,   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-07-12T13:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/u-k-said-to-postpone-plans-for-plain-cigarette-packaging.html
The U.K. government postponed plans
to introduce plain packaging for cigarettes, saying it needs
more time to assess the effect of a similar policy in Australia
after a “highly polarized” reaction to the proposal.  “Of those who provided detailed feedback, some 53 percent
were in favor of standardized packaging while 43 percent thought
the government should do nothing about tobacco packaging,”
Health Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said in a  written statement  to
Parliament in London today. “Having carefully considered these
differing views, the government has decided to wait until the
emerging impact of the decision in Australia before we make a
final policy on this decision in England.”  Australia became the first country to introduce plain
packaging on Dec. 1. All cigarettes in the nation must be sold
in uniform packs, with the brand name relegated to the bottom
quarter of the package on a brown background. The law is being
challenged at the  World Trade Organization  and at arbitration.  While U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  initially backed
plans for plain packs, he has backed away as such a move would
damage the packaging industry and cost 3 billion pounds ($4.5
billion) in lost  tax revenue , the Sun newspaper reported May 2.  “We haven’t seen what the impact in Australia and  New
Zealand  is, and until that is established it’s pointless to even
discuss it,”  Chris Wickham , a tobacco analyst at Oriel
Securities in London, said by e-mail. “From a cigarette-company
point of view, the upcoming European directives are more
important.”  EU Debate  European Union officials are debating guidelines to
regulate the sale of electronic cigarettes as well as cigarette
packaging, covering them with graphic images and health warnings
and banning the promotion of flavoring such as menthol.  Shares in  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Imperial Tobacco
Group Plc (IMT)  were little changed today. BAT fell 0.2 percent to
3,489.5 pence at 2:17 p.m. in London, while Imperial was down
0.3 percent at 2,266 pence. Both companies were separately named
in the  Daily Mail  and the Guardian newspapers today as being
potentially interested in acquiring Swedish Match AB, a maker of
smokeless tobacco products.  “The U.K. government has taken a pragmatic approach by
deferring its decision regarding plain packaging given that
there is still no credible evidence to suggest such a measure
will actually reduce the number of people who smoke,” BAT said
in an e-mailed statement. “An ill-thought through measure, such
as plain packaging, brings with it the very real threat of
serious unintended consequences, such as a rise in the number of
smokers willing to turn to the black market.”  ‘Tame Surrender’  A spokesman for Imperial also welcomed the government’s
move, while the Smokefree Action Coalition, an anti-tobacco
lobby group, said in an e-mailed statement that Hunt’s decision
was a “tame surrender” to the tobacco industry.  Cameron’s spokesman rejected accusations by the opposition
 Labour Party  that the postponement was linked to the premier’s
appointment of Lynton Crosby, the managing director of lobbying
company  Crosby Textor , as a strategist for his  Conservative
Party ’s 2015 election campaign. Labour said Crosby has links
through his company to the tobacco industry and Cameron should
declare what role he had in the decision.  “We have to ask what happened,” Labour’s health
spokeswoman,  Diane Abbott , told lawmakers in the House of
Commons. “We suspect that Lynton Crosby happened.”  “Lynton Crosby has never lobbied the prime minister on
this issue and has had absolutely no involvement in this
issue,” Cameron’s spokesman, Christian Cubitt, told reporters
in London. “He’s not employed by government, he’s employed by
the Conservative Party as an adviser.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net  