-- U.S. Senate FHA Solvency Measure Would Require Premium Increases
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-12T19:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/u-s-senate-fha-solvency-measure-would-require-premium-increases.html
A U.S. Senate bill would set a floor
on premiums charged by the  Federal Housing Administration  and
require the government mortgage insurer to hold more money in
reserve, according to two people briefed on the legislation.  Leaders of the Senate Banking Committee said they plan to
introduce the measure next week. Lawmakers in both the Senate
and the  House of Representatives  have vowed to address the
finances of the FHA, which faces a projected shortfall of nearly
$1 billion in its insurance fund in the current fiscal year.
Defaults on loans the government mortgage insurer backed as the
housing bubble burst depleted its reserve account.  “After months of hard work, we have reached bipartisan
agreement on a path forward to give the FHA the tools it needs
to get back on stable footing,” Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, and  Mike Crapo  of  Idaho , the
committee’s top Republican, said in a statement yesterday.  The bill would also increase the cap on premiums the agency
charges to borrowers to insure their mortgages and require
annual evaluations of those rates. It would give the FHA more
authority to go after lenders that break its rules, and it would
give the agency more power to require lenders to absorb losses
on improperly underwritten loans. It would penalize the FHA if
it doesn’t keep enough money in its reserve account, the people,
who asked not to be named because the bill hasn’t been filed.  The measures in the bill are intended to ensure that FHA
has sufficient cash on hand to cover any future projected losses
without relying on taxpayer support.  Less Restrictive  Sean Oblack, a spokesman for the Banking Committee, said he
would not comment beyond the statement released by Senators
Johnson and Crapo yesterday.  The measure doesn’t go as far in restricting FHA’s
footprint as a bill introduced in the House Thursday by Texas
Republican Jeb Hensarling, chairman of the Financial Services
Committee.  Hensarling’s bill also would overhaul the FHA, focusing it
on first-time borrowers and limiting its loans to 115 percent of
an area’s median home price. The measure also would increase the
entity’s down payment requirement for non-first-time buyers to 5
percent from 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  