-- U.S. Treasury’s Collyns Said to Be Leaving to Join IIF
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-07-12T16:17:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/u-s-treasury-s-collyns-said-to-be-leaving-to-join-iif-1-.html
Charles Collyns , the U.S. Treasury
Department’s assistant secretary for international finance, is
leaving the department at the end of this month to become chief
economist for the  Institute of International Finance , a person
familiar with the matter said.  Collyns’ departure was announced in an e-mail today from
 Lael Brainard , the Treasury’s undersecretary for international
affairs, according to the person, who requested anonymity to
discuss personnel changes. Brainard credited Collyns, who joined
the department in February 2010, with playing a critical role in
the U.S. response to the European financial crisis and in
crafting the approach to economic transitions in the Arab Spring
countries.  Collyns, 57, was responsible for the Treasury’s work on
international monetary policy, global financial institutions,
and regional and bilateral economic issues including
coordination with the Group of Seven and Group of 20.  He previously worked at several positions at the
 International Monetary Fund , including deputy director of the
research department.  The Washington-based IIF represents global financial
institutions. Its chief executive officer is Timothy Adams, a
former undersecretary for international affairs at the Treasury
during the George W. Bush administration. The group’s board
members include executives from HSBC Holdings Plc, Citigroup
Inc. and  Swiss Re AG (SREN) , according to its website.  Collyns’s “ability to assess and anticipate the
macroeconomic environment and its relation to the global
financial system will be invaluable to the IIF’s mission,”
Adams said in statement today. Collyns will also have the title
of managing director, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  