-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Post Biggest Weekly Decline Since January
-- B y   S c o t t   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-07-12T20:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/u-s-company-credit-swaps-rise-before-consumer-sentiment-report.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk posted its biggest weekly decline since the start of the
year as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reassured
investors the central bank will maintain “highly
accommodative” policy that has bolstered debt markets.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, has dropped
8.6 basis points since July 5 to a mid-price of 78 basis points
as of 4:32 p.m. in New York, the most since the week ended Jan.
4, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge reached
77.1 yesterday, the lowest since May 30.  Bernanke’s July 10 comments helped ease concern that the
Fed is preparing for a sooner-than-expected pullback from
unprecedented stimulus measures that pushed company bond yields
to record lows. After the CDX index surged to a six-month high
of 97.6 basis points on June 24 and investors pulled cash from
funds that buy corporate debt, buyers found better value in bond
markets this week, according to Barclays Plc strategists.  “We are as positive on credit risk as we have been all
year,” the strategists, led by Jeffrey Meli and Bradley Rogoff
in  New York , wrote in a note to clients today. “The backup has
created opportunities within credit that we expect to normalize
in a modest rally.”  Rebounding Sentiment  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Rebounding sentiment helped trigger a surge in corporate-bond sales in the U.S. to the fastest pace in seven weeks,
reaching at least $23 billion in the past five days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  General Electric Co. (GE) , the largest maker of  jet engines ,
raised $3.5 billion in three parts and Richfield, Minnesota-based  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  issued $500 million in its first sale since
2011, the data show. Weekly offerings rose from  $1.3 billion 
last week, the slowest this year, and were the most since $36.8
billion for the period ended May 24.  Bond Spreads  The extra yield investors demand to own corporate bonds
rather than government debentures fell to 230 basis points
yesterday from 236 basis points on July 5, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields decreased to 4.13
percent from 4.3 percent, and compare with a record low 3.35
percent on May 2, index data show.  Bernanke, in response to a question after a speech in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , said “highly accommodative monetary
policy for the foreseeable future is what’s needed in the  U.S.
economy .”  The comments helped reverse an increase in Treasury yields
earlier that day following the release of minutes from the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s June 18-19 meeting that showed
about half of the participants wanted to halt the Fed’s $85
billion in monthly asset purchases by year-end.  Volatility in Treasuries measured by the Merrill Lynch
Option Volatility Estimate MOVE Index dropped to 93.54
yesterday, the lowest since June 19. It climbed to 117.89 on
July 5, the most since December 2010.  Default Tally  “Generally, the feeling is that there will be tapering at
some point, it’s just not clear at the moment whether tapering
is as imminent based on Bernanke’s comments,”  Michael Kraft , a
senior portfolio manager at Vanderbilt Asset Management in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index has dropped 56.1 basis points this week to 375.9,
the biggest weekly decline since the period ended Jan. 4,
Bloomberg data show.  Standard & Poor’s  revised its global corporate default
tally for 2013 to 47. Of the 47 defaults this year, 27 are based
in the U.S., the ratings company said in a report today.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt fell 2.8 basis points to 549.3 basis points,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and less than BBB- at S&P.  “A lot of us are trying to think about how to position
ourselves by year-end,”  Mirko Mikelic , a senior portfolio
manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in  Grand Rapids ,
 Michigan , said in a telephone interview. “The market is trying
to find that medium-term plan for rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Harrison in New York at 
 sharrison52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  