-- Hulu Owners Talking With Time Warner Cable for Investment
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-07-13T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/hulu-owners-invest-750-million-to-create-netflix-rival.html
Hulu  LLC’s owners are in talks to
sell a stake in the streaming service to  Time Warner Cable (TWC)  Inc.
as they seek to create a stronger competitor to  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ,
according to people with knowledge of the situation.  An agreement, while not imminent, could be reached in as
little as two weeks, said the people, who sought anonymity
because the talks are private. Time Warner Cable had previously
sought to acquire a 25 percent stake, they said. Owners Walt
Disney Co., 21st Century Fox Inc. and  Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp.’s
NBCUniversal yesterday called off plans to sell the service.  The talks coincide with a $750 million commitment from
Hulu’s owners backing the online company’s drive to attract
subscribers and take on industry leader Netflix, which has 34
million paying customers. The money will help Los Angeles-based
Hulu buy programming, market its service, develop technology and
attract employees, Disney Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Iger  said yesterday on Bloomberg Television.  “We ultimately concluded that, even though we had some
very compelling offers on the table, the future of Hulu is
bright,” Iger said at the Allen & Co. conference in Sun Valley,
Idaho. “And if the future of Hulu is bright we should hold on
to it.”  The moves underscore the popularity of services like
Netflix and Hulu, which deliver films and TV shows to
smartphones, tablets and computers, as well as living rooms.
With their investment, the owners say they have settled
differences over Hulu’s future. The service faced uncertainty
and management turnover as the companies debated its direction.  ‘Compelling’ Offers  Hulu attracted suitors including Time Warner Cable,  DirecTV (DTV) 
and  Peter Chernin  with  AT&T Inc. (T) , people with knowledge of the
matter have said. DirecTV, the biggest U.S. satellite TV
service, and the Chernin-AT&T partnership each offered about $1
billion, people with knowledge of the bids said this week. Time
Warner Cable, the second-biggest U.S. cable system, has wanted
to invest with Hulu’s owners, they said.  Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based Hulu,
declined to comment on the Time Warner Cable talks, as did
 Maureen Huff  at Time Warner Cable. Reuters reported the talks
earlier yesterday.  Time Warner Cable, with about 12 million video customers,
would probably use Hulu Plus to promote its high-speed broadband
product, Amy Yong, an analyst at Macquarie Securities in New
York, said in June. The New York-based company could bundle a
subscription to Hulu Plus to new Internet subscribers, she said.  Throughout the auction that started in March, Hulu’s owners
continued to weigh the value of the service and its long-term
potential, Iger said. During that process, Disney and Fox
overcame disagreements about Hulu’s direction, he said.  ‘Same Breath’  Hearing people at Sun Valley talking about Hulu in the same
the context as rival video services from Amazon.com, Apple Inc.
and Netflix Inc. helped assure Iger that not selling was the
right decision, he said.  “Hulu mentioned in the same breath, I mean that says
something, doesn’t it?,” Iger said.  The company has grown to 30 million unique monthly
visitors, with annual revenue that doubled to $690 million last
year, and more than 4 million paying subscribers.  Hulu offers a free version on computers and an $8-a-month
Hulu Plus with more content on more devices. Shows on both have
commercials. The fresh capital puts it on better footing
competing for content with Netflix and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “We also decided we would infuse it with the kind of
capital necessary to grow it significantly and aggressively,”
Iger said.  Media Confidence  Netflix spends about 5 percent of its annual $2 billion
programming budget on original shows,  Ted Sarandos , chief
content officer, said last month.  Deal talk at Sun Valley this week underscored the
confidence media executives have in their future. Moguls arrived
at the annual event with the 16-member Standard & Poor’s Media
Index up more than 40 percent in the past year and $53 billion
of mergers already announced in 2013.  Online players such as Netflix, Amazon and Hulu are
creating new revenue streams for the owners of TV shows, while
traditional sources, such as advertising, also increase, said
David Zaslav, president and chief executive officer of cable-TV
network  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)   “There’s never been a better time to be in the content
business,” Zaslav said. “The markets recognize it.”  ‘Scale Economics’  Liberty Media Corp. Chairman  John Malone , already pressing
for a merger of Time Warner Cable with Charter Communications
Inc., suggested satellite TV providers Dish Network Corp. and
DirecTV should also be consolidated. Liberty owns stakes in both
Charter and in DirecTV.  “Scale economics in the media business drives down costs
and makes it possible for larger investments,” Malone said.
“In order to improve the service for the consumer, you need
larger, I’m not saying monopoly players, but you need larger
players.”  Programming executives also said they are in favor of
consolidation.  “It makes everyone more efficient,” Time Warner Inc.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes said in a
late night scrum with reporters. He said he wasn’t concerned
pay-TV providers would outmuscle him in content negotiations.  DirecTV Blow  Hulu would have given a pay-television acquirer the ability
to offer a lower-priced alternative to their own cable and
satellite video subscriptions. Online services are popular with
people who cancel or cut back on pay-TV services, along with
younger viewers who have never subscribed to pay TV.  Robert Mercer , with El Segundo, California-based DirecTV,
the largest U.S. satellite TV service, declined to comment, as
did  Charles Sipkins , a spokesman for Chernin.  “It’s a setback psychologically for DirecTV,” said  Todd Lowenstein , portfolio manager with Highmark Capital Management
in  Los Angeles , which owns 91,325 shares. “Hulu represents a
clear path to a future that makes DirecTV viable in a new,
mobile media landscape. These are scarce assets. When that
option is removed, the attractiveness of DirecTV in some
investors’ eyes is diminished.”  Hulu’s free, ad-supported business is already profitable, a
person familiar with the matter said last month. Hulu Plus, the
paid product, loses money, the person said. Even though it
generates monthly subscriber fees, the paid service has higher
content costs. Hulu Plus could be profitable in 18 months
depending on how it grows, the person said.  “Hulu has an incredible set of apps and distribution that
the networks just can’t duplicate, it never made sense to sell
to a distributor,” said  Rich Greenfield , an analyst with BTIG
LLC. “We are very pleased and advocated the owners hold onto
Hulu from the very beginning.”  Previous Efforts  Disney, based in Burbank, California, rose 0.6 percent to
$66.98 yesterday in New York. Comcast, based in Philadelphia,
slid 0.5 percent to $44.68, while New York-based 21st Century
Fox advanced 0.8 percent to $30.19.  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable TV
company, fell 0.2 percent to $115.16. DirecTV gained 0.8 percent
to $64.91, while AT&T, based in Dallas, retreated 0.2 percent to
$35.81.  The canceled auction wasn’t the first time Hulu’s owners
had a change of heart. They put the site up for sale in June
2011 and called it off in October. Hulu never advanced a planned
share sale in 2010 that envisioned a $2 billion value.  The auction this time stemmed from disagreements over
Hulu’s direction between Disney and  Rupert Murdoch ’s Fox, which
control the company. Each had each considered buying the other
out. Comcast is barred from an operational role because of
conditions placed on its purchase of NBCUniversal, an original
investor in Hulu.  “This thing could really turn out to be something big,”
Iger said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
 Nick Turner  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net . 