-- UPS Cuts 2013 Earnings Forecast on U.S. Economic Slowdown
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   S o n d a g   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-07-12T20:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/ups-cuts-2013-earnings-forecast-on-u-s-economic-slowdown.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the
world’s biggest package delivery company, cut its 2013 earnings
forecast, saying a slowing U.S. economy hurt second-quarter
profit and revenue. The stock tumbled the most since 2008.  Adjusted earnings fell to $1.13 a share in the second
quarter, marking the first drop in more than three years and
missing analysts’ estimate of $1.20, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Profit for the year will increase as little as
3 percent, Atlanta-based UPS said in a statement today.  UPS and  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , often viewed as economic bellwethers
because they transport goods across the world, are working to
counter a shift by their customers to less expensive shipping
options as domestic growth is projected to slow from 2012. UPS
Chief Financial Officer Kurt Kuehn said in the statement he
expects market trends to persist.  “The severity of it was more than we were anticipating,”
said James Corridore, an analyst at S&P Capital IQ in  New York ,
who rates UPS a buy. “What will be interesting to see is how
UPS intends to attack these issues.”  UPS fell 5.8 percent to $86.12 at the close in New York,
the biggest daily decline since Dec. 9, 2008. The stock has
gained 17 percent this year, while FedEx increased 12 percent.
FedEx dropped 2 percent today to $102.29.  UPS forecast that adjusted earnings will rise to $4.65 to
$4.85 a share in 2013, down from its earlier prediction of $4.80
to $5.06. UPS didn't say how it adjusts earnings and didn't 
provide net income or sales for the second quarter.  U.S. economic growth is projected to be 1.8 percent this
year, down from 2.2 percent in 2012, according to the median of
96 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  FedEx Growth  UPS’s projected profit growth trails predictions by FedEx,
which is reducing expenses to counteract the waning demand for
more costly priority shipping. FedEx, based in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , said last month it sees fiscal full-year earnings
rising as much as 13 percent, less than analysts estimated.  FedEx last October began a $1.7 billion restructuring to
adjust to the shipping shift in international markets. It is
parking older planes sooner than expected, trimming capacity to
 Asia  and providing buyouts to 3,600 workers. The capacity
reduction will push lower-yielding goods to cheaper shipping
networks like ocean and ground, FedEx said.  Kuehn, the UPS finance chief, said today in the statement
that the company “is adapting to meet” conditions that led to
its second-quarter results. Andy McGowan, a UPS spokesman,
declined to provide specifics.  ‘Slow Growth’  “UPS started to adapt by reducing capacity in Asia, but
given the slow growth in the U.S., many UPS customers have been
focused on cost cutting,”  Helane Becker , a Cowen & Co. analyst
who rates its shares market perform, said in a note to
investors. “We do not expect to see a significant uptick in
next-day priority services until we see a global recovery and
not just a U.S. recovery.”  UPS also said today that package volume growth slowed by an
unspecified amount in the quarter as a result of negotiations to
complete a new national contract with the Teamsters union, which
represents 235,000 workers at the company. Some customers
typically shift part of their business to competitors ahead of a
labor contract expiration in case there is a work disruption.  While a new national master contract was approved last
month, some regional supplements were rejected. All the Teamster
entities must approve the agreement before it can take effect.  The company and union have agreed to extend the existing
contract while talks continue. While the extension doesn’t have
a specific end date, it can be terminated by either side with a
30-day notice, the Teamsters said on June 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Sondag in New York at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  