-- US Airways Shareholders Approve $11 Billion Merger With AMR
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-07-12T20:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/us-airways-shareholders-approve-11-billion-merger-with-american.html
US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  shareholders
moved the carrier a step closer to an $11 billion merger with
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  by approving the combination in a
vote today.  The all-stock tie-up, which will create the world’s largest
airline, was backed by more than 99 percent of shares voted at
the company’s annual meeting in  New York , US Airways said in a
statement. Its  stockholders  will own 28 percent of the combined
carrier, with the rest going to creditors in AMR’s bankruptcy.  The new American will have the heft to compete with United
Continental Holdings Inc. and Delta Air Lines Inc., which also
were created in a wave of consolidation that began in 2005 and
swept up five of the 10 biggest U.S. carriers. American and  US
Airways  expect to complete their merger this quarter, in
conjunction with AMR’s exit from  bankruptcy protection .  Previous mergers “created three airlines that are larger
than US Airways and make it very difficult for airlines like US
Airways and American Airlines to compete with our relatively
smaller networks,” Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said at
the meeting. “The merger of US Airways and American eliminates
this competitive disadvantage.”  An exchange ratio for shares of Tempe, Arizona-based
US Airways in the merger hasn’t been set. US Airways gained
1.1 percent to $17.56 at the close in New York. The stock has
risen 30 percent this year, as the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index
advanced 42 percent.  Regulatory Scrutiny  The combination must be approved by the court overseeing
AMR’s bankruptcy and by the U.S. Justice Department, which is
assessing whether it will create a monopoly in any markets.
Federal regulators won’t issue a decision before an Aug. 15
hearing at which  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR will seek court
approval for its reorganization plan, people familiar with the
matter said last month.  US Airways still expects to receive antitrust approval this
quarter, Parker said. The combined airline’s position at Reagan
National Airport in Washington, where the number of flights is
limited, has been the focus of objections from competitors such
as JetBlue Airways Corp. and Southwest Airlines Co.  While the merged American will control 67 percent of daily
departures from Reagan, that amounts to only 50 percent of seats
flown at the airport and 25 percent of seats in the larger
Washington market that also includes Baltimore-Washington and
Dulles airports, Parker said.  ‘Terrible Policy’  “Our competitors are using all the force they can to force
us to divest” flight slots at Reagan, he said in response to a
shareholder question. “It may be that someone decides, as a
matter of policy, that it’s something they think makes sense. We
would argue that’s terrible policy.”  Attorneys general  from 18 states have joined the Justice
review, and a group of consumers has sued to block the
combination in federal court in  San Francisco .  The merger will produce annual savings and new revenue
totaling more than $1 billion by 2015, the airlines have said.
The combined airline will displace United Continental as the
largest carrier, based on passenger traffic, and will operate
more than 6,700 daily flights.  The US Airways shareholder vote represents “continued
progress on our path toward building the world’s leading
airline,” said Mike Trevino, a spokesman for American.  The new airline will keep American’s name and its Fort
Worth headquarters. US Airways executives will hold the top
leadership positions. AMR CEO  Tom Horton  will serve as chairman
until the combined airline’s first annual meeting.  US Airways began pursuing a merger with American within
months of the larger carrier’s Nov. 29, 2011, bankruptcy filing.
After building support for the combination among American’s
unions and creditors, the two airlines announced a merger
agreement on Feb. 14 this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  