-- Musi-Cafe Turns From Watering Hole to Inferno in Crash
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-07-13T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/musi-cafe-turns-from-watering-hole-to-inferno-in-crash.html
The Musi-Cafe bistro was one of the
liveliest gathering spots in Lac-Megantic,  Quebec . On the night
a runaway train carrying crude exploded in the small town, it
became a scorched landmark for the worst Canadian rail disaster
in more than a century.  Shortly after 1 a.m. on July 6, the 73-car train crashed
near the center of town, sending a wall of flames 12-storeys
high behind the bistro, where residents like Lucie Vadnais were
enjoying drinks, meeting friends and celebrating birthdays.  “She was a mother to everyone,” said Josee Lemieux, whose
son Benjamin attended a day-care center run by Vadnais. “She
didn’t have a chance.”  Vadnais gave Lemieux an album with photos of Benjamin when
he left the daycare on Rue Baie-des-Sables. This week, Lemieux
read aloud what Vadnais had written in the album: “I’ll always
be there for you.”  The town of 5,932 people, about 16 kilometers (10 miles)
north of  Maine , is beginning to formally identify and honor the
dead, expected to number 50, from the worst rail disaster in
 Canada  since 1910. Police have confirmed 28 deaths, with another
22 people missing and presumed dead.  Mayor Colette Roy-Laroche said that a public memorial would
be held at the St. Agnes Catholic Church starting yesterday. She
invited friends and family to pay tribute to the people who
perished in the blaze after the oil-laden  Montreal , Maine &
Atlantic Railway Ltd. train crashed.  “It gives people a chance to reflect, to think about the
people who died,” said Jean-Denis Martel, 71, a resident who
knew several of the victims and came to the church to mourn.
“Even talking about it now, it hurts. These were lives. They
were given a life and for no reason it was taken away.”  Something Beautiful  Blue, green and white candles were lit in honor of the
victims at the front of the church. Visitors were invited to
leave photos of the deceased and lay flowers at an altar. Well-wishers were also asked to write messages on multi-colored paper
hearts and stick them to a bulletin board.  “Together, as a community and with everyone who supports
us, let’s create something beautiful,” one message read.  Many of the victims spent their final moments at Musi-Cafe
on Rue Frontenac sipping beer, eating shrimp salad tortillas and
listening to the music of Guy Bolduc, who is among the missing.
The Lafontaine family was celebrating the 40th birthday of
Josee, according to the Globe and Mail. Gaetan Lafontaine and
Karine Lafontaine are among the missing, the newspaper reported.  “I know everyone personally, the name of each one, what
they like, what they do, everything,” Yannick Gagne, the owner
of the bar, said in a July 9 interview with  CTV News.  Three of
his staff died that night, he said. One of the missing
employees, 18-year-old Elodie Turcotte, had been with the
restaurant for only three weeks.  Left in Time  Gagne said about 40 people were inside his bar and 20
others were on the patio when the train exploded. Gagne left the
bar about 12:30 a.m., followed by his pregnant wife 15 minutes
later. When approached at his home in Lac-Megantic, Gagne
declined further comment.  Simonne Fillion Cloutier, who has lived in the town for 51
years, was one of the Musi-Cafe patrons who got out alive. The
nursing-home cook ate tacos and drank wine with three friends
before leaving at 10:30 p.m., less than three hours before the
crash.  “Everyone was enjoying themselves and it was nice out,”
she said. “I never thought I would never see the people who
were there again.”  Community Trauma  A significant portion of the town’s residents will likely
suffer severe post-traumatic stress disorder, said  Russell
Jones , a professor at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University in Blacksburg, and a licensed clinical psychologist.  “No doubt, the entire community is traumatized,” Jones
said in a phone interview yesterday. “It’s a very long-term
recovery. It places a significant burden on this small
community.”  Jones participated with former first lady  Laura Bush  in a
2005 briefing in the aftermath of  Hurricane Katrina  and led
disaster trauma initiatives at the college following the
shooting deaths of 32 people in 2007.  Man-made disasters, including collisions and hazardous-materials spills such as the one in the Quebec municipality
cause more distress than natural catastrophes such as
hurricanes, he said.  “People have more difficulty dealing with traumatic events
if in fact it was man-made and could have been prevented,” he
said. “It adds another layer of burden in coping with it.”  Claims Office  The company’s involvement in dealing with the aftermath by
providing counseling services or funding may help victims in
their recovery, Jones said. Residents should seek help from
family, friends, and religious communities as a first step, he
said.  Edward Burkhardt, chief executive officer of Rail World
Inc., owner of the railroad, said this week he’s setting up an
office where the company’s insurer will receive claims and begin
to process them. He’s also working with the  Red Cross  to ensure
people who were forced to evacuate have proper clothing, food
and shelter before rebuilding begins.  “We have a lot of work to do with the people in this town
who are, frankly, mad as hell right now,” Burkhardt said.
“Understandably so.”  XL Group Plc (XL)  is one of the insurers for Montreal, Maine &
Atlantic, a spokeswoman for the Dublin-based insurance company
said. Burkhardt said the limits of his company’s coverage “are
going to be tested,” without saying how much insurance it
holds.  Rail Safety  MM&A’s safety record has improved over the last decade,
figures released yesterday by Canada’s Transportation Safety
Board show. The railway had six accidents in 2012, down from 23
in 2003. Overall, rail accidents in Canada declined 25 percent
in the last decade, to 1,015 last year.  There will “undoubtedly” be a class-action lawsuit over
the disaster, Dimitri Lascaris, who heads the securities class
action group at  law firm  Siskinds LLP in Montreal, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “You’re going to have claims from
loss of business, from the families of the deceased, damage to
property -- it’s substantial.”  Siskinds is looking into representing the Lac-Megantic
victims in court, he said.  Quebec Premier Pauline Marois pledged C$1,000 ($962) for
each individual affected by the disaster, part of a C$60 million
aid package for Lac-Megantic families and businesses.  In the meantime, residents like Lemieux struggle to get by
without their lost friends and family members.  “I hope she’s still up there watching us, because it’s not
easy,” said Lemieux, choking back tears, thinking about Vadnais
and her home day-care center. “Every time a stroller goes by we
think, ‘No, it’s not Lucie.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  