-- Vietnam President to Visit White House Amid Dissident Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-12T03:58:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/vietnam-president-to-visit-white-house-amid-dissident-crackdown.html
Vietnam President Truong Tan Sang
plans to visit the U.S. to meet President  Barack Obama  as the
former foes seek closer economic and military ties despite
concerns the Communist country is cracking down on dissidents.  Obama will meet Sang on July 25 to discuss human rights,
 climate change  and Trans-Pacific Partnership trade talks, the
White House said in a statement. Sang, who visited  China  last
month, is one of the three senior-most leaders in Vietnam, with
Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung running the government and Nguyen
Phu Trong heading the Communist Party.  The visit may further the two sides’ effort to counter
China’s growing assertiveness over disputed territory in the
 South China Sea  as neighboring countries vie for oil, gas and
fish. Obama is shifting military resources to the region and
seeks to conclude the TPP later this year with 10 other Asia-Pacific countries, including  Vietnam .  “The visit is important for Vietnam because Vietnam needs
the presence of the U.S. in  Southeast Asia  to keep a balance of
power,” Le Dang Doanh, an economist who has advised Dung and
formerly headed the Central Institute for Economic Management,
said in an e-mail. “Vietnam wishes to get a renewed commitment
of the U.S.” to help resolve tensions in the South China Sea,
he wrote.  Last month, Senior Lieutenant General Do Ba Ty became the
first chief of general staff of the Vietnam People’s Army to
visit the Pentagon. Ty and Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman
of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, discussed the Obama
administration’s “rebalance to the Asia-Pacific region,” Navy
Commander Scott McIlnay said in an e-mailed statement.  Political Prisoners  Human rights advocates have pushed the U.S. to make trade
deals, humanitarian aid and arms sales contingent on an
improvement in Vietnam’s human rights record, according to a
 report  issued last month by the  Congressional Research Service .  Last year, Dung ordered a crackdown on blogs that attacked
his leadership over an economy hurt by inefficient state-owned
companies, a banking system riddled with bad debt, and
government corruption. Many of Vietnam’s more than 120 political
prisoners are in jail for speaking out, U.S. Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State Daniel Baer  told  a congressional committee
June 5.  “In increasing numbers, bloggers continue to be harassed
and jailed for peaceful online speech and activists live under a
continual cloud,” Baer said.  Trade Talks  Vietnam’s leaders are under pressure to boost the country’s
economy, which the government targets to grow 5.5 percent this
year. That would be Vietnam’s first period of three straight
years of growth below six percent since 1988, according to
International Monetary Fund data.  In the TPP talks, Vietnam is looking to reduce tariffs on
clothing and shoe exports to the U.S., said Adam Sitkoff,
executive director of the American Chamber of Commerce in
Vietnam. The U.S. wants Vietnam to stop giving preferential
treatment to state-owned companies, he said.  Since the countries signed a trade agreement in December
2001, two-way commerce between the U.S. and Vietnam increased to
$26 billion last year from from about $1 billion,  according to 
the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Wadhams at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net  