-- Vivus Said to Tell Investors It’s Open to Dissident Deal
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-07-12T21:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/vivus-said-to-tell-investors-it-s-open-to-dissident-deal.html
Vivus Inc. (VVUS) , the drugmaker that’s
battling its largest investor for board control, told investors
and analysts at a meeting today that it’s open to discussing a
potential settlement with dissident shareholder First  Manhattan 
Co., according to two people at the event.  Vivus would aim to reach a settlement before its annual
meeting on July 15, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the discussions were private. Vivus’s management team
and some directors were present at the breakfast gathering in
New York, the people said.  A spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-based Vivus
declined to comment. The company received U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval to sell the obesity drug Qsymia in July
2012, and initial sales have disappointed investors, sending
shares down 47 percent in the past 12 months. Vivus rose 3.2
percent to $14.70 at the close today in New York.  “We have been and remain willing to implement a
settlement,”  Alex Denner , chief investment officer at Sarissa
Capital Management LP, a board nominee backed by First
Manhattan, said today in a telephone interview. He declined to
comment further on the situation.  First Manhattan has proposed a slate of nine directors,
including Denner, to replace Vivus’s entire board. With 9.9
percent of Vivus’s outstanding stock, the investor has
criticized how the company brought Qsymia to market and
advocates replacing Chief Executive Officer Leland Wilson.  Making Changes  Vivus expanded its board by three directors since the proxy
fight began. The drugmaker has emphasized its plan to help more
patients access Qsymia and said it’s talking with large
pharmaceutical companies about a partnership to help market the
treatment.  “A vote for First Manhattan Co. is a vote for risk,”
Vivus said yesterday in a statement. “FMC’s ‘plan’ -– to the
extent they have one -– appears to revolve solely around doing
things that the Vivus board and management team are already
doing, ‘fixing’ things that aren’t broken, or making wholesale
changes without an understanding of our business and industry.”  Earlier this week, Vivus’s third-largest shareholder, QVT
Financial LP, was reported to plan to vote its 8.35 million
shares in favor of First Manhattan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  