-- Wells Fargo Profit Rises as Lender Puts Brakes on Costs
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-12T17:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/wells-fargo-profit-rises-19-as-stumpf-renews-focus-on-expenses.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, said second-quarter profit climbed 19 percent as
the bank clamped down on expenses. Results beat analysts’
estimates, and the shares rose 2 percent in New York trading.  Net income advanced to a record $5.52 billion, or 98 cents
a share, from $4.62 billion, or 82 cents, a year earlier, the
San Francisco-based company said today in a statement. The
average estimate of 33 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg, excluding
some items, was 93 cents a share.  Chief Executive Officer John Stumpf, 59, scrapped his 2011
cost-cutting goal to invest in businesses such as home lending.
With interest rates now climbing from record lows, the bank has
forecast that new mortgages will slide for the rest of this
year, and Stumpf has renewed his focus on expenses.  Wells Fargo has focused “on reducing expenses while
investing in our businesses to generate revenue growth,” Chief
Financial Officer Timothy Sloan, 53, said on a conference call
today. “We’ll continue to see some improvement on expenses.”  Even with a 4 percent increase in staff, noninterest costs
dropped 1 percent to $12.3 billion from a year earlier, and the
bank’s efficiency ratio improved to 57.3 percent from 58.3
percent in the first quarter. Expenses tied to foreclosures fell
49 percent to $146 million.  The bank added 1,900 branch bankers in the 12 months ending
June, with total  headcount  rising to 274,300.  Core Earnings  “Expenses are probably between $500 million and $1 billion
too high,”  Marty Mosby , an analyst at Guggenheim Securities
LLC, said in an interview before results were disclosed.
“That’s a cushion they are whittling down.”  The quarter showed some of the strains Stumpf faces, with
revenue little changed at $21.4 billion. Results were helped by
a $500 million pretax release from reserves. Profit before taxes
and loss provisions, which some analysts use to gauge results
without such one-time items, rose 3 percent to $9.12 billion.  The net interest margin, the difference between what the
bank pays for funding and makes on lending, fell to 3.46 percent
from 3.48 percent in the first quarter.  The bank made $2.8 billion from mortgage banking, down 3
percent from a year earlier. The tally included $2.41 billion
gained from originating home loans, a 9 percent increase.  Mike Heid  runs that business.  “Consumer loss levels have improved rapidly due primarily
to the positive momentum in the residential  real estate market ,
with home prices improving faster and in more markets than
expected,” Chief Risk Officer Mike Loughlin said in the
statement.  Bond Gains  Wells Fargo, which has been expanding the securities unit
run by John Shrewsberry after acquiring it in the purchase of
Wachovia Corp., took in $538 million in investment-banking fees,
an 85 percent increase from a year earlier. Trading revenue rose
26 percent to $331 million.  Under accounting rules, banks can exclude gains and losses
from securities categorized as “available-for-sale” from the
income statement and instead include them in equity. Unrealized
bond gains at Wells Fargo dropped to $5.1 billion in the second
quarter from $11.2 billion at the end of March, the bank said.  “When you have a large security portfolio like we do, and
most of the portfolio is at a fixed rate, it’s worth less on
paper” when interest rates rise, Sloan said in a phone
interview. “It’s not as if rising rates make the income coming
off those securities any lower. It’s the same income, it’s just
the value that’s different.”  Mortgages Slide  Expense reductions could come in employee benefits, as well
as foreclosures, regulatory settlements, and mortgage servicing
and repurchases, Sloan said at a June investor conference. Those
housing-related expenses cost the company about $3.9 billion
last year, he said.  Wells Fargo originated almost 1 in 3 U.S. mortgages in
2012, helping the lender post a third straight year of record
profit. Yields climbed after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated May 22 the central bank may slow monthly bond
purchases. The average rate on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages
 jumped  more than a percentage point from early May to 4.46
percent at the end of June.  New home loans fell rapidly after Bernanke’s comments and
probably slowed Wells Fargo’s mortgage business, Richard Staite,
a London-based analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP, wrote in a June
12 report. Mortgages comprised about 14 percent of total revenue
last year, a contribution that may plunge by more than a third
this year to $7.5 billion, from $12.2 billion last year, and to
$4.8 billion in 2014, he wrote.  Stock Reaction  JPMorgan said today that if mortgage rates stay at or above
current levels in the second half, refinancings could drop 30
percent to 40 percent and lead to what CEO Jamie Dimon described
as a “dramatic” drop in profits.  “The refinance volume is going to come down significantly
if rates continue to stay high,” Stumpf said on today’s call.  Nationwide, home-loan originations may fall 10 percent to
$1.57 trillion this year from $1.75 trillion last year, the
Mortgage Bankers Association forecast in a June 20  report .  Wells Fargo closed at a record $42.83 on July 8, and fell
to $41.89 in yesterday’s trading. That left the stock up 23
percent this year, compared with a 24 percent gain for the 24-company KBW Bank Index. The stock traded for $42.74 at 12:41
p.m. in New York.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc., run by billionaire  Warren Buffett ,
is the biggest  stakeholder  with more than 8 percent of the
common stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rating Cut  Staite is among at least five  analysts  who downgraded Wells
Fargo in the past month, giving the stock the equivalent of a
sell rating. Chris Mutascio, a Baltimore-based analyst at Keefe,
Bruyette & Woods Inc., Jack Micenko at Susquehanna Financial
Group LLLP and Scott Siefers of Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP
cut their ratings to hold this month.  Wells Fargo and New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., which
reported a 31 percent jump in quarterly profit today, kick off
earnings season for U.S. banks. Citigroup Inc., based in New
York, will announce July 15 and  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America Corp. reports July 17.  Lenders have turned to firing workers, cleaning up bad
loans and settling litigation to cut costs and boost earnings
amid weak borrowing by U.S. businesses and consumers. Commercial
and industrial loans rose  0.4 percent  in May from a year
earlier, while real estate debt contracted 3.3 percent, Fed data
show.  Holding Pattern  “Economic growth is so tepid and there is enough
uncertainty out there that is holding back the small and medium
businesses from expanding,” Guggenheim’s Mosby said. “That’s
putting everything in a holding pattern.”  The biggest U.S. lenders, after years of building equity
and promising higher payouts, may be forced to hoard profits as
they face stricter capital rules. Eight of the largest firms
would need to retain capital equal to at least 5 percent of
assets, while their banking units would have to hold a minimum
of 6 percent, U.S. regulators proposed July 9. The banks have
until 2018 to fully comply. Wells Fargo already meets both
thresholds, Stumpf said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  