-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Increase More Than Forecast in June
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-07-12T12:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-increase-more-than-forecast-in-june.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S. rose
more than projected in June, reflecting higher costs for energy
and automobiles.  The 0.8 percent gain in the producer price  index  was the
biggest since September and followed a 0.5 percent rise the
prior month, a Labor Department report showed today in
Washington. The  median  estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 73
economists called for a 0.5 percent gain. The so-called  core 
measure, which excludes volatile food and fuel, increased 0.2
percent, also more than forecast.  The data also showed limited cost pressures at the earlier
stages of production, indicating demand for materials is being
restrained by slower growth in  China  and weakness in  Europe .
That helps explain why Federal Reserve policy makers project
inflation is likely to be at or below the central bank’s goal.  “The increase in producer prices is very much an energy
story,” said Gennadiy Goldberg, a strategist at TD Securities
Inc. in New York, who accurately forecast the gain in core
costs. “We’re not seeing much of the gain translate into higher
consumer prices yet.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from gains of 0.1
percent to 0.9 percent. Core wholesale prices were projected to
rise 0.1 percent for a second month, the survey median showed.  Stock-index futures were little changed after the figures.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent
to 1,669.2 at 8:49 a.m. in  New York .  Year Earlier  Compared with the same month a year earlier, companies paid
2.5 percent more for goods, the biggest 12-month increase since
March 2012. The core index increased 1.7 percent in the 12
months ended in June, matching the year-over-year gains in the
prior three months.  The cost of automobiles jumped 0.8 percent in June, the
most since November 2011. Car prices are still down 0.2 percent
from June 2012.  Energy costs climbed 2.9 percent from May, the most in four
months and reflecting more expensive gasoline,  diesel fuel  and
heating oil.  The cost of finished consumer foods rose 0.2 percent, led
by the biggest increase in meat prices since May 2010.  Intermediate Goods  Expenses for intermediate goods increased 0.5 percent, the
first gain since February. Costs for crude goods were little
changed.  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , the maker of Cheerios cereal and
Yoplait yogurt, is among companies that are weathering higher
materials costs. It projects a 3 percent rise in input expenses
for its fiscal year ending May 2014, with gains in energy and
goods such as soy and sugar. At the same time, it expects new
products will help to cushion the costs.  “Our prices are stable,” Kendall Powell, chairman and
chief executive officer of the Minneapolis-based company, said
on an earnings conference call on June 26. “Inflation is
moderate, and we think will be quite manageable for us.”  Many Fed officials want to see more signs employment is
picking up before they’ll begin slowing the pace of $85 billion
in monthly bond purchases, according to minutes of policy
makers’ June meeting released this week.  Fed’s Bernanke  “Highly accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable
future is what’s needed in the  U.S. economy ,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in response to a question after a July 10
speech in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . He said he expects inflation
to “come back up” closer to the Fed’s 2 percent goal.  Global economic growth will struggle to accelerate this
year as a U.S. expansion weakens, China’s economy levels off and
Europe’s recession deepens, the  International Monetary Fund  said
this week as it cut its 2013 forecast.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
from the Labor Department.  Import prices  fell in June for a
fourth straight month as costs dropped for food, natural gas and
motor vehicles, data showed yesterday. The consumer-price index,
the broadest of the three measures, may have climbed 0.3 percent
in June, economists projected ahead of the July 16 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  