-- Won Posts Biggest Weekly Gain in Five Months on Growth Outlook
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-07-12T06:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/won-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-in-five-months-on-growth-outlook.html
South Korea’s won posted its biggest
weekly gain in almost five months and  government bonds  rose
after the central bank raised its growth forecast amid optimism
U.S. policy makers will maintain monetary stimulus.  The  Bank of Korea  kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 2.5 percent yesterday and boosted its 2013
expansion projection to 2.8 percent from an April estimate of
2.6 percent. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July
10 the U.S. will need stimulus “for the foreseeable future,”
and minutes of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s June meeting
showed policy makers want to see more signs employment is
picking up before slowing bond purchases that have spurred
demand for emerging-market assets.  “Bernanke’s signal that the tapering may take place later
than what the market expected was the main driver of the won’s
rally this week,” said Hong Seok Chan, an analyst at Daishin
Economic Research Institute in Seoul. “The BOK gave a more
optimistic view of South Korea’s economic recovery, which will
support the currency further.”  The won rose 1.6 percent this week to 1124.47 per dollar in
Seoul, the biggest gain since the period ended Feb. 15, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. It fell 0.2 percent today. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, dropped 193 basis points, or 1.93
percentage points, to 8.45 percent this week. It declined 52
basis points today.  Bond Yield  The yield on the 2.75 percent government notes due March
2018 fell 11 basis points to 3.13 percent this week and rose
three basis points today, prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show.  Bernanke signaled last month that the Fed may start to
phase out stimulus measures this year if the  U.S. economy  grows
in line with its projections. Labor Department data yesterday
showed that initial claims for jobless benefits in the U.S.
unexpectedly increased last week to a two-month high.  The Bank of Korea left monetary policy unchanged for the
second straight month after a surprise rate cut in May. That
stimulus, together with an extra budget of 17.3 trillion won
($15.4 billion) has boosted the growth outlook, Governor Kim
Choong Soo said yesterday.  The central bank forecasts South Korea will post a record
current-account surplus of $53 billion this year, Director
General Shin Woon told reporters in Seoul yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  