-- WTI Crude Rises on Speculation U.S. Supplies to Drop
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-07-12T20:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/wti-crude-heads-for-third-weekly-gain.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
climbed on speculation that U.S. inventories will keep declining
after the largest two-week drop in at least three decades.  Futures advanced 1 percent today and 2.6 percent this week.
Inventories slid 20.2 million barrels to 373.9 million in the
two weeks ended July 5, the Energy Information Administration
reported July 10. WTI has moved into backwardation, with futures
closest to expiration more expensive than those for later
delivery, removing the financial incentive to hold supplies. WTI
also gained as corporate earnings topped analysts’ estimates.  “We’ve had a staggering two-week draw in crude
inventories,” said Tom Finlon, the Jupiter, Florida-based
director of Energy Analytics Group LLC. “Given the structure of
the market, it looks like we’ll see another big draw.”  WTI crude for August delivery advanced $1.04 to settle at
$105.95 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract closed at $106.52 on July 10, a 15-month high. The
volume of all futures traded was 10 percent above the 100-day
average for the time of day. The August contract was 40 cents
more than the September one.  Brent oil for August settlement gained $1.08, or 1 percent,
to end the session at $108.81 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The volume of all futures traded was
3.9 percent greater than the 100-day average.  WTI-Brent  The European benchmark grade traded at a $2.86 premium to
WTI at the settlement today. The spread dropped to $1.99 on July
10, the narrowest differential, based on closing prices, since
November 2010.  The two-week decrease in crude stockpiles was the biggest
since at least 1982, according to EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm. Inventories at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery
point for WTI, dropped 2.69 million barrels last week to 47
million, the report showed.  Refineries operated  at 92.4 percent of capacity on July 5,
up 0.2 percentage point from the prior week and the highest
level this year, according to EIA. Utilization rates usually
peak during the summer months when U.S. gasoline demand rises.  “The fundamentals are very bullish,” said  John Kilduff , a
partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York hedge fund that focuses
on energy. “The inventory drop was very big and we saw some
strong demand. Next week’s report should show an additional
decline in supplies.”  Stockpiles of gasoline fell 2.63 million barrels to 221
million last week, according to EIA. Demand increased 1.8
percent to 9.08 million barrels a day averaged over the last
four weeks, the highest level since August, the report showed.  Gasoline Rally  Gasoline surged as unplanned unit outages at refineries
sparked concern that supplies may tighten during the peak-demand
summer months. Gasoline for August delivery increased 9.61
cents, or 3.2 percent, to $3.1175 a gallon on the Nymex, the
highest settlement since March 18.  “The story of the energy complex this year has been one of
rebalancing,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “We’ve already seen WTI rebalance
versus the Brent market and are now seeing gasoline do the same
thing verses crude oil.”  Half of 42 analysts and traders polled by  Bloomberg News 
estimated WTI will climb through July 19 because of the decline
in inventories. Eighteen respondents in the Bloomberg survey, or
43 percent, predicted a drop and three projected no change.  Oil also gained after  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  reported better-than-anticipated second-quarter profit
today. JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, reported a 31
percent increase as revenue from trading stocks and bonds
climbed. Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, said profit
rose 19 percent as the bank clamped down on expenses.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  kicked of the reporting season July 8, posting
adjusted profit that exceeded analyst estimates. The start of
earnings season is typically demarcated by Alcoa’s release.  “The beginning of earnings season has been positive,”
said Bob Yawger, director of the futures division at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc. in New York. “Two big banks came out with
better-than-expected earnings today, which is supportive. It’s
safe to assume that we will see another massive decline in
supply because the market is well into backwardation.”  Futures also increased after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called on July 10 for the central bank to maintain
bond purchases.  Quantitative Easing  “Investors have been relieved by the fact that
quantitative easing will not be unwound as fast as Bernanke had
indicated before,” said Hans van Cleef, an energy economist at
ABN Amro Bank in Amsterdam. “As long as the Fed doesn’t signal
that will change, that will keep prices elevated for the time
being.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
September was 21.5 percent, down from 22.2 percent yesterday,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 573,114
contracts as of 2:46 p.m. It totaled 934,688 contracts
yesterday, 40 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.84 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  