-- Hyundai U.S. Chief Says Company on Track to Meet Target
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-07-12T22:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/hyundai-u-s-chief-says-company-on-track-to-meet-target.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  is “on track” to
see sales rise 4.4 percent to 734,000 vehicles in the U.S. this
year, even as factory capacity constraints have limited the
automaker’s sales growth to just 1.2 percent in the first half,
the carmaker’s U.S. chief said.  “Our year is going well if you measure it by, ‘Are you
selling everything you can build?’”  John Krafcik , chief
executive officer of Hyundai Motor America, said yesterday at a
briefing in Ann Arbor,  Michigan  on the automaker’s 2014 Equus
sedan. “It’s a sign that we don’t have enough capacity. We
frequently can’t meet the demand for a specific model.”  Hyundai is forecasting its slowest U.S. sales growth in
five years after a 13-year streak in which it combined with
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  to gain U.S. market share. The Seoul-based companies have trailed industrywide sales growth in every
month since September, constrained by plant capacity and
battling more competitive U.S.-based automakers.  Hyundai and Kia together sold 638,361 cars and utility
vehicles this year through June, a 1.1 percent decline,
according to researcher Autodata Corp. Industrywide deliveries
rose 7.7 percent.  Hyundai’s U.S. sales will accelerate in the second half
because it will boost production slightly, Krafcik said
yesterday.  “Just the way the car flow goes, we’ll get a little bit
more in the second half,” Krafcik said.  Quality Push  Chung Mong Koo , chairman of Hyundai and Kia, is emphasizing
a push to improve quality over adding to their North American
manufacturing capacity. That has tested the automakers’ ability
to build enough vehicles to keep up with demand in a U.S. auto
market on pace to exceed 15 million sales this year for the
first time since 2007.  Hyundai doesn’t rule out building a factory, though there
are no plans to do so yet, Krafcik said yesterday.  “We’ve taken a couple year pause on adding incremental
capacity,” the executive said. “I can’t say when that pause is
going to end.”  Krafcik provided the 734,000 target for Hyundai deliveries
in March. That would be the smallest annual gain since 2008,
when Hyundai sales fell 14 percent amid an industrywide plunge
of 18 percent, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based
Autodata.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in  Ann Arbor , Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  