-- Zimbabwean Police Targeting Human Rights Workers, Amnesty Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-07-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/zimbabwean-police-targeting-human-rights-workers-amnesty-says.html
Zimbabwean police have raided the
offices of civil society organizations and detained human rights
workers in the run-up to elections later this month,  Amnesty
International  said.  “The clampdown on the work of human rights defenders is a
worrying indicator that government agencies remain actively
hostile to civil society,” Noel Kututwa, Amnesty’s deputy
program director for  Africa , said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Zimbabweans will vote in presidential and parliamentary
elections on July 31, ending a power-sharing government led by
President  Robert Mugabe  and his rival Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai . The coalition was formed four years ago following a
disputed election that was marred by voter irregularities and
violence, according to international observers.  “Civil society organizations carrying out election-related
activities including voter education, domestic election
observation and those perceived to be critical of government
policies have had their offices raided by police and equipment,
including computers, seized whilst human rights defenders have
been unlawfully detained,” Amnesty said in its report titled
“Walk the Talk.”  Rugare Gumbo, spokesman for Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African
National Union-Patriotic Front, didn’t answer calls to his
mobile phone before the report was released.  Election Violence  Tsvangirai, who leads the Movement for Democratic Change,
failed in a bid to postpone the election. He quit the 2008
runoff vote, citing violence against his supporters.  The  Southern African Development Community , which brokered
the power-sharing agreement four years ago, had also pushed for
the ballot to be delayed to allow more time for voters to be
registered and ensure conditions are met for free and fair
elections.  About 200 people were killed by militia during the 2008
elections, while at least 12,000 people were tortured at bases
run by these groups and more than 28,000 displaced by the
violence, according to Amnesty.  “Thousands of people fled across the borders to
neighboring countries, mainly to  South Africa  and Botswana to
escape the violence,” the human-rights organization said.  While the level of violence this year is low, Amnesty said
it’s “concerned that partisanship by some members of the
country’s security services, who have openly expressed their
preferred outcome in the next election, is directly undermining
Zimbabwe’s ability to realize its obligation to respect and
protect internationally guaranteed civil and political rights.”  The  Carter Center , created by former U.S. President  Jimmy Carter , said July 9 it had been refused permission to monitor
Zimbabwe’s July elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  