-- Zloty Gains After Surprise Current Account Surplus: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-07-12T14:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-12/zloty-gains-after-surprise-current-account-surplus-warsaw-mover.html
The zloty advanced along with
 government bonds  after Polish current-account data showed an
unexpected surplus for the second straight month in May.  The zloty strengthened 0.3 percent to 4.3088 against the
euro at 4:14 p.m. in Warsaw, after declining as much as 0.2
percent earlier in the day. That reduced the currency’s year-to-date loss to 5.2 percent, the worst performance among  Europe ’s
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg behind  Turkey ’s
lira and  Russia ’s ruble.  The  current account  surplus in the European Union’s largest
Eastern economy reached 574 million euros ($748 million) in May,
down from 714 million in April, according to figures published
today by Poland’s central bank. The monthly surpluses are the
two biggest on record and the first back-to-back positive
results since at least 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The median forecast from a Bloomberg survey of 26
analysts predicted a 157 million-euro current account deficit.  “We’re dealing with deeper changes in the Polish economy,
which is becoming less imports-consuming,” Bank Millennium SA
economists, led by  Grzegorz Maliszewski , wrote in an e-mailed
note. Exporters “are doing relatively well, increasing sales
despite a recession in the euro area” while imports have been
“limited by weak consumption and investment.”  Exports rose 3.1 percent from 12 months earlier to 12.4
billion euros in May, while imports shrank 4.6 percent to 12.3
billion euros, the central bank’s data showed.  ‘Still Attractive’  Poland’s improving payments balance shows the zloty is
“still attractive,” Peter Attard Montalto, Nomura
International Plc’s  emerging markets  economist, said in an e-mailed response to Bloomberg questions. The surplus in April and
May also shows that “speculative selling” of the zloty in the
second quarter must have been “even bigger” than previously
assumed, he said.  The zloty depreciated 3.4 percent against the euro in the
April to June period, the worst performance since the third
quarter of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  yield  on  Poland ’s 10-year government bond fell six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 3.89 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  