-- Airbus Revives Regional A330 to Broaden Appeal of Wide-Body Jet
-- B y   D e e n a   K a m e l   Y o u s e f
-- 2013-11-16T14:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/airbus-revives-regional-a330-to-broaden-appeal-of-wide-body-jet.html
Airbus SAS plans to sell a version
of its A330 wide-body jet for regional routes with dense traffic
as it seeks to broaden the appeal of the 20 year-old airliner
and sharpen competition with  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner.  The European manufacturer, based in Toulouse in  France , is
in discussions with suppliers about reducing the thrust of the
engines and making the aircraft better suited for high-frequency
operations that put more strain on the plane. Airbus would also
reduce the takeoff weight of the model and make it lighter to
save fuel, the company said today.  “We’re focusing on those airports that are today
constrained and there’s no view of a capacity increase,” Chris
Emerson, the Airbus vice president of product strategy and
market forecast, told journalists today on the eve of the Dubai
Air Show. “For those critical airport networks the A330 makes
sense.”  Airbus originally designed the A330 as a regional aircraft,
before bulking up the twin-engine model to perform long-distance
routes that link Asia or Latin American with  Europe . Two decades
into production, the A330 remains popular with airlines looking
for a cheaper alternative to Boeing’s 787, and Airbus said it
can have the regional model ready by 2015.  Longer Flights  Airbus is also working on a version of the A330 that can
fly longer distances, also slated for introduction around 2015.
The A330 was conceived together with the A340, and while the
A330 has continued to sell well, Airbus was forced to end
production of the larger sister aircraft because the four-engine
model consumed too much fuel.  The A330 is powered by engines made by  Rolls-Royce Holdings
Plc (RR/)  -- the most popular variant lately --,  Pratt & Whitney  as
well as  General Electric Co. (GE)   Emerson said the A330 can provide airlines with the optimal
balance between comfort and efficiency because it is cheap to
purchase relative to the competing Boeing model. The European
company has sought a marketing edge with a push for wider seats,
saying its aircraft are better suited for more space as it looks
for ways to eat into Boeing’s lead on wide-bodies.  The A330 sits between the smaller single-aisle aircraft
that form the backbone of the commercial aviation world and the
two larger A350s as well as the A380 models. There are no plans
at the moment to stretch either model into an even bigger
planes, Emmerson said.  “We don’t need to stretch it yet,” Emmerson said of the
A380, which is the world’s largest passenger aircraft and
typically seats about 525 travelers. “We still have enough room
in the cabin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deena Kamel Yousef in Dubai at 
 dhussein1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  