-- Asian Stocks Rise This Week on Fed Stimulus, China Policy
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-11-16T00:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/asian-stocks-rise-this-week-on-fed-stimulus-china-policy.html
Asian  stocks  rose this week, with
the benchmark index gaining for the first time in a month, on
optimism policy makers in the U.S. and  China  will bolster growth
in the world’s two biggest economies. Japanese shares jumped as
the yen weakened.  Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co., a Chinese
medical products maker, soared 34 percent in  Hong Kong  this week
after reporting higher sales, leading gains on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which gets about 80 percent of
revenue outside  Japan , rose 4.6 percent as the yen declined to a
two-month low.  James Hardie (JHX)  Industries Plc, a building-materials
supplier that makes more than half its sales in the U.S., jumped
13 percent in Sydney after reporting better-than-expected
operating profit.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.9 percent to 141.57 this
week, the biggest weekly advance since the five days ended Sept.
20. China may release details of its economic policy plans as
early as next week, according to Morgan Stanley.  Janet Yellen ,
the nominee for chairman of the Fed, signaled during her Senate
confirmation hearing this week that she’ll maintain record
monetary stimulus until the economy is stronger.  “The statement made by Yellen is definitely favorable for
equity markets,” said Khiem Do, Hong Kong-based head of Asian
multi-asset strategy at Baring Asset Management Ltd., which
manages about $51 billion. “Fourth quarter is a very favorable
period for equity markets around the world. It looks like global
investors are back in Japan again.”  Japan, China  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  surged 7.7 percent this
week, climbing above 15,000 for the first time since May and
posting the steepest weekly rally in almost four years. China’s
Shanghai Composite advanced 1.4 percent.  Asia’s regional equities gauge slumped on Nov. 13 amid
disappointment in the lack of details released at the conclusion
of China’s four-day leadership meeting. Shares then reversed
course, with gains accelerating yesterday as the Communist
Party’s People’s Daily newspaper reported that a 20,000 word
document approved at the plenum lays out 15 areas of reform and
60 “concrete tasks.”  Policy changes may be announced over the next seven to 10
days,  Jonathan Garner , the Hong Kong-based chief Asia and
emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley, said on Nov. 14.  President  Xi Jinping  said corruption remains a problem and
urged more courage and stronger measures to push forward
reforms, according to a transcript of his speech at the plenum
published yesterday by the official Xinhua News Agency.  MSCI’s Asia-Pacific gauge advanced 9.4 percent this year
amid optimism the Fed will continue its bond buying into 2014
and that Japan policy makers can lead the country out of
deflation. This week’s advance pushed its earnings multiple to
about 13.8 times estimated profit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Global Advance  Global shares climbed this week after Yellen, nominated to
succeed Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , testified to the Senate
that removing monetary stimulus too soon would threaten a
fragile economic recovery. Jobless claims for the week ended
Nov. 9 fell less than estimated, adding to the case for delaying
reduction of asset purchases.  The yen weakened past 100 to the dollar for the first time
since September, boosting the outlook for the nation’s
exporters. Nissan rose 4.6 percent to 924 yen this week. Pioneer
Corp. surged 20 percent, leading gains on the Nikkei 225, after
the maker of audio gear posted an unexpected first-half
operating profit.  Taiwan’s Taiex index slid 0.6 percent, while Singapore’s
Straits Times Index rose 0.8 percent. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index (AS51)  was little changed.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 1.3 percent this week,
while the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, a gauge of mainland
stocks also known as the H-share index, jumped 3 percent.
Shandong Weigao Group leaped 34 percent to HK$9.38 after posting
third-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates. China’s
Shanghai Composite Index climbed 1.4 percent.  James Hardie  jumped 13 percent to A$12.17 in Sydney, a
record high, after its second-quarter net operating profit
excluding some items beat analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  