-- Berlusconi Says He’s Powerless to Topple Letta After Party Split
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-11-16T13:23:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/berlusconi-says-he-s-powerless-to-topple-letta-after-party-split.html
Former Italian Premier  Silvio Berlusconi  said he’s powerless to topple Enrico Letta’s
coalition government after Deputy Prime Minister  Angelino Alfano 
left the PDL party to form a group supporting the cabinet.  “We are not anymore in a position to push down the
government,” Berlusconi said at a meeting of his People of
Liberty party in Rome after Alfano decided last night not to
follow him into a new group called Forza Italia.  The speech split the PDL, the second-biggest group in
Letta’s parliamentary alliance, as its members voted to dissolve
the party and join Berlusconi in Forza Italia. A group loyal to
Letta led by Alfano, known as the moderates, didn’t attend the
meeting and formed a new group, Berlusconi said.  Berlusconi, 77, is renewing his challenge as legal troubles
place his political career in jeopardy. The loss of Berlusconi’s
backing won’t necessarily unseat the government as Letta, 47,
may have enough votes from dissident PDL lawmakers to retain a
majority in the fractious Senate.  “The number of moderate MPs in the PDL is enough to
guarantee the Senate’s math for its survival,”  Chiara Corsa , an
economist with  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan, said yesterday in a
research report. “Healthy long-term generational shift in
Italian politics is under way, but the next few months are
likely to deliver noise and uncertainty.”  Waning Influence  Berlusconi’s influence in Italian politics has been in
decline since April, when he helped bring Letta to power at the
head of a makeshift three-party coalition. Criminal convictions
and a push in the Senate to expel him have sapped Berlusconi’s
clout. In October, Berlusconi’s first attempt to topple the
government failed when a portion of the PDL, led by Alfano,
defied him and backed Letta.  “How can we stay at the same cabinet meeting with someone
how wants to kill you politically?” Berlusconi said today.  Letta’s  Democratic Party , the biggest group in the
coalition, has said it will support Berlusconi’s expulsion in a
Nov. 27 vote in the upper house.  The rift with Letta came as the premier refused to help
shield Berlusconi from his court-mandated punishment.
Berlusconi’s tax fraud conviction, which was rendered definitive
by the  Supreme Court  in August, ran him afoul of a 2012 anti-corruption law and required the Senate to consider his ouster.  Berlusconi said today  Europe  should abandon austerity
policies and “change the mission” of the  European Central
Bank .  “The euro is for us a foreign currency,” Berlusconi said.
“The ECB should become a last resort lender, grant the debt of
the euro-countries and build a wall of banknotes against the
economic crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  