-- Boeing Chases 737 Max Deals to Curb Airbus A320 Middle East Lead
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-11-16T10:25:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/boeing-chases-737-max-deals-to-curb-airbus-a320-middle-east-lead.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , maker of the world’s
most popular commercial aircraft, is confident to book sales of
its new 737 Max single-aisle jet at the Dubai Air Show to trim
Airbus SAS’s lead in the region for short-range planes.  The 737 Max, which will feature new engines to boost
efficiency, may win new Middle East customers, Marty Bentrott,
sales vice president for the Chicago-based planemaker, said
today at a press conference in Dubai.  “We have a number of key opportunities we are focused on
here in the region,” he said on the even of the aviation expo.  Boeing, which has dominated long-range jet sales in the
region with the 777-300ER twin-engine, last year secured an
order for the 737 Max with a commitment from Kuwaiti lessor
Alafco. Airbus, which has also placed its A320neo with the
company, has a lead in single-aisle sales in the  Middle East .  “We took our eye of the ball, especially on single
aisles,” Bentrott said. “I believe with the Max and with our
relationships with our customers we are going to improve the
overall market share for the single-aisle here in the region.”  Most of the narrow-body sales efforts are now focused on
the new model due from 2017, with the majority of the current
737s sold out. Select customers may still be able to get 737s
before the Max becomes available to bridge operational gaps,
Bentrott said.  Wide-Body Deals  Single-aisle orders are likely to be overshadowed at this
year’s air show by deals for long-range jets, as Emirates, the
world’s largest airline by international traffic, is set to
place a major order for the new 777X Boeing is offering.  Bentrott said both the 400-seat 777-9X, due first, and the
longer-range -8X will appeal to buyers in the region.  Emirates has been urging Boeing for design refinements to
assure the new jet can go the maximum distance fully loaded even
when taking off at high temperatures at the Dubai hub in the
summer heat. Bentrott said Boeing has addressed those needs.  The Boeing representative also said he expects to secure
the first deal for 787-10 Dreamliners in the region as the
planemaker works on satisfying reliability concerns with the -8
model operated with Qatar Airways Ltd.  “We are making good progress” with engineers dispatched
to the airline’s Doha base, Bentrott said. Dreamliner
reliability should reach those associated with the popular 777
jet in about six months, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  