-- Cameron Urges ‘Insurance Policy’ on Climate After Haiyan
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/cameron-urges-insurance-policy-on-climate-after-haiyan.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
risked conflict with his  Conservative Party ’s rank-and-file
lawmakers and members of his cabinet by reaffirming his belief
in man-made climate change.  Taking action to prevent climate change and deal with its
effects is a sensible “insurance policy” in the face of the
scientific consensus, Cameron told reporters at the Commonwealth
summit yesterday in Colombo,  Sri Lanka .  “Scientists are giving us a very certain message,”
Cameron said. “Even if you’re less certain than the scientists
it makes sense to act both in terms of trying to prevent and
mitigate” such change.  Cameron was responding to statements by the Philippines
government that Super Typhoon Haiyan, which devastated the
center of the country last week, was caused by global warming.
“What my country is going through as a result of this extreme
climate event is madness,” Yeb Sano, the Philippines’ lead
negotiator at United Nations  climate-change  talks in Warsaw,
said Nov. 11.  “If I said to you: There’s a 60 percent chance your house
might burn down, do you want to take out some insurance? You
take out some insurance,” Cameron said. “I think we should
think about climate change like that.”  Cameron’s environment secretary, Owen Paterson, who is a
Conservative, has played down the significance of climate
change.  “People get very emotional about this subject and I think
we should just accept that the climate has been changing for
centuries,” Paterson said last month. “It is something we can
adapt to over time, and we are very good as a race at
adapting.”  Former Chancellor of the Exchequer  Nigel Lawson , a Tory
lawmaker in the upper House of Lords, argued on  BBC Television ’s
“Question Time” program two days ago that there’s no link
between the storm that hit the Philippines and global warming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Colombo, Sri Lanka, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  