-- Cameron ‘Misled’ on Tamils’ Living Conditions, Muralitharan Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-11-16T06:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/cameron-misled-on-tamils-living-conditions-muralitharan-says.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
has been misled about conditions for Tamils in the north of the
country, cricketer  Muttiah Muralitharan , a Tamil and national
hero, said today.  The lives of people are improving, Muralitharan, who took
800 test wickets, told reporters at an event in  Colombo  with
Cameron to promote reconciliation on the island. Cameron, who
traveled to the north yesterday, confronted President Mahinda Rajapaksa last night about refugees, intimidation of journalists
and the need for an inquiry into alleged crimes against humanity
at the end of the country’s 26-year civil war in 2009.  “In wartime I went with the UN, I saw the place, how it
was,” Muralitharan said. “Now I regularly go and I see the
place and it is about a 1,000 percent improvement in
facilities,” he said.  Cameron, who is in  Sri Lanka  for a Commonwealth summit,
praised Muralitharan’s work to bring people together and said he
had been right to travel to the north to see for himself what is
going on. The  United Nations  estimates 40,000 civilians were
killed in the region during the final months of the civil war.
Cameron visited refugees and a Tamil newspaper, which has been
repeatedly attacked and had six of its journalists killed.  “I was told all sorts of things yesterday in the north and
there are very strong views in this country, strong differing
views on some of the issues,” he said at a press conference in
Colombo, in response to questions about Muralitharan’s earlier
comments to reporters. “I think I’ve given a fair reflection of
some of the things that need to happen in terms of
reconciliation, in terms of progress, in terms of human rights
and free speech and I think it’s important to raise these
issues.”  Independent Inquiry  The U.K. prime minister, who has visited the area once
only, was probably “misled by other people” about  living
conditions  in the north, Muralitharan said.  Cameron said that if the Sri Lankan government fails to set
up a transparent and independent inquiry into alleged  war crimes 
he will use Britain’s membership of the UN Human Rights Council
to press for an international investigation.  “There’s no justification for pre-determined international
inquiry,” Nimal Siripala de Silva, a government minister, told
reporters at the Commonwealth conference. “The allegations are
unfounded.”  Muralitharan said the Sri Lankan army has helped his
Foundation of Goodness charity by developing five cricket
grounds for games bringing the different communities together.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Colombo at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  