-- Canada’s Dollar Strengthens as Fed-Chief Nominee Pushes Stimulus
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-11-16T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/canada-s-dollar-strengthens-as-fed-chief-nominee-pushes-stimulus.html
Canada ’s dollar gained the most in a
month after Federal Reserve Chairman-nominee Janet Yellen
signaled she’ll push the stimulus that has boosted global risk
appetite to ensure a robust recovery in the U.S. economy.  The currency rose from a 10-week low as Yellen testified
Nov. 14 at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on her nomination
to run the Fed. Stronger-than-forecast U.S. jobs growth last
month fueled bets the central bank would soon slow bond
purchases. The currency’s gains were limited as oil, Canada’s
biggest export, fell for a sixth week, the longest stretch in 15
years. Inflation slowed in October, data next week may show.  “Her comments were certainly dovish, as people expected
they would be, and I think that’s seen the U.S. dollar get hurt
and Canada’s rallied a little bit,” Don Mikolich, executive
director of foreign-exchange sales at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“The market’s kind of seesawed back and forth between tapering
in December or waiting until the new year, and I think certainly
waiting till the new year is the most likely scenario now.”  The loonie, as Canada’s currency is known for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, gained 0.4 percent to C$1.0439
per U.S. dollar this week in Toronto, the most since Oct. 18. It
slid to C$1.0526 per U.S. dollar on Nov. 14, the weakest level
since Sept. 4. One Canadian dollar buys 95.80 U.S. cents.  Lower Volatility  Implied volatility for one-month options on the U.S. dollar
against its Canadian counterpart fell to 5.16 percent yesterday,
the lowest intraday level since Oct. 23. The measure is used to
set option prices and gauge the expected pace of currency
swings. The 2013 average is 6.49 percent.  Canada’s government bonds rose for the first week since
October, pushing yields on the benchmark  10-year security  down
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.56 percent.
The price of the 1.5 percent debt maturing in June 2023
increased 39 cents to C$91.10.  Two-year bond yields fell one basis point to 1.12 percent.
The Bank of Canada will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion of
two-year debt Nov. 20. The 1.25 percent securities are due in
February 2016.  Fed Vice Chairman Yellen, speaking to lawmakers at a
confirmation hearing on her nomination as chairman, signaled her
commitment to using bond purchases to strengthen the American
economy and drive down the nation’s 7.3 percent jobless rate.
The U.S. is Canada’s biggest trade partner.  “Yellen was true to her form and was a dove,” said  David Tulk , chief macro-strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, by phone
from Toronto. “Those tapering expectations can just kind of be
put to the side for now.”  Fed Purchases  The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of bonds a month to
depress borrowing costs and spur the world’s biggest economy,
making higher-yielding assets such as Canada’s dollar more
attractive in the process. The strategy also tends to debase the
American currency.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in June policy makers
would probably taper purchases later in 2013 and end them next
year if the economy improved significantly. They refrained in
September and October from reducing the buying, saying they
wanted more evidence of progress. U.S. employers added 204,000
jobs in October, versus a Bloomberg forecast of 120,000, the
Labor Department reported on Nov. 8.  Crude oil for December delivery slid 0.8 percent to $93.84
per barrel and touched $92.51, the lowest intraday level since
May 31. It has fallen every week since Oct. 4, the longest
losing streak since December 1998.  Factory Sales  The loonie gained versus the U.S. currency yesterday after
Statistics Canada reported that  manufacturing sales  rose 0.6
percent to C$49.9 billion, the highest since June 2012.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a 0.5 percent gain.  The Bank of Canada has said that business investment and
exports remain weak in an economy led by consumer spending, as
companies wait for clearer signs of expansion abroad.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against its U.S. peer, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a decline in the loonie versus those on a
gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 16,092 on Nov. 12, compared
with net shorts of 18,002 a week earlier.  Economists reduced their Canadian bond-yield forecasts by
the most in seven months after the nation’s central bank joined
global counterparts Oct. 23 in renewing efforts to spur growth
amid sluggish inflation.  In a policy statement after he left leave the benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged at 1 percent, Bank of Canada Governor
Stephen Poloz dropped language in place for more than a year
about the need to raise interest rates, citing low inflation.  ‘Really Torn’  The nation’s benchmark 10-year bond will yield 3.06 percent
by October 2014, according to the median of 19 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey taken between Nov. 8 and Nov. 13. That’s
14 basis points lower than the October median and the biggest
cut to a year-ahead forecast in the monthly surveys since April.  Forecasters now see the Bank of Canada maintaining its
benchmark rate until the second quarter of 2015, one quarter
longer than the previous survey.  “Canada is really torn between an improving U.S. economic
outlook versus a central bank that is likely to be neutral to
dovish,” said Camilla Sutton, head of currency strategy at Bank
of Nova Scotia, by phone from Toronto  The nation’s consumer-price index rose 0.9 percent last
month from a year earlier, trailing September’s 1.1 percent,
economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast before the data are
released on Nov. 22. The Bank of Canada’s target range for
inflation is 1 percent to 3 percent.  “We’ve obviously been there before,” Sutton said.
“However, it just opens the door to an even more dovish Bank of
Canada, which would be Canadian-dollar negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  