-- Facebook Amends Privacy Policy by Removing Line on Minors
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-11-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/facebook-amends-privacy-policy-by-removing-line-on-minors.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  removed language about
how teens’ content on the website can be used in advertisements
as the company finalized changes to its user privacy policies.  The updates, proposed in August, aimed to provide simpler
guidelines on how the world’s largest social-networking company
uses names, profile pictures and other data in online
promotions. At the time, Facebook included a sentence that said
minors will verify that a parent or guardian had consented to
them being part of such ads.  The provision drew criticism from consumer-advocacy groups,
including the Electronic Privacy Information Center and Center
for Digital Democracy, which argued Facebook could use it to
broaden its marketing practices with minors. In September, the
groups sent a letter to the Federal Trade Commission stating
that Facebook’s proposed updates would eviscerate any meaningful
limits on the “exploitation” of the teens’ content.  In a blog post yesterday, Facebook Chief Privacy Officer
Erin Egan said the sentence didn’t confer any additional rights
to the company and added that it received feedback “that the
language was confusing.” As a result, she wrote, “we removed
the sentence.”  Facebook is stepping up efforts to show it is taking
concerns about privacy and data usage seriously as it seeks to
keep its more than 1 billion users active on the service. The
Menlo Park, California-based company has faced several
firestorms over its data practices, given the amount of
information it has on its members.  FTC Settlement  In 2011, Facebook agreed to a settlement with the FTC over
complaints that it failed to protect members’ privacy or
disclose how their data could be used. Under the agreement,
Facebook is barred from making any deceptive claims about its
privacy procedures and also must undergo independent reviews of
the practices.  The new policies reflect the agreements laid out in a
settlement earlier this year over a user lawsuit about the
company’s “Sponsored Stories” ads, which access users’ names
and other data to help create the promotions. The lawsuit
alleged Facebook appropriated the names, photographs and
identities of people to advertise products without their
permission.  The changed user privacy policies are now in effect,
Facebook said in yesterday’s post. The company also added new
language about how it might use profile pictures when suggesting
who to tag in a photo, the company said.  ‘Clarifying Edits’  “We proposed these changes because we thought we could
improve the way we explain our policies,” Egan said in the
post. “But your feedback was clear -- we can do better -- and
it led to a number of clarifying edits.”  Even with the updates, users are still grappling with how
complicated Facebook’s settings and policies are, said  Adi
Kamdar , an activist at the  Electronic Frontier Foundation .  “We’re seeing a trend of social networks starting to use
consumer information for advertising purposes and one of the
most important facets of privacy is control,” Kamdar said.
“This move shows Facebook is probably listening, but it’s still
not as obvious as we want it to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  