-- Goodlatte Sees Surveillance Rules Passing Congress (Transcript)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   R o b i n   M e s z o l y
-- 2013-11-16T00:05:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/goodlatte-sees-surveillance-rules-passing-congress-transcript-.html
Republican U.S. Representative Bob Goodlatte, the House Judiciary Committee chairman from Virginia,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that he backs a
bill to let companies such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
release statistics on data they turn over to the National
Security Agency.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the program with House Judiciary
Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte of Virginia. Mr. Chairman,
thank you for being with us.  BOB GOODLATTE: Al, it’s great to be with you and your
viewers.  HUNT: We’re going to get to immigration and budget and some
other matters in a minute, but 20 of your colleagues this week
introduced a bill to impeach Attorney General Eric Holder. Are
you going to hold hearings on that or just deep-six that bill?  GOODLATTE: We have had a lot of hearings with regard to the
attorney general’s actions on a number of issues, from Fast and
Furious to the recent scandal regarding  Fox News  and the
 Associated Press . And we did a complete study of that. We wrote
a letter to the president of the United States asking him to -
to fire him.  HUNT: I know you don’t want to keep him, but do - do you
want him impeached?  GOODLATTE: I have followed what I think is the law. We will
continue to conduct oversight. If we determine that there are
impeachable offenses, we would look at that. But at this point
in time, we think that the process of holding him in contempt
and that moving through the courts is where we should watch this
right now.  HUNT: Mr. Chairman, I mean, I think, you know, you can
disagree with a lot of his policies, his management style, and
everything else, and a lot of people do, but no attorney general
in history has ever been impeached. And the impression this
leaves with some people is this is just a kooky fringe of your
party, and rather than say, “Hey, go away, this is not a
serious issue” -  GOODLATTE: Well, you’re right.  But I can remember during
the  Bush administration  a number of members, including the
former chairman of the committee, introducing articles of
impeachment with regard to President  George Bush , so -  HUNT: And we all agreed that was kooky, right?  GOODLATTE: The - the fact of the matter is that people
should be held accountable for their actions, and when those
actions call for impeachment - I’ve been involved with the
impeachment of another president and with judges that have been
removed from office, but we’ll continue to watch it and do our -  HUNT: You don’t think Eric Holder is going to be impeached,
though, do you?  GOODLATTE: He’s not going to be impeached right now, that’s
for sure.  HUNT: Let me turn to immigration. You have passed four -
four piecemeal bills, parts of immigration, all on party-line
votes. Do you really think you can get any significant
immigration measures through the House without any Democrats?  GOODLATTE: I think that the process will have Democratic
support as we move forward. This is a step-by-step approach.
You’ve got to remember that the bill passed out of the Homeland
Security Committee was bipartisan.  HUNT: It was.  GOODLATTE: The four that were passed out of Judiciary came
right on the heels of the Senate passing their bill. And so the
Democrats’ in the committee goal at that time was to force the
House to take the Senate bill, so there were no votes for
anything other than what the Senate bill contained. I think that
attitude has changed. It’s an improvement. We continue to work
on more bills. We want to address all three areas of immigration
reform, enforcement first, legal immigration reform to help grow
our economy, and finding the appropriate legal status for those
who are not lawfully here.  HUNT: Because that’s what Democrats say. They say, if you
go and - you know, you don’t have to do the Senate bill, per se,
but if you do something that creates legal status for the 11
million undocumenteds, or many of them, with some kind of
pathway to citizenship, however you frame it, that they’ll then
play back, if you will. So is that - is that under consideration
by Bob Goodlatte?  GOODLATTE: What we object to in the Senate bill is a
pathway to citizenship, particularly the special pathway to
citizenship provided in the Senate bill. We also object to what
we consider to be the same mistake made in 1986, where they gave
an easy pathway to citizenship to nearly 3 million people.  HUNT: You’re not ruling out some pathway, just it has to be
done differently than the Senate. Is that correct?  GOODLATTE: Well, what we - what we are looking at is an
appropriate legal status. Now, there are going to be, you know,
back taxes and penalties and that kind of thing, but a legal
status that doesn’t advance somebody ahead of people who have
done immigration legally and lawfully for generations is more
appropriate. And our step-by-step approach is aimed at getting
at addressing all three of these areas. But we’re not there yet.
So it’s hard to tell -  HUNT: When do you think you’ll - when do you think you’ll
pass - and do you think you will pass immigration bills in this
Congress, not this year, but in this Congress, and when?  GOODLATTE:  Well, the bills that have passed the committee
already could go to the floor at any time.  But we do feel that
we need to examine that third area, the issue of legalization,
and so -  HUNT: But do you think it’ll pass this Congress?  GOODLATTE: I think it could pass this Congress.  HUNT: OK.  GOODLATTE: But we have to take this step-by-step approach
and get enforcement in place, and that’s the - that’s the key
issue here. We can agree on how we would handle people who are
not lawfully here, but I would not support giving them a legal
status before we have the e-verification and the new border
security and entry-exit visas.  HUNT: But after that, conceivably?  GOODLATTE: After that, I think it is unreasonable to think
that we’re going to deport millions of people from the country.
So having a legal status for them, where they can live here and
work here and own a business here and pay their taxes here and
travel to and from their home country, wherever else, would be a
much better situation for our economy, for our country, than the
current status of people not being accounted for.  HUNT: Let’s look at this from 30,000 feet for a minute. I
look right now, the AFL-CIO is for the Senate bill, the Chamber
of Commerce is for the Senate bill, Silicon Valley is for the
Senate bill, McDonald’s is for the Senate bill. Catholic bishops
are for it, Evangelical Protestants,  Rupert Murdoch , and  Michael Bloomberg , who owns this network. The impression that’s given is
that you’re letting the Steve Kings, the nativists, even the
racists, you know, influence the decisions of people like you
and  John Boehner .  GOODLATTE: Not at all. We believe that there’s a right way
to do this -  That doesn’t change the fact that we need to address all
three of these areas, and we should do it, but we should do it
responsibly, and we should do it right. And it’s more important
to get it done right than by any specific timetable. That’s the
mistake that was made in 1986.  HUNT: Mr. Chairman, let me turn to two other quick issues.  Chairman - you’ve supported Chairman Sensenbrenner’s bill
to crack down on FISA abuses, to let companies in some
circumstances disclose requests -  GOODLATTE: Let me - let me be careful there. I have
supported his effort, and there are many things in his bill that
I like. But I am not a co-sponsor of the bill, but I am
definitely supportive of the effort to reform in this area. I
think it’s very important.  HUNT: Are you supportive of letting companies release
information for some of the requests?  GOODLATTE: Yes. I think - I think that’s right. But, again,
we have to make sure that we are both protecting the civil
liberties of Americans and their privacy, at the same time we
recognize that gathering the information regarding threats to
the  United States , when done appropriately, needs to continue to
be done.  HUNT: Do you think something like that will pass this
Congress, not this year?  GOODLATTE: I think it - I think it very well could and
should.  HUNT: And that would include - and include some kind of
guarded, at least, ability of companies to release information?  GOODLATTE: I would say that’s important, because companies
who are cooperating with the government and yet have information
misrepresented about them by their competitors elsewhere in the
world and so on need to be able to stand up and say, “We’re
doing the right thing here, and we’re protecting our customers,
our consumers, the users of our services at the same time.”  So
finding a way to do that, having more transparency in the court,
figuring out what to do to make sure that American citizens are
not having data gathered by their government and then utilized
in ways that they don’t know and trust, are all things that need
to be part of this.  HUNT: Very quick question. Only have about 20 seconds left.
Do you think there will be any kind of a budget deal by Dec. 12?
Or is that unlikely?  GOODLATTE: We’re working very hard to do it. What’s
disappointing, though, is that the magnitude of this problem,
with a $17 trillion national debt, the amount of that debt
doubling in the last five years, and the threat that that has to
our economy, not just down the road, but in the near term, is
not being addressed because the - we’ve had tax increases, we’ve
had the one-third of our budget that is discretionary with the
Congress, all have taken hits, but not the entitlement programs.  HUNT: Chairman - Chairman Bob Goodlatte of the great state
of  Virginia , thank you so much for being with us.  GOODLATTE:  Thank you, Al.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 