-- Military Finds No Wrongdoing in Never-Used Afghan Project
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-11-16T05:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/military-finds-no-wrongdoing-in-never-used-afghan-project.html
A U.S. military investigation found
no wrongdoing in a decision to keep building a $25 million
regional headquarters in  Afghanistan  that local commanders said
they didn’t need or want.  The 64,000-square-foot command headquarters in Helmand
province, approved as part of a surge of U.S. troops to
Afghanistan in 2009, has a war room, a briefing theater and
enough office space for 1,500 people.  The special inspector general for Afghanistan
reconstruction, John Sopko, criticized the project in July,
saying he was “deeply troubled that the military may have spent
taxpayer funds on a construction project that should have been
stopped.”  Army Major General James Richardson, a deputy commander of
United States Forces-Afghanistan, found “no evidence” that
proceeding with construction amounted to any “violation of law
or regulation,” according to a memo obtained yesterday on his
investigation of the project at the request of Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel.  Sopko had said the headquarters risked becoming a “white
elephant” to the Afghan government when most U.S. and allied
forces depart by the end of next year. The inspector general has
issued a stream of reports that he says show waste and
mismanagement of U.S. spending in the country.  As early as April 2010, the local Marine commander of the
region found the project “was no longer necessary to execute
the mission” and requested its cancellation, according to
Richardson’s report.  Recommendation Rejected  Army Central, which oversees the Middle East and
Afghanistan region, rejected the recommendation, according to
Richardson. It concluded it made more sense to finish the
project than to scrap it and build a smaller brigade-sized
facility that local commanders had requested.  While Sopko had pegged the project’s cost at $34 million,
the actual price for the headquarters building is $25 million,
up from an initial estimate of about $13.5 million, according to
Richardson’s report.  “The final disposition of the facility remains
undetermined but its long-term use has not been ruled out,” Air
Force Colonel Patrick Ryder, a spokesman for the U.S. Central
Command, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  