-- Tim Geithner to Join Leveraged Buyout Firm Warburg Pincus
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-11-16T19:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/tim-geithner-to-join-leveraged-buyout-firm-warburg-pincus.html
Timothy Geithner , the former U.S.
Treasury secretary who supervised government bailouts of some of
the largest companies after the 2008 financial crisis, agreed to
join private-equity firm Warburg Pincus LLC after more than 25
years in public service.  Geithner, 52, will become president at the New York-based
buyout firm starting March 1 and help in managing the company,
investing its funds and communicating with investors, according
to a statement today from Warburg Pincus. He will work with Chip Kaye and Joe Landy, who have led the firm since 2000 and this
year began sharing the title of co-chief executive officer.  “He brings a history of strong leadership, a deep
understanding of economies and markets, and a truly global
perspective,” Kaye said of Geithner in the statement. “These
attributes will be of tremendous value to our firm in this
increasingly interconnected world.”  Geithner was the most senior economic official from the
Obama administration team that grappled with the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. His legacy at the Treasury
and New York Federal Reserve is tied to the bailouts of
companies including Citigroup Inc., General Motors Co. and
American International Group Inc. He joins former Treasury
officials such as  Robert Rubin  and John Snow in entering a
career on  Wall Street , where top-ranked executives typically
receive higher pay than in government and companies seek to draw
on their relationships and experience to find new business.  Crisis Years  Geithner started working in government in 1988, when he
joined the Treasury Department after working as a consultant. He
later joined the  International Monetary Fund  and then the Fed of
New York, where he was president during the onset of the U.S.
financial crisis. In 2009, he became Treasury secretary under
President  Barack Obama , a position he held until January.  His four years in office were marked by crises. In
September 2008, when Geithner led the New York branch of the Fed
and four months before he moved to the Treasury, the government
rescued insurer AIG and allowed Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. to
fall into bankruptcy.  Geithner then supervised the Treasury’s Troubled Asset
Relief Program bailouts of companies including  Citigroup (C)  and  GM. (GM) 
Less than two-thirds of the $700 billion authorized by Congress
for so-called TARP was used. As of Nov. 14, $421.6 billion was
disbursed and $406.5 billion was repaid, according to Treasury
data.  Pushing Regulation  By the end of 2009, Europe fell into a debt crisis and
Geithner became the chief U.S. liaison with European officials.  Geithner was the main proponent of the May 2009 stress
tests for 19 of the biggest U.S. banks, including  Bank of
America Corp . and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , that boosted investor
confidence in the financial firms. In the following months he
became the administration’s point man to Congress on what became
the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law. The bill created a
consumer-protection bureau, toughened rules on derivatives
trading, set up a liquidation process for failing banks and put
under Fed supervision bank-holding companies with more than $50
billion in assets -- a group that includes Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Geithner views  Warburg Pincus ’s slice of the investing
business different from the world of banking, a person familiar
with his thinking said today. Though Geithner never planned to
work for a bank, he had thought about joining an investment firm
and the offers he considered were in that area, said the person,
who requested anonymity to discuss private conversations.  Carried Interest  While buyout firms such as Warburg Pincus suffered when the
financial crisis froze credit markets and the value of holdings
plunged, they didn’t require bailouts like banks that had used
their balance sheets to load up on mortgage securities. The
industry has largely avoided tighter regulation, even as
taxation of the firms’ share of investment profits, known as
carried interest, came under scrutiny when  Mitt Romney , the
former CEO of Bain Capital LLC, sought the presidency last year.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors to buy
companies within about five to six years, then sell them and
return the funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms
use debt to finance the deals and amplify returns. They
typically charge an annual management fee of 1.5 percent to 2
percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from
investments as a carried interest. Carried interest is treated
as  capital gains  in the U.S. and taxed at a lower rate than
ordinary income.  ‘Restore Fairness’  Throughout his tenure as Treasury secretary, Geithner
called on Congress to “restore fairness to the  tax code ” by
passing Obama’s proposed budgets, under which carry would be
treated as ordinary income. Among the tax reform principles of
the administration’s budget proposals was “eliminating the
carried interest loophole that allows some to pay capital gains
tax rates on what is essentially compensation for services,”
Geithner told the Senate’s budget committee on Feb. 16, 2012,
according to a transcript.  Warburg Pincus, founded in 1966, oversees about $35 billion
in assets and owns stakes in more than 125 companies. This year
it agreed to sell luxury retailer Neiman Marcus Inc. to an
investor group for $6 billion, and it sold eye-care company
Bausch & Lomb Holdings Inc. to  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)  in an $8.7 billion deal.  TARP Beneficiaries  In 2010, Warburg Pincus invested in National Penn
Bancshares Inc., a Boyertown, Pennsylvania-based bank holding
company, which received $150 million from TARP, all of which has
been returned. Sterling Financial Corp., a Spokane, Washington-based bank holding company in which Warburg Pincus invested in
the same year, last year returned the $303 million it received
from the government. The company is in the process of being sold
to Umpqua Holdings Corp., Oregon’s biggest bank, for about $2
billion in cash and stock.  Warburg Pincus also owns stakes in Aeolus, a Bermuda-based
reinsurer; Santander Consumer USA, which lends to U.S. car
buyers;  JHP Pharmaceuticals , which sells injectable drugs to
hospitals; RegionalCare Hospital Partners, a rural-hospital
operator; and several oil exploration and production companies,
according to its website.  Hiring Officials  Investment firms have recruited former high-ranking
government officials for roles similar to Geithner’s. Cerberus
Capital Management LP, the private-equity firm run by Steve Feinberg, has employed former U.S. Vice President Dan Quayle
since 1999 and former Treasury Secretary Snow since 2006,
according to its website. Washington-based  Carlyle Group LP (CG) 
counts President  George H.W. Bush  and former U.K. Prime Minister
 John Major  among its former advisers.  Rubin, co-chairman of Goldman Sachs before becoming
Treasury secretary under President  Bill Clinton , was a Citigroup
board member and adviser for a decade after leaving government
in 1999. He is now a counselor at investment bank Centerview
Partners LLC in New York and co-chairman of the Council on
Foreign Relations.  Private-equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in May hired ex-CIA Director
David Petraeus to run a division for public policy and economic
research, and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  the following month hired
Wesley Clark, the former NATO supreme allied commander in
Europe, to advise on its energy investments.  Geithner is working on a book to be published next year by
Random House Inc.’s Crown Publishing Group about the U.S.
response to the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  