-- New Zealand Beats England to Extend Rugby Win Streak to 13
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-16T20:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/new-zealand-beats-england-to-extend-rugby-winning-streak-to-13.html
New Zealand beat  England  30-22 to
extend its international rugby winning streak to 13 games and
avenge its most recent defeat.  Julian Savea touched down twice as the world champion All
Blacks outscored England three tries to one at Twickenham
Stadium in  London . Kieran Read also went over for New Zealand,
which is unbeaten since a 38-21 loss to England last December.  “It was a hell of a Test match, you had two committed
teams going at it,” New Zealand captain Richie McCaw said in an
interview with Sky Sports. “We’re very happy to come away with
the win.”  Owen Farrell kicked 17 points and Joe Launchbury scored a
try for England, which lost at home for the first time in seven
games.  “They are the No. 1 team and rightly so,” England captain
Chris Robshaw told Sky Sports. “I think the difference between
them and us is when they get a chance they are clinical. That’s
why they are the benchmark in rugby and everyone wants to beat
them.”  Australia beat Ireland 32-15,  France  defeated Tonga 38-18,
 Wales  routed Argentina 40-6 and  Italy  held off Fiji 37-31 in
today’s other international matches.  New Zealand needed less than two minutes to take the lead
as Savea scored a try, which Dan Carter converted. Farrell
kicked a penalty to put England on the scoreboard, which Carter
matched to make it 10-3.  Replays  The All Blacks then extended their lead to 14 as Read
touched down in the 17th minute as Carter converted.  England’s Ben Foden looked to have touched down as part of
a rolling maul, but the television match official ruled replays
were inconclusive and the try was not given. The home side
pulled within 17-10 a minute later as Launchbury scored a try
that Farrell converted.  Carter, making his 100th appearance for the All Blacks,
limped off after 25 minutes and his replacement Aaron Cruden
kicked a penalty to push the lead to 10 points. Two Farrell
penalties, sandwiched around Read being sent to the sin bin,
pulled England within 20-16 at halftime.  Cruden hit the post with a penalty try after the restart
and Farrell’s fourth penalty boosted England to within a point.
England then took its first lead with 20 minutes left when
Farrell booted his final penalty to make it 22-20.  Savea put New Zealand back in front four minutes later when
he powered through Mike Brown for his second try. Cruden then
closed the scoring with another penalty in the 71st minute.  New Zealand will attempt to finish its northern hemisphere
tour with an unbeaten record when it faces Ireland in Dublin
next week. England dropped the final game of its autumn schedule
after opening with wins over  Australia  and Argentina.  In the other games, Leigh Halfpenny kicked 20 points and
Wales scored four tries in routing Argentina in Cardiff. Italy
was outscored five tries to four in  Rome , but held on to defeat
Fiji after taking a 30-10 lead.  Michael Hooper scored two tries and Quade Cooper finished
with 17 points as Australia beat Ireland in Dublin, while France
scored four tries in defeating Tonga in Le Havre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  