-- Obama Presses Insurers to Minimize Health-Law Disruptions
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-11-16T01:02:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/obama-presses-insurers-to-minimize-health-law-disruptions.html
President  Barack Obama  sought help
from 15 insurance industry executives, including those from
 Humana Inc. (HUM)  and Blue Cross Blue Shield, to minimize disruptions
for consumers amid a rocky start for his health-care law.  Obama and the executives today discussed efforts to begin
direct enrollment in subsidized plans through insurance company
websites, according to a person familiar with the meeting. The
insurers also raised concerns about attracting enough young and
healthy enrollees, particularly following the president’s
decision to let more Americans keep existing plans, said the
person, who asked for anonymity because the meeting was private.  The president, his advisers and the executives also talked
about improving the flow of data from the federal online
exchange that insurers need to enroll people, the person said.  “We all share a similar value, which is we want to make
sure that Americans have good, solid coverage that gives them
the security they need,” Obama said before the start of the
discussion in the Roosevelt Room of the White House.  Obama invited the group to meet with him a day after he
announced that the administration was altering regulations to
permit insurance companies to extend existing policies for an
additional year, even though they don’t meet requirements of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The  insurance
industry  warned the action may change the risk pool and lead to
higher premiums.  House Vote  The Republican-led House earlier today passed legislation
that lets insurers sell for another year health policies that
don’t meet the requirements of the 2010 law, and Obama has
threatened to veto the bill if it reaches his desk.  Obama announced the one-year reprieve from policy
cancellations as he sought to quell a potential revolt by
Democrats facing re-election next year before the House vote.
The debut of the insurance marketplace, the core of the law, has
been marred by flaws in the federal healthcare.gov website and
by the insurance cancellation letters sent out to hundreds of
thousands of Americans.  Mark Bertolini, chief executive officer,  Aetna Inc. (AET) ; Bruce Broussard, CEO of Humana; David Cordani, chief executive officer
of  Cigna Corp. (CI) , and Chet Burrell, CEO of CareFirst BlueCross
BlueShield were among the executives at the meeting.  They were joined by  Karen Ignagni , president and chief
executive officer of America’s Health Insurance Plans, an
industry group.  ‘Good Discussion’  Also present were Jay Gellert, CEO of Health Net Inc.;
Patrick Geraghty, CEO of Blue Cross Blue Shield of  Florida ;
Patricia Hemingway Hall, CEO of Health Care Service Corp.;
Daniel Hilferty, CEO of Independence Blue Cross; J. Mario Molina, CEO of Molina Healthcare Inc.; James Roosevelt Jr. co-chairman of Tufts Health Care Institute; Scott Serota, CEO of
Blue Cross & Blue Shield Association; Joseph Swedish, CEO of
 WellPoint Inc. (WLP) ; Bernard Tyson, incoming CEO of  Kaiser
Permanente ; and J. Bradley Wilson, chairman of Blue Cross Blue
Shield of North Carolina Foundation.  Leaving the meeting, Ignagni called it a “very good
discussion.” Geraghty characterized it as a “positive
meeting.”  Ignagni warned yesterday that the one-year grace period for
existing policies may cause premiums to rise and may not be
widely available, depending on decisions of state insurance
commissioners.  The group previously met with Obama at the White House on
Oct. 23 to discuss the technical problems on the federal health
insurance exchange website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  