-- Obama Seeks Insurers’ Health-Law Help as Democrats Waver
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n ,   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-11-16T05:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/obama-seeks-insurers-health-law-help-as-democrats-waver.html
President  Barack Obama  pressed top
U.S. insurers to help consumers cope with the rocky start of his
health-care law as the Republican-led House passed a bill that
would let Americans keep their current policies through 2014.  Fifteen insurance industry representatives met yesterday
with Obama at the White House, where they expressed concern that
a one-year reprieve he gave to people whose policies were
canceled because of the law would make it harder to draw healthy
enrollees, according to a person familiar with the meeting.  The meeting -- attended by executives from  Aetna Corp. (AET)  and
Blue Cross Blue Shield -- and the House vote took place as the
president and congressional Democrats face rising political
pressure over the health law rollout, which has been marred by
technical problems with its insurance exchange and cancellation
notices sent to hundreds of thousands of policyholders.  “You do the right thing and the rest takes care of
itself,” Representative Pete Gallego, a Texas Democrat who
voted for the measure, said in an interview. “I wouldn’t have
done it if I didn’t think it was the right thing to do.”  Almost a fifth of House Democrats voted yesterday for the
Republican bill to revise the health law, Obama’s signature
domestic achievement. Democratic support for the House measure -
- which passed 261-157 -- puts pressure on the Senate to advance
proposals to address Obamacare’s flaws.  ‘End Run’  While Obama sought to stem the loss of Democratic votes,
his proposed solution to policy cancellations did little to stop
the congressional push to revamp the law. Of the 39 Democrats
voting for the House bill, 19 weren’t in office when the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act passed in 2010. Of the 20 who
were House members then, 16 voted for yesterday’s health measure
and four were opposed.  The House bill was written by Michigan Republican Fred Upton and co-sponsored by three Democrats: Patrick Murphy of
 Florida , John Barrow of  Georgia  and Mike McIntyre of North
Carolina. It had support from Democrats including Ron Barber and
Kyrsten Sinema of  Arizona , Ami Bera of California, Tammy Duckworth of  Illinois  and Gallego.  “For the last six weeks, the White House stood idly by,
ignoring the pleas of millions,” Upton said in a statement.
“But as the administration’s allies in Congress panicked, the
White House went from attacking our thoughtful bill to making an
end run around Congress.”  Insurers Meet  Jay Carney, Obama’s press secretary, said yesterday that
Obama would veto the measure if it reaches his desk, maintaining
it would permit insurers to “sell substandard policies to new
customers.” House Democratic leaders said the bill marked
Republicans’ 46th attempt to curtail Obamacare.  Shortly after the House vote, Obama met in the Roosevelt
Room of the White House with insurance-industry executives. The
meeting took place a day after Obama’s decision to alter
regulations to let insurers extend existing policies for a year,
even if they don’t meet the 2010 law’s requirements.  During the discussion, industry officials said the move
would complicate efforts to draw enough of the young and healthy
enrollees whose participation in the program is considered
essential to the law’s success, according to a person familiar
with the event who asked not to be identified in talking about a
private meeting.  Attendees talked about improving the flow of data from the
online exchange to insurers, the person said. Technical flaws
have hampered signups over the government-run website created
under the law, leading to enrollment figures that fell short of
forecasts for the program’s first month of operation.  Direct Enrollment  Obama and the executives also discussed efforts to begin
direct enrollment in subsidized plans through insurance company
websites, the person said.  While the president didn’t refer to the House vote in
remarks to reporters before the meeting, he said he wanted to
make sure consumers understand their options under the law and
that he’s committed to seeing through its implementation.  “We all share a similar value, which is we want to make
sure that Americans have good, solid coverage that gives them
the security they need,” Obama said.  Mark Bertolini, chief executive officer of Aetna, the
third-biggest U.S. health insurer; Bruce Broussard, CEO of
 Humana Inc. (HUM) ; Patrick Geraghty, CEO of Blue Cross Blue Shield of
Florida; David Cordani, CEO of  Cigna Corp. (CI) ; and Joseph Swedish,
CEO of  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest insurer; were among
those at the meeting, according to a White House statement.  ‘Good Discussion’  They were joined by Karen Ignagni, CEO of America’s Health
Insurance Plans, an industry group. Leaving the meeting, Ignagni
called it a “very good discussion.” Geraghty characterized it
as a “positive meeting.”  Also present were Jay Gellert, CEO of Health Net Inc.; Chet
Burrell, CEO of CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield; Patricia Hemingway Hall, CEO of Health Care Service Corp.; Daniel Hilferty, CEO of Independence Blue Cross; J. Mario Molina, CEO
of Molina Healthcare Inc.; James Roosevelt Jr. co-chairman of
Tufts Health Care Institute; Scott Serota, CEO of Blue Cross &
Blue Shield Association; Bernard Tyson, CEO-elect of Kaiser
Permanente; and J. Bradley Wilson, chairman of Blue Cross Blue
Shield of North Carolina Foundation.  House Democrats used debate on yesterday’s bill to describe
the successes of the law since individuals were able to sign up
for coverage starting Oct. 1.  Landrieu Bill  “I wish that my Republican colleagues could see how
successful the Affordable Care Act is in  California ,”
Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi of California said. “I wish you
could hear the stories of family after family after family being
liberated and freed from the constraint of being job-locked
because a family has a pre-existing condition.”  The House bill won’t advance in the Democratic-led Senate.
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has to decide
whether to allow a vote on an alternative proposal by Senator
Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat facing re-election in 2014.  Landrieu’s measure would let individuals keep their
policies as long as the payments are current. The bill would
require insurance companies to continue offering indefinitely
all existing plans with an explanation as to how their policy
doesn’t meet the minimum coverage standards under the law.  The House measure by Upton would let insurers sell the
plans that don’t meet the health law’s minimum standards to new
enrollees through the end of 2014.  Senate votes on Landrieu’s Obamacare bill aren’t imminent.
A top Democratic aide said scheduling them now would only
guarantee public attention on flaws in the health law and
intraparty feuding over whether and how to fix them.  House Democrats yesterday offered a more limited version of
Landrieu’s proposal in a procedural move that failed. It
would’ve allowed a one-year continuation of policies that don’t
meet the law’s standards only for those who currently have them.  “If you repeal the ACA, we won’t be silenced,” Democratic
Representative Rob Andrews of New Jersey said on the floor.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  