-- Rutgers Football Player Says He Was Verbally Abused, Quits Team
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-11-16T20:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/rutgers-football-player-says-he-was-verbally-abused-quits-team.html
Former Rutgers University defensive
back Jevon Tyree left the school’s football team earlier this
month after alleging one of the assistant coaches verbally
abused and physically threatened him.  Tyree, a freshman, said defensive coordinator Dave Cohen
called him emasculating names and threatened to head-butt him
during a study hall session in April, according to the  website
NJ.com .  Rutgers said in a statement yesterday the incident was
“dealt with immediately.” The school said Cohen apologized the
following day and was reprimanded by head coach Kyle Flood, who
immediately addressed the situation with his entire staff.  “This was an isolated incident,” the school said in the
 statement . “At no time was there any threat of physical
violence, which was verified by an academic counselor, who was
present in the room.”  The incident took place the same month the  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based school fired men’s basketball coach Mike Rice
for physically and verbally lashing out at players during
practice while using gay slurs and vulgarities. Athletic
director Tim Pernetti left the school days later over his
handling of the situation.  It also coincides with a claim by Miami Dolphins offensive
lineman Jonathan Martin that he was bullied and harassed by
teammate Richie Incognito. The  National Football League  is
investigating the incident.  Son’s Role  Tyree told NJ.com the incident happened in front of about
10 teammates and a tutor and led to him being ostracized. The
19-year-old quit the football program on Nov. 6.  Rutgers said in its statement that Tyree’s father, Mark,
contacted new athletic director Julie Hermann to discuss his
son’s role on the team and brought up the incident. Flood then
met with the Tyree family and Jevon said he would remain with
the program.  “Hermann spoke to Tyree’s father following the meeting
with Flood and confirmed that the matter was resolved to his
satisfaction,” the school’s statement read.  Tyree’s parents disagreed with the school’s statement,
saying they never spoke to Hermann and only met with Flood after
calling him. NJ.com said. They’ve continued to pursue the matter
and want the school to discipline Cohen.  Jevon Tyree is still attending classes at Rutgers but plans
to transfer to another school, NJ.com said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  