-- S&P Loses Bid to End California’s Mortgage Ratings Suit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-11-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/s-p-loses-bid-to-end-california-s-mortgage-ratings-suit.html
Standard & Poor’s lost a second bid
to dismiss a lawsuit by California’s attorney general seeking to
hold the company responsible for $1 billion in losses by state
pension funds that bought mortgage-backed securities awarded the
company’s highest ratings.  State court Judge Curtis Karnow in San Francisco yesterday
denied S&P’s request to dismiss the lawsuit on grounds that it’s
a malicious lawsuit intended to intimidate the credit rater.
S&P, a unit of New York-based  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI) , argued
to Karnow this week that its ratings are opinions, and like
newspaper editorials, are protected by the First Amendment of
the U.S. Constitution.  S&P asked Karnow to dismiss the case under a California law
that blocks nuisance lawsuits filed by plaintiffs seeking to
silence their critics. An order explaining the reason for
denying the request wasn’t published electronically.  The California lawsuit is one of more than a dozen filed in
February against S&P by the U.S. and a group of states over
ratings on mortgage-backed securities during the housing boom.  The U.S. Justice Department has proposed a trial start date
of Feb. 17, 2015, for its suit against S&P. The government
accuses the company of inflating ratings on mortgage securities
to win business, which helped trigger the financial crisis. S&P
has called those claims “meritless.”  It was the second time Karnow refused to throw the case
out. In August he rejected S&P’s arguments that Attorney General
Kamala Harris filed the lawsuit too late and didn’t have grounds
to file it because state money wasn’t involved in the pension
funds’ securities purchases.  ‘Magic Numbers’  Harris alleged in her complaint S&P used “guesses” and
“magic numbers” to inflate ratings of mortgage-backed
securities purchased by the  California  Public Employees’
Retirement System and the state’s teacher pension fund.  The entities bought the securities because they had
received AAA ratings, signaling they were very low risk
investments. After the mortgage crisis hit, the funds ultimately
lost more than $1 billion on the investments, according to the
lawsuit.  Harris alleged that instead of using independent and
objective analysis to assign ratings to the securities, S&P from
2004 to 2007 lowered its standards and gave its highest credit
ratings to risky securities to bolster its business with banks
selling the investments.  By claiming the practice violated a law against using false
statements to defraud the state, the attorney general is allowed
to seek triple damages.  “We are pleased with the judge’s ruling and look forward
to beginning the discovery process,” Special Assistant Attorney
General Jeff Tsai said in an e-mail.  Ed Sweeney, a McGraw-Hill spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail yesterday after regular business hours
seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is California v. McGraw-Hill Cos., CGC 13-528491,
California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in state court in San Francisco at   kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  