-- Yahoo Sued for Allegedly Intercepting E-Mail
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2013-11-17T17:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/yahoo-sued-in-california-for-allegedly-intercepting-e-mails-1-.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  was accused in a lawsuit
of intercepting e-mails sent to users of its mail service and
using personal information to profit from related
advertisements.  The plaintiff seeks damages of $5,000 for each person whose
privacy was allegedly invaded, according to a complaint filed
Nov. 15 in federal court in  San Jose ,  California . Information
gleaned by scanning communications between users and non-users
is used for tailoring advertisements to them, increasing Yahoo’s
revenue, according to the filing, which cites the company’s
published policies for its new e-mail service.  “Yahoo’s automated systems scan and analyze all incoming
and outgoing communications content sent and received from your
account,” says the policy, according to the complaint. The
purpose is to “match and serve targeted advertising and for
spam and malware detection.”  Lawsuits against Internet companies and social networks are
rising as use of the Web balloons and users become more aware of
how much personal information they are revealing, often without
their knowledge. Google Inc. and  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  also are facing
accusations of intercepting communications for their own profit
at the expense of users or non-users.  “As a matter of policy, Yahoo does not comment on ongoing
litigation,” Sarah Meron, a company spokeswoman, said yesterday
in an e-mail.  Class Sought  Brian Pincus, the plaintiff, seeks to represent non-Yahoo
customers whose e-mail was intercepted in a class-action, or
group lawsuit.  Yahoo previously asked in a court filing that earlier
lawsuits over scanning of e-mail for targeted advertising be
treated as related cases.  Ads bring in three-quarters of  Yahoo’s revenue , according
to the complaint. With more than 275 million customers globally,
Yahoo mail is one of the largest web-based e-mail services, the
plaintiff said.  The case is Pincus v. Yahoo! Inc., 13-cv-05326, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  