-- Yankees’ Alex Rodriguez Seeks to Block Publicist Subpoena
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-11-16T22:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-16/yankees-alex-rodriguez-seeks-to-block-publicist-subpoena.html
New York  Yankees third-baseman  Alex Rodriguez  asked a judge to block a subpoena requiring the head
of the public relations firm Sitrick & Co. to provide evidence
in Rodriguez’s arbitration with Major League Baseball.  Rodriguez, who is facing a 211-game suspension over
accusations of using performance-enhancing drugs, filed papers
in Manhattan federal court opposing Commissioner  Bud Selig ’s
attempt to get a judge to enforce the subpoena against  Michael Sitrick , the firm’s chief executive officer.  “The subpoena represents but the latest chapter in the
commissioner’s vindictive and well-documented campaign to
destroy the public reputation of Mr. Rodriguez,” his lawyers
said in yesterday’s court filing.  Selig sued last month in an attempt to force Sitrick to
comply with the subpoena. Rodriguez had hired the firm to help
defend him against claims he received banned drugs from Anthony
Bosch and his  Coral Gables , Florida-based clinic, Biogenesis of
America.  Sitrick said in a separate brief filed yesterday that he
wasn’t properly served with the subpoena, which requires him to
testify and produce documents for the arbitration. He claimed
the information sought from him from Major League Baseball is
protected by confidentiality rules, because his firm was hired
as part of Rodriguez’s legal defense.  In the filing, Sitrick said he isn’t an important witness
to the arbitration and “has very little to offer.” Also, he
can’t be compelled to fly to New York to testify, he said.  Still, he offered not to oppose a request for his
deposition to be taken in California, where he lives, according
to the filing.  Rodriguez has separately sued Selig and  Major League
Baseball , claiming they are trying to ruin his reputation and
career without justification.  The case is Office of the Commissioner of Baseball v.
Sitrick, 13-cv-07990, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  