-- Hackers Reject Schmoozing With Spy Agencies Mending Fence
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/hackers-reject-schmoozing-with-spy-agencies-mending-fence.html
Alex Stamos, an independent security
researcher, recalls spending a casual two hours hanging out with
National Security Agency employees at the pool during the 2012
Black Hat computer-security conference.  U.S. officials had similarly relaxed -- and often brief --
public appearances on  Capitol Hill , where top-secret programs
were the domain of sessions closed to the public.  Not anymore.  “This year, if I got the same request I would say, ‘Send
me questions in writing or you can meet with me and my
lawyers,’” Stamos, a member of the Black Hat advisory board,
said yesterday in an interview at the annual  Las Vegas 
conference, billed as the world’s largest gathering of security
experts.  Intelligence leaders yesterday encountered pushback from
key constituencies as they tried to mend fences in the wake of
former NSA contractor Edward Snowden’s disclosures about the
scope of classified programs that collect bulk data on phone and
Internet use.  NSA Director Keith Alexander was heckled during a speech at
the Black Hat conference yesterday in which he appealed to
hackers to examine “the facts” about the spy programs and to
keep working with his agency on cybersecurity defenses.  Senior intelligence officials were subjected to pointed,
skeptical question by lawmakers in  Washington  yesterday after
the director of national intelligence declassified parts of
documents describing how and why the NSA collects records of
millions of Americans’ phone calls.  ‘Not Convinced’  The documents included a surveillance-court ruling
underlying a requirement that a unit of Verizon Communications
Inc. provide all of its customers’ phone-calling logs to the NSA
under an order renewed every three months.  They also included congressional briefings from 2009 and
2011 outlining the scope of that program and one that until 2011
allowed collection of bulk electronic communications including
e-mails.  Snowden revealed that the U.S. government was secretly
collecting the telephone calling information through the secret
Verizon court order, and operating a program known as Prism that
collects Internet data from Apple Inc., Google Inc., and other
companies to monitor online activity of foreigners believed to
be plotting terrorist attacks.  The lobbying effort will include a push from President
 Barack Obama . He is scheduled to meet with a bipartisan group of
lawmakers today to discuss the programs utilized under the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, the White House said.  Alexander Heckled  Yesterday’s audiences made clear they want changes, and
more transparency.  “If this program is not effective, it has to end,”
Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and the chairman of
the Judiciary Committee, said today during a hearing on NSA
programs. “So far I’m not convinced by what I’ve seen.”  Alexander’s speech in Las Vegas, his first public remarks
to security researchers since Snowden’s disclosures, was
interrupted several times.  When Alexander said employees at the NSA “stand for
freedom,” one audience member shouted a profanity and another
screamed the NSA can’t be trusted. Another attendee later told
Alexander to “read the Constitution.”  Alexander responded directly to some of the shouts.  “You need to understand what we’re trying to do to defend
the country and protect civil liberties and privacy,” he said.
“Those are facts.”  Overdue Conversation  The efforts of these researchers, who explore
vulnerabilities in  computer networks  and let companies know they
exist, are crucial to U.S. intelligence agencies that count on
them to find holes before malicious hackers do.  “You’re the greatest gathering of technical talent
anywhere in the world,” Alexander said. “The whole reason I
came here was to ask you to help us make it better. If you
disagree with what we’re doing, then you should help twice as
much.”  Concerns that government surveillance programs are
violating the privacy rights of Americans have been building for
years within the hacking community, Jeff Moss, founder of the
Black Hat conference, said in opening remarks to attendees.  The spy programs exposed by Snowden have raised those
concerns to new heights, he said.  “I’ve never sensed this level of tension or apprehension
in the community,” Moss said. “We’re finally having the
conversation that we’ve all been wanting to have for five or 10
years.”  U.S. officials yesterday opened the door to changes, even
as they say the programs strike the proper balance between
security and privacy.  Metadata Collection  “We are open to re-evaluating this program in ways that
can perhaps provide greater confidence and public trust that
this is in fact a program that achieves both privacy protections
and national security,” Robert Litt, the national intelligence
director’s general counsel, told members of the Senate Judiciary
Committee.  National Intelligence Director James Clapper yesterday
declassified and disclosed three documents intended to shine
more light on the use of bulk data collection of phone records.  Each of the documents -- a primary court order providing
for the collection of phone records and two congressional
briefings -- cite the program, known as Section 215, as integral
to protecting the U.S. from terror plots in the wake of the
Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.  While the court document, from the secret Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court, doesn’t lay out the legal
rationale for the programs, it does designate the mechanisms for
analysts to access the collected metadata, as well as the
restrictions in place for its use.  Grave Damage  Authorized personnel can access the database of domestic
phone records only when there is a “reasonable, articulable
suspicion” that the number is related to terrorism, according
to the April 25 order signed by U.S. District Judge Roger Vinson.  The five-page congressional briefings, provided to
lawmakers on the Intelligence and Judiciary committees in 2009
and 2011, outline the scope of the program, as well as one that
also allowed collection of bulk electronic communications. U.S.
officials have said that aspect of the program ended in 2011.  The briefing materials, which were limited to lawmakers and
cleared congressional staff, underscored in blunt terms their
importance -- and classified nature -- to those who had access
to them prior to their declassification.  More Disclosure  “The information contained in this report describes some
of the most sensitive foreign intelligence collection programs
conducted by the United States government,” the heading of the
2011 briefing said in all capital letters. “Publicly disclosing
any of this information would be expected to cause exceptionally
grave damage to our nation’s intelligence capabilities and to
national security.”  The government’s disclosures came the same day the  Guardian
newspaper , one of the two publications that has received the
bulk of Snowden’s information, published a story about another
NSA program called XKeyscore.  That program, according to the Guardian, allowed analysts
to conduct detailed searches of databases containing e-mails,
online chats and individuals’ browsing histories.  U.S. Representatives Mike Rogers of Michigan and Dutch
Ruppersberger of  Maryland , the top Republican and Democrat on
the House Intelligence Committee, called the report “a
completely inaccurate picture of the program.”  ‘Ad-Hoc Transparency’  “The program referenced in the story is not used for
indiscriminate monitoring of the Internet, as many falsely
believe,” the lawmakers said in a joint statement. “Rather,
the program is simply a tool used by our intelligence analysts
to better understand foreign intelligence, including terrorist
targets overseas.”  While lawmakers yesterday said they appreciated the latest
declassification effort by the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, or ODNI, they also criticized its timing
and the forced nature of the debate over the programs.  “ODNI has known for weeks that this hearing was coming and
yet ODNI releases this material just a few minutes before the
hearing began,” Senator  Al Franken , a Minnesota Democrat, said.
“You know, again, it’s a step forward, but you get the feeling
when it’s ad hoc transparency, that doesn’t engender trust, I
don’t think.”  Franken is among lawmakers from both parties and chambers
drafting legislation to curb the collection of phone records.  Feinstein Proposal  A House proposal to defund the NSA programs came seven
votes short of passing July 24.  Litt said the administration “is more or less in the same
place” as a proposal being crafted by Senator  Dianne Feinstein ,
a California Democrat and chairman of the Intelligence
Committee.  Feinstein said she would attempt to include a series of
changes designed to provide more information to the public in
the annual intelligence reauthorization bill. Part of that bill
would allow for the disclosure of the number of times per year
any company is required to provide data to the government.  That would come as companies including  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
Microsoft Corp., Yahoo! Inc. and Google Inc. are pressuring the
 Justice Department  to allow them to give details about the scale
of their participation in the programs.  The secret surveillance court has ordered the department to
conduct a broad review to identify orders and exhibits that can
be declassified for release. The Justice Department is in the
midst of that review now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  