-- Macy’s Makes Last Bid to Halt J.C. Penney’s Stewart Sales
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-01T22:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/macy-s-makes-final-bid-to-block-stewart-goods-at-rival.html
Macy’s Inc., the second-biggest U.S.
department store chain, made a final bid to block Martha Stewart’s company from selling bedding, cookware and other
merchandise at  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  in a case that may change the way
retailers approach licensing deals.  New York State Supreme Court Justice Jeffrey Oing in
 Manhattan  heard closing arguments today in the nonjury trial of
lawsuits filed by Cincinnati-based Macy’s seeking to block a
December 2011 sales agreement between  Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  and J.C. Penney.  Martha Stewart Living breached its 2006 contract with
Macy’s by entering into the later deal with J.C. Penney, Ted Grossman, a lawyer for Macy’s, told the judge.  “One look at the J.C. Penney contract shows a remarkable
resemblance to the Macy’s contract, and the two are
incompatible,” said Grossman, a partner at Jones Day. “The
contract itself banned the J.C. Penney contract.”  Oing is to decide whether Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney
has the right to sell any merchandise designed by Stewart’s
company in categories where Macy’s claims exclusivity. Oing, who
is scheduled to go on a break at the end of this week, said he
will take “some time” to make his ruling in the case and that
it won’t come tomorrow.  Blaming Macy’s  During closing arguments, Mark H. Epstein, a lawyer for
J.C. Penney, blamed Macy’s for the dispute.  “What it all comes down to is a poorly written contract,”
said Epstein, a partner at Munger Tolles & Olson LLP. “It’s
their ambiguity that led to the problems.”  Eric Seiler of Friedman Kaplan Seiler & Adelman LLP, a
lawyer for Martha Stewart Living, told the judge that Macy’s is
no longer asking for a court order barring J.C. Penney from
selling goods made by his client that don’t bear the Stewart
brand, and is instead going to seek damages at a later trial.
Macy’s shouldn’t be able to try case a second time, Seiler said.  “We want to win the case, but we want the case to be over
more than anything else,” Seiler said.  Oing issued a preliminary injunction last year blocking
Martha Stewart Living from selling branded goods at J.C. Penney
in categories exclusive to Macy’s. He refused to block J.C.
Penney from selling Martha Stewart Living goods that don’t bear
Stewart’s name, saying Macy’s could be compensated if he the
designs are also exclusive.  Licensing Agreements  Regardless of the outcome, the case will change the way
licensing agreements are drafted, said Steven R. Gursky, a
partner at  Olshan Frome Wolosky  in New York who focuses on
contract negotiations and intellectual property.  “It may send people out who have existing agreements with
Macy’s and others to say, ‘What does my agreement say? Do I
really have an exclusive and can I have my cake and eat it
too?’” Gursky said.  Closing arguments came more than three months after the
companies sparred in a five-week trial that featured the first
public court testimony from Stewart and appearances on the stand
by Macy’s Chief Executive Officer Terry Lundgren and then-J.C.
Penney CEO Ron Johnson, who was fired almost exactly a month
later.  J.C. Penney in December 2011 acquired a 17 percent stake in
Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the department-store
chain sought to revive sales with new mini-stores dedicated to
Stewart and other specific brands.  Contract Suit  Macy’s sued New York-based Martha Stewart Living for breach
of contract a month later, saying it has the exclusive right to
sell goods in certain categories under a 2006 agreement between
the two companies. Macy’s sued J.C. Penney in the same court the
next month.  Macy’s has said J.C. Penney is trying to reap the benefits
of Macy’s work with Stewart, arguing that the retailer
contracted with Stewart at a time when she had just been
released from prison and was associated with the “significantly
downscale” Sears Holdings Corp.’s K-Mart.  For Martha Stewart Living, expanding the number of
retailers where its goods are sold is important to reversing
declining sales. The company has posted  losses  and decreasing
revenue for five straight years, and its stock lost 44 percent
of its value last year.  The 71-year-old Stewart agreed to have her annual pay cut
by 10 percent to $1.8 million last month as her namesake company
has suffered from slumping magazine ad sales and declining
broadcasting revenue following the cancellation of “The Martha
Stewart Show.”  Private Label  Stewart’s company has defended its agreement with J.C.
Penney, accusing Macy’s of breach of contract and saying the
retailer stocked and priced Stewart products in a way that
favors private-label brands. Martha Stewart Living also said
Macy’s couldn’t have exercised a five-year contract renewal
option because of the breach.  The company’s lawyers argue that the agreement with Macy’s
allows it to sell Martha Stewart-branded items in the exclusive
categories as long as they are sold at shops in J.C. Penney that
carry Stewart’s name -- and that there are no restrictions in
the contract against Stewart’s company designers working for any
other partners.  Macy’s isn’t entitled to an advisory opinion prohibiting
Martha Stewart Living and J.C. Penney from “engaging in
business activities with individuals or entities that aren’t
parties to this case,” lawyers for Martha Stewart Living said
in their post-trial brief.  ‘Limited Exclusivity’  J.C. Penney’s lawyers argue that Macy’s contract with
Martha Stewart Living grants it only “limited exclusivity” and
doesn’t prevent the company from selling branded goods in those
categories at Stewart shops in J.C. Penney stores, even if Oing
didn’t initially interpret the pact that way.  “There is no language anywhere in the Macy’s agreement
that supports Macy’s expansive claim that it has exclusive
rights to all MSLO designs in the exclusive product categories,
even for products not branded with ‘Martha Stewart’ marks,”
J.C. Penney’s attorneys said in their post-trial brief.  Stewart’s merchandise was a key part of Johnson’s plan to
revive J.C. Penney with separately branded in-store shops.
Johnson was fired in April after 17 months on the job. He was
replaced with his predecessor Myron Ullman.  The New York Post reported on April 11, citing unidentified
people close to the situation, that Ullman contacted Lundgren
shortly after he was hired in an attempt to settle the Stewart
litigation.  Party Ware  Yet the suit remains before Oing more than four months
after all three sides rested, and Macy’s lawyers continue to
litigate the case, filing papers last month in support of their
motion for the judge to block J.C. Penney from selling plastic
party ware under the name “Martha Stewart Celebrations.”  Johnson’s departure and J.C. Penney’s financial challenges,
which were cited by Oing as reasons not to block the company
from selling unbranded merchandise designed by Stewart’s
company, “are circumstances of JCP’s own making, and neither
alters the reality that Macy’s is the victim here,” Macy’s
lawyers wrote in a post-trial filing.  “Nor was Mr. Johnson acting alone,” Macy’s lawyers said.
“He was acting on behalf of JCP, in an official capacity, and
with the blessing of the JCP board of directors and, in
particular, with the involvement and participation of JCP’s two
largest shareholders. Nor has JCP changed its conduct since Mr.
Johnson’s departure.”  Sales Plunge  J.C. Penney sales last year plunged 25 percent, leading to
a net loss of $985 million, and the company’s shares have fallen
26 percent this year.  Macy’s shares have risen 26 percent this year, and
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show the company’s profit  is
projected  to jump 14 percent to a record in the year ending in
January as Lundgren has tailored merchandise to match local
tastes and extended exclusive goods to draw younger customers.  “It’s all going to be up to how the judge decides to
interpret the contract,” said Michael Appel, founder and
president of the retail consulting firm Appel Associates LLC in
Purchase, New York. “A lot has changed in the sense that the
total management of Penney’s has changed. From Macy’s
perspective that’s not even relevant because they were a
competitor then and they’re a competitor now.”  The cases are Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living
Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. J.C. Penney
Corp., 652861/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  