-- Adam Roamed With Eve as Male Ancestor Older Than Presumed
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-08-01T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/adam-roamed-with-eve-as-male-ancestor-older-than-presumed.html
“Adam,” humankind’s most-common
male ancestor, is from an older era than once thought, living
about the same time as genetic “Eve,” a study found.  Using the complete strand of DNA that determines male sex,
researchers have determined that Y Chromosome Adam lived 120,000
to 156,000 years ago, overlapping with Mitochondrial Eve, who
probably lived 99,000 to 148,000 years ago, according to  a paper 
published today in the journal  Science . Researchers previously
thought Adam lived 50,000 to 150,000 years ago.  The new data provides a richer picture of the outlines of
human history, helping scientists more precisely understand the
evolutionary tree. Previous efforts to date a common ancestor
didn’t use the whole  Y chromosome , leaving undetected the rare
variations that help define commonality with past generations.  “When we put it together, we realized we had the very best
map at the time of human genetic variation,” Carlos Bustamante,
a genetics professor at  Stanford University  and a study author,
said in a telephone interview. “And when we started looking at
this classic question, we were getting an answer that was
different than before.”  The study analyzed the Y chromosome for 69 men from nine
populations, and traced backward to the time of man’s presumed
beginnings. Previous estimates for Adam were based on a smaller
amount of data and less-diverse population, Bustamante said.  Y chromosomes that carry the same mutations share a common
male ancestor in the past. It’s possible to determine how far
back that ancestor was by looking at how many mutations differ
between the chromosomes: The more mutations that aren’t shared,
the longer ago the common ancestor lived.  Lucky Fathers  The  common ancestor  in today’s study probably isn’t the
first, said Jennifer Hughes, a researcher with the  Whitehead
Institute for Biomedical Research  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .
Rather, he’s one of probably thousands of very successful and
very lucky fathers, whose offspring were also successful. He
just happens to be easy to track, thanks to the qualities of
these portions of DNA, Hughes said in a telephone interview.  The study had the largest number of Y chromosomes anyone
has sequenced so far, she said.  Chromosomes are composed of DNA tightly wound around
proteins that provide structure. Humans have 23 chromosomes,
including two sex chromosomes, X and Y. Women carry two X
chromosomes, while men carry an X and a Y.  Ordinarily, during reproduction, DNA strands  break apart
and rejoin  in order to produce genetic variation, creating
sequences in offspring that weren’t present in parents. However,
the Y chromosome contains the longest stretch of genes that
don’t recombine in the entire human genome. This is despite the
fact that the Y chromosome changed “a huge amount” over recent
evolutionary history, Bustamante said.  Ancestral Migration  Previous research has shown that the Y chromosome used to
contain 800 genes 200 million years ago. It’s since shrunk to
only 30, though that number has remained stable for the last 25
million years, according to Hughes’s research, which was
published in the journal Nature in February 2012.  Since much of the Y doesn’t exchange genetic material with
other chromosomes, it’s easier to use to trace common
ancestries, according to Bustamante’s paper.  The study used the DNA of individuals from  Namibia , the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, Gabon,  Algeria ,  Pakistan ,
 Cambodia , Siberia and  Mexico .  In order to estimate the yearly rate of mutations,
Bustamante’s group used a known event: the settlement of the
Americas, which occurred 15,000 years ago. Mutations shared by
Native Americans must have existed prior to ancestral migration;
those that vary must have occurred after.  Adam’s Eve  What’s more, the full Y chromosome data showed ancient
branches on the  family tree  of which Adam is the root, revealing
how quickly mutations sprung up and spread throughout the
population. The differences in the non-recombining DNA can be
used to trace genetic diversity. People who have the same genes
in the same places are sorted into what are called haplogroups.  Mitochondrial DNA , like portions of the Y chromosome, is
also passed from mothers to offspring without shuffles. That
makes it possible to track the foremother of most current
humans.  Despite the Adam and Eve nicknames, the two most likely
didn’t coexist, Bustamante said. There were other people around
when Adam and Eve were alive; these two were simply the most
successful at producing surviving offspring.  The relatively few amount of changes make the Y chromosome
an excellent way of measuring human migration across the globe,
Bustamante said. His group works frequently in  Latin America ,
and Y chromosome data may help distinguish migration events
there, he said. More research should also be done in  Africa , as
that continent has the longest history of human inhabitation,
and is relatively understudied.  “It’s interesting when you think something is solved and
the question is dead, and then you get more information and it
upends itself,” Bustamante said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  