-- Lagarde Says She’s Confident Europe to Meet Greece Debt Pledge
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-08-01T21:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/lagarde-says-she-s-confident-europe-to-meet-greece-debt-pledge.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director Christine Lagarde said she is confident euro-area
nations will deliver on their pledge to help  Greece  lower its
public debt to the level agreed on in a joint bailout package.  “I stand on the three-times repeated commitments by the
euro partners to consider further measures and assistance to
make sure that the Greek debt is reduced substantially” by 2020
and 2022, Lagarde told reporters in Washington today. “I have
no reason to believe the Europeans would not themselves deliver
on their undertaking vis-a-vis Greece and vis-a-vis third
parties.”  The IMF and euro-area nations over the past week have
unblocked the latest aid tranche to replenish Greece’s coffers
through the German elections in September.  The Mediterranean country’s financial fate has become
entwined with German politics, with Chancellor Angela Merkel
campaigning for a third term on the promise  Germany  won’t write
off any of the loans made to Greece since the debt crisis broke
out almost four years ago.  IMF staff in a  report  published yesterday said there are
about 11 billion euros ($14.5 billion) in financing needed for
Greece by the end of 2015 that have not yet been indentified
under its joint package with Europe. The report also reminded
European officials of their commitment to reduce Greece’s debt
burden to a target of 124 percent of gross domestic product by
2020, which they said may require agreeing to relief measures as
early as next year.  European finance ministers agreed last year to cut the
rates on bailout loans and suspend interest payments for a
decade, while giving Greece more time to repay and engineering a
Greek bond buyback. German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble
last month opened the possibility of building on these measures
while discarding a straight writeoff.  “What channel it will take, what tools will be needed,
what methodology will be applied is something that will have to
be discussed by the euro partners, and with the euro partners,
but the commitment is in my view what matters most,” Lagarde
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  