-- Aggreko Drops Most in Seven Months on Outlook for Order Intake
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-01T12:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/aggreko-drops-most-in-seven-months-on-outlook-for-order-intake.html
Aggreko Plc, (AGK)  the world’s largest
provider of mobile power generators, fell by the most in seven
months after saying the pace of orders at its Power Projects
division probably won’t pick up in the “immediate future.”  The shares declined by as much as 7.9 percent, the most
since Dec. 17, 2012, making it the worst peformer on the FTSE
100 Index. The stock traded 6.6 percent lower at 1,662 pence at
1:30 p.m. in London. Trading volume was twice the three-month
daily average.  First-half sales in the Power Projects division, which
accounts for about 40 percent of  revenue , were little changed at
$482 million, the company said today in a statement. Underlying
profit from the division declined 8 percent to $147 million.  “The group has quoted a record number of proposals in
Power Projects in the first half, but conversion rates to
contracts has disappointed,” wrote analysts including Hector Forsythe at Oriel Securities in London. “We are putting our
recommendation under review to take our rating to hold.”  Investors wiped $2 billion off Aggreko’s market value last
December after saying earnings would be “slightly lower” in
2013 because of slowing demand in  emerging markets . First-half
underlying revenue fell 6 percent in the Asia Pacific region,
the Glasgow, Scotland-based company said in today’s statement.  Sales rose 4 percent to 760 million pounds helped by an 11
percent increase in underlying growth in the Americas.  The company said while the prospects for power projects
remain healthy it doesn’t “expect a pick-up in the rate of
order intake” for the business in the “immediate future.”  “This reinforces our view that profits will be down in the
second half and first half of 2014,” wrote Andrew Ripper, an
analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London, in a note to
clients.  NI ERN  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in  London  at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  