-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Snap Three-Day Drop on China PMI, Fed
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-08-01T02:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/taiwan-dollar-forwards-snap-three-day-drop-on-china-pmi-fed.html
Taiwan  dollar one-month forwards
halted a three-day drop after manufacturing in  China 
unexpectedly increased in July and as the Federal Reserve
pledged to maintain its stimulus program.  The forwards rallied from a three-week low after data
showed the Purchasing Managers’ Index in Taiwan’s largest export
market was at 50.3, above the level of 50 that divides
contraction and expansion and higher than the 49.8 median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. While data in the U.S. showed
the economy grew more than economists estimated in the second
quarter, the Fed said yesterday that persistently low inflation
poses risks to the nation’s outlook.  “The Fed came out saying they’re not going to taper
anytime soon,” said Andy Ji, a strategist at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia (CBA)  in  Singapore . “That should take out long positions
in the U.S. dollar versus Taiwan. They were also encouraged by
the Chinese PMI.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.2 percent to
NT$29.971 as of 10:13 a.m. in Taipei, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The contract reached NT$30.08 earlier, the weakest
level since July 10.  In the onshore spot market, the Taiwan dollar strengthened
0.5 percent to NT$29.960, Taipei Forex Inc. prices show. The
currency has lost 2.8 percent this year. The central bank has
sold the currency in the run-up to the close on most days in the
past year, according to traders who asked not to be identified.  The Federal Reserve said yesterday that its bond buying,
which has spurred the flow of funds to  emerging markets , will
remain at $85 billion a month.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, fell four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.96 percent.  The yield on the 0.875 percent government bonds due January
2018 fell three basis points to 1.09 percent in Taipei,
according to Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  