-- Ackman Copycats Risk Air Products Regret: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-08-01T13:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/akman-copycats-risk-air-products-regret-real-m-a.html
Investors seeking to ride the
coattails of  Bill Ackman  by buying shares of his latest target,
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., may have little left to gain.  The activist said in a letter obtained by Bloomberg News
July 8 that his firm would take a stake in a company trading at
a “substantially lower multiple of earnings” than its closest
competitor. Yesterday, he identified the investment as Air
Products, which was 19 percent cheaper than rival  Praxair Inc. (PX) 
last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That gap
has since shrunk to just 8 percent yesterday after Air Products
shares reached an all-time high of $108.64, the data show.  The stock looks expensive after the price surpassed the
 average value  analysts assign it, estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show. While SunTrust Banks Inc. says Ackman may be
able to unlock more value by pushing Allentown, Pennsylvania-based Air Products to divest some businesses, Alembic Global
Advisors says the already simplified structure of the $23
billion company leaves few options.  “If Ackman was out there looking for this valuation
disconnect, that gap has already been bridged now,” Hassan Ahmed, a New York-based analyst at Alembic, said in a phone
interview. “It’s as fully valued as can be.”  Air Products is an industrial gas producer that provides
oil refiners with hydrogen used to make low-sulfur fuels and
steelmakers with oxygen to make furnaces burn more efficiently.  Lagging Returns  Since John McGlade became chief executive officer of Air
Products on Oct. 1, 2007, the company’s shares advanced 11
percent through yesterday, lagging behind rallies ranging from
38 percent to 100 percent at  Air Liquide SA (AI) , Praxair,  Linde AG (LIN) 
and Airgas Inc.  Last week, Air Products said it instituted a takeover
defense known as a poison pill to prevent any one  investor  from
gaining too much control after the company noticed unusually
high  volumes  of stock trading. Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP began buying the shares May 22, according to a
person familiar with the firm’s trading.  In its filing yesterday disclosing the Air Products stake,
Pershing Square said the stock was undervalued, and that it
would seek discussions with management, the board and other
shareholders about topics including the company’s operations and
 financial condition . Pershing Square didn’t detail any specific
changes it might seek.  A representative for New York-based Pershing Square
declined to comment further.  Taking Steps  Air Products has “taken a number of steps in recent years
that have allowed us to drive earnings and operating cash flow
growth in a difficult economic environment,” David Reno, a
representative for the company who works at Sard Verbinnen &
Co., said in an e-mailed statement. “We are continuing to
actively review additional steps we can take to further improve
our operations and increase value to shareholders, and look
forward to engaging with Pershing Square to understand their
thinking.”  The stock had risen 9.4 percent this year through July 5,
the last trading day before Bloomberg News reported Ackman’s
plan to raise money for a large, activist investment. At the
time, Air Products’ price relative to its trailing 12-month
earnings per share was 17, compared with a multiple of 21 at
Praxair,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  After rising 2.9 percent yesterday, Air Products’ valuation
swelled to 20 times earnings, versus almost 22 at Danbury,
Connecticut-based Praxair, the data show.  Today, Air Products shares climbed 1.8 percent to $110.60
at 9:53 a.m. New York time.  Fully Valued?  There is no obvious way for an activist to boost  Air
Products (APD) ’ share price further, Chris Shaw, a New York-based
analyst at Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Co., said in a phone
interview. The stock ended yesterday 5.5 percent above his $103
share-price estimate. The  average estimate  among analysts was
$101.29 as of yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ackman may see an opportunity to boost  profitability  at Air
Products, which earned less per dollar of sales in the last 12
months than some of its closest rivals, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Its operating margin of 15 percent compares with
17 percent at Paris-based Air Liquide and 22 percent at Praxair.
Munich-based Linde’s was 13 percent, the data show.  While there is room to improve Air Products’ margins, any
additional gains for shareholders may be limited, according to
Sachin Shah, a special situations and merger arbitrage
strategist at New York-based Albert Fried & Co.  Limited Upside  Comparing the potential further gain on the investment to a
hit in baseball, Shah said in a phone interview that it “seems
more like a single or double rather than a home run. The upside
is not necessarily behind you, but the materiality of that
upside probably is.”  Air Products trades at a discount to Praxair for a reason
and its lagging returns may not be easily remedied, according to
Ahmed of Alembic. Praxair benefits from a more concentrated
 geographic  focus, he said.  Getting Air Products’ returns in line with those of Praxair
“is not a simple fix,” Ahmed said. “This is where, probably,
Ackman got it wrong. The fact of the matter is that the
portfolio of Praxair is very different than the portfolio at Air
Products.”  Ackman could seek to boost the company’s valuation through
sales of Air Products’ non-core assets such as its units that
make chemicals and provide specialty gases to computer-chip
makers, according to James Sheehan, an analyst at SunTrust.  Latent Value  “This company has a lot of value the market doesn’t seem
to recognize,” Sheehan said in an interview yesterday on
Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance .” “It may require a
different kind of thinking to look at these non-core businesses
in a different way and maybe focus the business more on the
industrial gases, the core businesses.”  Air Products has already taken  steps  to streamline its
business, including shedding process chemicals and non-pressure
emulsions units in 2008. The simplified structure may limit
divestiture possibilities, according to Ahmed.  “Now it is more of a pure-play industrial gases company,”
he said. “In terms of further portfolio changes, frankly there
aren’t too many opportunities.”  Buyers for the assets may also be scarce because the
industry is consolidated to the point that any major
transactions would spark antitrust concerns, he added.  Even without pushing for changes, Ackman likely already
made money on his investment. Air Product shares have  climbed 
almost 15 percent since the activist began purchasing them.  Any changes Ackman attempts to further boost the value will
take time to play out, said Shah of Albert Fried.  “It’s premature to say, ‘Sell the stock,’” he said.
“This is good for shareholders. But you have to have
patience.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  