-- Alibaba Lets Sina Weibo Users Shop on Taobao Marketplace
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/alibaba-blocks-services-related-to-tencent-s-wechat.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. will allow
users of  Sina Corp. (SINA) ’s Weibo to shop on its e-commerce website
after suspending sellers’ access to competitor  Tencent (700)  Holdings
Ltd.’s instant messaging application WeChat.  China ’s biggest e-commerce company will let shoppers log on
to its Taobao Marketplace using their Weibo accounts, Alibaba
and Sina said in a joint statement yesterday. Alibaba disabled
sellers’ access to WeChat applications in its own app shop,
citing security reasons, Alibaba spokeswoman Florence Shih said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Alibaba, which in April  agreed to buy  a stake in Sina’s
Weibo unit, is developing its mobile e-commerce business as more
Chinese shoppers use smartphones and tablets to buy goods.
WeChat had 194 million monthly active users as of May and plans
new services to commercialize the application in the second
half, according to Tencent.  “Alibaba wants to create its own community as opposed to
benefiting Tencent,” said Billy Leung, an analyst at RHB
Research Institute Sdn. in Hong Kong. “Tencent is a very strong
force. They’ve got money backing, they’ve got user base.”  There were more than 464 million mobile  Internet users  in
China by the end of June, more than the population of any
country except  India  and China itself, according to the  China
Internet Network Information Center .  Sina Development  “We do not comment on other companies’ business
decisions,” Lake Zeng, a WeChat spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Some sellers on Alibaba have tried to steer transactions
away from its Taobao Marketplace and Tmall.com platforms, and
disturbed customers through promotions on WeChat, Alibaba said
in its statement. The block ensures sellers “conduct their
marketing activities in a safe and legitimate manner,”
according to the statement.  Unlisted Alibaba, which started developing its mobile
business three years ago, hasn’t kept up with Tencent’s WeChat,
Alibaba Chairman Jack Ma said at the Credit Suisse Asian
Investment Conference in  Hong Kong  in March.  Since then, Ma has taken steps to win more mobile users,
including announcing to buy an 18 percent stake in Sina’s Weibo
unit. The microblogging service had more than 49.8 million daily
active users between December and March. Alibaba and Sina are
working together to develop social e-commerce services, Charles Chao, chairman and chief executive officer of Sina, said during
an earnings call.  Tencent rose 2.5 percent to HK$360.60 at the close in Hong
Hong trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  