-- Halliburton, Schlumberger Accused in Fracking Price Suit
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/halliburton-schlumberger-accused-in-fracking-price-suit.html
Halliburton Co.,  Schlumberger Ltd (SLB)  and
 Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  were sued over claims they conspired to raise
prices and crush oilfield service competitors in the booming
U.S. market for hydraulic fracturing services.  The allegations against units of the companies are pegged
to the U.S. Justice Department’s July 25 announcement that it is
investigating the “possibility of anticompetitive practices”
in the hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, sector of the oilfield
services industry, according to the proposed class-action, or
group, suit filed in federal court in  Corpus Christi ,  Texas .  “Defendants colluded to restrict and manipulate supply in
order to increase prices and market share” to levels the firms
enjoyed before the fracking boom attracted independent
competitors who depressed prices, Robert C. Hilliard, the
attorney for Cherry Canyon Resources LP, a Texas oil and gas
partnership, said in the July 31 filing. “They succeeded.”  The suit seeks unspecified treble damages.  The three companies are the largest publicly trading
fracking service providers and jointly control about 60 percent
of the U.S. market, according to the suit. Cherry Canyon sued on
behalf of all customers who bought fracking services from the
defendants since May 29, 2011.  Market Share  Halliburton and Baker Hughes, both based in Houston,
disclosed they are targets of the federal investigation within
hours of the  Justice Department ’s announcement. Schlumberger,
which is based in Houston and Paris, hasn’t publicly disclosed
whether it’s a target of the probe.  About 90 percent of all U.S. onshore wells now require some
degree of hydraulic fracturing, in which water and minerals are
injected into a well under pressure to boost its rate of oil or
gas production, according to the complaint.  Although there are many smaller fracking companies,
defendants’ prices and market share have increased while the
independent companies’ market share has decreased, Hilliard said
in the filing.  Joao Felix, a spokesman at Schlumberger, declined to
comment on the suit. Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman at
Halliburton, and Erica Bundick, a spokeswoman at Baker Hughes,
didn’t immediately return phone or e-mail messages yesterday
seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Cherry Canyon Resources LP v.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
2:13-cv-00238, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Corpus Christi).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  