-- Hamburg Opens Bank Offering Loans at 1% Interest
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-08-01T15:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/hamburg-opens-bank-offering-loans-at-1-interest.html
Hamburg,  Germany ’s second-biggest
city, formed a business development bank to lend to small- and
medium-sized companies, expanding the operations of an existing
lender focused on subsidizing real estate.  The Hamburgische Investitions- & Foerderbank, or IFB, will
team up with lenders such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
and M.M. Warburg & Co KGaA to offer loans of as much as 500,000
euros ($661,400) at annual rates as low as 1 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Ralf Sommer said today.  “Our cheap rate offers coincide with new Basel III capital
adequacy rules, shortage of equity at banks and difficulties
among small- and medium-sized companies to obtain loans,”
Sommer said at a news conference in Hamburg.  Hamburg founded its first business development bank,
Hamburgische Wohnungsbaukreditanstalt, in 1953. The new lender
bundles the existing bank, which focused on the housing
industry, with several of the city’s grant and debt guarantee
programs, making it a key partner for small businesses active in
energy, housing and research and development, Sommer said.  “Hamburg isn’t a low-cost business location, so all areas
of the local economy from rose cultivators to suppliers of
Airbus AG can only sustain their position if they are innovative
and that’s where we offer support,” Frank Horch, Hamburg’s head
of economic affairs, said at the same conference.  The bank has capital of 800 million euros, of which 708
million euros will be dedicated to supporting the housing
industry, 40 million euros to the broader economy and 52 million
euros to innovation projects such as laser technology and
renewable energy, said Sommer. It plans to increase the number
of employees to about 235 from 200, he said.  Hamburg, together with the state of Schleswig-Holstein,
also has an 85.4 percent stake in HSH Nordbank AG, the world’s
largest shipping lender.  HSH, which focuses on lending to small- and medium-sized
firms, is suffering from bad loans made to shipping clients amid
a glut of vessels and low freight rates that are crippling
operators. Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein have stepped in with a
guarantee of 10 billion euros, which has won preliminary EU
approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  