-- AMP Buying Italy, Spain Shares on Economy, Valuations
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-01T04:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/amp-buying-italy-spain-shares-on-economy-valuations.html
AMP Capital Investors Ltd., a unit of
 Australia ’s  biggest  asset manager, is buying stocks in Spain and
Italy amid signs their economies are recovering and as equity
 valuations  remain below global averages.  “We’re seeing a lot of green shoots coming out of  Europe ,
and together with a very, very strong valuation buffer, that
suggests we better make our money work in Europe as opposed to
emerging markets, where there are uncertainties,” Nader Naeimi,
head of dynamic asset allocation at AMP Capital, which manages
more than $130 billion, said in an interview in Sydney today.
“Recessionary conditions are abating.”  Spain’s IBEX 35 Index gained 3.3 percent this year and
Italy’s FTSE MIB Index added 1.3 percent, lagging gains in the
U.K.,  Germany  and  France . They all rose less than the 18 percent
surge in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index as bond purchases by
the  Federal Reserve  coupled with improving earnings and economic
growth sent the U.S. gauge to a record in July.  While the  S&P 500 Index  has recovered all of the gains
erased during the financial crisis, Spain’s benchmark remains 47
percent below its peak in November 2007 and Italy’s gauge is 63
percent lower than the level reached in May 2007.  The European Commission’s gauge of economic confidence in
the euro area climbed to the highest level in 15 months in July.
The Euro Stoxx 50 Index, of mainland European shares, trades at
12.2 times estimated earnings, compared with a multiple of 14
for the MSCI All-Country World Index of developed and emerging
market companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Correct Pick  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index tumbled 10 percent this
year through yesterday as growth slows in  China , the world’s
largest emerging economy, and speculation the Fed will reduce
stimulus spurred international investors to sell riskier assets.  Naeimi, who correctly predicted an 18 percent correction in
 Japan’s Topix index  that began in May, joins a net 3 percent of
money managers who hold more European shares than are
represented in benchmark indexes, according to a Bank of America
Corp. survey last month. The participants manage $643 billion.  Economies across the euro currency bloc have shown signs of
improvement.  Business confidence  in Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, increased for a third month and unemployment held near
a two-decade low in July.  Spain ’s economic contraction slowed to
0.1 percent in the second quarter from 0.5 percent in the three
months through March.  Europe’s unemployment rate held at a record-high 12.1
percent in June, according to data from the European Union’s
statistics office in  Luxembourg  yesterday. Spain had the highest
rate at 26.3 percent.  The Italian national statistics institute Istat’s
 manufacturing-sentiment index  increased in July to the highest
since November 2011. Business confidence rose for a third month
as the country battles to emerge from its longest recession in
more than 20 years.  “We don’t need to wait for those fundamentals to be
outright good before we become positive in those markets,” said
Naeimi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  