-- AMR Nears Bankruptcy Exit as Creditors Approve US Airways Merger
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-01T12:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/amr-nears-bankruptcy-exit-as-creditors-approve-us-airways-merger.html
American Airlines won creditor
approval for its plan to exit bankruptcy protection by merging
with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  to create the world’s largest
carrier.  Preliminary results showed at least 88 percent of ballots
in each creditor class were cast for the plan, representing more
than 97 percent of the claim value in each group, parent  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ)  said today in a statement. More than 99 percent of AMR
shareholders voted for the plan, the company said.  The vote moves Fort Worth, Texas-based American closer to
completing the merger with Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways. The
carriers reached the deal in February and are awaiting approval
from the Manhattan federal court overseeing AMR’s bankruptcy and
from the U.S. Justice Department, which is assessing whether the
combination will create a monopoly in any markets. They are also
awaiting word from European Union antitrust authorities.  “This is another important milestone toward our launch of
the new American,” Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton said in
the statement. He will serve a limited term as chairman of the
merged airline.  Final voting results will be certified and filed with the
bankruptcy court before an Aug. 15 hearing.  The combined airline, which will operate under the American
name, will displace  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  as the
world’s largest carrier based on passenger traffic, and will
operate more than 6,700 daily flights.  Merger Completed  “We are focused on getting the merger completed and
closed,” US Airways Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said on
a July 24 conference call. “That’s going very well.”  He reiterated the airline’s expectation that the merger
will close this quarter.  US Airways shareholders, who will own 28 percent of the
combined carrier, approved the $11 billion, all-stock merger on
July 12. The remaining 72 percent will go to AMR creditors,
employees and shareholders.  Unsecured creditors with $2.6 billion in claims against
American will receive a full recovery, according to court
papers.  The combined airline’s position at Reagan National Airport
in Washington, where the number of flights is limited, has been
the focus of objections from competitors such as JetBlue Airways
Corp. and Southwest Airlines Co.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-bk-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  