-- Manz Jumps on OLED Equipment Order From Chinese Company
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-01T13:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/manz-jumps-on-oled-equipment-order-from-chinese-company.html
Manz AG (M5Z)  soared to the highest price
in more than two years after the German manufacturing-equipment
maker received its first order from a Chinese customer for
machines to produce organic light emitting diode displays.  Manz rose as much as 11 percent to 37.40 euros, the highest
intraday price since June 7, 2011, and was trading up 9.6
percent at 3:20 p.m. in Frankfurt. The market value stood at 165
million euros ($218 million) and the trading volume was more
than double the three-month daily average.  The 9 million-euro sales contract, the first major order
following some small purchases, offers Manz “considerable
revenue potential” because of growth in the displays’ use in
smartphone and tablet-computer touchscreens, the Reutlingen,
Germany-based company said today in a statement. It didn’t
identify the equipment’s buyer.  “The order is not significant by volume but strategically
important, as it is the first bigger order for OLED displays
from  China  and promises follow-up orders,” Christoph Rodler, a
Hamburg-based analyst at M.M. Warburg, said by phone today.
“OLED is a new technology, an alternative to LED or LCD
systems, but still expensive,” said the analyst, who has a hold
 recommendation  on the stock.  Manz supplies the display, solar and battery industries. It
generated less than 10 percent of revenue from the solar
division in 2012, compared to almost 40 percent in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The solar segment was doing badly last year and we expect
the company to break even in the first half,” Rodler said. Manz
said in May that first-quarter orders in the display and battery
segments were more than making up for continued weak new
business at the solar unit. The manufacturer reports second-quarter earnings figures on Aug. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in  Frankfurt  at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  