-- ArcelorMittal Cuts Profit Target as Demand for Steel Weakens
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-08-01T16:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/arcelormittal-reports-lower-quarterly-profit-cuts-annual-target.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, cut its full-year profit forecast on weaker steel
demand in the U.S. and  Europe  than previously expected.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be more than $6.5 billion, compared with the
earlier figure of more than $7.1 billion, Luxembourg-based
ArcelorMittal said today in a statement.  ArcelorMittal’s profit has been damaged by falling steel
demand in its biggest markets, the U.S. and Europe, and its
limited operations in the faster-growing Chinese market. U.S.
consumption slid 5.6 percent in the first half from a year
before and European Union steel use declined 5.7 percent.  “In markets in which we operate apparent demand is weaker
than anticipated, hence our shipments are weaker than
anticipated,”  Aditya Mittal , chief financial officer, told
reporters. Forecast global demand growth of 3 percent this year
is “on the back of a strong  China .”  Steel shipments will rise 1 percent to 2 percent this year
compared with a forecast of 2 percent in May, the company said.
 Iron-ore  shipments will gain 20 percent. ArcelorMittal also cut
its annual profit forecast on weaker coking coal prices.  The company slipped 3.7 percent to 9.533 euros by the close
in Amsterdam trading. The stock has declined 26 percent this
year.  Credit Ratings  Second-quarter Ebitda fell to $1.7 billion from $2.6
billion a year earlier. That compares with the $1.67 billion
median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. In
February, the steelmaker said earnings would recover in 2013
after it posted the lowest full-year profit since 2009.  “The operating environment in the first half continued to
be challenging,” Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said in
the statement. “Although we have revised our full-year
guidance, the second half should deliver a clear underlying
improvement relative to the second half of 2012, which we
believe marked the lowest point in the cycle.”  ArcelorMittal has cut more than $5 billion of  debt  in the
past 12 months as it grapples with lower demand and excess
capacity caused by Europe’s economic crisis. European
steelmakers are able to produce about 210 million metric tons a
year, as much as 60 million tons more than needed in a “normal
market,” industry lobby group Eurofer says.  “We’re seeing the beginning of a slow turnaround” in
Europe, Aditya Mittal said. “Clearly we remain cautious.”  Net Debt  While net debt fell to $16.2 billion in the quarter,
ArcelorMittal said today it will rise to about $17 billion in
the second half. The company is seeking to  reduce borrowings 
after its credit rating was cut to below investment grade by
Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  ArcelorMittal has scaled back its dividend and sold assets,
including a $1.1 billion stake in its Canadian mining business.
It also raised about $4 billion in a sale of shares and bonds in
a bid to pare overall borrowings.  The steelmaker has a target of cutting debt to $15 billion
without a timeframe beyond saying that it’s a medium-term goal.
ArcelorMittal has said it expects to regain an investment grade
once it hits the debt objective and the global economy improves.  “We want to get there through free  cash flow ,” Aditya
Mittal said. “We’re not focused on doing another asset sale or
restructuring the balance sheet or doing any other equity
related actions.”  ArcelorMittal, which reported sales of $20.2 billion in the
quarter, said it shipped 22.5 million tons of steel and produced
15 million tons of iron ore.  Its South African unit today reported an interim loss of
140 million rand ($14 million) and said it expects lower
earnings in the third quarter on flat demand and higher costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  