-- Market-Linked Certificates of Deposit Overpriced, Report Says
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-08-01T18:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/market-linked-certificates-of-deposit-overpriced-report-says.html
Market-linked certificates of deposit
are 7 percent less valuable than fixed-rate CDs, according to a
 report  by a consulting firm.  Risks stemming from market gyrations, the issuer’s
creditworthiness, and a small pool of buyers in the secondary
market make benefits of the structured CDs “illusory” compared
to fixed-rate products, according to the July 30 paper by the
Securities Litigation & Consulting Group.  The report examined 2,072 market-linked CDs issued since
2005 that were tied to assets such as equities and commodities,
rather than rates. The average term for the CDs, weighted by
amount outstanding, was 5.8 years.  “The market-linked component of these CDs is sort of a
teaser,” Tim Husson, a senior financial economist at the firm
and one of the authors, said in a telephone interview. “What
these actually pay out is very comparable, if less, than what
traditional CDs pay out, which is namely not very much.”  Data on the size of the U.S. structured CD market is
incomplete because the products, which aren’t considered
securities, aren’t registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Among the investments that Securities Litigation &
Consulting analyzed were $5.51 million of five-year CDs tied to
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which Barclays Plc sold on Oct.
22, 2010. Investors receive returns tied to the S&P 500’s
performance, with a cap of no more than 5 percent on quarterly
gains though no limit on losses. The guaranteed minimum annual
yield was as low as 0.25 percent.  ‘Extremely Complex’  The consultant calculated the CD’s value using midpoints
for ranges given in the preliminary offering documents, such as
for the cap. The firm made an estimate of 97.6 cents on the
dollar, or 95 percent as much as a comparable fixed-rate CD.
Investors have a 97.2 percent chance of receiving the minimum
return, according to the report.  In May 2012, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. warned
investors of potential risks of market-linked CDs that may have
“extremely complex” formulas for how payments are made.  Banks aren’t obligated to estimate the value of their
market-linked CDs. The SEC first asked issuers earlier this year
to include such numbers for structured notes on offering
documents.  While the FDIC insures the principal and accrued interest
of CDs to a maximum of $250,000 as long as the investor doesn’t
sell them, the guarantee doesn’t cover market-linked interest
payments, which are subject to the issuer’s credit risk,
according to the consultant’s report.  The other three authors of the paper are Tim Dulaney, Geng
Deng, and Craig McCann, all of Securities Litigation &
Consulting Group.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts whose
value is derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  