-- Asian Stocks Rise on China PMI Expansion, Fed Bond Buying
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-08-01T10:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/asian-stocks-advance-after-fed-maintains-bond-buying.html
Asian  stocks  rose, paring this week’s
loss, as a gauge of China’s manufacturing unexpected expanded
and after the  Federal Reserve  maintained its bond-buying program
at current levels.  Panasonic Corp., Japan’s largest consumer electronics
maker, climbed 6.8 percent after posting profit that beat
estimates.  STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. (067250)  jumped 15 percent in
Seoul after agreeing to restructure it debt.  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia (CBA) , the nation’s biggest lender, fell 1.5 percent,
pacing losses among the nation’s financial shares on a report
the government will impose a new tax on banks.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1.2 percent to 133.85
as of 7:23 p.m. in Tokyo, with all 10 industry groups on the
gauge rising. Almost three shares gained for each that fell on
the measure, which is headed for a 1.1 percent loss this week.
Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.7 percent.  “The market consensus is that  China’s economy  is slowing,
but it won’t crash,” Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona
Bank Ltd., Japan’s fifth-largest lender by market value, said in
Tokyo. “Japanese stocks are rebounding after dropping
yesterday, with individual shares moving according to
earnings.”  Stimulus Maintained  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which has floated the
prospect of reductions to its $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases should economic risks abate, said yesterday that while
growth should pick up, persistently low inflation may hamper the
recovery. The statement came as data showed U.S. gross domestic
product expanded more than economists estimated last quarter.
Policy makers in Europe and England are due to review  interest
rates  today.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to 50.3 in July,
the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics & Purchasing said today in Beijing. That compared with
the 49.8 median forecast of 35 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  and June’s 50.1 level. Readings above 50 indicate expansion
in manufacturing.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  advanced 1.8 percent,
extending gains for a second day. The  Hang Seng  China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies traded in  Hong Kong 
increased 0.7 percent.  Hang Seng  Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index added 0.9 percent.
The city’s benchmark index fell 2.5 percent this year, the worst
performance among developed markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Japan’s  Topix index  increased 2.8 percent, while the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average advanced 2.5 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi index gained 0.4 percent and Singapore’s Straits
Times Index rose 0.7 percent. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index added
0.2 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex index slid 0.6 percent.  The Topix climbed 35 percent this year amid optimism Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe will push through reforms while the  Bank of
Japan  continues record stimulus to beat deflation. The gauge
traded at 1.2 times book value, compared with 2.5 times for the
 S&P 500 (SPX)  and 1.7 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  rose 0.2 percent, paring
earlier gains of as much 0.8 percent, as lenders dropped after
the Financial Review reported the government may introduce a tax
to fund its guarantee on  bank deposits .  India Manufacturing  India’s S&P BSE Sensex lost 0.2 percent. The nation’s
manufacturing PMI weakened to 50.1 in July from 50.3 in June,
according to a report by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 1.3 percent last month
after China pledged to do more to support a transition from
reliance on exports to domestic demand in the world’s second-largest economy. The regional gauge rose 2.2 percent this year
through yesterday.  U.S. Economy  The  S&P 500  closed little changed yesterday in New York,
erasing an earlier rally after the Fed statement and a report
showing the economy grew at an annualized rate of 1.7 percent in
the second quarter, faster that the 1.1 percent pace in the
prior three months.  “The Fed moved back slightly to the dovish side,” Evan Lucas, a Melbourne-based market strategist at IG Markets Ltd., a
provider of trading services for equities, currencies and
commodities, said by telephone. “The  U.S. economy  does look
like it’s growing a bit stronger and the Fed hasn’t said when it
will announce tapering.”  Panasonic climbed 6.8 percent to 909 yen in Tokyo. First-quarter net income surged more than eightfold to 108 billion yen
($1.1 billion), the Osaka-based company said yesterday. That
beat the 14 billion-yen estimates of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. A one-time gain of 79.8 billion yen from pension
accounting boosted earnings.  Earnings Season  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.,  Japan ’s biggest
publicly traded lender, rose 4 percent to 625 yen after posting
first-quarter profit that topped estimates. Mizuho Financial
Group Inc., whose earnings also exceeded expectations, advanced
4.9 percent to 213 yen.  Of the 252 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
have posted results since July 1 and for which estimates are
available, 51 percent exceeded estimates, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. More than 90 companies on the gauge are
posting results this month. Mitsubishi Corp. and Toyota Motor
Corp. are scheduled to report tomorrow.  STX Offshore & Shipbuilding jumped 15 percent to 6,260 won
in Seoul. Creditors agreed to provide fresh funding under a
debt-restructuring deal aimed at normalizing the shipbuilder’s
operations, the company said yesterday.  Australian banks declined.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia ,
dropped 1.5 percent to A$73.12. Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. slipped 1.2 percent to A$29.39.  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia tumbled 14 percent to 4,450
rupiah after DBS Group Holdings Ltd. ended a $6.5 billion bid to
control the Southeast Asian nation’s six-largest lender by
assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  