-- Aso Retracts Remarks on Following Nazi Lead on Constitution
-- B y   J a m e s   M a y g e r
-- 2013-08-01T11:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/aso-backtracks-on-urging-abe-to-follow-nazi-lead-on-constitution.html
Finance Minister Taro Aso backtracked
from remarks saying Japan should use the actions of the Nazi
regime in  Germany  as a model for reforming its constitution,
after facing criticism from across Asia.  “I think it is vitally important to discuss constitutional
revision calmly,” Aso said today in an e-mailed statement. “To
emphasize this, I mentioned the Nazi regime’s revision of the
Weimar constitution as a negative example.” Aso also said he
wished to “withdraw the comment raising the example of the Nazi
regime.”  Aso was quoted by the Tokyo Shimbun newspaper as telling a
seminar on July 29 that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government
should make its constitutional change, following the example of
the Weimar Republic’s reform that allowed Adolf Hitler to
consolidate power. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told
reporters he didn’t believe the comments merited resignation.  Abe, buoyed by an electoral win last month that gave him
control of both houses of parliament, is considering overhauling
 Japan ’s pacifist constitution and beefing up its defense forces.
Japan’s past occupation of neighboring countries still taints
regional relationships 68 years after the end of World War II
and Abe’s talk of a military build-up has strained ties with
neighbors like  China .  “Japanese political leaders should be careful with their
words and behavior,” South Korean Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Cho Tai Young told reporters on July 30, adding that Aso’s
remarks would “obviously hurt many people.”  China Relations  Abe also said today that he was “totally negative on what
happened with the Nazis and the Weimar constitution,” and that
it was “unfortunate” the comments “created a misunderstanding
that differs from my thinking.”  The fallout from Aso’s original remarks was being felt
beyond  Korea , Liu Jiangyong, vice director of the Institute of
Modern International Relations at Tsinghua University in Beijing
said yesterday.  “This will not only impact China-Japan relations, it will
impact Japan’s relations with other countries, such as Japan-Korea relations and Japan-U.S. relations,” Liu said by phone.
“Nazi Germany and Japanese militarism have long been refuted by
the international community.”  Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said China
urged Japan to “seriously reflect on history” and take
concrete actions to win the trust of its Asian neighbors, in a
statement posted on the ministry’s website late yesterday.  Media Criticism  The comments may eventually weaken domestic support for
Abe’s government, which has remained strong since he took office
in December last year, according to Tsuneo Watanabe, director
and senior fellow at the Tokyo Foundation think tank.  “This kind of thing can quickly change the attitude of the
major Japanese media,” Watanabe said. “The liberal media is
looking for a good way to criticize Abe and they haven’t found
anything so far because public sentiment is very supportive of
his economic policies.”  A poll published by the Mainichi newspaper on July 29 found
55 percent of respondents supported Abe, little changed from the
previous poll two weeks earlier. The paper polled 929 people on
July 27 and 28 and gave no margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  