-- AstraZeneca Profit Falls 12% on Loss of Patent Protection
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2013-08-01T15:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/astrazeneca-profit-falls-12-on-loss-of-patent-protection.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  said second-quarter
profit fell 12 percent as generic competition to some of its
best-selling medicines eroded sales by $500 million.  Profit excluding some items declined to $2.06 billion, or
$1.20 a share, from $2.33 billion, or $1.57, a year earlier, the
London-based company said in a  statement  today. That matched the
$1.20 average of 15 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker faces a steady decline
in sales as it loses patent protection on medicines including
the Crestor cholesterol-lowering pill and the antipsychotic
treatment Seroquel over the next three years. AstraZeneca is
seeking deals to add new products and yesterday said it would
pay FibroGen Inc., a closely held U.S. company, as much as $815
million plus royalties for an experimental anemia therapy.  “The impact from brands that have recently lost
exclusivity has moderated from levels experienced in recent
quarters,” Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said on a
conference call with journalists. The FibroGen drug “is a
potentially important first-in-class treatment” and adds to the
pipeline of products nearing submission for regulatory approval.  AstraZeneca still expects sales to fall by a “mid- to
high-single-digit percentage” at constant exchange rates this
year. The company said core operating costs will increase by a
percentage in the low-to-mid single digits this year.  Lower Expectations  With the revenue forecast unchanged, the higher costs would
effectively lower earnings per share expectations for this year,
Jeffrey Holford, a New York-based analyst with Jefferies
International Ltd., said in a note to investors today. He rates
the shares hold. AstraZeneca had forecast core earnings per
share to decline “significantly more than revenue.”  “We’ve seen considerable progress in growing the late-stage portfolio and we’ve brought in late-stage assets,” Chief
Financial Officer Simon Lowth said on the call. “We made the
decision to step up sales and marketing investment in selected
areas where we see good growth into the future.”  AstraZeneca fell less than 0.1 percent to 3,334 pence in
 London , giving the company a market value of 41.7 billion pounds
($63.2 billion). The stock has gained 19 percent this year
including reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 19 percent
return in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index of 19
companies. AstraZeneca’s board recommended an interim dividend
of 90 cents a share.  Biggest Seller  Revenue declined 4 percent to $6.23 billion, beating the
$6.22 billion average estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Sales of
Crestor, AstraZeneca’s biggest seller last year, fell 4 percent
to $1.48 billion. Revenue from Seroquel slipped 31 percent to
$438 million while blood pressure drug Atacand’s sales decreased
37 percent to $166 million.  Sales of Brilique, a blood-thinner that won European
approval in 2010 and is sold in the U.S. as Brilinta, were $65
million, up from $18 million a year earlier, beating the $58.9
million average estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  “AstraZeneca continues to be hit heavily by its patent
cliff, but within the results there are some bright spots,”
Mick Cooper, an analyst at Edison Investment Research in London,
said in an e-mailed statement. “There are further signs of
Brilinta sales gaining momentum and it is growing well ahead of
the market in  China .”  Local Matter  Revenue in China rose 21 percent in the quarter,
contributing to a 12 percent revenue increase in  emerging
markets , the company said. AstraZeneca has been focusing more on
products such as Crestor and the Pulmicort respiratory
treatment, rather than branded generics, Soriot said.  “Almost every product is growing there,” he said. The
company plans to introduce Brilinta there in the coming months.  AstraZeneca said July 22 that an employee was the focus of
a “local police matter” in Shanghai and that there’s “no
reason” to believe the individual case is related to any other
Chinese investigations, such as the probe of larger U.K. rival
GlaxoSmithKline Plc. The employee, a sales representative, is
still detained in  Shanghai , while two other employees were
questioned and released, Soriot said today.  Compliant Confident  “What we know from police is that it is an individual
case,” he said. “We are confident we have right processes in
place to be compliant.”  The company continues to cooperate with a 2010 inquiry from
the U.S. government regarding practices in markets including
China, Lowth said today. AstraZeneca also has been conducting
its own internal investigation, and Lowth said there was no
update on its progress.  AstraZeneca has been adding new products through
partnerships and small to mid-sized acquisitions. The company
agreed in June to buy Pearl Therapeutics Inc. for as much as
$1.15 billion to expand its respiratory disease portfolio.  Soriot declined to comment on speculation that the company
may buy  Celltrion Inc. (068270) , a South Korean maker of biosimilar
products. AstraZeneca has a biologics unit, MedImmune, and is
exploring ways to leverage that expertise in biosimilars, the
executive said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in London at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  