-- AstraZeneca Ups China Investment as Rivals Face Scrutiny
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-02T05:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/astrazeneca-ups-china-investment-as-rivals-face-scrutiny.html
AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  is increasing its
investment in  China , where sales rose 21 percent in the second
quarter, as the country continues its crackdown on malfeasance
in the health-care industry.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker has added more sales
people in China as the country’s medical coverage expands, even
as prices have declined, AstraZeneca Chief Executive Officer
Pascal Soriot told journalists yesterday on a conference call to
discuss earnings.  Chinese authorities are investigating AstraZeneca’s larger
U.K. rival,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , over allegations of 3 billion
yuan ($489 million) in spurious travel and meeting expenses.
 Sanofi (SAN)  and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said yesterday they had received
visits from Chinese regulators. An AstraZeneca sales
representative remains detained in  Shanghai  as police examine an
individual case, Soriot said.  “Our organization in China is very focused on doing
business in China the right way,” Soriot said. “Our focus is
on science and developing medicines that help patients. There
are 1.2 billion patients in China, so we are very focused on
growing in China.”  AstraZeneca has no reason to believe the investigation of
the sales representative will expand, and no charges have been
brought, he said. Two other employees were questioned in
relation to the case and were immediately released, Soriot said.  Closer Checks  The regional manager for China and the company’s compliance
organization gives Soriot regular updates, the CEO said. The
company does regular compliance checks, and was conducting one
as the Glaxo investigation became public, he said.  “We suddenly are looking at routine processes more closely
than we would have otherwise,” Soriot said. “We’re not
complacent at all.”  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s biggest maker of health-care
products, was fined by Chinese authorities for monopolistic
practices.  Two of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J’s units were
ordered to compensate 530,000 yuan ($86,500) to a distributor
after a court in Shanghai ruled yesterday that their setting of
minimum resale prices constituted monopolistic conduct,
according to a  report  posted to chinacourt.org, a website
controlled by the nation’s  Supreme Court .  J&J Ruling  The ruling resolves a case brought by J&J in 2008 against a
distributor that the company said was selling products outside
of its covered sales area. While J&J won a lower court ruling,
the distributor appealed and countersued, charging the U.S.
company was engaging in monopolistic behavior, said Ernie
Knewitz, a spokesman for Johnson & Johnson.  “While we are disappointed with the ruling by the Higher
People’s Court of Shanghai, we are pleased to have put this
matter behind us, and look forward to continuing to provide our
high quality products and services to health-care institutions
and patients in China,” Knewitz said in a statement.  Chinese authorities have accused Glaxo of economic crimes
amounting to 3 billion  yuan  in spurious travel and meeting
expenses as well as trade in sexual favors undertaken to boost
sales.  Regulators will “severely crack down” on fake
medications, forged documents and bribery, the China Food and
Drug Administration said last month.  Glaxo’s head of  emerging markets , Abbas Hussain, said last
month after meeting with government officials in Beijing that
some employees may have broken China’s laws.  Local Agencies  In China, every province and city has local agencies that
regulate commercial activity. These units, formally known as the
Administration for Industry and Commerce, hold broad powers to
investigate possible malfeasance, seize evidence without a
warrant and impose financial penalties, according to a  note  from
consulting firm Control Risks.  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  discovered expense violations
following an internal investigation at a joint venture in China
last year, the Wall Street Journal reported today. Baxter
disciplined the venture’s leadership, conducted new training and
enhanced its controls and monitoring of interactions with
Chinese health-care professionals, the report said, citing
people familiar with the matter.  Calls to the office and mobile telephone numbers of
Baxter’s Shanghai-based spokeswoman Seok Lin Hong weren’t
answered. There was no immediate response to an e-mail seeking
comment on the report.  Sanofi Visit  Sanofi said yesterday one of its regional offices was
visited by authorities from the  Shenyang Administration for
Industry and Commerce . The Paris-based company didn’t know the
purpose of the inspection, Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said on a call with reporters, and its China
headquarters in Shanghai haven’t been checked.  Lilly was also visited by Shenyang authorities in a review
“early this year,” the company said in an e-mailed response to
questions, without elaborating on the date. The Indianapolis-based company said it hadn’t received any notice of the results
of the investigation.  In China, Lilly is “one of the first companies in the
industry to enforce compliance in a strict manner,” according
to the company. “Lilly has not and is not being investigated by
the Chinese Public Security Bureau,” its Beijing-based
spokeswoman Connie Li said in the e-mailed statement.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  