-- Australia Resumes Day Two on 303-3 in Third Ashes Cricket Test
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/australia-reaches-92-2-in-ashes-cricket-test-against-england.html
Australia  will begin the second day
of the third Ashes cricket Test on 303-3 as it seeks the victory
needed to keep alive the series against England.  Captain Michael Clarke reached 125 on the opening day at
Old Trafford in Manchester to log Australia’s first century of
the series. Clarke and Steven Smith added 174 runs together,
with the latter reaching 70 not out at stumps.  “It’s always tough when the wicket plays like that,”
England seam bowler Tim Bresnan, who took 1-51, told Sky Sports.
“The Aussies played really well.”  Chris Rogers added 84 runs for Australia, which lost the
first two matches in the five-Test series. England would win the
Ashes for the third straight time with a victory.  Australia made three changes to its team as David Warner
returned from suspension in place of Phil Hughes, off-spinner
Nathan Lyon replaced Ashton Agar and left-arm seamer Mitchell
Starc came in for James Pattinson, who is injured.  England  captain Alastair Cook named an unchanged team after
Kevin Pietersen was declared fit following his calf strain in
the second Test.  Clarke elected to bat after winning the toss and his team
reached 76 before Shane Watson was caught for 19 by Cook at
first slip from Bresnan.  Controversial Decision  A controversial decision then left the visitors on 82-2.
Umpire Tony Hill ruled Usman Khawaja was caught behind by Matt Prior off Graeme Swann. Australia called for a video review,
which appeared to show the ball missing the bat. However, TV
umpire Kumar Dharmasena upheld the original call.  Even Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd took time to vent
his anger.  “That was one of the worst cricket umpiring decisions I
have ever seen,” Rudd said via his Twitter account.  Cricket Australia said it would seek “clarification” from
the International Cricket Council of the “incorrect” call
resulting from the Decision Review System.  “In our view, the on-field decision and referred decision
using DRS were both incorrect,” Cricket Australia Chief
Executive James Sutherland said in a statement.  Swann trapped Rogers leg-before-wicket after lunch for his
second wicket. The Australian opener chatted with Clarke about a
review before leaving the field.  Clarke, who has 17 fours, and Smith then took control to
see out the day’s play. Smith escaped an lbw dismissal because
England had used up its two reviews, as Hawk-Eye showed the ball
from Stuart Broad would have hit the middle stump.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 