-- BAE Purses Saudi Arabia, UAE Typhoon Combat Jet Exports
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-08-01T09:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bae-first-half-profit-drops-on-defense-spending-slowdown.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ,  Europe ’s largest
defense company, said production of Typhoon combat jets may
extend past this decade as it works to secure a follow-up order
in  Saudi Arabia  and for 60 jets from the  United Arab Emirates .  The deals could secure production, currently running out in
the first quarter 2018, until 2022 at a rate of 30 planes a
year, Chief Executive Officer Ian King told reporters today.
Saudi Arabia may buy 48 to 72 more jets beyond 72 on order, with
a bid to be submitted soon to the UAE, he said.  BAE has leaned on export markets to offset unchanged or
declining spending at home. Oman last year agreed to buy 12
Typhoons to become a new customer for the jet. The gains in the
Middle East contrast with a “challenging” defense environment
overall, particularly given uncertain U.S. plans, BAE said today
as it reported earnings that missed analyst estimates.  “We have a burgeoning set of opportunities,” King said.
Winning UAE “would be a major game-changer for the company.”  Qatar and Malaysia also are considering Typhoon purchases,
King said. The jet is also in competition for a South Korean
order against competition from the Boeing Co. F-15 and  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35.  BAE rose as much as 16.2 pence, or 3.6 percent, to 462.1
pence in  London , and traded at 461.9 pence at 9:05 a.m. The
stock has gained 37 percent so far this year.  Typhoon Pricing  Deliveries to Saudi Arabia of Typhoon jets, assembled at
the company’s Warton, England site, resumed in the first six
months with four planes shipped following a hiatus after the
first 24 planes were handed over. BAE builds Typhoons in a joint
venture with  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and European Aeronautic, Defence &
Space Co., with which the British company unsuccessfully
attempted a merger last year.  King said protracted contract talks with Saudi Arabia on
price changes to the existing order are progressing and should
be completed before year-end.  “We’ve had confirmation no further question are required
in terms of the content of our claim and the substance of our
claim,” King said.  The company said today underlying earnings per share would
see a double-digit advance this year, fueled by a share
repurchase. The outlook is contingent on successful conclusion
of negotiations with Saudi Arabia over Typhoon pricing. An
agreement would add 3 pence per share to earnings, it said
previously.  “Large contract wins in Saudi suggest that there is no
lack of goodwill and hence a deal should be done,”  Nick
Cunningham , a London-based analyst at Agency Partners, said in a
note.  Profit Drop  King said BAE booked 4.8 billion pounds in sales outside
its two largest markets, the U.S. and U.K, during the first
half. It won a 600 million pound in contracts in Saudi Arabia in
the period and a 1.8 billion pound deal in June to support
Typhoons in the country, BAE said.  The Pentagon yesterday said BAE Systems won a competition
to support Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missiles
valued at $534.8 million.  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, excluding
one-time items, fell 6 percent to 865 million pounds ($1.31
billion) in the first six months from 922 million pounds a year
earlier, the London-based company said today. Analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg had estimated profit of 998 million pounds. Sales
advanced 1.3 percent to 8.5 billion pounds, also missing
projections for 8.68 billion pounds.  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said yesterday the
impact from mandatory budget cuts, known as sequestration, may
force a choice between a decade-long “modernization holiday”
or a smaller military. Deep personnel cuts could protect
programs such as the Lockheed Martin’s F-35 fighter, the largest
weapons program on which BAE is a partner.  The company on Oct. 1 will see chairman-designate  Roger Carr , currently in the same role for British Gas parent  Centrica
Plc (CNA)  join its board. Carr will next year replace Dick Olver, who
has held the job since 2004.  n  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  