-- Baguette Hopes Fade for Some French Farmers on Wheat Quality
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-02T13:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/baguette-hopes-fade-for-some-french-farmers-on-low-protein-wheat.html
Sylvain Bardin, steering his red
harvester across a ripe grain field in central  France , says the
wheat he’s gathered won’t make it into baguettes.  The wheat’s protein content isn’t high enough, meaning the
grain Bardin spent four days harvesting may be unsuitable for
bread-making or exports, and relegated to  animal feed .  Bardin’s quality troubles echo analyst concerns at the
start of France’s wheat harvest, the European Union’s biggest.
Low protein, the result of a long winter and a cold, wet spring,
may hurt export prospects with key buyers such as Algeria.  “The first cuts are worrisome,” Clement Gautier, an
analyst at Horizon Soft Commodities in Noisy-le-Grand, France,
said by phone. For wheat harvested in the south, “the problem
will not be quantity but quality,” he said.  France exports almost half of its soft wheat, with
shipments of 3.5 billion euros ($4.6 billion) last year, trade
data show. Its biggest client,  Algeria , demands protein content
of 11 percent, according to Dijon Cereales, a French grain
cooperative.  Bardin, who farms 140 hectares (346 acres) of grains and
oilseeds outside the village of Donzy in Burgundy’s Nievre
department, said the wheat he harvested last week had average
protein content of 9.5 percent to 10 percent, less than the
normal 11.5 percent.  Arlequin Variety  “All this wheat is downgraded,” Bardin said, maneuvering
his Massey Ferguson combine to cut the next lane of grain in 33-degree Celsius (91.4 degrees Fahrenheit) heat. He was harvesting
a field planted with  Arlequin , a variety classified as superior
bread wheat. “Yields are OK, but protein will be a problem this
year.”  Crop office FranceAgriMer reported 30 percent of the
country’s soft wheat was gathered as of the start of this week.
Based on the progress, it’s too early to draw conclusions about
the entire harvest, Gautier said.  For wheat farmers, the grain-quality worries come as the
French eat less bread. Per-capita consumption fell to about 50
kilograms (110 pounds) a year from 80 kilograms in 1970,
according to statistics institute Insee. In 1880, the average
French citizen ate 220 kilograms of the staple, Health Ministry
data show. Baguettes account for 75 percent of France’s bread
consumption, according to the association of millers ANMF.  Futures Slump  Milling wheat futures traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris dropped
25 percent this year amid an outlook for increased global
production. The contract’s specifications don’t include a
requirement on protein levels.  Wheat  proteins  including gliadins and glutadins partly
determine the baking quality of flour milled from the grain and
can affect the fluffiness of bread. Last year’s soft wheat crop
had an average protein level of 11.4 percent, according to
FranceAgriMer.  Protein in wheat in France’s southwest may be around 10.5
percent this year, Bernard Valluis, vice-president of ANMF, said
by phone on July 30. That could still be enough to make bread
flour for the domestic market, he said.  “It won’t be the harvest of the century, but no
disaster,” Valluis said. “We’re still at levels that allow for
good milling quality. For exports, where there are protein
specifications, there may be a little more difficulty.”  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat importer, seeks at least
11.5 percent protein, while Iraq and Algeria demand 11 percent,
Dijon Cereales says.  Pays de la Loire  “It depends on the country, but below 11 percent it
becomes very, very difficult to export,” said Laurent Druot, a
spokesman for Dijon Cereales. “It shouldn’t drop below that.”  The protein level also appears lower than usual in Pays de
la Loire and Brittany in the west, according to Sebastien
Poncelet, a consultant at Paris-based farm adviser Agritel.  A long winter followed by a cold and wet spring explains
the low protein content, with wheat either unable to absorb
nitrogen or getting too little of the nutrient, said Philippe Gate, scientific director at Paris-based crop researcher
Arvalis-Institut du Vegetal.  Cold weather at the start of grain filling also prompted
plants to create starch rather than protein, he said.  The weather has been similar to 2001, Gate said. Average
protein content for soft wheat was 10.9 percent that season, the
lowest in the past 13 years, FranceAgriMer data show.  ‘Heavy’ Market  “It suggests more feed on a feed market that is already
heavy, and less milling wheat for export to third countries,”
said Poncelet at Agritel.  The world corn harvest may jump 9.7 percent to 942.4
million metric tons this season on a record U.S. crop, while
wheat may rise 5.1 percent to 686.9 million tons as output
rebounds in Russia and Ukraine, the International Grains Council
forecast yesterday.  France’s soft wheat harvest is forecast to climb to 35.9
million tons this year from 35.6 million tons in 2012, according
to FranceAgriMer.  Export potential for this year’s crop will also depend on
quality in rival producers including Russia, Ukraine and
 Romania , according to Poncelet. “If they have problems as well,
we may get away with it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  