-- Bale May Be Let Go for $151Mln Including Morata: Roundup
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-08-01T10:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bale-may-be-let-go-for-151mln-including-morata-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bale Sale  Tottenham Hotspur is willing to let Gareth Bale go to Real
Madrid in a deal worth more than 100 million pounds ($151
million) that would include striker Alvaro Morata, the  Guardian 
reported.  After Tottenham Chairman  Daniel Levy  rejected a world-record 100 million-euro ($132 million) bid for the Welshman last
week, Real offered left-back Fabio Coentrao and winger Angel di Maria.  But it is Morata who is wanted by the London team. The 20-year-old, whose contract expires in 2015, won the Golden Boot as
 Spain  clinched the European Under-21 championship last month.  Chasing Luiz  Barcelona is ready to make a last-ditch effort to sign
Chelsea defender  David Luiz , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Luiz, who signed a long-term contract last year, is also
wanted by  Bayern Munich  even though new Chelsea coach  Jose Mourinho  has said the Brazilian is not for sale.  Barcelona may not offer more than 30 million pounds, 10
million pounds less than Chelsea’s valuation.  Remy for Bent  Newcastle United  is trying to sign Queens Park Rangers
striker Loic Remy after it failed to land  Darren Bent , the  Daily
Telegraph  reported.  The deal for Aston Villa’s Bent collapsed last night after
a meeting between the player and his agent and Joe Kinnear,
Newcastle’s new director of football, the paper said. Bent was
“far from impressed” Kinnear would only offer Villa 2 million
pounds and may now move to Fulham for about 6 million pounds.  Newcastle is the only Premier League club not to make a new
signing during this summer’s transfer window.  Sissoko Scrap  Mali international Momo Sissoko is wanted by both Queens
Park Rangers and Everton, the  Daily Express  reported.  The former Liverpool and Juventus midfielder, who was on
loan at Fiorentina from Paris Saint-Germain last season, may be
available for “a nominal fee,” the paper said.  No Lord Ferguson?  Former Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  turned down
the chance to become a Lord in the U.K. Parliament because he
wants to spend more time with his wife Cathy, the  Daily Mirror 
reported.  The 71-year-old Ferguson, who retired in May, had been a
“distinct possibility” to become a Labour Party peer but
rejected the offer, the paper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  