-- Bangladesh Forces Executed Protesters in ‘Cold Blood,’ HRW Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-08-01T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bangladesh-forces-executed-protesters-in-cold-blood-hrw-says.html
Bangladeshi security forces carried
out executions and killed innocent bystanders in attempting to
quell protests against verdicts by a war crimes tribunal this
year, according to a  report  by Human Rights Watch.  In many cases the police and paramilitary units used non-lethal methods in responding to rallies and violence by
supporters of Islamic parties, the New York-based advocacy group
found. In other instances they resorted to “excessive force,”
shooting demonstrators at close range, and beating others to
death, according to witness testimony.  More than 150 people were killed, including seven children,
and at least 2,000 others were injured in clashes between
February and early May, Human Rights Watch said after
interviewing 95 victims, witnesses, journalists, lawyers and
human rights workers. Police officers were among those who died,
it found.  “Security forces used rubber bullets and live ammunition
improperly or without justification, killing some protesters in
chaotic scenes, and executing others in cold blood,” according
to  the report .  Violence has erupted across  Bangladesh  this year as a war
crimes tribunal reopened wounds that led to the founding of the
country more than four decades ago. With more verdicts expected
and national elections due by January there is a “significant
risk” that Bangladesh could descend into a cycle of violence
and lawlessness, the group said.  Three calls to the office of Home Minister Muhiuddin Khan Alamgir were not answered. Inspector General of Bangladesh
Police Hassan Mahmood Khandker said he was not immediately
available for comment on the report when called on his mobile
phone. Two calls and a message left for Habibur Rahman, a
director at the Rapid Action Battalion, were not returned.  ‘Water Cannons’  Many of those who have been sentenced to death or life in
jail for war crimes this year are leaders of the country’s
biggest Islamic party, Jamaat-e-Islami, which sided with
 Pakistan ’s army in 1971 in a bid to prevent the founding of
Bangladesh. Jamaat, an ally of the main opposition Bangladesh
Nationalist Party, has called the tribunal politically
motivated.  A smaller group called Hefajat-e-Islam gathered tens of
thousands of supporters in Dhaka on May 5 to press its demands,
including capital punishment for blasphemy and a ban on the
mixing of the sexes. Demonstrations by both groups descended
into confrontations with police, the Rapid Action Battalion and
 Border Guard Bangladesh , Human Rights Watch said in today’s
report.  Police Plan  In a May 8 press conference in Dhaka, the city’s Police
Commissioner Benazir Ahmed rejected Hefajat claims that hundreds
died in the May clashes, putting the toll at 11, including a
policeman. Ahmed told reporters that a decision to drive
protesters from the commercial center was taken as police
learned of plans to attack the government secretariat, central
bank and shopping centers.  He said officers used “non-lethal” force to clear
protesters, including “water cannons, and sound, gas and smoke
grenades, and rubber bullets” according to a report in the
 Daily Star  newspaper. Hefajat supporters had ignored requests to
leave the protest venue and the operation was carried out late
at night to avoid harming bystanders, he said.  To avoid further violence the government of Prime Minister
Sheikh Hasina Wajed must put in place procedures where the
freedom of assembly and expression are upheld, the group said in
the 48-page report called “Blood on the Streets: The Excessive
Use of Force During Bangladesh Protests.”  Bystanders Killed  During the May 5-6 Hefajat demonstration, protesters set
fire to shops and office buildings and clashed with police, the
report said. Security forces retaliated with tear gas, rubber
bullets and live fire, it said.  While bystanders were among at least 58 people killed --
shopkeeper Raqibal Huq died of a gunshot wound to the head, the
group found -- most of the victims were Hefajat supporters,
including Sadam Hussein, 20, whose corpse had gunshot wounds and
large cuts to the back, Human Rights Watch said.  An unnamed 25-year-old described how unarmed protesters
sheltering in a mosque were fired on by police at close range as
they came out, the group said. It found no evidence of Hefajat
claims that as many as 3,500 people died in the violence. Seven
members of the security forces were killed.  Hundreds of thousands of protesters have taken to the
streets this year to protest in favor of and against the war
tribunal. The court is investigating atrocities in Bangladesh’s
fight for independence from Pakistan during which, according to
documents submitted during the trials, an estimated 3 million
people were killed and more than 200,000 women were raped.  Tribunal Rulings  The tribunal has so far handed down six verdicts, including
the death sentence to two senior Jamaat leaders. The clashes
have exposed the deep divisions in the country, pitting
supporters of Islamic parties who say the trials are politically
motivated against mainly secularist, middle-class protesters
demanding the death sentence for those guilty of war crimes.  Bangladesh, the world’s eighth most populous country, must
hold elections by January 2014.  “With national elections and more war crimes verdicts
ahead, street protests are likely to be frequent and the risk of
further violence is high,” said Brad Adams, Asia director at
Human Rights Watch. “Unless the government takes firm action to
rein in the security forces, there is going to be a lot more
blood on the streets before the year is over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  