-- Bangladeshi Court Rules Islamic Party Registration Illegal
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h
-- 2013-08-01T09:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bangladeshi-court-rules-islamic-party-registration-illegal-1-.html
A top  Bangladesh  court ruled the
registration of the nation’s biggest Islamic group as a
political party illegal, potentially barring it from contesting
elections and deepening concerns over growing violence.  Today’s verdict by the Dhaka High Court was in response to
a 2009 petition claiming that Jamaat-e-Islami does not believe
in democracy or the sovereignty of Bangladesh. Several of
Jamaat’s leaders have this year been sentenced to jail or death
by a tribunal judging crimes during the country’s war of
independence four decades ago, sparking deadly unrest.  “This is the first step toward banning Jamaat from
politics,” State Minister for Law Qamrul Islam told reporters
in Dhaka after the verdict. Ekattor TV reported that two judges
on a three-judge bench agreed on the illegality, while one
dissented.  Violence has erupted across Bangladesh this year as the war
tribunal reopened wounds that led to the founding of the country
in 1971. With more verdicts expected and national elections due
by January, there is a “significant risk” that Bangladesh
could descend into a cycle of violence and lawlessness,  Human
Rights Watch  said in a report today.  Jamaat sided with  Pakistan ’s army during the independence
conflict in a bid to prevent the founding of Bangladesh. Jamaat,
an ally of the main opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party, has
called the war tribunal politically motivated. Prime Minister
Sheikh Hasina Wajed’s government says it is purely aimed at
righting a historic injustice.  Children Killed  More than 150 people were killed, including seven children,
and at least 2,000 others were injured in clashes between
security forces and supporters of Jamaat and another Islamic
group between February and early May amid protests over the
tribunal’s rulings, Human Rights Watch said. It interviewed 95
victims, witnesses, journalists, lawyers and human rights
workers. Police officers were among those who died, it found.  The Jamaat constitution does not recognize the nation’s
parliament and its legitimate ability to enact laws, according
to the petition, which was filed by members of the Bangladesh
Tariqat Federation, a group which promotes Sufi Islamic beliefs.  Jamaat acknowledges only divine law, the federation argued,
and aims to establish an undemocratic and unconstitutional
regime in Bangladesh.  In 2008, the Election Commission listed Jamaat as a
registered political party in violation of the nation’s
constitution and the Representation of People Order Ordinance, a
set of rules that regulate the activities of political parties,
according to the petition.  “Today’s ruling means Jamaat lost its registration as a
political party,” lawyer Swadhin Malik, who was present in
court, said in comments broadcast live on television. “If the
party wants to take part in the next election, it will have to
seek re-registration from the Election Commission after
reforming its constitution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  