-- Bank of East Asia Profit Jumps 13%, Beats Estimates on Loans
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-08-01T08:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bank-of-east-asia-profit-grows-13-beating-analyst-estimates.html
Bank of East Asia Ltd. ,  Hong Kong ’s
largest family-run lender, said six-month profit rose 13 percent
to a record high, beating analyst estimates of a decline, as
lending growth boosted interest income.  Net income  for the period ended June 30 increased to
HK$3.38 billion ($436 million), or HK$1.43 a share, from HK$2.99
billion, or HK$1.35, a year earlier, the bank said in a
statement today. That exceeded the HK$2.78 billion average
estimate of five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer David Li’s expansion in China,
where Bank of  East Asia  is the country’s second-largest foreign
bank by number of branches after  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA) , contributed
to a 9.3 percent jump in lending in the period.  Shares of the
bank  jumped as much as 3.8 percent after the earnings were
announced, closing at a two-month high.  “The surprise of the earnings mainly comes from better
than expected interest income driven by faster loan growth,
particularly in China,” Grace Wu, an analyst at Daiwa Capital
Markets Hong Kong Ltd., said by phone today. “Loans grew faster
than deposits, which also contributed to the better-than-expected net interest income growth.”  First-half lending climbed to HK$383.2 billion,
accelerating from a 2.7 percent rate a year earlier, the lender
said in the statement. The group’s net interest margin widened
to 1.83 percent, from 1.7 percent in the second half last year.  The stock rose 1.2 percent to close at HK$29.45 in Hong
Kong. The benchmark  Hang Seng  index rose less than 1 percent.  Rising Impairments  Bank of East Asia’s first-half lending in China jumped 16
percent, faster than the 4.6 percent expansion of Hong Kong
lending. Mainland operations reported a 1.6 percent decline in
pretax profit as loan impairment losses jumped 85 percent and
operating expenses rose 15 percent, according to the statement.  The impaired loan ratio at the China unit jumped to 0.43
percent at the end of June from 0.27 percent at the end of last
year, according to the statement. The ratio could surge to more
than 1 percent in a “very stressed” scenario, Deputy Chief
Executive Brian Li said in a press conference today.  Bad loans at the lender’s  China  operations were mainly
concentrated in small and medium-sized enterprises in Zhejiang
and Fujian provinces, Li said.  The bank’s net interest income jumped 23 percent, while net
fee and commission income from operations such as credit cards
and trust services climbed 19 percent to HK$1.98 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  