-- Barclays Joins UBS in Pursuit of African Millionaires
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-08-02T15:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/barclays-joins-ubs-in-pursuit-of-millionaire-clients-in-africa.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  is joining  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  in targeting millionaire clients in Africa as
the continent’s fastest-growing economies swell a rich list
topped by billionaires Aliko Dangote and Johann Rupert.  Barclays Africa Group Ltd., in which the London-based bank
will hold a 62.3 percent stake, is seeking to build on
experience managing wealth in  South Africa  after acquiring eight
African operations previously run by its parent. That expansion
depends on regulators in countries including Kenya, Ghana and
Mauritius, said Chief Executive Officer  Maria Ramos .  “It’s potentially a very exciting opportunity,” Ramos
said in an interview in Johannesburg on July 30.  The number of Africans with at least $1 million of
investable assets climbed 9.9 percent to 140,000 in 2012,
according to a  report  published on June 18 by  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  and
Royal Bank of Canada. That was the fastest rate of increase
outside North America as the economies of countries such as
Nigeria and Ghana grew at more than 5 percent last year.  “It’s a great time for private banking,  wealth management 
and asset management in Africa,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees $53
billion as executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging Markets 
Group, said in an interview on June 28.  About 42 percent of the millionaires in Africa and the
Middle East are prioritizing wealth accumulation, a higher
proportion than in North America, Europe or Asia, the Cap Gemini
report showed.  Wealth Opportunity  UBS, the world’s biggest wealth manager, said in May it
will expand its operations in Africa as economic growth rates
boost demand. The industries contributing most to wealth
creation on the continent include the resources,
telecommunications and consumer industries, according to the
Zurich-based bank.  Africa’s increasing wealth presents an opportunity, said
Donna Oosthuyse, the head of Citigroup in South Africa.  “In our private bank we have officers who are dedicated to
Africa and in our international personal bank,” she said on
July 25. “Just as we see international global companies needing
international capabilities, so do individuals.”  Dangote, Africa’s richest man, is benefiting from the
continent’s economic growth, adding $6.7 billion to his wealth
this year, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . That
lifted the Nigerian, who owns the continent’s biggest cement
producer, to 31st on a global rich list with an estimated net
worth of $21.3 billion, eclipsing the $18 billion of Facebook’s
 Mark Zuckerberg .  African Bull  Economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa is projected to
accelerate to 5.9 percent in 2014 from 5.1 percent this year,
the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  said on July 9.  “The growth means pools of savings are being created
across the continent in counties like Nigeria, Kenya and
Ghana,” said Thabo Khojane, managing director of Investec Asset
Management in Cape Town. “I don’t think Africa’s problems are
solved, but the trend is undoubtedly in the right direction. I’m
an African bull.”  Local and international wealth managers are catching on to
that potential as they seek to bolster earnings that are being
squeezed by tougher regulatory requirements, said Patrice Rassou, head of research at Sanlam Investment Management in Cape
Town.  “South African banks and global banks have been bad in
general in the wealth management market,” Rassou said in an
interview. “The one who could be a game changer is Barclays
Africa -- it has the product set. The demand is there.”  Continental Reach  The merger of Barclays’s assets with what was  Absa Group
Ltd. (ASA)  in South Africa gives Barclays Africa 1,200 branches across
the continent, 45,000 staff, more than 10,000 ATMs and increased
access to the continent’s estimated 128 million consumer
households, Ramos said in a presentation in Johannesburg today.
Using Barclays’s technology instead of developing new systems
means products, including those for wealth management, can be
rolled out “at low cost,” she said.  Barclays Africa will look at developing a presence in
Nigeria, the region’s second-biggest economy, Chief Financial
Officer David Hodnett said in an interview on July 30. The IMF
is forecasting economic growth of 7.2 percent in Nigeria this
year.  Barclays Africa, on its first day of trading under its new
name in Johannesburg, closed 1 percent higher at 142.45 rand. In
 London , Barclays dropped 2 percent to 285.25 pence by 4:18 p.m.,
paring this year’s gain to 8.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  