-- Berlusconi Tax-Fraud Conviction Sets Up Showdown in Senate
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-08-02T15:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/berlusconi-tax-fraud-conviction-upheld-while-office-ban-reviewed.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s conviction for
 tax fraud , upheld late yesterday by  Italy ’s top court, set up a
Senate showdown over his potential expulsion from parliament.  The upper house’s committee for immunities is required to
vote on whether to strip Berlusconi, a three-time premier and
now a senator, of his seat. The debate, which may take weeks or
months, threatens to stoke divisions in the ruling coalition,
weakening Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s government.  “I am absolutely aware of the politically delicate
moment,” Letta said today at a conference in Rome. “I hope
that the collective interests prevail for the good of the
country, the good of Italy, and not the partisan interests.”  The fight over Berlusconi’s fate moves to the political
arena after the court, which confirmed his guilty verdict, left
the sentence for his crime unresolved. Berlusconi was spared the
immediate enforcement of a five-year ban on holding public
office because the court said it required further judicial
review. Berlusconi’s four-year jail sentence, which is
temporarily suspended, is unlikely to land him in prison due to
leniency guidelines.  “This legal matter could have significant political
repercussions given that it is ultimately up to the Senate to
vote on whether or not Berlusconi should be ineligible,”
 Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst with Teneo Intelligence, wrote
today in a research report.  Senate Committee  The Senate committee is required to consider the case due
to a law passed in December under former Prime Minister  Mario Monti . It will hold a preliminary vote prior to a final vote in
the full Senate, which could be a secret ballot, the head of the
committee, Dario Stefano, told Ansa news agency yesterday.  “I think the law must be applied, and from what I
understand there is no margin for discretion,” Letta said.  The divide is deepening within the ruling coalition between
lawmakers loyal to Berlusconi, 76, and those who, like Letta,
have traditionally opposed him. Renato Brunetta, chief whip of
Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party in the lower house, said
the ruling put democracy in Italy in question, and vowed to
rally around the ex-premier. Giuseppe Civati, a lawmaker with
Letta’s  Democratic Party , said it was time to plan “an exit
strategy” from the alliance with Berlusconi.  Yesterday’s ruling was “completely groundless” and
“irresponsible,” Berlusconi said in a video message. His party
will “stay in the field” and seek a majority from Italians,
the former premier said, without giving details.  Cabinet Undersecretary  Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party will continue to
support the government, Nitto Palma, a member of the party in
the Senate, said in a statement. Still, Cabinet Undersecretary
Michaela Biancofiore, a member of the PDL, will resign to
protest the verdict, Ansa reported. Civati said in a message
“we can’t go on like this to infinity.”  Berlusconi may resign from parliament while maintaining
leadership of his party, Maurizio Paniz, a former lawmaker with
the PDL, was cited as saying by Ansa. Berlusconi is scheduled to
meet with PDL lawmakers at 6 p.m. today.  Berlusconi’s three defense lawyers, Franco Coppi,  Niccolo Ghedini  and Piero Longo, said in a statement they would “take
every useful initiative, even at the European level, so that
this unjust sentence is radically changed.” The conviction is
linked to  tax evasion  in the purchase of U.S. film rights for
the ex-premier’s broadcast company  Mediaset SpA. (MS)   The court found that Mediaset evaded 7.3 million euros
($9.6 million) in taxes in 2002-2003, while the PDL said in a
statement last month that the company over the same period had
paid 567 million euros in taxes.  Separate Cases  The billionaire ex-premier is also appealing convictions in
separate cases on paying a minor for sex and illegal
wiretapping. He has denied any wrongdoing, calling the
allegations part of an attempt by prosecutors to destroy his
political career.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield fell 6 basis points to 4.30
percent at 4:29 p.m. in  Rome .  Mediaset, the best performer in
Milan’s benchmark FTSE MIB stock index this year, fell 2.3
percent to 3.29 euros.  The judges yesterday sent the five-year ban from holding
public office, imposed by a court in the original conviction in
October, back to a lower tribunal for review. That followed a
request by Berlusconi’s prosecutor, who said on July 31 that the
lower court erred and the ban should be just three years.  Berlusconi probably won’t be incarcerated for this case,
according to Andrea Castaldo, a criminal lawyer and professor at
the University of Salerno. The four-year prison sentence may be
reduced to one year due to a law against prison overcrowding.
The penalty will probably be revised to community service or
house arrest, due to factors including leniency for criminals
over the age of 70.  Berlusconi has until Oct. 15 to file a request to be
granted an alternative to jail, Ansa reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  