-- Blank Rome, Jackson Lewis, K&L Gates: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-08-01T12:04:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/blank-rome-jackson-lewis-k-l-gates-business-of-law.html
Blank Rome LLP closed its Hong Kong
office July 27 and will consolidate its  Asia  practice in
 Shanghai , the firm said in a statement.  Former Blank Rome Hong Kong office managing partner Kristi Swartz and lawyer Nigel Binnersley joined Bryan Cave LLP as
partners in Hong Kong, according to a July 30 statement by Bryan
Cave. Swartz will practice with the transactions client service
group, while Binnersley will practice with Bryan Cave’s
commercial litigation client service group.  Two additional attorneys who were associates in Blank
Rome’s Hong Kong office have also found employment, according to
the firm.  Blank Rome’s Shanghai office opened in 2011 and has three
lawyers along with support staff. The office focuses mainly on
corporate, litigation, and intellectual property practices, in
particular, on biotech and life science patent work, the firm
said. The firm said the office is also important to its
international maritime law practice.  “After just over two full years of operation, our Shanghai
office has quickly emerged to play a vital role in our ability
to service clients globally, and continues to have a positive
impact on the Firm’s revenues,” Alan J. Hoffman, Blank Rome’s
co-chairman and managing partner, said in a statement.  Asia practice chairman Barry H. Genkin also is resident in
the Philadelphia office.  Blank Rome has nearly 500 lawyers and professionals at 11
offices in the U.S. and Asia.  Dickinson Wright’s Leslee Lewis to Head Grand Rapids Office  Dickinson Wright PLLC named Leslee M. Lewis, the practice
department manager of the firm’s real estate, environmental, and
energy and sustainability practices, as managing partner of the
Grand Rapids, Michigan, office.  Lewis focuses on real estate, banking and financial
services, energy and sustainability, construction, corporate,
emerging business, estate planning and administration, and
mergers & acquisitions, the firm said in a statement.  She is also general corporate counsel to national, regional
and emergent businesses and nonprofits in daily contracts and
affairs, financing and governance.  Dickinson Wright has more than 350 lawyers in the U.S. and
 Canada .  News  Senate Confirms Five to U.S. Labor Board, Averting Shutdown  The Senate confirmed five nominees to the U.S. labor board,
bringing to an end a stalemate that had threatened to shut down
the board as soon as this month.  In separate 54-44 votes July 30, the Senate confirmed
Democrats Nancy Schiffer, a former AFL-CIO associate general
counsel, and Kent Hirozawa, chief lawyer for the board’s
Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce. Nominees Phil Miscimarra and Harry Johnson, lawyers who represent management in labor disputes,
were confirmed by voice vote to fill two Republican seats vacant
since December. Pearce was confirmed 59-38 to a second term.  All five of the panel’s seats will be filled for first time
since President  Barack Obama  took office in 2009.  “I applaud the Senate for putting in place a full board
and look forward to working together on other steps we can take
to grow our economy,” Obama said in an e-mailed statement.  Obama agreed last month to drop the two Democrats he
appointed without Senate confirmation in 2012, substituting
Hirozawa and Schiffer. The swap helped end a stalemate and
allowed confirmation of stalled nominees to other administration
posts.  Schiffer from 2000 to 2012 was general counsel for the AFL-CIO, the federation led by  Richard Trumka  that represents 57
labor unions with 12 million members. Schiffer also worked for
the United Auto Workers Union.  Hirozawa worked at the labor board from 1984 to 1986 as an
attorney in the region that includes New York City. Hirozawa
then was a partner in the New York law firm Gladstein, Reif and
Meginniss LLP, which “is organized around the principal that
workers and their organizations deserve top-quality legal
representation just as much as corporations,” according to its
website. He returned to the board in 2010 a counsel to Pearce.  Johnson is a lawyer with Arent Fox LLP in  Los Angeles  who
practices management-side labor and employment law. Miscimarra
is a partner in the labor and employment group of Morgan Lewis &
Bockius LLP, in Chicago.  For more, click here.  U.K. Police Say Law Firms, Insurers Used Convicted Private Eyes  British police said 22 law firms were among the clients of
four private investigators who were jailed last year for using
illegal methods to get information.  The  Serious and Organised Crime Agency  compiled the list of
clients ahead of the successful prosecution of the private
detectives. It also includes 10 insurance companies, an  oil
company  and eight companies in financial services.  SOCA passed the list to Parliament’s Home Affairs
Committee, asking it not to publish the names because it could
prejudice future investigations, and because it wasn’t saying
any of the companies on its list had broken the law. The
committee published the categories of companies today as a
compromise. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  said the government
will publish plans later today to regulate private
investigators.  “I am very concerned about the role of rogue private
investigators who work at the margins of what is acceptable,”
Clegg told reporters in London. “It is not right to have guns
for hire out of and beyond the usual rules.  Wendi Murdoch Said to Hire New Lawyer in Divorce From Rupert  Wendi Deng Murdoch hired a new attorney, New York lawyer
William D. Zabel, to negotiate her divorce from  News Corp. (NWSA) 
billionaire Rupert Murdoch, a person familiar with the matter
said.  Zabel, of Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP, has represented women
in high-profile divorces including that of former  General
Electric Co. (GE)  Chief Executive Officer  Jack Welch . Zabel didn’t
respond to phone and e-mail messages after regular business
hours seeking comment on the Murdoch case.  Rupert Murdoch, 82, who is ranked 90th on the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index  with a net worth of $11.7 billion, in June
filed for divorce from his third wife in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan, saying their relationship ‘‘has broken down
irretrievably.’’  The hiring of Zabel to replace Pamela M. Sloan of Aronson
Mayefsky & Sloan LLP, who helped Wendi Murdoch negotiate a
prenuptial agreement for her 1999 wedding, was first reported by
the New York Times. Sloan didn’t respond to a voice-mail message
yesterday after regular business hours seeking comment.  Wendi Murdoch, 37 years younger than her husband, made
headlines in 2011 for physically defending him when he gave
testimony at a Parliament hearing over a hacking scandal at his
U.K. newspapers. She leapt up and lunged at a man who had tried
to throw a pie in Murdoch’s face.  The Murdochs, who have two daughters, were married in 1999,
weeks after  Rupert Murdoch ’s divorce from his previous wife,
Anna. His first marriage, to Patricia Booker, ended in 1965. Two
years later, he married a reporter at one of his newspapers,
Anna Torv, and had three children, Elisabeth, Lachlan and James,
all of whom have figured prominently at some point in the
workings of his company.  Wendi Murdoch, 44, came to the U.S. when she was 12 years
old, later attended  California State University  at Northridge
and graduated from  Yale University ’s graduate business program
before joining  News Corp . She met the News Corp. chairman when
she was a junior executive at his Star TV division in Hong Kong.  The case is Murdoch v. Murdoch, 307226/2013, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan.)  Moves  Fraud Task Force Director Bresnick Leaving for Stein Mitchell  Michael Bresnick, executive director of the Financial Fraud
Enforcement Task Force, is joining Stein Mitchell Muse &
Cipollone LLP as a partner in Washington today, the  Justice
Department  said.  ‘‘Under Mike’s leadership, the department’s approach in
identifying -- and combating -- financial fraud has never been
smarter, more systematic, or more effective,” Attorney General
Eric Holder said in a statement.  Bresnick, who has been executive director since October
2011, oversaw efforts to educate consumers about fraud and
prosecute it. Investigations included probes into the packaging
and sale of residential mortgage-backed securities offerings,
according to the government.  Stein Mitchell is a litigation boutique with a focus on
antitrust and trade regulation, commercial litigation,
congressional investigations, white-collar criminal defense,
 False Claims Act  and whistle-blower suits, and medical
malpractice and serious personal injury.  Epstein Becker Lawyer Joins Jackson Lewis in Atlanta  Jackson Lewis LLP announced that Evan Rosen joined the
firm’s Atlanta office as partner. Rosen comes to Jackson Lewis
from Epstein Becker Green PC, where he was a partner and
practiced in the labor and employment and litigation groups.  “Evan’s expertise in both employment law counseling and
litigation, as well as in labor relations, will fit right in
with our talented group of attorneys in Atlanta,” David Gordon,
managing partner in the Atlanta office, said in a statement.  Rosen has more than 10 years of employment law experience,
including litigating and advising clients on discrimination and
harassment matters, wage and hour issues, internal
investigations, affirmative action regulations, independent
contractor classifications, and other matters.  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys practicing in 54 locations
nationwide.  K&L Gates Adds Seattle Partners in Energy, Tax Partners  Three partners joined the Seattle office of K&L Gates LLP,
David L. Benson and David P. Hattery in energy, and Michael S. Kelley in tax. Benson and Hattery join from Stoel Rives LLP.
Kelley, a former member of the firm from 2001 to 2010, rejoins
from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Benson had experience in debt and equity finance, including
tax equity and international transactions, mergers and
acquisitions, joint ventures, and other strategic alliances.  Hattery advises clients, including energy project
developers, contractors, owners, and operators, on the
development, design, construction, and operation of energy
infrastructure projects. He has experience in drafting and
negotiating project development agreements.  Kelley focuses on state and local tax law, advising clients
on matters involving tax planning, credit and incentive
recoveries, audit defense, tax restructurings, and an emphasis
on  Internet sales . He also represents public and private
entities in administrative appeals, superior court, and court of
appeals tax controversies, the firm said.  “Our new partners deliver top-notch legal service in the
energy sector informed by years of experience with many types of
projects and transactions. They are a welcome addition to our
regional, national, and global energy practice,” Philip M. Guess, administrative partner of K&L Gates’ Seattle office, said
in a statement.  K&L Gates has lawyers at 48 offices in the U.S., Asia,
Australia, Europe, the Middle East and South America.  Richard Dreitzer Joins Wilson Elser’s Las Vegas Office  Wilson Elser Moskowitz Edelman & Dicker LLP said Richard
Dreitzer joined the firm’s  Las Vegas  office as a partner. He was
previously at Watt, Tieder, Hoffar & Fitzgerald LLP.  Dreitzer works primarily on labor and employment matters,
but also has handled general civil litigation and construction
practices, representing general contractors, subcontractors and
materials suppliers.  Wilson Elser has almost 800 attorneys in 24 offices in the
U.S.  Video  Stealth Lawyer: Matt Faustman, UpCounsel Co-Founder  Matthew Faustman, co-founder and chief executive officer of
UpCounsel, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about his
transition from practicing law at Latham & Watkins LLP to
creating an online platform where small companies can buy a la
carte legal services from top lawyers.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 