-- Blue Moon Tells Beer Snobs to Drink Up and Show Respect: Retail
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-08-01T20:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/blue-moon-tells-beer-snobs-to-drink-up-and-show-respect-retail.html
MillerCoors LLC has a message for
beer snobs: Blue Moon is an authentic craft brew. So show a
little respect.  Aficionados long ago dubbed Blue Moon an impostor cooked up
by a megabrewer to exploit the explosive growth of artisanal
beer. In recent months, small beermakers have stepped up their
attacks -- calling suds like Blue Moon “crafty” for not
spelling out their corporate parentage. Micro breweries have
reason to be defensive: Blue Moon has grabbed what equals 15
percent of the U.S. craft market, expanded as far as  Japan  and
spawned an  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  knockoff called Shock Top.  After years of quietly building its brand in the shadow of
MillerCoors, Blue Moon is fighting back against the naysayers.
It’s adding more artisanal brews, including a wine hybrid.
Marketing emphasizes the beer’s provenance and Belgian-trained
brewmaster. Blue Moon is even taking credit for helping to
popularize craft.  “We should be proud to make beers that grow and are
popular -- that’s the American way,” MillerCoors Chief
Executive Officer Tom Long said in a interview. “Being small
and unpopular, what’s the utility in that?”  Blue Moon’s decision to confront its critics is a tactical
necessity. The brand is the centerpiece of MillerCoors’ Tenth &
Blake Beer Co., created to capitalize on the rapid growth of
craft and import brews and offset slowing sales of light beers.  Denver-based  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) , half owner of
MillerCoors, rose 1.7 percent to $50.91 at the close while its
other owner, London-based  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , rose 2 percent to 3284
pence.  ‘Crafty’ Beer  The fight over Blue Moon’s legitimacy foamed over late last
year when the Brewers Association, craft’s primary U.S. trade
group, published a blacklist of companies, including
MillerCoors, that didn’t fit its definition of  a “craft
brewer.” The association went on to brand some big beers
“crafty” for excluding parent companies from the label.  Craft brewers are “small, independent and traditional,”
according to the definition. That means they produce less than 6
million barrels a year -- it used to be 2 million until Sam Adams maker  Boston Beer Co. (SAM)  got too big to qualify. They also
must be less than 25 percent owned by a non-craft megabrewer and
meet certain ingredient thresholds.  Freddy Bensch, co-founder of Atlanta-based SweetWater
Brewing Co., says megabrewers are simply trying to cash in
without hewing to the handmade ethos of craft brewers.  Informed Decision  “It’s about empowering the consumer with the ability to
understand who is really making their beer,” Bensch said. “So
they can make an educated and informed decision on who to
support with their hard-earned dollars.”  Large brewers can use their muscle with beer wholesalers to
limit shelf space for small craft brews, according to Bart
Watson, an economist for the Brewers Association.  MillerCoors has lashed out at the blacklist and notions of
what is or isn’t craft. In a CNN.com op-ed, CEO Long defended
the quality of Blue Moon and beers from the company’s Jacob
Leinenkugel Brewing Co. and said such breweries operate
autonomously.  “Blue Moon Brewing Co. has been around long before the
vast majority of craft brewers,” he said in the interview.
“What exactly is crafty about that?”  Which raises a question: Is Blue Moon a good beer?  Revived Category  Even craft brewers such as Sweetwater’s Bensch acknowledge
its merits. Blue Moon is a “great representation of the
style,” he said. “They pretty much single-handedly revived the
white beer category with that beer in the U.S.”  MillerCoors has resisted putting its name on Blue Moon
bottles and has no plans to do so. The brew’s creator, Keith
Villa, said leaving the parent company off the label almost two
decades ago was practical, not expedient.  It mirrored strategies employed by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  for
its specialty brand Lexus and Hallmark Cards Inc. for Shoebox
greetings. Villa also worried consumers might be confused when
the weird, cloudy Blue Moon didn’t look and taste like other
Coors beers.  Many Blue Moon drinkers don’t care where the product comes
from so long as it tastes good, said John Faucher, an analyst
for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in New York. He says Blue Moon is right
to resist the pressure from the “snobby” craft industry.  “What’s the advantage of letting people know that it’s by
MillerCoors?” Faucher said. “The downside is the beer-snob
factor. If there is no upside from doing it, then why take the
risk?”  Brewing Doctorate  Villa, who has a doctorate in brewing from  Belgium  and
tours the world talking about Blue Moon’s pedigree, said the
beer has been instrumental in recruiting consumers into craft
beers, especially Belgian white.  Meanwhile, Blue Moon is adding brand extensions, including
the Graffiti Collection, which includes Pine in the Neck, a
double India pale ale brewed with juniper berries. Specialty
releases include Caramel Apple Spiced and Peanut Butter ales.
Facebook fans helped determine the ingredients for a limited
winter mystery beer due in November.  While still pushing for more transparency, the Brewers
Association has since removed the blacklist from its website.  “It’s not something we’re pushing or promoting,” Watson
said.  Microbrewers have a complex relationship with industry
giants. In October, craft makers will strut their hops at the
annual Great American Beer Festival in Denver. Blue Moon is a
sponsor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  