-- BMW Profit Declines as Spending to Keep Ahead of Audi
-- B y   A n g e l a   M a i e r
-- 2013-08-01T10:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bmw-profit-declines-as-spending-to-keep-ahead-of-audi.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s biggest maker of  luxury vehicles , reported an 8.8
percent drop in second-quarter profit as spending on new models
to stay ahead of competitors offset higher sales.  Investments to expand factories and produce carbon-fiber
parts for its first electric car caused the decline, even as
cost-cutting lifted other European auto manufacturers. Earnings
before interest and taxes fell to 2.07 billion euros ($2.74
billion) from 2.27 billion euros, the Munich-based said today.
Revenue rose 1.8 percent to 19.6 billion euros on a 6.6 percent
gain in car deliveries.  “BMW is the only carmaker in  Europe  who didn’t surprise
positively in the second quarter,” said  Daniel Schwarz , a
Frankfurt-based analyst with Commerzbank AG.  The maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce vehicles is
investing in the battery-powered i3, the new 4-Series coupe and
an upgrade of the X5 sport-utility vehicle. The expansion is
part of the company’s effort to maintain its sales lead over
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, which have
both vowed to pass BMW by the end of the decade and reported
stronger earnings in the second quarter.  BMW  shares  fell as much as 3.1 percent to 71.31 euros and
were down 1.7 percent at 12:06 p.m. in Frankfurt trading, making
it the  worst performer  in  Germany ’s benchmark Dax index. The
stock has declined 0.8 percent this year, valuing the company at
46.6 billion euros.  ‘Dynamic’ Competitors  VW yesterday posted a surprise 1.8 percent increase in
second-quarter operating profit after sales advanced 8.5
percent. Daimler’s second-quarter Ebit more than doubled and the
company forecast second-half gains, backed by the new Mercedes
CLA compact four-door coupe and a new generation of the top-of-the-line S-Class.  BMW’s figures are “slightly disappointing compared to
Volkswagen and Daimler,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Bankhaus Metzler. “VW especially showed
considerably more dynamic.”  BMW spent 2.4 billion euros to upgrade and expand factories
in the first half, 60 percent more than a year ago. Research and
development expenses will exceed the company’s target of 5
percent to 5.5 percent of revenue for all of 2013 after
amounting to 5.3 percent in the first six months.  “We have always taken a long-term approach,” Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said today on a conference
call. “That’s why we are making some major investments right
now to ensure we continue our success in the future.”  Steady Forecast  BMW stuck to a forecast for 2013 pretax profit to be “on a
similar scale” to last year’s 7.82 billion euros, even as sales
rise. With pretax profit about unchanged at 4.04 billion after
the first six months of year, that means essentially flat
earnings in the second half. Daimler and VW are both forecasting
growth for the remainder of 2013.  Gains in  China  and the U.S. have helped BMW sidestep the
effects of the sovereign-debt crisis on Europe’s car market,
which is sliding to a 20-year low. BMW, which doesn’t anticipate
a recovery in demand in its home region before the second half
of 2014, expects deliveries to rise this year for its third
straight annual sales record.  BMW debuted the i3 on July 29 at simultaneous events in  New
York ,  London  and Beijing. Hollywood stars  Sienna Miller  and
 James Franco , Duran Duran singer Simon Le Bon and model Poppy
Delevingne attended the premiere in London.  Rolls-Royce Wraith  The push to sell the electric car and recoup investments in
the technology underpinning the vehicle include an international
print, TV and Internet ad campaign. The i3 will go on sale in
Europe in November and in the U.S. and China next year.  BMW is rolling out 25 new models in 2013 and 2014, with 10
of them, such as the Rolls-Royce Wraith, having no predecessor.
Rivals aren’t standing still. Mercedes is bringing out 13 all-new models by the end of the decade. Audi plans to double its
SUV lineup to six by 2020, a person familiar with the matter
said in February.  Global deliveries of the BMW brand rose 7.7 percent in the
first half to 804,248 cars and SUVs, maintaining a 23,748-vehicle lead over Audi. Mercedes trailed behind in third place,
with 694,433 deliveries.  The second-quarter margin at BMW’s auto division declined
to 9.6 percent from 11.6 percent a year earlier and compares
with a second-quarter operating margin of 9.9 percent at Audi
and 6.4 at Mercedes. BMW reiterated today that Ebit at the auto
division will be in the range of 8 percent to 10 percent of
sales this year.  “Challenges are what drive us,” said Reithofer. “We
intend to remain the industry leader.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Maier in Munich at 
 amaier8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  