-- BofA Faces More U.S. Claims on Jumbo Mortgage Deals, CDOs
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-08-02T14:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bofa-says-doj-sec-may-seek-sanctions-over-jumbo-loan-securities.html
Bank of America Corp.  said federal
and state agencies plan to press more civil claims tied to
mortgage and debt offerings, signaling the firm faces another
round of legal battles tied to home loans and underwriting.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and Securities and Exchange
Commission may bring  civil claims  on securitizations backed by
jumbo mortgages, the bank said yesterday in a regulatory  filing .
The SEC also could take action on Merrill Lynch’s sales of
collateralized debt obligations and  New York ’s attorney general
may bring claims against Merrill over residential mortgage-backed instruments, the firm said.  A new set of lawsuits could hinder Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan ’s effort to end fallout from the 2008 credit
crisis and purchases of Countrywide Financial Corp. and Merrill
Lynch & Co. The bank has already spent more than $45 billion on
litigation, settlements and refunds to investors tied to shoddy
mortgages and servicing.  “It’s like they’ve stepped in something that they can’t
get off their foot; they’re having a hard time shaking off the
activities that helped cause the financial crisis,” said  Mark
Williams , a former Federal Reserve bank examiner who teaches
risk management at  Boston University .  Making Progress  Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender by assets,
has said it received subpoenas and other information requests
regarding mortgage securities and CDOs created during the
 housing boom . Jumbo mortgages are loans larger than those
allowed in government-supported programs, currently as much as
$729,750 for single-family properties in high-cost areas.  The lender fell 0.9 percent to $14.82 at 10:06 a.m. New
York  trading , leading decliners in the 24-company KBW Bank
Index. The firm is in discussions with regulators “to explain
why the threatened civil charges are not appropriate,” the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm said in the filing.  Moynihan is cutting expenses amid tepid revenue growth. A
$1 billion drop in noninterest spending in the second quarter
was driven by litigation costs that fell by half to $471
million, helping the bank post a 63 percent rise in profit. The
bank spent $4.2 billion on litigation for all of last year and
$5.6 billion in 2011, according to  regulatory filings .  “We’ve made progress resolving many issues and will
continue to work to address any outstanding matters,” said
 Larry DiRita , a Bank of America spokesman. Florence Harmon of
the SEC, Adora Jenkins of the  Justice Department  and Damien LaVera, a spokesman for New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, declined to comment.  Task Force  Regulators may be pushing for action as a five-year statute
of limitations on cases approaches. SEC investigators have also
signed so-called tolling agreements with executives and banks to
extend the timeframe on those inquiries.  Schneiderman, who co-leads a  task force  created to
investigate misconduct in the bundling of  mortgage loans  into
securities, accused Credit Suisse Group AG of deceiving buyers
of the investments in a complaint he filed in November. Zurich-based Credit Suisse said at the time that Schneiderman’s claim
was baseless and that the company would defend itself in court.  UBS AG,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, is poised to settle SEC
claims that it misled investors in a 2007 mortgage-bond deal
that soured as housing prices collapsed, a person with knowledge
of the matter said this week. The bank will pay less than $60
million, the person said.  There has been a string of cases involving CDOs beginning
with an SEC lawsuit against Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in 2010. A
New York jury found  Fabrice Tourre , the Goldman Sachs vice
president who worked on the deal known as Abacus, liable on six
of seven claims yesterday.  In a separate matter, Bank of America said it will record a
$1.1 billion charge to income-tax expense stemming from a 3
percent reduction in the U.K. corporate tax rate to 20 percent.
While this will benefit the company in future years, the lower
rate also affects the value of deferred-tax assets, according to
the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  