-- BofA Argues Against Class-Action Loan Modification Suit
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-08-01T18:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bofa-argues-against-class-action-loan-modification-suit.html
Bank of America Corp.  asked a federal
judge to reject homeowners’ effort to sue the bank over its
failure to modify  mortgage loans  as a class-action case.  The second-biggest U.S. lender by assets today urged U.S.
District Judge Rya Zobel in Boston to deny the borrowers’
request to pursue the case as a group, which would give them
greater leverage in the litigation.  “What was brought as a series of lawsuits has been reduced
to desperate attempts to seek certification by any means,” Bank
of America lawyer James W. McGarry told the judge, referring to
certifying the case as a class action.  Bank of America, based in Charlotte,  North Carolina , is
being sued by homeowners who claim the company didn’t comply
with a government program aimed at modifying mortgage loans
called the Home Affordable Modification Program.  The borrowers claim the bank first granted temporary
modifications, then ordered employees to stall, lie to customers
and falsify documents. They cite statements in court documents
by former Bank of America employees who said they were rewarded
with cash bonuses and gift cards for sending applicants into
foreclosure.  “We can prove the bank had a companywide plan to delay the
decision because they didn’t want to grant these
modifications,”  Steve Berman  of the  law firm  Hagens Berman
Sobol Shapiro LLP told the judge.  The homeowners claim they made the required payments under
the program and didn’t receive permanent modifications. Experts
for the borrowers estimate that 300,000 would qualify for the
proposed class, Berman said.  McGarry argued the case is unsuitable for a class action.
He said borrowers’ responses to Bank of America’s requests for
documentation of income and employment varied widely and require
individual cases.  The case is In Re Bank of America Home Affordable
Modification Program (HAMP) Contract Litigation, 10-md-02193,
U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in federal court in Boston
at  jmlawrence@me.com ;
 David McLaughlin  in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 