-- Bourse Crash Seen Triggered by Regulator Vacuum: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w ,   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-08-02T11:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bourse-crash-seen-triggered-by-regulator-vacuum-corporate-india.html
Indian brokers said a lack of
oversight allowed the nation’s biggest spot commodity exchange
to stretch settlement dates, prompting a government clampdown
that sparked a two-day, 73 percent crash in its parent’s shares.  The  National Spot Exchange Ltd.  suspended some contracts
after the government on July 14 asked the bourse not to start
new obligations until further notice. The NSEL broke rules by
allowing settlement longer than 11 days and permitting sale of
goods traders didn’t keep in its warehouses, according to the
Forward Markets Commission, which regulates futures trading.  “There was some leeway in the rules,” Harish Galipelli,
head of commodities and currencies at JRG Wealth Management
Pvt., said in an interview from the southern city of Hyderabad.
“The argument NSEL was following was that the contract takes
place now and delivery takes place after 20 days.”  Regulators globally are expanding scrutiny of markets from
power to metals after banks rigged the London interbank offered
rate, a benchmark for $300 trillion of global interest-rate
contracts. The suspension by the Indian exchange followed two
weeks of communication between the NSEL and authorities, and
prompted the government to ask the FMC to oversee a settlement
between the brokers and the exchange.  “The exchange was allowing short selling by its members by
not insisting that the goods sold on their platform be kept in
their warehouses,” Ramesh Abhishek, chairman of the FMC, said
in an interview to Bloomberg TV  India . “This is contrary to the
government’s conditions” for spot exchanges, he said.  ‘Financial Liability’  Shares of parent  Financial Technologies (India) Ltd. (FTECH) , an
operator of exchanges,  plunged  23 percent to 147.5 rupees,
extending yesterday’s 65 percent crash. The move by the NSEL
doesn’t “entail any financial liability” on the Blackstone
Group LP-backed Financial Technologies, founder Jignesh Shah
said in a statement yesterday.  Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd. (RCAPT) , the country’s
second-biggest money manager with $16.5 billion in assets, sold
1.19 million shares of Financial Technologies yesterday,
exchange filings show. The fund  held  2.27 million shares, or
4.94 percent of the company, as of June 30, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Financial Technologies’  profit  fell 14 percent to 2.27
billion rupees in the year ended March 31. NSEL accounted for 56
percent of the exchange operator’s net income, according to
exchange filings.  Financial Technologies  also owns 26 percent of
 Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. , the nation’s biggest
commodity futures bourse. Shares of the company, which counts
NYSE Euronext as an investor, plunged by the 20 percent limit
for a second day to 408.5 rupees.  Electronic Platform  The FMC will “seek information from the NSEL regarding the
rationale” to suspend contracts, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said
in a statement yesterday.  NSEL provides an electronic platform for farmers and
traders to buy and sell commodities with compulsory delivery.
The obligations are single-day trading contracts resulting in
compulsory delivery, according to NSEL’s website.  “Trading will resume when the government clarifies or
issues new guidelines,” Anjani Sinha, chief executive officer
of the NSEL, which traded 185 billion rupees ($3 billion) of
goods in June, said in an interview yesterday. “The government
said that let us decide the new rules because of the ambiguity
in the regulatory framework.”  ‘No Takers’  The exchange, which began operations in 2008, on July 23
reduced the settlement to 11 days before halting the contracts
on July 31. The reduction meant “there weren’t any takers for
the financing activities,” which led to the suspension of
contracts, said Deena Mehta, managing director of Asit C. Mehta
Investment Interrmediates Ltd., which funded investors trading
on the NSEL. “Enough time was not provided to unwind.”  NSEL accounts for more than 98 percent of the country’s
electronic spot market in commodities, according to its website.
Physical raw-material bourses operate separately from futures
exchanges in India.  The International Organization of Securities Commissions, a
Madrid-based group representing regulators from more than 100
countries, set tougher guidelines July 17 for publishing
benchmarks for everything from raw materials to equities.  In India, the stock market regulator tightened disclosure
norms for  hedge funds  last month, while the FMC in 2012 clamped
down on excessive speculation in the futures market. The
commodities futures regulator will look at the feasibility of
the plan and oversee the process of settlement, Abhishek said.
The NSEL assured to meet its obligations in a meeting with
brokers body today, Deven Choksey, managing director at K.R.
Choksey Shares & Securities, said by phone from Mumbai.  Government departments are passing the “buck to the FMC
and the FMC once again passes the buck to the government of
India saying that we are not the regulator,” Kirit Somaiya of
Investors’ Grievance Forum, which represents retail investors,
said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India. “Who is going to
investigate and act?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  