-- Brazil Summons IMF Rep Home After Abstention on Greece Debt Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-08-01T20:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/brazil-summons-imf-rep-home-after-abstention-on-greece-debt-vote.html
Brazil  is calling home its
International Monetary Fund representative who went against the
government and abstained from a vote to lend more to Greece,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today.  The minister asked Paulo Nogueira Batista to return home
and discuss why he abstained without consulting Brazil’s
government, Mantega told reporters in Brasilia, adding the
representative will keep his job. Mantega spoke with IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  today, expressed support for
the latest disbursement under a joint IMF-euro area loan, and
said Batista spoke without authorization from the government.  The IMF’s board on July 29 approved the release of 1.72
billion euros ($2.27 billion) to Greece, three days after the
nation obtained 2.5 billion euros from euro-area governments as
part of their rescue package. One of the conditions for the IMF
funds was carrying forward a plan to dismiss 4,200 state
employees.  Greece  is being subjected to a “draconian
adjustment,” Batista wrote July 31 in a statement.  “Given the negative effects of the policies imposed on
Greece and its population, the program ends up bringing risks to
the integrity of the IMF,” Batista wrote in the statement,
speaking on his own behalf and not that of the 11 countries he
represents. “It is important that the Fund prepare a new
program for Greece, with better conditions, so as to allow the
country to emerge from the crisis.”  Greece’s debt burden is almost double the average of the
17-nation euro area, according to the European Union’s
statistics office on July 22. First-quarter debt stood at 160.5
percent of gross domestic product. The cost of protecting Greek
dollar-denominated government bonds against losses for five
years has risen 126 basis points over the past month, the most
of any nation in the world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  