-- Brazil June Industrial Output Rises More Than Analysts Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-08-01T12:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/brazil-june-industrial-output-rises-more-than-analysts-forecast.html
Brazil ’s industrial production
increased more than economists forecast, as greater output of
capital goods helped spur activity in the second-largest
emerging market.  Industrial output jumped 1.9 percent in June after dropping
a revised 1.8 percent in May, the national statistics agency
said today in Rio de Janeiro. The increase was more than
predicted by all but one of 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
whose median  estimate  was for a 1.3 percent rise. Production
rose 3.1 percent from the  year  before, up from 1.4 percent in
May.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has struggled to
revive industry, which has contracted in five of the past 12
months, with payroll tax cuts and reduced electricity rates.
Brazil’s real this week touched a four-year low against the
dollar, which helps exporters while posing challenges for
domestic manufacturers that compete with imports. The government
will announce today a decision not to renew import tariffs on
more than 100 products including steel to help stem inflation,
according to an official who asked not to be named because the
measure has not yet been made public.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose four basis point, or 0.04
percentage point, to 9.63 percent at 9:36 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.2734 per  U.S. dollar . The
currency has declined 9.8 percent this year.  Growth Forecast  Industrial production rose in 22 of the 27 sectors
monitored in the month. Capital goods output increased 6.3
percent from the previous month and 18 percent year-on-year.  Economists in the most recent central bank weekly survey
held their 2013 growth and inflation forecasts at 2.28 percent
and 5.75 percent, respectively. They forecast the real will
trade at 2.25 per dollar at year-end, up from the previous
week’s estimate of 2.24.  “The currency is at a good level,” Mauro Borges,
president of the Brazilian Agency of Industrial Development,
told reporters in Brasilia yesterday. “We think it improves
industrial competitiveness very much.”  Brazil’s central bank accelerated the pace of interest rate
increases in May in a bid to slow inflation that is hurting
economic growth. The bank has increased its benchmark Selic rate
by 125 basis points since April. Inflation decelerated to 6.4
percent in the year through mid-July, back within the central
bank’s target range of 4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  