-- Brazil Swap Rates Surge on Industrial Output Gain; Real Declines
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-08-01T21:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/brazil-swap-rates-rise-on-industrial-output-gain-real-declines.html
Brazil ’s swap rates climbed the most
in six weeks as higher industrial production spurred speculation
that the central bank will sustain the pace of increases in
borrowing costs to curb inflation.  Swap rates due in January 2015 rose 25 basis points, or
0.25 percentage point, to 9.84 percent in Sao Paulo, the biggest
increase since June 18. The real dropped 1.2 percent to 2.3042
per  U.S. dollar , the weakest level since March 2009.  Industrial output rose 1.9 percent in June from a month
earlier, exceeding the 1.3 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers raised the  target lending
rate  by a half-percentage point July 10 to 8.50 percent, the
third advance this year. The central bank said in minutes of the
meeting that it is appropriate to maintain the pace of increases
in borrowing costs to curb inflation.  “The increase in industrial production put the economy on
a path for higher growth in the second quarter,” Carlos Kawall,
the chief economist at Banco J. Safra in  Sao Paulo , said in a
telephone interview.  The real declined after U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly
dropped to a five-year low, reviving concern that the  Federal
Reserve  will start curtailing monetary stimulus this year. The
real climbed yesterday after the Fed said it would maintain the
program of monthly bond purchases that has supported emerging-market assets.  The real has tumbled 13 percent in the past three months,
the biggest drop among 24 emerging-market dollar counterparts. A
weaker currency makes imports more expensive and threatens to
further fuel inflation, which helped spark nationwide street
protests in June.  The government will cut import tariffs on basic materials
from steel to textiles to improve competitiveness and help ease
price increases, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters
today in Brasilia.  Brazil reported a July trade deficit of $1.9 billion. The
median estimate by economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a
surplus of $400 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  