-- Britain Pledges $100 Million for Offshore Wind Industry
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-08-01T15:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/britain-pledges-100-million-for-offshore-wind-industry.html
The U.K., the world’s largest
offshore-wind market, pledged funds to increase jobs in the
industry sevenfold in a bid to spur economic recovery.  The government will commit 66 million pounds ($100 million)
to expand the offshore-wind supply chain and finance research to
curb costs, according to a strategy by Deputy Prime Minister
 Nick Clegg  and Energy Secretary  Ed Davey . The industry growth
may add 7 billion pounds a year to the economy by 2020.  While Britain has more offshore wind-power capacity than
the rest of the world put together, none of the turbines are
made domestically. The government is trying to ease reliance on
equipment imports by expanding its domestic supply chain. The
industry could employ 30,000 people in 2020, up from 4,000, the
Department for Business said in an e-mailed statement.  “We want to make sure British companies will be able to
compete more effectively to get a much bigger slice of that
cake,” Davey said today in a phone interview from Grimsby,
eastern  England  where he and Clegg opened the 270-megawatt Lincs
wind farm off the coast.  As part of the plans, ministers will set up an Offshore
Wind Investment Organization to attract investment. They’ll
require developers of offshore wind farms above a certain size
to submit a supply-chain plan before applying for guaranteed
electricity payments under contracts set up by the government.  “We won’t stipulate it has to be U.K. content,” Davey
said. “What we do want to see is companies, before they apply
for a contract, showing they have thought through the supply
chain properly.”  Canceled Factories  The U.K. had almost 3,000 megawatts of  wind turbines 
installed at sea at the end of 2012, compared with a global
total of 5,410 megawatts, according to the Global Wind Energy
Council. The European Wind Energy Association said in July that
 project financing  had slowed because of regulatory uncertainty.  Manufacturers of offshore wind turbines including Siemens,
which has the most turbines at sea,  Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM) 
and Samsung Heavy Industries Co. plan to build U.K. factories.  South Korea’s Doosan Power Systems Ltd. last year canceled
a 170 million-pound plan to build offshore turbines in  Scotland ,
while  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  shelved a proposed offshore-turbine factory in southeast England, citing a lack of clarity
in the government’s subsidy plans.  The government provided some clarity on June 27 when it
announced draft strike prices, or guaranteed payments for power,
that offshore wind developers will get from next year to 2019.
The level was set at 155 pounds a megawatt-hour from next year,
or about triple current prices, declining to 135 pounds in 2018.
That compares with the U.K.’s goal of getting the cost of energy
of offshore wind down to 100 pounds a megawatt-hour by 2020.  Stopped Short  At the same time, the government has rowed back on its
ambitions for the technology. In 2011, ministers said they were
targeting 18 gigawatts of installed capacity by 2020. Two weeks
ago, under a new plan for low carbon infrastructure, the central
scenario assumed that the goal would be reached a decade later.  Ministers have also stopped short of announcing a target to
largely decarbonize power generation by 2030 that Vestas has
lobbied for along with Siemens, Gamesa,  Areva SA (AREVA) , Mitsubishi
Power Systems Europe Ltd. and Alstom SA. Under an energy bill
being debated by lawmakers, a goal may be set in 2016.  Clegg and Davey announced their latest strategy today as
they opened the Lincs wind farm, a  project  led by  Centrica Plc (CNA) 
along with Denmark’s Dong Energy A/S and a unit of  Germany ’s
 Siemens AG. (SIE)   “This document is a blueprint for green-collar  job
creation ,” Maria McCaffery, chief executive officer of the
RenewableUK lobby group, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  