-- German Notes Drop as Draghi Damps Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-08-01T16:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/bunds-rise-before-ecb-meeting-as-fed-flags-low-inflation-risk.html
German two-year notes erased an
advance as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
recent economic indicators signaled the euro region is through
the worst of its economic slump.  Ten-year government bunds pared a gains after Draghi’s
comments damped speculation the central bank would take
additional measures to reduce borrowing costs, even as he
pledged to keep  interest rates  low for an extended period.
European bonds pared intraday gains as Treasuries tumbled after
U.S. initial claims for unemployment insurance fell and a gauge
of manufacturing rose.  Spain ’s bonds climbed as the nation
exceeded its maximum target at a debt sale.  “The main reason for the market disappointment is simply
that the forward guidance is undermined at this meeting because
the ECB did not discuss a rate cut,” said  Peter Chatwell , a
fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Corporate &
Investment Bank in  London . “The market was looking for
something more at this meeting, either more transparency in the
forward guidance, or something more tangible on when or how
minutes will be produced.”  Germany ’s two-year note yields were little changed at 0.15
percent at 5 p.m. London time. The price of the zero percent
security due June 2015 was at 99.71. Benchmark  10-year yields 
were at 1.67 percent after dropping as much as eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point.  Becoming Positive  The ECB kept its benchmark rate at a record-low 0.5
percent, a decision predicted by all except one of 63 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Following the decision, Draghi
pledged to keep interest rates low, citing subdued inflation and
a weak economy. He also said that sentiment indicators showed
signs of stabilization.  “They are becoming more positive on the normalization of
financial markets and that’s filtering through into the real
economy,” Elwin de Groot, senior market economist at Rabobank
Nederland in Utrecht, the Netherlands, said of ECB policy
makers. “Of course the market could read a positive signal in
that if they are more confident about policy working its way
through, then perhaps there’s no necessity of increasing the
monetary accommodation.”  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes climbed 11 basis points
to 2.69 percent as a report showed applications for  unemployment
insurance  payments declined by 19,000 to 326,000 in the week
ended July 27, the fewest since January 2008. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s manufacturing index increased to 55.4 in
July from 50.9 a month earlier.  U.S. payrolls increased by 185,000 in July and the jobless
rate fell to 7.5 percent from 7.6 percent, according to separate
economist surveys before the Labor Department report tomorrow.  Spanish Auction  Spain’s bonds rose after the nation auctioned 3.2 billion
euros of notes due in July 2016 and October 2018, exceeding its
maximum target of 3 billion euros.  The yield on 10-year bonds fell three basis points to 4.62
percent, while those on five-year notes dropped four basis
points to 3.28 percent.  Volatility on Italian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Spain and  Belgium , according
to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between two- and
10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German bunds lost 1.3 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italian securities
returned 2.9 percent and Spain’s rose 6.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  