-- Calpine Curbs Buybacks as Leverage Increases: Corporate Finance
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-08-01T14:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/calpine-curbs-buybacks-as-leverage-increases-corporate-finance.html
Rising natural-gas prices are curbing
 Calpine Corp. (CPN) ’s ability to fund stock buybacks as a drop in
earnings for the U.S. electricity generator that uses the most
of the fuel pushes leverage to the highest point since 2008.  Natural gas has increased 81 percent from a decade low last
year, boosting demand for electricity from cheaper coal-powered
plants. Houston-based Calpine reported lower second-quarter
earnings last week on cooler-than-forecast weather in Texas,
revealing that leverage climbed to 6.7 times, up from 5.5 times
in 2009 a year after exiting bankruptcy protection, according to
debt research firm CreditSights Inc.  Calpine, which used up $1 billion of stock  buyback 
authorizations last quarter and hasn’t instituted a new one, has
had negative free-cash flow in five of the last six quarters,
leaving it without earnings to finance repurchases. Buybacks
remain “an integral part of our capital allocation,” Chief
Financial Officer Zamir Rauf said on a July 25 conference call
to discuss the latest earnings with analysts and investors.  “The lack of another buyback is clearly due to the
leverage spike,”  Andy DeVries , an analyst at New York-based
CreditSights, said in a telephone interview. Leverage, the ratio
of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, “is above where I’d like to see it.”  Most Leverage  A Calpine employee responding to a call to spokeswoman
Norma Dunn said the company wouldn’t comment on its finances.  The company, which has the highest ratio of debt to equity
among U.S. electricity producers with at least $500 million in
obligations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, has seen
its shares decline 5.56 percent since the second quarter while
companies in the Russell 1000 Utilities Index rose 2.99 percent.  The power generator, which has $5.3 billion in  obligations ,
has trailed peers in the bond market, with its securities
returning 1.2 percent this year, compared with a 2 percent gain
for companies in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Cash Pay
High Yield Utility index.  Free cash flow is money available to retire debt, reward
shareholders with buybacks and dividends, or reinvest in the
business.  The company’s $1.1 billion of 7.875 percent, first-lien
notes due in January 2023 traded at 109.4 cents on the dollar to
yield 6.5 percent yesterday, or 5.09 percentage points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, according to Bloomberg prices.  Weak Demand  Calpine is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service and has
equivalent B+ grades at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. The
single-B tier denotes companies that have the ability to meet
their debt-service requirements as long as economic conditions
remain favorable.  Power companies that sell electricity in competitive
markets have been stung by weak demand and a plunge in prices in
the wake of the 2008 economic slump. Dallas-based Energy Future
Holdings Corp., the biggest power supplier in  Texas , which was
taken private in the largest leveraged buyout in history, is in
talks to restructure about $40 billion in debt after struggling
to generate profits. Power producer Dynegy Inc. emerged from
bankruptcy protection last year.  Calpine’s natural-gas generators are running less often
since the fuel’s price climbed. Second-quarter adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell 14.9
percent to $343 million on thinner margins because of higher gas
prices and weaker demand, the company said July 25. It cut the
top end of its full-year outlook to $1.875 billion last week
from $1.96 billion in November.  Texas Weather  “The weak quarter was largely the result of Calpine’s
hedging strategy, which bet on higher summer prices in Texas,”
Paul Fremont, a New York-based analyst for Jefferies, said in a
July 25 research note.  Calpine is the third-largest power producer in Texas, where
prices fell in the second quarter because of mild weather and
increased wind generation, Fremont said. Jefferies cut its 2013,
2014 and 2015 earnings forecast for the company by $50 million
per year. Energy Future Holdings, the former TXU Corp., is the
largest Texas power generator, followed by NRG Energy Inc.  Power generated from natural gas has declined on higher
prices that have increased to $3.452 per million British thermal
units, up from a decade low $1.907 in April 2012. That’s spurred
demand for coal-fired electricity. Coal fueled 37 percent of
U.S. power generation in May, up from 34 percent a year ago,
according to U.S. Energy Information Administration data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries. Natural gas made up 26 percent
of power production in May, down from 32 percent a year ago.  Coal Price  Gas costs set energy prices in most industrial markets
because plants fueled by it usually provide the marginal power
needed to meet demand. The decline that culminated in the lowest
price since 2002 dragged down coal, which cost as much as $130 a
ton five years ago for Central Appalachian, the principal fuel
for U.S. electricity generation, and ended yesterday at $53.49
in New York, a 5.5 percent decline since the low for natural
gas, Bloomberg data show.  Without any coal-fired plants, Calpine is more susceptible
to rising natural-gas prices than its competitors.  Weak growth and a supply surplus probably will keep energy
costs down, restraining profits for the unregulated utility and
power industry, Moody’s said in a July 30 report.  “It’s highly leveraged today, but we see it improving,”
Shalini Mahajan, an analyst for Fitch, said in a telephone
interview.  Leverage will improve as Calpine brings two new gas plants
online in  California  this year that have long-term contracts to
sell power to utilities. Calpine is adding generation next year
in Texas, where power prices are expected to climb.  ‘Shareholder Friendly’  Fitch expects the company’s leverage to fall to 4.5 times
in 2017 from about 6 this year.  Calpine, founded in 1984, was created to compete for
electricity sales with former local utility monopolies as the
U.S. power business was deregulated. The company suffered after
the 2001 collapse of Enron Corp. and a glut of new plants caused
power prices to fall, forcing it to enter bankruptcy protection
in 2005. It emerged in 2008 and has operations in California,
and the U.S. Northeast and Southeast in addition to Texas.  In September, Calpine squandered goodwill it had built up
with bondholders since bankruptcy by seeking to exercise a call
option that would allow it to retire some of its debt before
maturity. Investors responded by boycotting a note sale meant to
finance the purchases at lower interest rates, leaving the
company to get the money with an $835 million first-lien loan.  “They’ve moved toward emphasizing shareholder-friendly
activities such as the share repurchase programs,” Peter Thornton, a Los Angeles-based analyst for KDP Investment
Advisors Inc., said in a telephone interview. “There doesn’t
seem to be any significant inclination to move leverage lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  