-- Canada Planning to Sell Stake in General Motors
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-08-01T16:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/canada-planning-to-sell-stake-in-general-motors.html
Canada ’s government has begun a
search for investment banks to sell its stake in  General Motors
Co. (GM) , a person familiar with the matter said.  The government hasn’t decided on the timing of any sale,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
plans aren’t public.  Sky News  reported yesterday that Canada has
asked investment banks to make pitches in coming days for the
share-sale mandate.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in December Canada
doesn’t intend to be a long-term shareholder in Detroit-based
GM. The federal and Ontario governments together  hold  140
million common shares, or a 10 percent stake, valued at $5.1
billion at the current stock price, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Canada is the third-largest shareholder, behind
the  U.S. Treasury  and the GM-UAW Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
Association.  “The government of Canada remains committed to exiting
from ownership of GM as quickly as feasible, while maximizing
the value of the government’s interests for Canadian
taxpayers,” Kathleen Perchaluk, a spokeswoman for Flaherty,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Initial Offering  In December, GM said the U.S. Treasury planned to sell its
entire holding in the automaker within 15 months. GM, whose
stock has gained 11 percent following an initial public  offering 
in November 2010 that raised more than $20 billion at $33 per
share, rose 1.7 percent to $36.48 at 11:52 a.m. in  New York  and
has gained 27 percent this year.  Canada GEN Investment Corp., the agency that oversees the
holdings for the two Canadian governments, had hired investment
bank Rothschild Canada Ltd. to advise on the GM holdings. Two-thirds of Canada’s  stake  is held by the federal government and
one-third by the Ontario government.  Canada and the province of Ontario agreed to invest $9.5
billion in GM as part of the car company’s bailout in 2009. They
sold 35 million of their 175 million shares in the IPO.  David Drinkwater, chairman of Rothschild Canada in Toronto,
didn’t respond to a phone call seeking comment. Andrew
Chornenky, a spokesman for Ontario Finance Minister Charles
Sousa, didn’t immediately reply to phone calls seeking comment.  “Like any shareholder, it is their decision on when to
sell their shares in our company,” said  Tom Henderson , a GM
spokesman in  Detroit  for the largest U.S. automaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  