-- Canada Dollar Drops Most in 5 Weeks on Outlook for Fed Tapering
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-01T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/canadian-dollar-falls-on-fed-speculation-before-u-s-jobs-report.html
The Canadian dollar fell the most in
five weeks on speculation a projected drop in the U.S. jobless
rate last month may bolster the case for the  Federal Reserve  to
slow monetary stimulus in Canada’s biggest trade partner.  The currency weakened as data showed applications for
jobless benefits in the U.S. unexpectedly fell to a five-year
low and manufacturing rose. The U.S. dollar gained versus 16
major peers. Data due tomorrow are forecast to show the U.S.
 jobless rate  declined to 7.5 percent last month, from 7.6
percent, according to a Bloomberg survey. Canada reported
yesterday its economy grew more slowly in May than forecast.  “Investors are paying more attention to this impressive
string of data out of the U.S.,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst
at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of Western Union
Co., said in a telephone interview from  Washington . “Investors
see a positive case still for a taper in Fed policy as early as
next month.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.7
percent, the most on a closing basis since June 21, to C$1.0346
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie purchases 96.66
U.S. cents.  The Australian dollar, the currency of a fellow
commodities-exporting country, reached a three-year low against
its Canadian counterpart amid speculation the South Pacific
nation’s central bank will cut  interest rates  next week. The
Aussie touched 91.72 Canadian cents, the weakest since July
2010, before trading little changed at 92.36 cents.  July Gain  Canada’s dollar climbed 2.4 percent in July against the
greenback in the biggest gain since October 2011 as the price of
oil, the nation’s largest export, gained the most since August
2012. Futures on crude rose 8.8 percent last month.  “The trend in the crude-oil price is probably more than
anything what drove that rally through July,” David Doyle, a
strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets, said by telephone from
Toronto. “The data has been better out of the  United States 
over the past few days than it was over the middle of the
month.”  Crude futures advanced 2.7 percent today to $107.81 per
barrel in  New York . Stocks climbed, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gaining 1.3 percent.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. peer rose to a three-week high. The three-month
so-called 25-delta risk reversal rate advanced to 1.4 percent,
the most on a closing basis since July 10. Risk reversals
measure the premium on options contracts to sell Canadian
dollars versus buying U.S. contracts that do the opposite.  Bonds Drop  Canada ’s government bonds fell, pushing the benchmark  10-year security ’s yield up nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage
point, to 2.55 percent. The yield touched 2.59 percent
yesterday, the highest level on an intraday basis since August
2011. The price of the 1.5 percent debt due in June 2023 dropped
78 cents today to C$90.98.  The loonie extended its loss as the U.S. dollar gained
versus most major peers after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  told reporters following a policy meeting that
officials expect interest rates in the region to stay low for an
extended period.  The  Bank of England  also maintained stimulative policy
measures at a meeting today.  Canada’s currency “is down against a generally stronger
dollar,”  Adam Cole , head of Group of 10 currency strategy in
 London  at Royal Bank of Canada, said by phone. “I suspect the
market is priced for a decent payrolls release. The data have
been close to expectations most months recently.”  Employment Growth  Applications for  unemployment insurance  benefits in the
U.S. declined by 19,000 to 326,000 in the week ended July 27,
the fewest since January 2008, Labor Department data showed in
Washington. The median forecast of 50 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for 345,000.  The department’s report tomorrow on U.S. nonfarm payrolls
will show the  unemployment rate  fell in July as employers added
185,000 jobs, another Bloomberg survey forecast.  A gauge of manufacturing in the U.S. rose in July at the
fastest pace in more than two years. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index increased to 55.4, the strongest
since June 2011, data showed today. That exceeded the highest
projection in a Bloomberg survey of economists. Readings above
50 indicate expansion.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this month a reduction in
the central bank’s bond-buying program would depend on the
economy’s performance. He said yesterday after a Fed meeting the
U.S. expansion has been “modest” and pledged to keep
purchasing $85 billion of bonds a month to hold down borrowing
costs and spur growth. The central bank next meets Sept. 17-18.  Canadian GDP  Canada’s gross domestic product  rose  0.2 percent in May
from 0.1 percent the month before, the nation’s statistics
agency reported yesterday in Ottawa. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey had estimated 0.3 percent growth.  The loonie has gained 0.8 percent this year against nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The euro has gained the most, rising
5.7 percent, while the Australian dollar is the biggest loser,
with an 11 percent drop. The  U.S. dollar  advanced 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  