-- Canadian Stocks Rally Most in Three Weeks as Energy Shares Gain
-- B y   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-08-01T14:34:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/canadian-stocks-rally-most-in-three-weeks-as-energy-shares-gain.html
Canadian  stocks  rose, heading for the
biggest gain in three weeks, as energy producers advanced after
China’s manufacturing unexpectedly strengthened and the  Federal
Reserve  maintained its bond-buying program.  Catamaran Corp. (CCT) , a manager of prescription drug benefits,
surged 8.5 percent after boosting its profit forecast for the
year and topping earnings estimates. Athabasca Oil Corp. and
BlackPearl Resources Inc. added at least 5 percent as oil
climbed to the highest level in a week. Suncor Energy Inc.,
Canada’s largest energy company by market value, advanced 2.3
percent after second-quarter profit more than doubled.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  gained 126.17
points, or 1 percent, to 12,612.81 at 10:27 a.m. in Toronto. The
gauge advanced 3 percent last month, the largest increase since
September 2012. Trading volume was 5 percent above the 30-day
average at this time of day.  Eight of 10 industries in the Canadian equity benchmark
rose. Utility companies declined 0.2 percent.  China ’s manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in July,
suggesting a slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy may
be stabilizing as the government rolls out targeted measures to
support growth.  The nation “can’t blindly stimulate economic growth, nor
can it allow economic growth to decelerate to a level out of the
reasonable zone,” the State Council Information Office said in
Beijing after a Purchasing Managers’ Index reading of 50.3 for
July, up from 50.1 in June. That compared with the 49.8 median
forecast of 35 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings
above 50 indicate expansion.  The Fed said yesterday that persistently low inflation
could hamper the economy and pledged to keep buying $85 billion
in bonds every month. The central bank statement came as data
showed the  U.S. economy  grew more than projected in the second
quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Brennan in  New York  at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  