-- CBS Reaches 13-Year High as Profit Surges on Pay-TV Fees
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-01T21:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/cbs-reaches-13-year-high-after-profit-surges-on-cable-tv-fees.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , the most-watched
television network, soared to a 13-year high after rising
revenue from pay-TV systems and new Internet streaming
agreements lifted second-quarter profit by 11 percent.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 3.9
percent to $54.88 at the close in  New York , the highest since
Aug. 4, 2000. The stock had climbed 44 percent this year.  To increase revenue and reduce its dependence on
advertising, CBS is demanding cable and satellite-TV services
pay higher fees to retransmit the company’s broadcast and cable
programming to subscribers. That’s led to conflicts such as the
current dispute with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  that saw some pay-TV
customers briefly lose service this week.  “We are well on our way to another record-setting year,”
Chief Executive Officer Leslie Moonves said on a conference call
yesterday. “Our programming is commanding top dollar across
every platform and our non-advertising revenue sources are more
and more meaningful all the time.”  Net income increased to $472 million, or 76 cents a share,
from $427 million, or 65 cents, a year earlier, New York-based
CBS, owner of the most-watched TV network, said in a  statement .
Analysts had forecast 72 cents, the average of 27 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Second-quarter  sales  increased 11 percent to $3.7 billion,
compared with the $3.51 billion average of 24 estimates. In the
past year, the company signed streaming agreements with  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX) , Amazon.com Inc.’s LoveFilm and Hulu LLC.  Basketball Ads  The NCAA men’s college basketball championship known as
March Madness aired during the period, later than a year ago,
contributing to higher advertising.  “Ad trends remain consistently strong,”  Paul Sweeney , an
analyst with Bloomberg Industries, said in an e-mail. “Domestic
and international syndication continues to be a bright spot, and
retransmission fees represent a second revenue stream with
plenty of runway ahead.”  The company is selling its billboard operations in  Europe 
and  Asia  to Los Angeles-based private equity firm Platinum
Equity LLC for about $225 million. The sale comes as CBS plans
to split off its U.S. billboard unit, convert it to a real
estate investment trust and sell shares in the new entity.  During the quarter, non-advertising sources of revenue
increased to 43 percent of total sales compared with 30 percent
in past years, Moonves said on the call. As CBS relies less on
advertising, an economically sensitive source of revenue, the
company will re-evaluate its debt ratios, Chief Operating
Officer Joe Ianniello said.  CBS Debt  The company had long-term  debt  of $5.95 billion as of June
30, according to the statement.  Profit at CBS’s entertainment division, which includes the
 broadcast network , increased 1.6 percent to $391 million, fueled
by an 18 percent jump in sales to $2.01 billion. Revenue from
licensing of reruns and pay-TV fees soared.  “It was clearly the entertainment division” that led CBS
to exceed expectations,  David Bank , an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in New York, wrote in an e-mail. Bank recommends buying
CBS shares. “That was a combo of retrans and digital
distribution.”  CBS and Time Warner Cable agreed to extend their
negotiations for a new contract until 5 p.m. New York time on
Aug. 2.  Cable Earnings  Income at CBS’s cable division, home to its Showtime
premium cable channel, rose 10 percent to $202 million on sales
that increased 16 percent. Local broadcasting, which includes
the company’s TV and radio stations, boosted profit by 4 percent
as revenue fell.  CBS’s Simon & Schuster publishing division almost tripled
profit to $20 million as sales were unchanged.  “ Simon & Schuster  is a great content business for us and
fits very well inside CBS,” Moonves said.  The company, which has announced a $5.1 billion increase to
its share buyback program, plans to continue to use excess cash
for repurchases, Ianniello said.  “They continue to return gobs of cash to shareholders,”
Sweeney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  