-- Celltrion Says AstraZeneca Stake Report Inaccurate: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-08-01T06:47:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/celltrion-says-reports-of-stake-sale-to-astrazeneca-inaccurate.html
Celltrion Inc. (068270)  fell from a record in
 Seoul  trading after the South Korean drugmaker said newspaper
reports yesterday it may be bought by  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)  contain
inaccurate information.  Celltrion shares slumped by daily limit of 15 percent to
55,600 won at the close in Seoul, its biggest loss since April
22, after surging by the same amount yesterday. Celltrion is in
final talks with AstraZeneca over a controlling stake sale,
South Korea’s Financial News newspaper reported yesterday,
citing investment bankers it didn’t name.  Newspaper reports about a stake sale to AstraZeneca are
inaccurate, Incheon-based Celltrion said in a statement on its
website late yesterday. The company is discussing a stake sale
with its financial adviser JPMorgan Chase & Co. and no details
have been decided, according to the statement, which didn’t say
whether Celltrion is in talks with AstraZeneca.  “The stock erased gains today as the company’s denied the
rumors,” Cho Seung Yeon, head of research at LIME Investment
Management Co. in Seoul, said by phone today. An acquisition may
take more time because the company’s biosimilar products have
only recently received authorization for sales in  Europe , he
said.  Celltrion was one of two companies to win European backing
in June to sell the first copies of  Johnson & Johnson’s (JNJ) 
Remicade, a $6 billion therapy for arthritis.  Celltrion Chairman Seo Jung Jin plans to sell his stake in
Celltrion and two affiliates to a “multinational”
pharmaceutical company, the drugmaker said in an e-mailed
statement in April, without giving further details.  AstraZeneca doesn’t comment on market speculation,
spokeswoman Ayesha Bharmal said by phone in  London  yesterday.  Generic Competition  AstraZeneca has been scouting small to mid-sized
acquisitions as its best-selling drugs face generic competition.
Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said he would pursue deals
of $3 billion to $4 billion and would consider larger ones if
they were a good fit.  AstraZeneca is looking to add products in the core areas of
respiratory, inflammation and autoimmune diseases,
cardiovascular and metabolic illnesses, and cancer. It announced
yesterday that it would pay as much as $815 million plus
possible royalties to license an anemia drug from FibroGen Inc.
The companies will test the treatment in patients with chronic
 kidney disease  and end-stage renal disease in late-phase trials
in the U.S. and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  