-- CFPB Questioned by Republicans Over Ex-Employees’ Mortgage Plans
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-08-01T19:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/cfpb-questioned-by-republicans-over-ex-employees-mortgage-plans.html
U.S. House Republicans are asking the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for documents related to
work on its qualified mortgage rule amid claims that former
employees are seeking to profit from measures they helped write.  Representatives Darrell Issa of  California  and Jeb Hensarling of Texas made the request in a letter to CFPB
Director Richard Cordray, they said in a statement today. The
lawmakers singled out Raj Date, saying that former deputy
director’s advisory firm focuses on “borrowers who do not meet
the standards for ‘qualified mortgages’ as set by the CFPB.”  “Simply put, it appears that former CFPB employees are now
offering financial products in a market sector created by the
very rules they were in a position to influence,” they said in
the  letter . “This conduct raises serious questions about the
integrity of the CFPB’s rulemaking process.”  The consumer bureau, created over Republican opposition as
part of the Dodd-Frank Act, has faced lawmakers’ criticism for
its mortgage underwriting standards, budget and collection of
consumer financial services data. Date, who left the CFPB in
January, has hired former bureau employees Gary Reeder, Chris
Haspel and Mitch Hochburg at his Washington-based Fenway Summer
LLC, which plans to provide loans to borrowers he considers low
risk even though they might carry debt that exceeds a threshold
created by the qualified mortgage rule.  Issa, chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, and Hensarling, who leads the Financial Services
panel, asked Cordray to provide by Aug. 14 information including
all documents related to drafting of the qualified mortgage rule
since Feb. 17, 2011. The lawmakers’ letter was also signed by
Republican Representatives Jim Jordan of  Ohio , Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia and Patrick McHenry of North Carolina.  “In crafting our mortgage rules the bureau engaged in a
transparent process, with extensive public input and outreach to
stakeholders,” Moira Vahey, a CFPB spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “As a result, our new rules create important new consumer
protections and help establish a foundation for recovery in the
mortgage market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  