-- Chesapeake Reports Lower Profit as Selling Spree Winds Down
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-08-01T11:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/chesapeake-reports-lower-profit-as-selling-spree-winds-down.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the U.S.
natural gas producer that hired a new chief executive officer in
June, posted a quarterly profit that trailed the year-earlier
result as the pace of asset sales slowed.  Second-quarter net income was $580 million, or 66 cents a
share, compared with $972 million, or $1.29, a year earlier, the
Oklahoma City-based company said in a statement today. Excluding
one-time gains and losses, per-share profit was 10 cents higher
than the 41 cents  average  of 32 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chesapeake, producer of more U.S. gas than any explorer
except  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , is under less pressure to raise cash
through asset sales amid rising gas prices and a production
shift to higher-margin gas byproducts such as propane. Under new
CEO Robert “Doug” Lawler, Chesapeake is on track this year to
limit capital spending to the company’s cash flow for the first
time since 2001.  The statement was released before the opening of regular
U.S. stock trading. Chesapeake rose 1.1 percent yesterday to
$23.30 in New York. The shares have increased 40 percent this
year.  Gas, which accounted for 84 percent of Chesapeake’s  output 
during the first three months of this year, rose 71 percent to a
second-quarter average of $4.018 per million British thermal
units from the year-earlier period, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The benefit of that rally to Chesapeake’s profit
was overshadowed by gains in the year-earlier period of more
than $1 billion from asset sales and unrealized, after-tax
hedging gains.  Asset Sales  Chesapeake has sold or arranged to divest $3.6 billion in
oilfields, pipelines, real estate and other assets so far this
year, after shedding about $11 billion in property in 2012,
according to company filings and statements.  Lawler, a former  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  executive, took
the lead job at Chesapeake after company co-founder Aubrey McClendon stepped down as CEO April 1. Lawler said last month
that the divestitures already announced this year, combined with
projected proceeds from gas and oil sales, will allow the
company to live within its cash flow. Any additional asset sales
will be used to retire debt, Lawler said in a statement on July
3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  