-- China Seeks Cuts of Unapproved Steel Capacity, Daily Reports
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-01T03:12:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/china-seeks-cuts-of-unapproved-steel-capacity-daily-reports.html
China  plans to cut steel capacity
from the 400 million metric tons of production that was built
without proper approvals, the National Business Daily  reported 
today, citing an unidentified person.  Authorities will stop banks from lending to steelmakers
with unapproved capacity if the companies have failed to meet
environmental and land use rules, the Shanghai-based newspaper
reported, citing the person who has seen a plan drafted by the
 National Development and Reform Commission  and the Ministry of
Industry and Information Technology. The 400 million tons of
unapproved capacity accounts for more than 40 percent of China’s
total, according to the report.  Unapproved capacity operating within China’s environmental
and land use standards may continue to be supported by banks
because of considerations for local employment and tax revenue,
the newspaper reported.  Premier Li Keqiang has pledged to curb excess production
capacity, which Chinese authorities have cited for driving down
the prices of industrial goods, eroding company profits and
contributing to pollution. China last week ordered more than
1,400 companies in 19 industries including steel, aluminum and
cement to cut surplus capacity by the end of this year.  The Communist Party’s official People’s Daily newspaper
reported July 30 that authorities were studying a plan to reduce
overcapacity in steel, cement, aluminum and other industries
after output increased without effective supervision.  Of the 18 million tons of aluminum capacity added in the
“past few years,” only 800,000 tons were approved by the
central government, the People’s Daily reported. China also has
800 million tons of unapproved cement capacity, it said. The
utilization ratio for steel plants has fallen to 72 percent,
71.9 percent for aluminum and 73.7 percent for cement, lower
than the normal rates worldwide, the report said.  The government is looking to boost capacity utilization
ratio of the industries to 80 percent by eliminating outdated
capacities, the National Business Daily reported today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  