-- China’s Stock Futures Rise After Manufacturing Strengthens
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-01T01:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/china-s-stock-futures-rise-after-manufacturing-strengthens.html
China’s stock-index futures  rose,
signaling gains for the benchmark index, after manufacturing
unexpectedly strengthened last month.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in August climbed 0.6
percent to 2,183.60 as of 9:15 a.m. local time.  Zhejiang Yonggui
Electric Equipment Co. (300351) , a maker of rail transit connectors, and
Xinjiang Guotong Pipeline Co. may advance after the government
said it will boost construction of urban infrastructure to
maintain economic growth.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. (600019)  may move
after the National Business Daily reported  China  may cut almost
half of the nation’s steel output to remove overcapacity.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 0.2 percent to 1,993.80
yesterday, capping a 0.7 percent gain last month. The CSI 300
Index rose 0.2 percent to 2,193.02. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 0.1 percent. The Bloomberg China-US
55 Index added 0.3 percent in  New York .  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index was at 50.3, the National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today in Beijing. That compared with the 49.8
median forecast of 35 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey and
June’s 50.1 level. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Improvements at manufacturers would help Premier  Li Keqiang 
achieve the year’s 7.5 percent expansion goal as he tries to
support the economy with tax breaks for small companies and
reduced fees for exporters. Leaders pledged at a Politburo
meeting this week to maintain steady second-half growth while
pressing on with economic reforms.  Steel Capacity  China will build subways and light rails, the State Council
said in a statement issued after a regular meeting in Beijing
yesterday. The cabinet also studied outsourcing some public
services, according to the statement. No details were given on
which services.  “We believe the announcement to purchase public services
from non-government entities is a new idea in the right
direction, as it helps to open up a monopolised sector to
private investment,” Zhang Zhiwei, economist at Nomura Holdings
Inc., wrote in a note to clients. “But the scale and scope of
this new initiative is unclear, and it is unknown how
effectively it can be implemented.”  Baoshan Steel may be active among steelmakers. China may
cut almost half of the total 970 million tons of steel output,
the National Business Daily reported today, citing an
unidentified person who saw a draft plan made by the National
Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Industry
and  Information Technology .  For the year, the Shanghai Composite is down 12 percent on
concern slowing growth will damp earnings. The measure trades at
8.1 times 12-month projected profit, approaching the lowest
level in at least five years,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Internet Stocks  Trading volumes in the Shanghai index were 27 percent lower
than the 30-day average while 30-day  volatility  was at 25.7,
near the highest level since December 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese stocks rose in July in New York for the biggest
gain in 18 months yesterday, led by Internet companies, as
shares of NQ Mobile Inc. doubled after deals with Baidu Inc. and
China Mobile Ltd. boosted its outlook.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index climbed 7.6 percent
last month, the biggest jump since January 2012. The gauge, in
which Internet and technology companies have a weighting of 45
percent, outperformed benchmark indexes for Chinese stocks in
Shanghai and  Hong Kong  last month.  “Even though China’s economic growth is slowing down, the
Internet space is a secular growth story and they are usually
less impacted by the overall economics,” Andy Yeung, an
Internet stock analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said by
phone.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  