-- China Trust Industry Growth to Slow by Half, Huabao Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-02T03:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/china-trust-industry-growth-to-slow-by-half-huabao-says.html
China’s trust industry, whose funds
under management have risen as much as 60 percent a year thanks
to returns five times those of  bank deposits , may see growth cut
in half by competition, said Huabao Trust & Investment Co.  Growth in funds managed at the trusts, which cater to
clients with at least 1 million yuan ($163,200) for investment,
may slow to 20 percent to 30 percent a year from an
“unsustainable” 50 percent to 60 percent pace now, Chief
Executive Officer Qian Jun said in an interview in Shanghai
yesterday. Huabao, a unit of Shanghai Baosteel Group Corp., has
230 billion yuan of assets under management, he said.  Investors poured money into trusts as China curbed property
prices, the stock market fell 38 percent from January 2010 and
deposit rates remained capped. Trusts get higher returns by
financing developers and local governments, through lending
outside the bank system that’s become known as shadow banking.
Lack of transparency has boosted concern that slowing economic
growth will cause borrowers to default.  “Trust products are a little less regulated and reflect
true demand for capital,” said Qian, who previously worked for
Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley, and earned an MBA from
 Duke University . “The stock market is still not doing well and
real estate is still under government control, so people have to
beat inflation and put their money somewhere.”  China’s trust industry had  9.45 trillion yuan  of assets
under management at the end of June, according to the China
Banking Regulatory Commission, which oversees the industry. That
was an increase of 27 percent from the beginning of the year and
an almost eight-fold surge since 2008.  Deposit Cap  Banks and other financial institutions have offered wealth
management products and other investment options in a bid to
hold on to deposits. China’s central bank currently caps one-year deposit rates at 110 percent of its 3 percent benchmark.
Inflation in June was 2.7 percent, according to government data.  The People’s Bank of  China  removed the floor on lending
rates last month as part of its efforts to liberalize the
nation’s interest rates. China may abolish its cap on five-year
deposit rates as the next step in that process, Caijing Magazine
reported this week.  “If all the banks become like brokerages and do everything
they can, that will probably knock us out of business, but
that’s long term,” Qian said.  Non-bank Lending  Trusts account for 21 percent of the country’s estimated
$5.9 trillion in non-bank lending, according to a May 3 report
by JPMorgan Chase & Co. economists led by Zhu Haibin. That
amount is 69 percent of China’s 2012 gross domestic product.  “We are alternative funding,” Qian said. “We don’t think
we’re shadow banking. Shadow banking should be beyond
regulation. It’s something not in the banking system and not
regulated. Trust companies are highly regulated.”  The Communist Party’s Politburo Standing Committee, China’s
top decision-making body, called on authorities to be on guard
against risks from the financial sector in April as the nation
seeks to stabilize growth, which is on pace this year for the
slowest expansion in 23 years. China’s National Audit Office
announced July 28 that it was starting a nationwide audit of
local government debt.  Chinese banks’ second-quarter bad loans rose to 539.5
billion  yuan , the seventh straight quarterly increase, according
to data from the regulator. That’s 0.96 percent of total
outstanding credit.  Citic Trust Co., a unit of China’s biggest state-owned
investment company, said in January that a steel company didn’t
make loan payments on time that would have been used to pay
investors in a trust product.  “When I look at the whole industry, I do not see
systematic risk,” Qian said. “There are good trust firms and
bad trust firms. What I’m afraid of is the weak ones go bust or
default on certain deals -- one bad deal could impact the whole
industry.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Allen Wan in  Shanghai  at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  