-- China Rate Swaps Drop to a Two-Week Low After PBOC Injects Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-01T02:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/china-rate-swaps-drop-to-a-two-week-low-after-pboc-injects-funds.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
fell to the lowest level in almost two weeks after the central
bank injected cash into the financial system using reverse-repurchase operations.  The People’s Bank of China added 34 billion  yuan  ($5.5
billion) to markets today by issuing 14-day reverse-repo
contracts, according to a trader required to bid at the
auctions. The PBOC pumped in funds using reverse repos for the
first time in five months on July 30 after the seven-day
repurchase rate, which measures interbank funding availability,
touched a four week high of 5.25 percent the previous day.  “The size of the operation may be small but the signal is
loud and clear,” Wee-Khoon Chong, a Societe Generale SA
strategist in  Hong Kong , wrote in a report today. “The early
liquidity intervention shows PBOC intention to maintain smooth
money-market operations and to prevent a re-run of the liquidity
crisis June.”  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost needed to receive
the floating seven-day repo rate, declined four basis points to
3.95 percent as of 10:12 a.m. in Shanghai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That was the lowest level since July 22.  The central bank issued the reverse repos at a  yield  of 4.5
percent, the trader said. That compares with 3.45 percent at the
last auction of 14-day securities in February.  The seven-day  repo  dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.99 percent, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
rate touched an all-time high of 12.45 percent on June 20.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  