-- China SouFun July Home Prices Rise on Hopes of Benign Policies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-01T02:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/china-soufun-july-home-prices-rise-on-hopes-of-benign-policies.html
China ’s new  home prices  jumped in
July by the most since December as buyers don’t expect the
government to tighten the property market further and push
housing values lower.  Prices surged 7.9 percent last month from a year earlier,
to 10,347  yuan  ($1,688) per square meter (10.76 square feet),
 SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s biggest real estate website
owner, said in an e-mailed statement after a survey of 100
cities. Prices began rising from a year earlier in December,
when they climbed 0.03 percent after a 0.46 percent slide in
November.  China will seek “stable and healthy” development of the
property market, the government said on its website after a
meeting led by President Xi Jinping this week, prompting
speculation that the government may relax property curbs. Former
Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March stepped up a three-year campaign to
cool home prices, ordering the central bank to raise down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities with
excessive cost gains.  “Demand from first-home buyers is still strong in the
market, while the policy uncertainty has been dismissed as it’s
unlikely for the central government to issue a nationwide
tightening policy,” said Dai Fang, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Zheshang Securities Co. “Local governments with big price gains
may announce some city-level property policy though.”  With the increasing uncertainty about  China’s economy , the
expectation for harsher property curbs is weakening, SouFun said
in the statement.  Smaller Cities  Home values in the southern business hub of Guangzhou
soared 23 percent from last year, while in the capital Beijing
they jumped 20 percent, SouFun said.  “Unlike the previous government, the new leadership seems
to aim for long-term development of the  property market  by
allowing the market to play a bigger role rather than using
administrative orders,” Shen Jian-guang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd., said in a phone
interview before today’s releases.  Smaller cities have already begun easing some of the
policies designed to restrain price gains. Yancheng, in Jiangsu
province, suspended limits on housing prices as supply of homes
increased, the official People’s Daily newspaper reported on
July 23.  The southern city of Dongguan in  Guangdong province  led
month-on-month declines among the 100 cities in the SouFun
survey, declining 1.7 percent from June.  “The housing price gap widened further between major and
smaller cities,” Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to clients
today.“This should continue to prevent the central government
from implementing nationwide housing measures in the near
term.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  