-- China Rongsheng Shares Jump After Issuing Convertible Bonds
-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t   a n d   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-01T08:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/china-rongsheng-to-issue-convertible-bonds-to-raise-capital-1-.html
China Rongsheng Heavy Industries
Group Holdings Ltd. (1101) , the shipyard seeking financial assistance
from the government, surged the most in more than nine months
after it agreed to issue convertible bonds to raise capital.  The company aims to raise a net HK$1.38 billion ($178
million) from selling the bonds to Action Phoenix Ltd., it said
in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. The
bonds maturing in 2016 have a coupon of 7 percent, and an
initial conversion price is HK$1 a share, about 22 percent more
than yesterday’s closing price, the Shanghai-based company said.  The country’s largest shipyard outside state control said
July 5 it was seeking help from the government after a plunge in
orders forced it to reduce production and “restructure” its
workforce. Chinese shipmakers are struggling as a global vessel
glut makes orders more difficult to win and pushes down prices.  “Rongsheng is desperate for cash as there are signs that
its balance sheet is really stretched,” said Lawrence Li, a
Shanghai-based analyst at  UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK)  “The much-needed money will help ease pressure, but this is far from
enough.”  The  shares  jumped 12 percent, the most since Oct. 22, to
close at 92 Hong Kong cents today. The city’s benchmark  Hang
Seng Index  rose 0.9 percent.  Annual Loss  Rongsheng had a total of  28.8 billion yuan ($4.7 billion)
of debts  as at the end of last year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That included 19.34 billion yuan of short-term
debt.  The sale represents “an opportunity to enlarge and
diversify the shareholder base of the company, to improve the
liquidity position,” Rongsheng said.  Should all the  bonds  be converted, Action Phoenix will own
16.67 percent of the enlarged share capital, it said.  Rongsheng said in July it may post a net loss for the first
half. The company reported an  annual loss  of 573 million  yuan 
last year and a 50 percent drop in revenue.  The order book at  China ’s shipbuilders fell 23 percent at
the end of May from a year earlier, according to China
Association of the National Shipbuilding Industry data. Yards
have cut down-payment requirements, with some slashing their
rates to as little as 2 percent of contract value compared with
60 percent during the shipbuilding boom, according to UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings.  Action Phoenix is a member of VMS Investment Group, which
is mainly engaged in proprietary investments, asset management,
securities brokerage and corporate finance advisory services,
according to the exchange filing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  