-- CLO Market to Shrink 75% Due to Proposed Rule, LSTA Survey Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2013-08-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/clo-market-to-shrink-75-due-to-proposed-rule-lsta-survey-says.html
The market for collateralized loan
obligations in the U.S. will shrink by at least 75 percent if
proposed risk retention rules are implemented, according to the
Loan Syndications and Trading Association.  The findings are based on a survey by the LSTA of 35 money
managers overseeing $228 billion in assets. More than half the
respondents said they don’t have access to the capital needed to
meet the rule proposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, which would
require them to hold at least a 5 percent stake in debt they
package and sell.  Issuance of CLOs would drop because while large managers
might have access to funds to help comply with the rule, smaller
firms typically would not, according to the New York-based trade
group. CLO issuance of $47.4 billion this year is approaching
2012 sales of $55.8 billion, according to Wells Fargo & Co.
That’s the most since the 2007 peak of $104.7 billion before the
market was effectively shuttered following the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “CLOs provide nearly a quarter of outstanding loans to
U.S. companies,” based on  Federal Reserve  data, Meredith
Coffey, executive vice president of the LSTA, said in a
telephone interview. The proposed regulation “does just sort of
stop the market.”  CLOs buy speculative-grade loans and package them into
securities of varying risk and return, typically from AAA
ratings down to BB. Wells Fargo & Co. is projecting at least $70
billion of new CLOs this year.  CLOs are the biggest buyers of institutional loans with a
53 percent share last quarter, down from 60 percent from the
first three months of the year, according to Standard & Poor’s
Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary and Data.  ‘Two-Year Window’  The proposed regulation may be completed by the end of
December, meaning CLO sales wouldn’t be affected until late 2015
at the earliest because managers have a “two-year window” to
prepare for the changes, according to Coffey.  Fifty-seven percent of managers in the survey said they
couldn’t obtain funding needed to comply with the regulation,
according to the LSTA survey. Only two of the twelve managers
who said they’d be able to raise capital would do so.  “Any borrowing would be recourse to them,” said Coffey.
“Managers would have to borrow so much to meet the retention
requirements, if just one of their CLOs underperformed, it could
put their entire business at risk.”  Managers able to borrow would still be left paying more
than half the required cost of risk-retention. Banks would only
be willing to lend against between half and 75 percent of the
safest pieces of CLOs, those rated AAA or AA, according to the
LSTA.  “This will lead to more concentration in issuance among
the larger platforms and folks that are able to work within the
risk retention rules as they are structured now,” David Preston, an analyst at Wells Fargo in  Charlotte , North Carolina,
said in a telephone interview.  The LSTA submitted the survey findings to regulators,
including the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and the Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  