-- Cocoa-Butter Ratio Rises to Highest Since 2009 as Powder Slides
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-08-01T15:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/cocoa-butter-ratio-rises-to-highest-since-2009-as-powder-slides.html
The cost of cocoa butter relative to
bean prices rose to the highest in more than four years in
 Europe  as supplies declined and grinders compensated for lower
powder prices, said four traders with knowledge of the sales.  The so-called butter ratio was 2.30 to 2.33 times the cost
of cocoa futures on the NYSE Liffe exchange, said the traders,
who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak to the media. That was the highest since 2009 and compares
with a ratio of 2.29 on July 26, according to data on the
website of  KnowledgeCharts , a unit of cocoa researcher
Commodities Risk Analysis in Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania .  Cocoa processing, or grinding, generates byproducts such as
powder and butter. Powder prices in Europe were 1,747 euros
($2,309) a metric ton on July 26, down 32 percent this year,
KnowledgeCharts data showed. Grinders can sometimes raise butter
prices to make up for declines in powder costs in an effort to
keep stable the so-called combined ratio, a profitability gauge.  “Although powder prices remain depressed, butter prices
have been strong enough to lift the combined butter-powder ratio
off its worst levels of the year,” Sholom Sanik, an analyst at
Friedberg Mercantile Group Ltd. in Toronto, said in a report e-mailed yesterday. Higher butter ratios “provided an incentive
for processors to buy beans for grinding.”  Cocoa grindings climbed 6.1 percent in the second quarter
in Europe and gained 12 percent in  North America , data from the
Brussels-based European Cocoa Association and the  National
Confectioners Association  in  Washington  showed. Asian bean
processing advanced 2 percent, according to data from the
Singapore-based Cocoa Association of  Asia .  Cocoa butter accounts for as much as 20 percent of a
chocolate bar’s weight, and powder is used to make chocolate-based cookies, soft drinks and ice cream. Futures for September
delivery rose 0.3 percent to 1,577 pounds ($2,390) a ton by 3:37
p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  