-- Colombian Central Banker Sees Rates on Hold Through 1Q 2014
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-08-01T18:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/colombian-central-banker-sees-rates-on-hold-through-1q-2014.html
Colombia  should hold its policy rate
at its current “expansionary” level of 3.25 percent for the
next six to nine months to ensure that economic growth returns
to its full potential, central bank co-director Carlos Gustavo Cano said.  The economy is growing less than full capacity, with low
inflation expectations, industry contracting and an
“uncertain” outlook for the world economy, Cano said in a
interview by phone today. All of that points to a need to keep
 interest rates  at a level that stimulates growth, he said.  “My personal forward guidance is that, given this
scenario, I’d think that the benchmark rate could remain at
least for the rest of the year at this same level, and probably
during the first quarter of next year as well, to guarantee that
the output gap really closes and also to guarantee that the
observed inflation rate converges to its 3 percent target,”
Cano said.  Colombia cut its policy rate by two percentage points
between July 2012 and March 2013 as industry slumped and the
inflation rate fell to a six-decade low. Analysts in a July
central bank survey of economists forecast that policy makers
will raise borrowing costs by half a percentage point in the
first quarter of next year.  “My personal preference is not to cut further but to give
the market a signal that we are going to remain stable during
the next six or nine months,” Cano said.  Peso Strength  Industrial output fell 3.1 percent in May from a year
earlier, the sixth contraction in the past seven months.
President  Juan Manuel Santos  and Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  have repeatedly said that a strong peso has hurt
manufacturers and farmers.  The peso has weakened 7 percent this year, less than any
other major South American currency. Even after this drop, it
remains 6.5 percent to 7 percent stronger than its equilibrium
rate, Cano said.  The currency strengthened 0.3 percent to 1899.72 per dollar
at 12:22 p.m. today in Bogota.  At its May policy meeting the central bank extended its
program of daily dollar purchases until September, saying it
would buy at least $2.5 billion between June and September.  The economy grew 2.8 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, trailing expansion of 4.1 percent in  Chile  and 4.8
percent in  Peru , while outpacing  Brazil ’s 1.9 percent and
 Mexico ’s 0.8 percent.  Cano said that he was expressing his own opinion, and could
not speak for the other six members of the central bank’s policy
committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net . 