-- Commercial Paper Market Falls to Least in Eight Months, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-08-01T15:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/commercial-paper-market-falls-to-least-in-eight-months-fed-says.html
The market for borrowing through
 short-term IOUs  contracted to the lowest level in more than
eight months, as companies increased issuance of corporate
bonds.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
fell $11.2 billion to $984.9 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the second straight decline, the  Federal
Reserve  said today on its website. That’s the least since the
market touched $968.6 billion in the period ended Nov. 14.  Last month was the busiest July on record for dollar-denominated corporate-bond sales with $113.4 billion of issuance
following the slowest June in 14 years. Investor demand is
reviving as the Fed says it plans to maintain stimulus efforts.
Companies are favoring bonds as yields decline from a one-year
peak to obtain longer-term, stable funding.  The decrease in commercial paper issuance “followed the
renewed decline in short-term, investment-grade corporate
yields,”  Howard Simons , a strategist at Bianco Research LLC in
Chicago, wrote in an e-mail.  Yields dropped to 4.04 percent yesterday from 4.3 percent
on June 25, the highest level in 12 months, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Index.  “This suggests corporate borrowers are locking in rates in
the  bond market  once again, a phenomenon seen through the end of
April,” Simons said.  IOUs issued by  non-financial  companies dropped $11.5
billion to $203 billion, the lowest level since the period ended
May 15, the Fed said.  Commercial paper issued by U.S.-based
banks  decreased $6.1 billion to $256.4 billion outstanding, the
least since the period ended July 10.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  