-- Conrad Black Sees Value in Top Newspaper Brands
-- B y   D a v i d   S c a n l a n
-- 2013-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/conrad-black-sees-value-in-top-newspaper-brands.html
Conrad Black , the former media baron
who once ran the world’s third-largest newspaper chain, says
there’s value in top newspaper brands if publishers can adapt to
the changing demands of readers.  Black says investors such as  Warren Buffett  are finding
it’s a “buyer’s market” for some newspapers that can make the
transition to the Internet and tailor newspapers to targeted
readers.  “There is a huge amount of goodwill in those great
newspaper titles,” Black said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television yesterday. “The goodwill can be exploited if it’s
approached in a different way.”  While the former Hollinger International Inc. chairman says
he has no interest in buying publicly traded companies, he says
there will be demand for papers such as the Los Angeles Times,
 Chicago Tribune  or the  New York  Times.  “There should be buyers for great trademarks like that,”
Black said in an interview from Toronto with  Erik Schatzker  and
Sara Eisen. “In a market of infinite choice, a great respected
newspaper name, even if the media itself is becoming
obsolescent, is still a powerful draw and is worth a lot.”  Black, 68, says newspapers need to tailor their product to
specific users, and can save costs by having subscribers print
out their own copy at home.  “We can’t go just converting trees to newsprint and
printing them on huge presses and delivering them at enormous
expense all around the great cities of the world,” Black said
in a separate interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “We’ve
got to make the Internet transition and have a printed product
for those who want it, but the burden of the printing is going
to have to be carried in the homes of the subscribers.”  Buffett’s Buys  Buffett’s purchase of papers in states including  Virginia ,
 Texas  and  Oklahoma  may succeed because he’s targeting smaller
markets where the penetration of the Internet isn’t as deep,
Black said. Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has acquired more
than 25 daily newspapers in the last two years. Black doesn’t
think investors like Buffett are adding papers to stroke their
egos.  “Many people are afflicted by vanity but they have less
self-punitive ways of indulging it than throwing money out the
window,” he said.  Newspaper readers will pay for news if they see it offers
value, Black said. By hiring big-name writers, providing
exclusive content and providing links to videos and other
content, newspapers can attract more readers.  “There is a place for raising the cover price for
producing a better product and even at times a designer product
for certain types of subscribers,” he said. “You have to give
the people value for money.”  YouTube Addicted  Black, munching on a bowl of muesli at the Bloomberg
office, says he can spend hours checking videos and speeches on
YouTube of historical figures he’s written about, such as former
Quebec Premier Maurice Duplessis.  “Am I the only person who finds YouTube absolutely
addictive?” Black said. “You look up something you might be
interested in and before you know it three hours have gone by.
Well you can make a newspaper like that.”  Black led Hollinger as its chairman and chief executive
officer from October 1995 to November 2003, during which time it
was the world’s third-biggest publisher of English language
newspapers including the  Chicago Sun-Times , the U.K.’s Daily
Telegraph and  Canada ’s National Post.  Business Re-Launch  He and other Hollinger executives were accused of skimming
money from the Chicago-based company as it sold more than $3
billion in assets between 1998 and 2001.  Black successfully appealed two of three fraud convictions
and won a three-year reduction of his original 6 1/2-year
sentence. He was released from federal custody last year and is
now living in Toronto. His latest book, “Flight of the Eagle”
is a strategic history of the U.S.  Black said he has started a “soft and quiet” re-launch
into the world of business, including advising Michael Wekerle
on some projects for his merchant bank. Wekerle, former head of
equity trading at  GMP Capital Inc. (GMP) , is chairman of Toronto-based
Difference Capital Financial Inc.  After serving time in a Florida prison and years of court
battles, Black has no interest in working with publicly traded
companies that have to answer to shareholders every quarter.  “As a result of the persecution I have endured at the
hands” of the U.S. justice department, “I have learned the
lesson that I won’t deal in public companies,” he said.  “I
spent three, I must say relatively civil and in a way quite
interesting, years as a guest of the American people in one of
your less commodious guest houses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scanlan in Toronto at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  