-- Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Declined in June
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-08-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-declined-in-june.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly dropped in June for the first time in three months,
easing off an almost four-year high amid government cutbacks.  Outlays (CNSTTMOM)  decreased 0.6 percent to a $883.9 billion annual
rate after a 1.3 percent increase in May that was almost three
times larger than previously estimated, the Commerce Department
reported today in Washington. The median forecast of 49
 economists surveyed  by Bloomberg called for a 0.4 percent rise.
Government outlays slumped to the lowest level since 2006.  A sustained pickup in the housing market combined with
gains in non-residential building will be needed to overcome
government budget cuts that have restrained growth. Nonetheless,
tight land inventories and rising mortgage rates threaten to
slow the progress in construction.  “The trend has been relatively positive in recent
months,” David Sloan, senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in New
York, said before the report. “It’s a fairly important part of
the economy. The housing market led the economy into recession,
now it seems to be gaining some strength.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a drop of 0.4
percent to a 1 percent gain. May’s reading was revised up from a
previously reported 0.5 percent gain and April was also pushed
up to show a 1.1 percent advance rather than the 0.1 percent
gain that was on the books.  Another report today showed claims for jobless benefits
unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest level in more than
five years, extending swings typical for the month of July.
Applications declined by 19,000 to 326,000 in the week ended
July 27, the fewest since January 2008, from a revised 345,000
the prior week, the Labor Department reported.  Survey Results  The median forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for 345,000. A government analyst said no states were
estimated, and the data were still being influenced by the auto
plant shutdowns that play havoc with the figures at this time of
year.  Construction spending climbed 5.1 percent in the 12 months
ended in June before adjusting for seasonal variations,
according to the Commerce Department figures.  Private housing outlays were little changed in June at a
$332.1 billion annualized pace. Private non-residential projects
declined 0.9 percent, reflecting decreases in commercial
construction and in educational facilities.  The construction industry has been adding jobs, which helps
companies including Springfield, Massachusetts-based  Northeast
Utilities. (NU)   ‘Improving’ Economy  “I would characterize the local economy as improving,”
Chief Financial Officer James Judge said in a July 30 earnings
call. The company provides retail electric service to customers
in  Connecticut , New Hampshire and part of  Massachusetts . “We
continued to see signs of improvement, particularly in the local
labor and housing markets. Regarding the local labor market, we
have seen a notable improvement in construction related labor
activity, which increased in all three states.”  Work began on 836,000 houses at an annualized rate in June,
a Commerce Department report last month showed, the least since
August and down 9.9 percent from a revised 928,000 pace in May.
The drop was led by a plunge in multifamily projects, which are
more volatile than single-family homes.  Even so, purchases of new U.S. homes climbed 8.3 percent to
an annualized pace of 497,000 homes in June, the Commerce
Department said, achieving the highest level since May 2008.  Today’s report is the first to play into revisions to
second-quarter gross domestic product that will be issued at the
end of this month.  Growth Estimates  Gains in construction helped bolster the growth estimates
released yesterday. GDP, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 1.7 percent annualized rate after a 1.1
percent gain the prior quarter that was smaller than previously
estimated, Commerce Department figures showed.  Non-residential outlays climbed at a 6.8 percent annualized
rate from April through June, the report showed. Home building
increased at a 13.4 percent rate. The unexpected drop in June
was offset by bigger gains in May and April than previously
reported, signaling the quarterly data may be revised up.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  