-- Continental AG Scales Back 2013 Sales Forecast on Europe
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-08-01T09:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/continental-ag-quarterly-profit-rises-2-on-parts-sales.html
Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker, scaled back its sales forecast for
this year as the region’s tire market isn’t recovering as
expected and growth in Asia and the U.S. is expected to slow.  Continental now predicts revenue in 2013 will amount to
about 34 billion euros ($45 billion), the Hanover, Germany-based
company said in a  statement  today. That would be a 4 percent
increase from 2012. The previous forecast was for sales to rise
by 5 percent to exceed that total.  Second-quarter profit rose 2 percent, counter to analysts’
predictions of a drop, as higher deliveries and lower raw-material costs made up for the effects of a shrinking European
car market. Continental, also the region’s second-largest tire
producer, has partly bypassed the effects of six consecutive
quarters of economic contraction by following German carmakers
Volkswagen AG, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Daimler AG into
growing markets such as  China  and the U.S.  “They are damping the expectations a little as the
situation in Europe is likely to remain difficult for some
time,” said Frank Biller, a Stuttgart, Germany-based analyst
with LBBW. “The second quarter went quite well. Nearly all
divisions slightly beat expectations,” said Biller who
recommends buying the stock and has a price target of 125 euros.  Stock Falls  Continental  fell  as much as 3.2 percent to 114.60 euros,
the steepest intraday decline since June 20, and was down 1.3
percent at 11:22 a.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has gained 33
percent this year in the biggest jump on  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX
Index (DAX) , valuing the company at 23.4 billion euros.  Auto production in Europe will probably stabilize in the
second half of 2013, while growth rates in the U.S. and China
will probably decelerate, Chief Financial Officer Wolfgang Schaefer said in a telephone interview. A slightly reduced
sales-growth forecast poses “little concern” as long as profit
is sustained, which is probable because of lower spending on raw
materials, he said.  “We’ve come back to a reasonable growth rate that we could
translate into profit because of our cost discipline and the
effort of the whole team,” Schaefer said.  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes rose to
883.2 million euros from 866.2 million euros a year earlier.
Profit beat the 833.2 million-euro average of six analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales advanced 4.3 percent to
8.54 billion euros.  No ‘Turnaround’  “Having gotten off to a difficult start in the current
year, the company saw stronger development, as anticipated, in
the second quarter, particularly in Europe,” Chief Executive
Officer Elmar Degenhart said in a separate statement. “This
should not, however, be viewed as a turnaround.”  Industrywide European car sales are set for a sixth annual
contraction, with deliveries at about a two-decade low. The
market may not bottom out this year, Schaefer said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview. The CFO’s remarks were in line
with comments by  Renault SA (RNO)  CEO Carlos Ghosn, who said on July 6
that declines may continue into 2015.  Continental has maintained earnings with a focus on
supplying auto manufacturers with high-technology parts such as
safety sensors, emergency-braking systems and fuel-injection
technology.  Margin Forecast  The second-quarter adjusted Ebit margin, which excludes
mainly acquisition-related costs or gains, narrowed to 11.5
percent from a restated 11.8 percent in the 2012 period.
Continental reiterated a forecast today that the full-year
margin will amount to more than 10 percent of revenue. The
figure in 2012 was 10.8 percent.  Net income in the quarter jumped 35 percent to 700.7
million euros, helped by lower income taxes.  Competitors  Michelin & Cie. (ML)  and  Faurecia SA (EO)  reported drops
of more than 10 percent in first-half profit as automakers
pushed prices lower because of slumping demand in Europe. The
two French auto suppliers are cutting expenses in the region by
shutting plants and eliminating jobs while planning expansion
abroad.  Valeo SA (FR) ,  France ’s second-biggest car-parts maker, rose to
a 12-year high in Paris trading on July 30 after reporting an
increase in first-half earnings of 3.8 percent because of
carmakers’ demand for fuel-saving technology.  Rubber Costs  Lower raw-material prices including natural and synthetic
rubber boosted Continental’s second-quarter profit by 80 million
euros, Schaefer said. The full-year earnings boost from the
reduced costs will amount to 300 million euros, he said.  The CFO reiterated that Continental may be ready for an
 acquisition  of as much as 1 billion euros. No large purchase
announcement should be expected in the coming months, he said.
Continental has said it’s targeting companies outside Europe in
industries other than carmaking to increase the share of sales
from non-automotive businesses to 40 percent of total revenue
from 30 percent currently.  Continental has yet to decide on the early redemption of
two bonds sold in October 2010, Schaefer said. It may sell more
debt this year for refinancing, he said.  The company raised 750 million euros from the sale of a
bond in July to fund the early redemption of higher-interest
debt. Continental also is scheduled to pay back another 1
billion euros of  securities  on Sept. 16, four years ahead of its
maturity date.  The bond redemptions are part a broader effort by
Continental to improve its financial profile as it works down
debt stemming from its purchase of Siemens AG’s former VDO car-electronics unit in 2007. The strategy included refinancing a
4.5 billion-euro loan in January.  Net debt at the end of June narrowed to 6.01 billion euros
from 6.88 billion euros a year earlier, Continental said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in  Frankfurt  at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net  