-- Croatia Seeks Talks With Mol on INA as Warrant for Hernadi Looms
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-08-01T12:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/croatia-seeks-talks-with-mol-on-ina-as-warrant-for-hernadi-looms.html
Croatia proposed talks with  Hungary ’s
Mol Nyrt. over the “future and history” of the jointly owned
 INA Industrija Nafte d.d.  just weeks after Croatian prosecutors
renewed investigation into Mol’s Chairman  Zsolt Hernadi ’s role
in the 2009 acquisition.  Croatia’s government appointed Economy Minister Ivan Vrdoljak chief of the negotiating team, it said in the capital
Zagreb today. Mol, which owns 49.1 percent of the Croatian
refiner, won control of the company in the 2009 shareholding
agreement. Ivo Sanader, Croatia’s Prime Minister at the time, is
serving a 10-year prison term for corruption over his role in
the agreement, as well as in a separate case involving  Austria ’s
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank. He is appealing the verdict.  The Croatian Office for Suppression of Corruption and
Organized Crime on July 4 asked Hungarian authorities to assist
with the interrogation of Hernadi, adding that further action,
possibly involving an European Union-wide arrest warrant for
Hernadi, depends on the response from Budapest. Mol has denied
the allegations.  “We need to talk with our strategic partner about  INA ’s
strategic aims and its future, and to be able to do this we also
need to talk about INA’s history over the last 10 years,”
Vrdoljak said at the Cabinet meeting today.  Croatia, which joined the EU on July 1, seeks to increase
its influence in the Zagreb-based company. The Adriatic country,
through a supervisory board, appoints three members in the six-member management board and it holds 44.84 percent of the
company’s stock. Board President Zoltan Aldott, a former Mol
executive, has a swaying vote.  Stake Sale Possible  Mol may sell its stake in INA if final talks with Croatia
on cooperation fail, Austria Press Agency reported today, citing
an unidentified Mol executive. The  government  said Mol is not
efficient in running the company, it said in materials
distributed to reporters before the cabinet session today.  “Although INA has positive financial results, they are
very modest for an oil and gas company of its size and
potential,” the Cabinet said, adding Mol has delayed its
obligation to complete the rehaul of INA’s Croatian refineries
in Sisak and Rijeka.  The government also said it wants to re-examine conditions
in the agreement under which Mol acquired a controlling position
in the company.  “In order to discuss Mol’s rights, it is necessary to
examine the history and the reasons why control over INA was
delivered to Mol,” said Jasminko Umicevic, an analyst at
London-based Oil and Gas Consulting International LLP and a
former INA manager.  “This also includes the 2009 shareholding agreement that
Judge Ivan Turudic in the sentencing of Ivo Sanader last year
described as a product of corruption and detrimental for
 Croatia ,” Umicevic said by phone.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  