-- Ctrip Leads Rally to Two-Month High on Earnings: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-08-01T21:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/ctrip-leads-rally-to-two-month-high-on-earnings-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks climbed to a two-month
high in New York as the nation’s manufacturing unexpectedly rose
last month. Online travel agency  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) 
surged after reporting earnings that exceeded estimates.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed 2.3 percent to 94.73
yesterday, the highest level since May 21. Ctrip, China’s
biggest online travel agency, soared 19 percent while competitor
 Elong Inc. (LONG)  jumped 11 percent. Video website operator  Youku Tudou
Inc. (YOKU)  advanced to a six-month high and  Renren Inc. (RENN)  surged the
most since January 2012.  Barclays Plc and Stifel Nicolaus & Co. raised their
 recommendations  on the American depositary receipts of Ctrip to
the equivalent of buy after the Shanghai-based company reported
second-quarter net income that beat analysts’ average projection
by 38 percent. The July reading of China’s official  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index rose to 50.3 from 50.1 in June and exceeded
analysts’ median estimate of 49.8.  “There’s still a very attractive consumption story to take
advantage of in China,” Marc Tommasi, head of global investment
strategy at Manning & Napier Advisors Inc., which manages $46.3
billion in assets including Chinese equities, said by phone from
Rochester, New York. “We started to see signs of stabilization
in the Chinese economy. There are also a lot of well-positioned,
market-oriented, profit-driven firms that we find very
attractive.”  ETF Surges  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., climbed 1.9 percent to $34.92,
the highest price in seven weeks. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index added 1.3 percent to 1,706.87 after central banks vowed to
maintain stimulus and data on global manufacturing beat
forecasts.  Ctrip’s ADRs jumped to $43.72, the highest since August
2011. Trading volume on the stock was more than seven times the
daily average over the past 30 days, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The company’s net income surged 76 percent in April-June
period to $34 million, it said in a statement July 31. That
compared with the average estimate of $24.8 million of seven
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Its sales of $203 million
compared with the mean estimate of $190 million. Ctrip  forecast 
revenue growth of as much as 25 percent for the third quarter.  “Ctrip’s results surpassed consensus in all aspects from
top line, bottom line to margin,” Tian X. Hou, the founder of
T. H. Capital LLC, which compiles research on U.S.-traded
Chinese companies, said by phone from  New York . “The company
had very strong growth in flight booking, partly thanks to its
promotional program for users of its mobile app, which became
the most popular among competitors.”  Youku Visitors  ADRs of Beijing-based Elong, an online travel agency
focusing on hotel reservations, surged to $16.27 in the biggest
rally since August 2012.  Youku Tudou, owner of China’s biggest video websites, added
7.2 percent to $23.78.  The Beijing-based company’s Youku unit had 14 million daily
unique users in June, compared with 7.9 million for iQiyi and 6
million for PPS, two web video sites owned by Baidu Inc., it
said in a July 30 statement, citing data provided by iResearch
Consulting Group.  Sina Corp., owner of Weibo, the biggest Twitter-like
service in  China , climbed 6.8 percent to $72.68, the highest
level since March 2012.  Weibo Users  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which in April agreed to buy a
stake in the Weibo unit, will allow Weibo users to shop on its
e-commerce website, the companies said in a joint statement
yesterday. Alibaba, China’s biggest e-commerce company, disabled
sellers’ access to competitor Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s instant
messaging application in its own app shop, citing security
reasons, Alibaba spokeswoman Florence Shih said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Renren, which owns a real-name social networking website,
surged 20 percent to $3.98.  Call contracts  outstanding betting
on gains in Renren’s ADRs surged 30 percent yesterday from a
week earlier, option data compiled by Bloomberg showed. Calls
were 5.6 times puts. The company said June 28 its board approved
a plan to buy back as much as $100 million of its ADRs in a
year.  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) , a casino operator in Macau,
climbed for a fifth day, rising 3.1 percent to a record $25.65
in New York.  Gaming revenue in Macau rose 20 percent in July from a year
ago to 29.5 billion patacas ($3.7 billion), according to the
website of the city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau.
That compared with a median estimate of 29.1 billion patacas
from five analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index in  Hong Kong  added
0.7 percent to 9,723.93, after rising 3.7 percent last month,
while the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  surged 1.8 percent to
2,029.07 in a third day of gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  