-- Danamon Drops Most in 4 Years as DBS Deal Lapses: Jakarta Mover
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-08-01T04:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/danamon-drops-most-in-4-years-as-dbs-deal-lapses-jakarta-mover.html
PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  shares
plunged the most in more than four years after  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  ended a $6.5 billion bid to control the lender.  Danamon fell 13 percent to 4,500 rupiah at 11:18 a.m. in
Jakarta, heading for the steepest drop since January 2009. It
was the biggest decliner in the Jakarta Composite Index, which
dropped 0.3 percent after data today showed that inflation
accelerated more than forecast in July. Danamon has fallen 20
percent this year, compared with a 6.5 percent gain in the
benchmark gauge.  Singapore-based DBS ended what would have been Southeast
Asia’s largest banking takeover after failing to win regulatory
approval for a majority stake. The deal’s failure is a setback
to DBS Chief Executive Officer Piyush Gupta’s ambitions to
expand in faster-growing countries and reduce reliance on
 Singapore , Southeast Asia’s least-profitable loan market.  “Some people were still hoping that the deal would go
through,” Syaiful Adrian, analyst at PT Ciptadana Securities,
said by phone from Jakarta today. “Now that DBS has really let
the deal fall through, people dumped the shares.”  Danamon, the country’s sixth-largest bank by assets, was
traded at 1.5 times price-to-book ratio, the lowest since April
2009, compared with 2.4 times for the Jakarta Finance Index.  The Indonesian lender is over-reliant on automotive
financing, a business that has been hurt by the central bank’s
decision last year to introduce a requirement for higher
downpayments, Adrian said. The bank also has higher costs of
funds than its competitors, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  