-- Danske Bank Gains as Loan Loss Improvement Drives Profit
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-08-01T10:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/danske-bank-cuts-profit-forecast-as-market-turmoil-hurts-trading.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  said profit rose 46
percent last quarter after loan losses at  Denmark ’s biggest bank
dropped as the economies of its main markets picked up.  Danske shares rose as much as 8.2 percent, the biggest gain
in more than six months, to 111.80 kroner and traded at that
level at 11:40 a.m. in Copenhagen. The bank said net income rose
to 2.18 billion kroner ($388 million), beating a 1.68 billion-krone average estimate in a  Bloomberg survey , after loan losses
fell 45 percent to 924 million kroner. Profit last quarter was
the highest in five years.  The bank will be able to maintain the current level of
impairments in coming quarters, Chief Financial Officer Henrik Ramlau-Hansen said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Danske, which has navigated its way through burst property
bubbles in Ireland and Denmark, said loan losses declined to
their lowest level since the second quarter of 2008. Denmark is
showing signs of emerging from its housing slump as property
prices start to rise, while the economies of Norway and Sweden,
where Danske also operates, are growing at a faster rate than
the rest of  Europe .  ‘Good Report’  “Danske Bank has published a good report for the second
quarter, with especially loan losses surprising positively,”
Nordea Private Banking, a unit of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , said in a note
to clients today. The bank’s decision to cut its 2013 outlook as
market turbulence hit trading income “was expected,” Nordea
said.  Danske now sees net income from 6.5 billion kroner to 9
billion kroner for 2013, compared with a previous range of 7.5
billion kroner to 10 billion kroner. Net interest income slipped
3.7 percent to 5.5 billion kroner. Trading income dropped 26
percent to 2.15 billion kroner.  “The difficult macroeconomic environment with low interest
rate levels combined with the volatility in the financial
markets in June have led us to revise our guidance for full-year
2013,” Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding said.  Danica Pension, Danske’s pension and life insurance unit,
reported a loss of 346 million kroner, its first since the third
quarter of 2011. Kolding, speaking to reporters after presenting
the bank’s earnings, ruled out talk of a sale of Danica.  Even after today’s share price gains, Danske has lagged
behind its biggest rivals in the Nordic region, delivering a 17
percent increase this year. That compares with a 34 percent
surge at Nordea and a 29 percent advance at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB of  Sweden .  Danske hasn’t paid a dividend since 2007, a trend the bank
says it will reverse once reserves are big enough. Chief
Financial Officer Henrik Ramlau-Hansen has said that the lender
plans to pay a dividend for 2013 if the bank meets its targeted
results.  “As it looks now, with high capital, liquidity, improving
results, it might be that we will be able to pay dividends for
2013,” Kolding said in an interview today. “But this is not
something that is decided yet. It’s a board decision. We will
not make a decision before we know the actual result for this
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net  Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at
   fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  