-- Danske ROE Target in Jeopardy as Crisis Rates Prove Sticky
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-08-02T11:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/danske-bank-roe-target-in-jeopardy-as-crisis-rates-prove-sticky.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  Chief Executive
Officer Eivind Kolding said he may review a goal to more than
double shareholder returns as central banks keep  interest rates 
at record lows.  Denmark’s biggest lender said in October it would raise
return on equity to more than 12 percent by 2015, based on a
prediction that short-term interest rates would rise to 2
percent by then. Yet central banks from  Frankfurt  to  Washington 
are signaling they’ll continue policies needed to support growth
as their economies struggle to emerge from the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression. That’s casting doubt over
Danske’s interest rate assumptions.  “It’s not likely that it will be 2 percent in 2015, but we
have not adjusted that assumption and thus our 2015 target,”
Kolding, who’s headed Danske Bank since February last year, said
yesterday in an interview. “We might revisit that toward the
end of the year.”  Danske set its ROE targets as  Europe ’s debt crisis showed
signs of easing at the end of 2012. The Copenhagen-based lender,
which yesterday posted its biggest profit in five years, is
trying to woo back investors after diluting their holdings with
two share sales in as many years, and no dividends since 2007.  Danske reported an increase in return on equity to 5.2
percent last quarter. That’s still less than half the average at
its Swedish competitors including  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Slip  Danske shares slipped 0.8 percent to 112 kroner as of 12:54
p.m. in Copenhagen, after gaining as much as 3.5 percent earlier
in the day.  What’s worrying is Danske’s difficulty raising revenue,
said Christian Hede, vice president of equity research at Jyske
Markets. While loan losses declined last quarter more than most
analysts predicted, the bank faces an uphill battle generating
income as demand for credit stalls and interest rates stay low,
he said.  “If you look at it over the long term -- 15 to 17 quarters
-- the earnings were a bit negative,” Hede said. “It was
expected that writedowns would normalize -- which they did, just
faster -- while net interest income keeps falling.”  Danske reported yesterday a 3.7 percent decline in net
interest income from the second quarter a year earlier, to 5.5
billion kroner.  ‘Definitely Not’  Chief Financial Officer Henrik Ramlau-Hansen said yesterday
the bank won’t sell shares to meet stricter  capital requirements 
as the bank works toward boosting shareholder returns.  “Definitely not,” Ramlau-Hansen said in an interview.
“We feel we have the equity we need and the major issue for the
bank is generating a good return on equity. We have no plans at
all to issue shares, not at all.”  Danske, which sold new shares in 2011 and 2012, has seen
its capital goals come under pressure after the financial
regulator ordered it to add $18 billion to its risk-weighted
assets and as a rule change at  Standard & Poor’s  wiped out the
equity content of a hybrid issue. The bank reported a core tier
1 capital ratio of 15.6 percent for the end of June, meaning it
already meets regulatory requirements.  Stricter capital demands are coming from several fronts.
Denmark’s six biggest banks need to hold as much as 5 percent in
additional capital of risk-weighted assets, a government-appointed committee said in March. Though the proposals opened
the door to using convertible debt to help meet requirements,
analysts including Thomas Hovard, head of credit research at
Danske Markets, argue pricing may force banks to rely on equity
to build capital.  Repay Debt  Danske plans to repay 24 billion kroner ($4.3 billion) in
state-owned hybrid debt next year, Ramlau-Hansen said.  “In that connection, given our  capital ratios , we are
considering what other capital exercises we need to do in order
to keep healthy capital ratios,” he said. “When the state
hybrid is repaid, that will reduce our total capital ratio by 3
percentage points. We are looking into whether we should do Tier
1s, Tier 2s, combinations. But again, no decision has been made.
It will probably be some transactions, not just one.”  The bank is awaiting the result of its appeal of an order
from the Financial Supervisory Authority to add 100 billion
kroner to its risk-weighted assets after the regulator said
Danske had underestimated the likelihood of losses on small
business loans. Danske is also considering its options on how to
treat a 2037 hybrid note after S&P’s rule change, Ramlau-Hansen
said.  Considering Options  “We have an option, or at least we can change the
documentation so that we have an option, to redeem it at par but
of course we are considering what to do,” he said. “We assume
that the investor community is a professional community that
knows what the conditions are, so we have to find the right
balance between something that is fair for the bank and
something that is fair for the investor community.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  