-- Dell’s Retail Shareholders Play Key Role in Takeover Vote
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-08-01T16:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/dell-s-retail-shareholders-take-on-outsized-importance.html
George Fremin bought 13,000 shares of
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  in 1992 and has owned them ever since. He calls
himself a loyal shareholder -- and that’s why he cast his vote a
few weeks ago against a proposed $24.4 billion leveraged buyout
for the personal-computer maker.  “I want to remain a stockholder in a publicly traded
Dell,” said Fremin, 80, a retiree who lives 15 miles from the
company’s headquarters in  Round Rock ,  Texas . “I believe in the
upside of the stock, no question.”  Fremin and others who own tiny amounts of a company’s stock
rarely make a difference in votes on major deals. Yet his
actions and those of other Dell retail stockholders are taking
on an outsized importance as  Michael Dell  and partner Silver
Lake Management LLC work to close their controversial $13.65-a-share LBO, which is scheduled to go to a twice-adjourned
shareholder vote tomorrow, barring any last-minute surprises.  “Every shareholder’s vote counts, even the little ones,”
said Brian Quinn, a professor at Boston College Law School. “In
this deal more than in most, because the board was not required
to ask for the majority of unaffiliated shareholders to approve
the deal, but it did in an overabundance of caution.”  The LBO faces opposition from several large institutional
investors, including Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and
activist billionaire  Carl Icahn , who have proposed a $14-a-share
buyback that would keep Dell public.  Vote Math  The deal can only pass with a majority of votes, excluding
Michael Dell’s 15.6 percent stake in the company, while
abstentions count as no votes. As of July 24, more than 25
percent of unaffiliated holders hadn’t voted, Michael Dell said
in a letter that day. And investors opposed to the transaction
owned more than 20 percent of shares as of early July, according
to a report from shareholder adviser Glass Lewis & Co., which
backed Dell’s original bid with  Silver Lake .  Retail shareholders make up about 11 percent of Dell’s
stockholder base, according to a person familiar with the
situation who asked not to be identified because the information
isn’t public. Shareholders can recast their vote as many times
as they want until the last minute. With the margin of victory
in the vote set to be slim, winning that retail slice is
increasingly crucial.  Yesterday, Dell’s special committee of the board rejected
an attempt by Michael Dell and Silver Lake to change the voting
rule with a sweetened $13.75-a-share offer. The board said it’s
willing to change the June 3 record date of shareholders, but
not the absentees’ voting rule.  Decision Time  Michael Dell and Silver Lake haven’t made a final decision
on whether to proceed with the record date change -- which would
delay the shareholder vote until at least late August -- or to
go ahead with the $13.65-a-share offer tomorrow, said the
person.  Chief Executive Officer Dell said in his July 24  letter  to
shareholders that the $13.75-a-share offer is “best and final”
and that “it is in the best interests of the company and our
shareholders.”  David Frink , a spokesman for Dell, declined to comment. A
Silver Lake representative declined to comment.  The gamesmanship over the LBO has done little to win over
individual shareholders such as Russell Grant, 44, a marketing
manager from  Orlando ,  Florida . Grant, a Dell shareholder for 15
years who owns 4,700 shares of the computer maker in a
retirement account and 3,700 shares in a personal account, said
he has voted against the LBO because he is “angry at Michael
Dell.”  What Value?  Dell has spent about $13 billion on acquisitions over the
past five years to add enterprise computing hardware, software
and services. Grant questions the  value  created by those
purchases. “If they have no value, it speaks of the company’s
mismanagement,” he said.  Instead, Grant is backing Icahn and Southeastern’s
alternative proposal. “I don’t trust the overall process, but I
trust Icahn’s money,” he said.  The opposition of some retail shareholders is unusual given
that most tend to vote following the recommendation of a
company’s board, according to  Erik Gordon , a business professor
at the  University of Michigan .  “What makes this  management buyout  ugly and memorable is
that it is not the buyout of some company in  Cleveland  that
makes air compressors that nobody cares about,” Gordon said.
“This is the buyout of a company whose leader’s name is on the
door, whose leader has been a cult figure to his investors, they
loved him and now he says: I think I can make more money without
you guys.”  In Favor  Other small owners of Dell stock said they are in favor of
the buyout. Otto Pfahl, 65, who has owned Dell shares for more
than a decade, said he voted for the LBO because he would rather
see CEO Dell remain at the helm.  “The CEO and founder is more directly involved in making
the company prosperous than someone who doesn’t know it,” said
Pfahl, a retiree from Round Rock. “If Icahn takes it over, he
will cut costs and many more jobs are going to end up overseas
than they already have.”  Fremin, meanwhile, would profit handsomely from the LBO
since he made his initial Dell investment at less than $1 a
share. Yet after owning Dell stock through the late 1990s when
it touched $60 a share, he said he believes it could come back.  “I could be totally wrong, but to me it’s a very real
thing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  