-- Delon’s Tan, Talent Trumps Damon as Psycho Ripley: Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2013-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/delon-s-tan-talent-trumps-damon-as-psycho-ripley-rainer-file.html
Tom Ripley, my favorite psychopath,
has figured in numerous movies but none better than Rene
Clement’s “ Purple Noon ” (1960).  As Patricia Highsmith’s upwardly mobile shape-shifter, the
young Alain Delon is the perfect emblem of glossy soullessness.
Highsmith herself thought he was the perfect screen incarnation
of Ripley.  She didn’t live to see Anthony Minghella’s “ The Talented
Mr. Ripley ” (1999), the Matt Damon redo of her 1955 novel. It
was the first in the Ripley book series and also the basis for
the Delon film.  Although better known than “Purple Noon” (out on DVD and
Blu-Ray from Criterion), it’s the lesser work.  Delon’s Tom is on an all-expenses-paid mission to  Rome  and
the Mediterranean to retrieve his rich playboy friend Philippe
(Dickie in the novel) Greenleaf (Maurice Ronet) and deliver him
back to his family in San Francisco. A social-climbing con
artist, Tom savors Philippe’s dolce vita lifestyle.  But Philippe has a not-so-subtle upper class disdain for
the scroungy Tom. When it becomes clear he has no intention of
returning to America, Tom does the logical thing: He kills
Philippe and assumes his identity.  Cool Amorality  Unlike the Minghella movie, which attempts to make Tom
poignant and the story a cautionary tale about the lure of
murder, Clement revels in Tom’s cool amorality and isn’t keen on
imparting life lessons.  This is probably why Highsmith approved of this movie. It
neither sentimentalizes Tom nor denies our fascination with his
depravities. Only the film’s ending (stop reading here if you
don’t want to know it), when Tom is caught by the cops, sells
out Highsmith, who let him get away.  Sin has never looked more sun-baked than in “Purple
Noon,” photographed by Henri Decae in such eye-popping hues
that you may have to resist the impulse to put on shades. I’m
tempted to call “Purple Noon” a guilty pleasure but really,
what is there to be guilty about? Highsmith doth make sinners of
us all.  A later Ripley novel, “Ripley’s Game,” was also filmed
twice, memorably by Wim Wenders in 1977 as “ The American
Friend ” and less so by Liliana Cavani in 2003, with John Malkovich doing his trademark creepy shtick as Tom.  Dennis Hopper  In the Wenders’s movie, Dennis Hopper is the American expat
who lures a Hamburg picture framer (Bruno Ganz) into committing
murder. It’s an unsettling, almost hallucinogenic thriller that
successfully merges Wenders’s existential angst with Highsmith’s
nerveless, free-floating paranoia.  Almost unknown is “ Ripley Under Ground ,” based on a 1970
Highsmith novel. I saw it in 2005 at a Los Angeles film
festival, whereupon it all but disappeared. Directed by Roger
Spottiswoode and starring Barry Pepper (somewhat miscast) as
Tom, it has a ripe, energetic appreciation of degeneracy.  Claude Chabrol’s “ The Cry of the Owl ” (1987), based on
the 1962 Highsmith novel, is not in the Ripley series but this
revenge drama showcases Chabrol’s well-honed Hitchcockian side.  Of course, with the murder-swap classic “ Strangers on a
Train ” (1951), Hitchcock himself had a go at Highsmith, and it
remains the best adaptation of them all. She agreed, even
praising the liberties Hitchcock and co-screenwriter Raymond
Chandler took with her first novel.  The Criterion disk includes a 1971 TV interview with
Highsmith. Traipsing through the rural French village where she
has secreted herself, she complains of the lack of inspiration
in her surroundings.  “My characters are big crooks,” she says. “Unfortunately
I only meet pastry chefs here.”  (Peter Rainer is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure of
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this subject:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  