-- Digital China Unit Plans $492 Million Merger With Shenzhen Techo
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-08-01T18:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/digital-china-unit-plans-492-million-merger-with-shenzhen-techo.html
Digital China Holdings Ltd. (861) , a
distributor of technology products, said its information
services unit will merge with  Shenzhen Techo Telecom Co. (000555)  in a
3.02 billion  yuan  ($492 million) all-stock deal.  Shenzhen Techo will absorb Digital China Information
Service Co. in exchange for 319.6 million new shares, about a 74
percent stake of its expanded share capital, Digital China said
yesterday in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing.  The merger gives Digital China a separate listing for its
systems integration, applications software development and
professional IT services business, according to the filing. Its
distribution operations have been affected by a drop in consumer
demand, Miles Xie, an analyst at Bocom International Holdings
Ltd., wrote in a June report.  The deal is deemed a spinoff under Stock Exchange of Hong
Kong rules and will require approval from the exchange, Shenzhen
Techo shareholders and Chinese government regulatory agencies,
Digital  China  said.  After the merger, Shenzhen Techo plans to discontinue its
existing operations, the trading of liquid crystal film display
panel products, according to the filing. Digital China said it
will continue to distribute IT products and provide supply chain
services.  Digital China, which now owns 61 percent of the services
unit, will hold a 45.2 percent in Shenzhen Techo, according to
the filing. Tianjin Xinrui Investment Partnership LP, which owns
18.6 percent of the unit, will get a 13.8 percent stake in
Shenzhen Techo, the company said.  Unit investors China Singapore Suzhou Industrial Park
Ventures Co., Infinity I-China Investments Israel LP and Nanjing
Huiqing Tianxia Technology Co. will get stakes of 12.3 percent,
2.2 percent and 0.7 percent respectively, according to the
filing.  Digital China gained 1.4 percent to HK$8.64 at the close of
Hong Kong trading yesterday, before the announcement. The stock
has slumped 35 percent this year, compared with the 2.5 percent
decline in the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index . Shenzhen Techo
has been suspended from trading in Shenzhen since May 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  