-- Draghi Says Euro Area Growth Risks Remain ‘On the Downside’
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-08-01T13:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/draghi-says-euro-area-growth-risks-remain-on-the-downside-.html
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi comments on interest rates, inflation, and the economy.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after ECB policy makers left the benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low of 0.50 percent.  On monetary policy stance:
Underlying price pressures in the euro area are expected to
remain subdued over the medium term. In keeping with this
picture, monetary and, in particular, credit dynamics remain
subdued. Inflation expectations for the euro area continue to be
firmly anchored in line with our aim of maintaining inflation
rates below, but close to, 2 percent over the medium term.  We are not at all oblivious to the fact that inflation in
the medium term undershoots our objective of inflation close to
or below 2 percent.  Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared towards
maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation warranted by
the outlook for  price stability  and promoting stable money
market contitions. It thereby provides support to a gradual
recovery in economic activity in the remaining part of the year
and in 2014.  Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary.  On economic outlook:
Looking ahead to the rest of the year and to 2014, euro area
export growth should benefit from a gradual recovery in global
demand, while domestic demand should be supported by the
accomodative monetary policy stance as well as recent gains in
real income owing to generally lower inflation.  The remaining necessary balance sheet adjustments in the
public and private sectors will continue to weigh on economic
activity. Overall, euro area economic activity should stabilize
and recover at a slow pace.  Now we start seeing possibly the first signs that this
significant improvement in confidence and interest rates is
finding its way through to the economy.  On risks to the economic outlook:
The risks surrounding the euro area economic outlook continue to
be on the downside.  Other downside risks include the possibility of weaker than
expected domestic and global demand and slow or insufficient
implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries.  Annual inflation rates are currently expected to
temporarily fall over the coming months.  Underlying price pressures are expected to remain subdued,
reflecting the broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the
modest pace of the recovery. Medium to long-term inflation
expectations continue to be firmly anchored in line with price
stability.  On bank funding:
Since the summer of 2012, substantial progress has been made in
improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed
countries.  It’s essential that the fragmentation of euro area credit
markets declines further and that the resilience of banks is
strengthened where it is needed.  On fiscal reforms:
To bring debt ratios back on a downward path, euro area
countries should not unravel their efforts to reduce government
budget deficits.  On forward guidance:
The Governing Council confirms that it expects the key ECB
interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an
extended period of time.  In terms of compressing volatility it was successful, and
in terms of short term rates it was partly successful.  There was a discussion whether we should repeat these words
each and every time. Because of an excessive prudence, we repeat
them today. But we may not repeat them if we judge that you and
the markets understand that a certain forward guidance is valid
until further notice.  In other words, we may not repeat if we are convinced that
you and the markets understand that if we don’t say anything, it
doesn’t mean that we have changed our mind -- it means we stay
with the same mind until we do change mind.  You have all the parameters in your hands to judge the
length of time, especially about when the language of forward
guidance might be changed.  On liquidity measures:
Liquidity will remain abundant. It will remain ample as long as
needed.  Current expectations of rate hikes in money markets are
according to our assessment unwarranted.  On the possibility of deflation:
If we define deflation as a generalized fall in the price level
across broad categories of assets, sectors, in a context of
self-fulfilling expectations, we don’t see deflation in any
country in the euro area.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weixin Zha in  Frankfurt  at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  