-- Draghi’s Introductory Remarks at ECB Press Conference: Text
-- B y
-- 2013-08-01T12:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/draghi-s-introductory-remarks-at-ecb-press-conference-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the introductory remarks of European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today.  ECB policy makers left the main refinancing rate at 0.5
percent for a third month after reducing it by a quarter point
in May. The decision was predicted by 62 of 63 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Mario Draghi, President of the ECB,
Vitor Constancio, Vice-President of the ECB,
Frankfurt am Main, 1 August 2013  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. We will now report on
the outcome of today’s meeting of the Governing Council.
Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we decided
to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. Incoming
information has confirmed our previous assessment. Underlying
price pressures in the euro area are expected to remain subdued
over the medium term. In keeping with this picture, monetary
and, in particular, credit dynamics remain subdued. Inflation
expectations for the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in
line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to, 2% over the medium term. At the same time, recent
confidence indicators based on survey data have shown some
further improvement from low levels and tentatively confirm the
expectation of a stabilisation in economic activity. Our
monetary policy stance continues to be geared towards
maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation warranted by
the outlook for  price stability  and promoting stable money
market conditions. It thereby provides support to a gradual
recovery in economic activity in the remaining part of the year
and in 2014. Looking ahead, our monetary policy stance will
remain accommodative for as long as necessary. The Governing
Council confirms that it expects the key ECB interest rates to
remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of
time. This expectation continues to be based on an unchanged
overall subdued outlook for inflation extending into the medium
term, given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued
monetary dynamics. In the period ahead, we will monitor all
incoming information on economic and monetary developments and
assess any impact on the outlook for price stability.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. Following a six-quarter economic
contraction in the euro area, recent confidence indicators based
on survey data have shown some further improvement from low
levels and tentatively confirm the expectation of a
stabilisation in economic activity at low levels. At the same
time, labour market conditions remain weak. Looking ahead to the
remainder of the year and to 2014, euro area export growth
should benefit from a gradual recovery in global demand, while
domestic demand should be supported by the accommodative
monetary policy stance as well as the recent gains in real
income owing to generally lower inflation. Furthermore, the
overall improvements in financial markets seen since last summer
appear to be gradually working their way through to the real
economy, as should the progress made in fiscal consolidation.
This being said, the remaining necessary balance sheet
adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to
weigh on economic activity. Overall, euro area economic activity
should stabilise and recover at a slow pace.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
continue to be on the downside. Recent developments in global
money and financial market conditions and related uncertainties
may have the potential to negatively affect economic conditions.
Other downside risks include the possibility of weaker than
expected domestic and global demand and slow or insufficient
implementation of structural reforms in euro area countries.
According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual HICP
inflation was 1.6% in July 2013, unchanged from June. Annual
inflation rates are currently expected to temporarily fall over
the coming months, owing particularly to base effects relating
to energy price developments twelve months earlier. Taking the
appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying price pressures
are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the broad-based
weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of the
recovery. Medium to long-term inflation expectations continue to
be firmly anchored in line with price stability.  The risks to the outlook for price developments are expected to
be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with upside
risks relating to stronger than expected increases in
administered prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher
commodity prices, and downside risks stemming from weaker than
expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, underlying money and, in
particular, credit growth remained subdued in June. Annual
growth in broad money (M3) decreased in June to 2.3%, from 2.9%
in May. Moreover, annual growth in M1 decreased to 7.5% in June,
from 8.4% in May. The annual rate of change of loans to the
private sector weakened further. While the annual growth rate of
loans to households (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation)
remained at 0.3% in June, broadly unchanged since the turn of
the year, the annual rate of change of loans to non-financial
corporations (adjusted for loan sales and securitisation) was -
2.3% in June, after -2.1% in May. Weak loan dynamics continue to
reflect primarily the current stage of the business cycle,
heightened credit risk and the ongoing adjustment of financial
and non-financial sector balance sheets. The bank lending survey
for the second quarter of 2013 confirms that borrowers’ risk and
macroeconomic uncertainty remained the main factors restraining
banks’ lending policies. At the same time, the degree of net
tightening of credit standards for loans to non-financial
corporations remained unchanged in the second quarter of 2013,
compared with the first quarter, and declined for loans to
households.  Since the summer of 2012 substantial progress has been made in
improving the funding situation of banks and, in particular, in
strengthening the domestic deposit base in a number of stressed
countries. In order to ensure an adequate transmission of
monetary policy to the financing conditions in euro area
countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of euro area
credit markets declines further and that the resilience of banks
is strengthened where needed. Further decisive steps for
establishing a Banking Union will help to accomplish this
objective.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, in order to bring debt ratios back
on a downward path, euro area countries should not unravel their
efforts to reduce government budget deficits. The emphasis
should be on growth-friendly fiscal strategies which have a
medium-term perspective and combine improving the quality and
efficiency of public services with minimising distortionary
effects of taxation. To reinforce the overall impact of such a
strategy,  Member States  must step up the implementation of the
necessary structural reforms so as to foster competitiveness,
growth and job creation. Removing rigidities in the labour
market, lowering the administrative burden and strengthening
competition in product markets will particularly support small
and medium-sized enterprises. These structural reform measures
are essential to bring down the currently high level of
unemployment, in particular among the younger citizens of the
euro area.  We are now at your disposal for questions 