-- DreamWorks Animation Surges on Gain From ‘The Croods’
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-08-01T20:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/dreamworks-animation-surges-on-gain-from-the-croods-.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
independent film studio run by Jeffrey Katzenberg, gained the
most in 20 months after reporting a surge in second-quarter
profit, driven by the hit movie “The Croods.”  The stock advanced 8.8 percent to $26.95 at the close in
New York, the biggest increase since Nov. 7, 2011. DreamWorks
Animation has climbed 63 percent this year.  Net income rose 74 percent to $22.3 million, or 26 cents a
share, Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation said
yesterday in a statement. The results beat the 20-cent average
of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 31
percent to $213.4 million, surpassing the $188.9 million
estimate.  “The Croods,” was released on March 22 in the U.S. and
later in countries including China and  France , generating $71.8
million in revenue in the quarter. The film, about a cave-man
family discovering fire, has taken in $584 million worldwide, an
amount split with exhibitors. It cost $135 million to make,
according to the research site Box Office Mojo.  “DreamWorks Animation significantly outperformed in the
second quarter,” Katzenberg, who is chief executive officer,
said on a conference call yesterday. He called “The Croods”
the company’s most successful original film since “Kung Fu
Panda” in 2008.  Speedy Snail  The July 17 release “Turbo,” about a speedy snail who
aspires to compete in the Indianapolis 500, opened to
disappointing sales because mid-summer was crowded with big-budget and animated films, Katzenberg said.  “It was just a bad date,” he said.  The film has taken in $60.1 million in domestic theaters
since its release, according to  Box Office Mojo . The company may
have to write down as much a $50 million on the movie, James
Marsh, a  Piper Jaffray Cos. (PJC)  analyst in New York, wrote in a July
22 research note.  The film will be profitable in part because its production
cost was lower than other DreamWorks releases, Katzenberg said.
Strong international box office sales and consumer product
revenue will add to the picture’s takings as will a deal
DreamWorks announced in June with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  to distribute its
movies on that company’s subscription video service.  “All of these things and a few other factors in it create
an opportunity where we can have a film perform like this and be
profitable for the company,” Katzenberg said.  Fox Deal  DreamWorks Animation signed a five-year film distribution
agreement with 21st Century Fox Inc. last August, ending a six-year pact with  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures. The Fox deal
allows DreamWorks Animation to keep domestic television revenue
and reduces digital distribution costs.  Katzenberg has moved more aggressively into television
production to lessen the dependency on films. DreamWorks
Animation will generate $100 million in TV production revenue
this year and $200 million by 2015, he said in June.  DreamWorks Animation said in separate statements yesterday
that it hired Marjorie Cohn, a former executive at Viacom’s
Nickelodeon channel, to head its television operations and Paul Kurzawa, chief operating officer of Los Angeles-based shopping-mall developer Caruso Affiliated, as head of retail development
and entertainment.  The company also said it has reached an agreement with
 Hasbro Inc. (HAS) , the world’s second-biggest toymaker, to distribute
merchandise and games based on its upcoming films “B.O.O.:
Bureau of Otherworldly Operations”, scheduled for release in
2015, and “Trolls,” slated for a 2016 opening.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  