-- Drummond Wins Dismissal of Suit Over Colombia Murders
-- B y   A n t h o n y   E f f i n g e r
-- 2013-08-01T17:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/drummond-wins-dismissal-of-suit-over-colombia-murders.html
Drummond Co., accused in a lawsuit of
paying right-wing militiamen in  Colombia  to protect its coal
shipments, won dismissal of the case following a U.S.  Supreme
Court  ruling on a law often used in foreign human-rights claims.  U.S. District Judge David Proctor in Birmingham, Alabama,
granted Drummond’s request to throw out the case on July 25,
saying that the law on which the plaintiffs based the suit, the
Alien Tort Statute, was no longer suitable. The Supreme Court in
April limited the reach of the law.  The plaintiffs, represented by human rights lawyer Terry Collingsworth, didn’t provide enough evidence that actions in
Colombia were orchestrated in the U.S. to proceed under the
statute, Proctor said.  “There is nothing left in this final analysis to support
plaintiffs’ contention” that the company made decisions in the
U.S. “to conspire with and aid and abet the commission of  war
crimes  in Colombia,” Proctor wrote.  Colombians living along a rail line Drummond used to ship
coal from its mines to port sued the company in 2009. They
claimed that the Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia, a right-wing
paramilitary group known as AUC, tortured and killed their
relatives in an effort to root out left-wing rebels who had
blown up trains and track to halt Drummond’s shipments.  Third Loss  Proctor’s ruling is Collingworth’s third loss to Drummond.
In 2007, an Alabama jury ruled that Drummond didn’t aid or abet
the killing of union leaders representing workers at Drummond’s
Colombian mines. A similar suit against the Birmingham-based
company was dismissed in 2012.  Collingsworth says he plans to appeal Proctor’s decision.  “He made no comment on whether Drummond paid terrorists to
kill people,” Collingsworth said in an interview. “It is
against U.S. law to pay a foreign terrorist organization.”  The U.S. named the AUC a terrorist organization in 2001.  Stephen Bradley, a spokesman for Drummond with Stephen
Bradley & Associates LLC in Birmingham, didn’t immediately
return a telephone call or e-mail messages seeking comment on
the ruling.  The case is Balcero Giraldo v. Drummond Co., 2:09-cv-1041,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Alabama  (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony Effinger in Portland at 
 aeffinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Serrill in  New York  at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 