-- Dubai Group to Cut Bank Debt After $550 Million Bank Islam Sale
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i
-- 2013-08-01T10:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/dubai-group-to-cut-bank-debt-after-550-million-bank-islam-sale.html
Dubai Group LLC, the  investment
company  restructuring $6 billion, will reduce borrowings after
selling its stake in Bank Islam for $550 million.  The sale will result in a “material reduction” in Dubai
Group’s debt, a company spokesperson, who asked not to be
identified, said today in an e-mailed statement. Around nine
banks will be paid after the sale is completed, the person said.  Dubai Financial Group LLC, a unit of Dubai Group which is
owned by the emirate’s ruler, signed an agreement with BIMB
Holdings to sell its 30.5% stake in Bank Islam, the first
Islamic bank in  Malaysia . Dubai, which teetered on the brink of
default in 2009, is accelerating asset sales as more than $30
billion of debt repayments come due next year.  The sale “stems from a strategic plan to support broader
ongoing restructuring process by selling assets at the right
value,” Dubai Group Chief Executive Officer Fadel Al-Ali said
today in a separate e-mailed statement.  Asset Sales  Dubai Financial Group acquired a 40 percent stake in Bank
Islam for $224 million in October 2006. Its shareholding was
reduced to 30.5 percent in 2009 because Dubai Financial Group
elected not to participate in a capital increase.  The group in June agreed to sell its stake in consumer
lender Dubai First to  First Gulf Bank PJSC (FGB)  for 601 million
dirhams ($163 million). Dubai Holding LLC, Dubai Group’s parent
company, plans to sell its 35 percent stake in Tunisie Telecom,
the country’s ministry for information and communication
technologies said June 21.  Seven Sheikhdoms  The second largest of the seven sheikhdoms that comprise
the  United Arab Emirates , Dubai is seeking to take advantage of
a rebounding economy to regain investor confidence after its
near default on $25 billion of debt roiled markets almost four
years ago. State-owned companies such as Dubai Holding and Dubai
World Corp. borrowed billions in a spending binge intended to
make the city the trade and tourism hub of the  Middle East .  The emirate’s state-linked debt coming due totals about $32
billion next year and $9.6 billion in 2015, according to  Bank of
America Merrill Lynch .  Abu Dhabi , Dubai’s larger neighbor,
probably won’t provide direct support next year after rescuing
Dubai from the crash with a $20 billion lifeline, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a March report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  