-- Duke to Halt New Florida Reactors in Settlement Deal
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2013-08-01T21:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/duke-to-halt-new-florida-reactors-in-settlement-deal.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  will halt plans to
build a new nuclear plant in Florida and seek to recover as much
as $1.47 billion in costs associated with a shuttered reactor in
the state under a settlement with regulatory staff.  Duke will record a $360 million pretax cost from the
settlement in the second quarter, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based company said in a statement today. The agreement is
subject to review by and approval from the Florida Public
Service Commission.  The settlement resolves two issues associated with  Progress
Energy  Inc.’s nuclear program. Duke acquired the company last
year for $17.8 billion in a deal that made it the largest U.S.
utility owner. Progress Energy’s  Florida  utility has been
billing customers since 2009 to pay for a new nuclear plant and
work on the Crystal River reactor near Tampa.  Some lawmakers aren’t happy with the deal.  “It’s grand theft,” Mike Fasano, a Republican state
representative from New Port Richey, said in an phone interview
before the details were announced. Fasano co-sponsored failed
legislation this year to reform state law that lets utilities
bill customers for plants not yet built. “There should be an
investigation to determine when they decided not to build this
plant.”  The company “had always intended to build that plant,”
Alex Glenn, president of Duke’s Florida operations, said in a
phone interview.  Regulatory Delays  The contract was done in by regulatory delays that would
prevent it from starting up before 2024, he said.  Duke shareholders will pay the cost to obtain a license for
the site so it will be available as an alternative to natural
gas when markets change, Glenn said. That expense won’t be
billed to customers unless and until a decision to build the
plant is made, he said.  This isn’t the first time Duke has slowed plans to expand
nuclear power. The company asked federal regulators in May to
suspend their review of its plans to add reactors at a site in
 North Carolina  amid lower forecasts for power demand.  NRG Energy
Inc. (NRG)  and  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  have also put new reactors on hold as the
price of natural gas, which can also fuel  power plants , has
dropped to less than $2 per million British thermal units last
year from more than $13 in 2008 .  Duke decided in February to shut rather than attempt to
repair the 36-year-old Crystal River reactor and said at the
time it will seek to recover $1.65 billion from Florida
customers. The company also has proposed shutting two coal-fired
generators at the site that don’t meet tighter clean-air
standards.  Streamlined Approvals  The settlement would streamline the approval process to
build at least two gas-fueled plants, Glenn said.  Duke said today it will continue to seek a license from
federal regulators to build at the Levy County site. It will no
longer move forward with a contract to get the two reactors
built. Progress announced plans in 2008 to build two reactors at
an estimated cost of $14 billion, with the first unit to begin
operating in 2016. The company last year raised the price tag on
the project to as much as $24 billion and delayed the start date
to 2024.  As of February, Duke had collected $676 million for Levy
and spent about $1 billion, Lloyd Yates, executive vice
president for regulated utilities, told investors on a Feb. 28
conference call. The company will retain a 2012 settlement
provision that allows it to recover about $350 million from
customers for its Levy costs, according to a filing today.  The announcement was made after the close of regular U.S.
trading. Duke increased 0.7 percent to $71.51 at the close in
 New York .  Duke is scheduled to report second-quarter financial
results Aug. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  