-- Dunkin’ Donuts Brings Baskin-Robbins Ice Cream to Germany
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-08-02T11:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/dunkin-donuts-brings-baskin-robbins-ice-cream-to-germany.html
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  plans to
bring its colorful Baskin-Robbins ice-cream cakes to Germany
next year and open more Dunkin’ Donuts stores in  Europe  as it
sees the region bouncing back from the recession.  The company, based in Canton, Massachusetts, expects to
have 150 Dunkin’ Donuts shops in Germany within five years, up
from 35 currently, with more outlets from Munich to Hamburg,
Chief Executive Officer Nigel Travis said in an interview. It’s
also looking at opportunities in  France  and the U.K., he said.  “We’re very excited about Europe,” Travis said over
coffee and biscuits in the lounge of a Westin hotel in
Frankfurt. “Europe is about to start recovering. Germany is a
very strong coffee market and bakery market.”  Dunkin’ Donuts , which was founded in 1950 and offers more
than 70 types of donuts, came to Germany in 1999, first opening
stores in Berlin and its surrounding area. As it exited other
European countries such as the U.K. in the 1990s, the retailer
stayed in the region’s largest economy. Germany, where the
 unemployment rate  held close a two-decade low in July, is now
one of the biggest focus for the company, the CEO said.  “It’s the perfect time to get in here because after the
recession, real estate is a bit easier to find than it has
been,” Travis said. “It’s a great time to find franchisees.”  Baskin-Robbins  is starting to recruit franchisees and will
focus on Berlin, Hamburg, Stuttgart and Munich. The chain, which
sells ice cream with flavors such as Oreo nutty salted caramel
and bluberry cheesecake, already has about 100 stores in the
U.K. and 2 stores in  Spain .  Local Bread  Dunkin’ Donuts has some core products, such as its original
blend coffee and its Boston Kreme donuts, that are sold
everywhere and it also localizes its offerings, Travis said. For
some of its bagels, it uses bread similar to the one used for
the bretzel, according to Carlos Vidal, Dunkin’ Donuts managing
director for Europe, the  Middle East  and  India .  “France is an interesting country and it’s certainly on
our list to look at,” Travis said. “Pain au chocolat may look
pretty good in Dunkin’ Donuts,” he said with a laugh.  The chain opened a store in Frankfurt in the spring and
plans to have about 15 more stores around the financial city,
Travis said. It’s planning to add about 50 outlets around
Hanover, Stuttgart, Munich and Nuremberg, mostly this year. The
company is also negotiating store openings in Hamburg, Vidal
said. In the Europe Union, Dunkin’ Donut is present in two other
countries: Spain and Bulgaria.  At the end of 2012, Dunkin’ Brands Group had franchisee-reported sales of approximately $8.8 billion. There are more
than 10,500 Dunkin’ Donuts restaurants in 31 countries. Dunkin’
Donuts was No. 2 in Zagat’s 2012 Fast Food Survey for Best
Coffee.  Dunkin’ Brands Group shares gained 2.9 percent to $44.45
yesterday in  New York . The stock has jumped 50 percent in the
past year, compared with a 26 percent increase in the Russell
1000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  