-- Ecopetrol Profit Slips on Lower Oil and Higher Transport Costs
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-08-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/ecopetrol-profit-slips-on-lower-oil-and-higher-transport-costs.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) ,  Colombia ’s largest oil
company, said profit dropped for a second straight quarter on
lower crude prices and rising transport costs.  Consolidated net income slid 6.8 percent from a year
earlier to 3.41 trillion pesos ($1.8 billion), the Bogota-based
company said yesterday in a regulatory  filing  after the market
closed. Profit exceeded a  3.3 trillion-peso estimate  of four
analysts that excludes some items in a Bloomberg survey.  “The results were in line with our expectations, and
reflect the increase in heavy crude production, lower
international hydrocarbons prices and the expected rise in
transport costs,” Chief Executive Officer Javier Gutierrez said
in the report.  Colombia’s oil sector has attracted record levels of
foreign investment over the past decade, boosting output to more
than one million barrels per day this year. Production at
Ecopetrol, the world’s seventh-largest  oil company  by market
capitalization, climbed 2.1 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier to 778,100 barrels of oil equivalent per day.  Sales rose 6.6 percent to 17.6 trillion pesos while
earnings excluding taxes, interest, depreciation and
amortization rose 1.3 percent to 7.52 trillion pesos.  Ecopetrol on April 1 completed the transfer of its
 hydrocarbon transportation assets  to its Cenit subsidiary, the
company said. It sees higher transport costs in coming quarters
being offset by higher earnings from the unit.  Cenit President Camilo Marulanda said in a May 22 interview
that the company will boost the capacity of Colombia’s oil
storage facilities and reinforce sections of pipeline to counter
rebel attacks.  Pipeline Attacks  Colombia’s largest rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia, or FARC, stepped up attacks on oil
installations this year, to derail what President  Juan Manuel Santos  calls one of the country’s growth “locomotives” and to
strengthen its hand at peace talks in  Havana . The Ministry of
Defense reported 113 attacks on oil pipelines in the first six
months of this year, up from 68 in the same period a year ago.  Central bank governor Jose Dario Uribe said June 28 that
high  oil prices  had offset falling prices for Colombia’s coal,
gold, coffee and nickel exports. The bank’s terms of trade
index, which measures the prices of Colombia’s exports relative
to the cost of imports, has risen 1 percent this year.  Colombia’s government  owns 88.5 percent of Ecopetrol and
has no plans to sell any part of its stake in the oil company,
Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said July 29.  Ecopetrol  shares  rose 0.7 percent to 4,335 pesos in Bogota
trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  