-- Mediaset Cost Cuts Overshadowed by Berlusconi Fraud Conviction
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-08-02T09:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/mediaset-second-quarter-profit-falls-as-italy-ad-revenue-slumps.html
Mediaset SpA (MS) , the broadcaster
controlled by Silvio Berlusconi, said a cost-cutting plan is
ahead of schedule, even as the news was eclipsed by the former
Italian prime minister’s conviction for tax fraud.  “Good results will likely be overshadowed by the courts
upholding Berlusconi’s conviction,” Tamsin Garrity and Jerome Sterckx, analysts at UBS, said in a note to investors today.
“There is no technical or operational impact on Mediaset,
however resultant political instability in Italy will impact the
market and sentiment.”  Berlusconi’s penalty has yet to be clarified as his prison
sentence will probably be converted to house arrest or community
service. A ban on holding public office was ordered to be
reviewed by a lower court.  The ad-sales trend in  Italy  and Spain last month was
slightly better than in the first half, Milan-based Mediaset
said in a statement yesterday. The company, which competes with
Rupert Murdoch’s pay-TV provider Sky Italia, predicted it will
reach its target ahead of schedule in a three-year plan to 2014
to cut 450 million euros ($595 million) of costs, creating “a
further significant improvement” in cash generation this year.  Mediaset fell as much as 4.3 percent and was down 2.4
percent at 3.29 euros as of 11:04 a.m. in Milan. The stock price
has more than doubled this year.  “The improvement in advertising trends and opportunity for
further cost efficiencies will be taken well by the market,”
Ian Whittaker, a London-based analyst at Liberum, said by e-mail.  Partnership Talks  Second-quarter sales declined 11 percent to 905.3 million
euros, according to the statement released after the market
closed. That compared with the 903 million-euro average estimate
of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Operating costs fell 9.4
percent to 567.4 million euros.  Vice Chairman Pier Silvio Berlusconi said on July 2 the
company’s online advertising revenue will reach 100 million
euros “very soon” and that a July advertising sales increase
would break 22 consecutive months of declines.  To counter the intensifying challenge from Sky Italia,
Mediaset has held talks with Al Jazeera and French pay-TV
company Canal+ about a partnership.  “There is nothing about a potential partner for our pay-TV,”  Mediaset Chief Financial Officer Marco Giordani said
during a conference call with analysts yesterday. The company
will continue alone with its pay-TV service, he said.  Premium pay-TV revenue jumped 7.7 percent to 280.2 million
euros in the first half.  Bond Sale  Mediaset’s board approved a plan to sell bonds to raise as
much as 500 million euros, according to the statement.  The company is “well on track to hit 2014 net debt
targets, which will help with the bond financing,” Sarah Simon,
an analyst at Berenberg, said by e-mail.  Mediaset’s second-quarter net income fell 36 percent to
20.8 million euros. Its first-half advertising revenue in Italy
dropped 17 percent to 1.06 billion euros.  The Italian television advertising market shrank 19 percent
in the first quarter, according to researcher Nielsen.  The broadcaster reported the first annual loss in its
history in March because of the weak Italian market and
impairment charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  