-- Egypt Authorities Prepare to Break Up Pro-Mursi Sit-Ins
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2013-08-01T15:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/egypt-authorities-prepare-to-break-up-pro-mursi-sit-ins.html
Egypt ’s government urged supporters
of ousted President Mohamed Mursi to end weeks of sit-ins and
promised them safe passage to vacate the sites, signaling a
crackdown may be imminent.  The appeal came a day after the cabinet authorized police
to take action against thousands of demonstrators, led by
Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood backers, who have occupied two main
Cairo squares demanding his reinstatement. Protesters, showing
little inclination to comply, called new rallies tomorrow,
raising the spectre of new clashes with security forces like
those that killed dozens of Mursi loyalists last weekend.  Egypt’s central bank unexpectedly lowered its benchmark
interest rate today by 50 basis points for the first time since
2009 as violence and political unrest hurt the country’s
economy. The country’s benchmark 5.75-percent euro bonds due in
2020 have pared gains amid the standoff, with the yield rising
eight basis points to 8.91 percent as of 5:09 p.m. in Cairo, the
highest in more than three weeks.  The Interior Ministry called on demonstrators to “resort
to reason, prioritize the interests of the homeland, heed public
interest and swiftly leave for everyone’s safety,” according to
a statement read on state television today. “This comes with a
complete pledge of a safe exit and full protection to all those
who respond to the call.”  Frictions Exacerbated  Mursi’s July 3 ouster by the military compounded frictions
that have built up since  Hosni Mubarak  was toppled in 2011.
Immediately after Mursi was removed, authorities began rounding
up top Islamists and freezing their assets, and yesterday
referred the Brotherhood’s top leader, Mohammed Badie, and two
other senior figures to trial on charges of inciting murder.  Mursi’s supporters, meanwhile, have been protesting daily
since the military removed him following months of mounting
frustration with his administration. Critics faulted him for the
economy’s failure to rebound from its slowest growth rate in two
decades, and contended he was more intent on cementing the
Muslim Brotherhood’s hold on power than in taking care of the
nation as a whole. Economic growth may slow to 2 percent this
year from 2.2 percent in 2012, according to the International
Monetary Fund.  Far from stabilizing the country, Mursi’s removal has
injected a deadlier level of violence into the nation’s
divisions, leaving officials on both sides warning of civil war.  More Violence Seen  The government statement authorizing police to take action
“is designed to threaten people” at the protest sites “and
tell them to leave on their own,” Hani Sabra, Middle East
director at the Eurasia Group in New York, said by telephone.
“I don’t think that that’s going to happen, so the chance that
this turns into a violent confrontation is pretty high.”  Islamists have stacked sandbags and built brick barriers at
the main sit-in site in Cairo City’s Nasr City district to repel
possible attacks.  The Interior Ministry’s plan to deal with the sit-ins will
be carried out lawfully, and may start with police warning
protesters, then using tear gas and other “legitimate self-defense” measures if needed, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported, citing an unidentified ministry official.  Right to Protest  Mursi’s backers insist they have the right to protest
peacefully against the illegitimate removal of a democratically
elected leader.  “Our peacefulness is stronger than their bullets, and the
coalition holds the coup and the putschists fully responsible
for any act of violence or murder,” a pro-Mursi group said in
an e-mailed statement.  Influential Salafi preacher Mohamed Hassan urged Egyptians
to support the protesters. “Don’t leave your brothers in the
squares to be slaughtered,” Hassan said in an emotional plea
broadcast on Al Jazeera today.  Vice President Mohamed ElBaradei, the Nobel peace laureate,
urged a peaceful end to the crisis, according to an e-mailed
statement from the presidency. At the same time, the statement
said, “the state has the right to protect its citizens against
any terror or threats to their security.”  The showdown escalated after Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi urged Egyptians to rally to give authorities a mandate
to quash “violence” and “terrorism,” and hundreds of
thousands responded. Since the ouster, al-Seesi, who was
appointed last year by Mursi, has gained iconic status among
secularists, his face twinned on posters with that of Gamal Abdel Nasser, the pan-Arabist president who overthrew Egypt’s
monarchy in the 1950s.  The Brotherhood has accused security forces of deliberately
killing unarmed protesters. The Interior Ministry denied using
violence and accused the Islamists of stoking unrest to further
their political aims. Authorities point to the discovery of
corpses with signs of torture at sit-in sites as evidence the
talk of peaceful protests is hollow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Cairo at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  