-- Egypt Unexpectedly Cuts Rate for First Time Since 2009
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-08-01T16:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/egypt-unexpectedly-cuts-interest-rates-for-first-time-since-2009.html
Egypt ’s central bank unexpectedly
lowered its benchmark  interest rate  for the first time since
2009 in a bid to revive economic growth amid political unrest.  The Monetary Policy Committee, headed by Governor Hisham Ramez, lowered the overnight deposit and lending rates by 50
basis points, or 0.5 of a percentage point, to 9.25 percent and
to 10.25 percent, according to a statement on its website. All
six economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast the central
bank would keep the deposit rate unchanged.  Egypt has been mired in deadly violence after the July 3
ouster of Islamist President Mohamed Mursi by the military
following protests against his one-year rule. The Egyptian pound
has stabilized following $12 billion in aid pledges from Gulf
Arab states to help the country revive economic growth and boost
foreign reserves. The pound gained 0.3 percent in July.  “Given that there are now less risks on the Egyptian
pound, it seems that they thought they could cut interest rates
to help stimulate the economy,” Mohamed Abu Basha, an economist
at investment bank EFG-Hermes in Cairo, said by phone. “It’s
just an attempt by the  central bank  but politics override all
else now. For most investors it’s a question of political
stability and future visibility, not of interest rates.”  Slowing Growth  The decision came even after inflation accelerated to 9.8
percent in June from 8.2 percent in the previous month,
according to official data.  The central bank, though, said “the pronounced downside
risks to domestic GDP combined with the persistently negative
output gap since 2011 will limit upside risks to the inflation
outlook going forward,” in the statement. “Given that the
downside risks to the GDP outlook outweigh the upside risks to
the inflation outlook, the MPC decided to cut the key” rates.  The military-backed interim government urged Mursi’s
supporters today to end weeks of sit-ins and promised safe
passage to those who comply, hours after the cabinet authorized
police to take action. The appeal signaled a crackdown may be
imminent against thousands of protesters.  Officials, including Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi, have
said restoring security was crucial to reviving economic growth.
El Beblawi and his team inherited an economy that has suffered
the worst slowdown in two decades, record unemployment and the
highest  budget deficit  in the  Middle East .  ‘Signaling Instrument’  Growth may slow to 2 percent this year from 2.2 percent in
2012, according to International Monetary Fund data. It hasn’t
exceeded 2.2 percent since Mubarak’s toppling, compared with an
average of 6.2 percent in the previous five years, IMF data
shows.  The MPC decision “is an important signaling instrument
that the Central Bank of Egypt is comfortable that it can turn
away its attention from external accounts on the back of recent
GCC aid towards a more supportive growth stance,” said Jean-Michel Saliba, an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
 London . “Interest rate transmission mechanism is imperfect in
Egypt but it should help to drive T-bill and overnight interbank
rates lower,” he said by e-mail.  The average yield on one-year Treasury Bills plunged 50
basis points to 13.326 percent at an auction held today before
the MPC announcement, according to central bank data on
Bloomberg. The average yield on six-month securities dropped 39
basis points to 12.935 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  