-- Kerry Says Egypt Restored Democracy as Islamists Rally
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-08-02T16:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/egypt-mursi-backers-plan-protests-defying-police-appeal.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
said  Egypt ’s army had not seized power after toppling President
Mohamed Mursi, as Islamists summoned their followers to resume
protests and defy orders to disperse.  The Egyptian army “was asked to intervene by millions and
millions of people,” Kerry told  Pakistan ’s Geo TV yesterday,
according to a State Department transcript. The military “did
not take over,” he said, and “in effect they were restoring
democracy.” Kerry also criticized the shooting of pro-Mursi
demonstrators by security forces, saying the U.S. was “very,
very concerned.”  He later said in London that “all of the parties involved
have a responsibility to be inclusive, to work toward a peaceful
resolution” and the “last thing we want is more violence.”
Deputy Secretary of State Bill Burns will begin a visit to Cairo
today, the State Department said in statement.  Brotherhood supporters massed in Cairo and other cities
after Friday prayers again today to demand Mursi’s reinstatement
following his removal by the army on July 3, television pictures
showed. “Down with the commander of the armed forces, Mursi is
our president,” they chanted as they waved national flags.  Calls by Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood and its supporters to
join rallies today have fueled fears of further violence, after
dozens of Islamists were killed last weekend. The  Interior
Ministry  yesterday signaled a police crackdown against pro-Mursi
sit-ins in two of the capital’s main squares, promising safe
conduct to those who left now.  Media Protest  Security forces fired tear gas at protesters in Cairo’s
media city, where several pro-Mursi television channels have
been shut down, Al Jazeera TV reported. The demonstrators had
been trying to break through gates, Al Jazeera said, citing the
Interior Ministry.  The overthrow of Mursi, Egypt’s first freely elected
civilian leader, has escalated the tensions between Islamists
and their opponents that built up during his one-year rule, and
extended the political turmoil that has persisted since the fall
of  Hosni Mubarak  in February 2011.  Since July 3, authorities have been rounding up Islamist
leaders and freezing their assets. The Brotherhood’s top
official, Mohammed Badie, was charged with incitement to murder
this week. The group’s supporters have remained on the streets
and scores have been killed in clashes with police.  ‘Brothers’ Blood  Mohamed Hassan, an influential preacher in Islam’s Salafi
movement, urged Egyptians to take part in today’s rallies,
dubbed by their organizers “Egypt Against the Coup.”  “Don’t leave your brothers in the squares to be
slaughtered,” he said in a broadcast on  Al Jazeera  yesterday.
“The blood of our sons will become a curse on those who spill
it.”  Thousands of Mursi supporters gathered in squares in Nahda
and Rabaa Al-Adawiya in Cairo, where the Brotherhood released
birds into the air, saying it wanted to illustrate the protests
were peaceful.  The Interior Ministry appealed to demonstrators to “resort
to reason, prioritize the interests of the homeland, heed the
public interest and swiftly leave for everyone’s safety.”  Egypt’s army-backed government accuses the Brotherhood of
inciting violence to portray itself as a victim.  The U.S. has had close ties to Egypt’s army for three
decades, and gives it about $1.3 billion in aid each year. The
administration has declined to label Mursi’s ouster a coup,
which by U.S. law would require the aid to be cut.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  