-- Televisa to Acquire Mexico’s Cablecom in $745 Million Deal
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-01T21:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/televisa-agrees-to-745-million-deal-to-buy-mexico-s-cablecom.html
Grupo Televisa SAB (TLEVICPO)  agreed to a $745
million transaction that would give it control of Mexico’s
Cablecom, strengthening its grip on the growing pay-TV market.  Televisa is acquiring 7 billion pesos ($549 million) in
debt that’s convertible to a 95 percent stake in Tenedora Ares
SAPI, which owns 51 percent of Cablecom, according to a filing
today. Ares also has an option to acquire the rest of Cablecom.
As part of the deal, Mexico City-based Televisa said it also
bought about 2.5 billion pesos in Ares debt.  The transaction is part of a strategy by Televisa, the
world’s largest Spanish-language broadcaster, to reduce its
dependence on over-the-air  TV advertising  as more Mexicans sign
up for cable and satellite. In the past six years, Televisa has
spent billions to snap up stakes in two cable carriers, a
telecommunications company and a wireless provider.  If it turns the convertible debt into control of Cablecom,
Televisa would be adding about 840,000 pay-TV customers in
 Mexico , on top of its current  base  of 7.9 million cable and
satellite users -- the most in the nation. The company would
need regulatory approval to acquire the Cablecom stake, it said.  Televisa rose less than 1 percent to 69.72 pesos at the
close in Mexico City trading. The shares have climbed 2.2
percent this year.  Cablecom, officially known as Grupo Cable TV SA, also has
about 360,000 other connections to customers, comprising
Internet and phone lines.  Deal Valuation  The option Ares owns to acquire the rest of closely held
Cablecom would value the company at 9.3 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for the 12 months
preceding the transaction, Televisa said. Cablecom expects 1.6
billion pesos in Ebitda for 2014, on sales of 3.9 billion pesos,
Televisa said. At that level of profit, the option would value
Cablecom at 14.9 billion pesos.  In 10 pay-TV merger deals announced in the past 12 months
around the world, companies have paid an average of 6.5 times
Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By taking control of Cablecom, Televisa would be snatching
up one of the few remaining large cable operators operating
independently in Mexico. Megacable Holdings SAB is the biggest,
with 2.1 million video subscribers.  Grupo Hevi, the closely held owner of Mexico’s Telecable TV
service, hired Barclays Plc to explore a sale, people familiar
with the matter said earlier this year. The company has about
350,000 subscribers.  Earlier Transactions  Televisa, which already held stakes in Empresas Cablevision
SAB and satellite provider Sky,  acquired  50 percent of cable
company Television Internacional SA in 2006 for about 800
million pesos. It won approval the following year to buy a 49
percent stake in Cablemas SA for $258 million, agreeing to make
its broadcast channels available to rival pay-TV providers. It
took full control of Cablemas in 2011 for about $400 million.  In 2007, Televisa acquired Bestel, a long-distance phone
carrier, for $256 million. And last year, Televisa got a 50
percent stake in mobile-phone provider Grupo Iusacell SA in a
$1.6 billion deal.  Mexico’s government passed a law this year seeking to boost
competition in telecommunications, in part by creating a new
regulator that act as the industry’s antitrust agency. The new
government entity is still being put together, and its
commissioners haven’t yet been appointed.  The Televisa deal is the second announced this week in
Mexico’s telecommunications industry. Yesterday, Paris-based
 Eutelsat Communications SA (ETL)  said it would acquire Satelites
Mexicanos SA, which provides satellite services to companies
including Televisa, for $831 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in  New York  at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  