-- Temasek Names Zoellick to Board Amid U.S. Investments
-- B y   C h u a   B a i z h e n   a n d   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-02T08:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/temasek-names-zoellick-to-board-amid-plan-for-first-u-s-office.html
(Corrects time reference for Ho’s comment in fourth
paragraph of story published on Aug. 1.)  Temasek Holdings Pte appointed former
World Bank President Robert Zoellick to its board of directors
as  Singapore ’s state-owned investment company looks to start its
first office in the U.S.  Zoellick, 60, will take up the position from Aug. 15,
Temasek said in  a statement  on its website today. Zoellick was
president of the World Bank from July 2007 through June last
year and also served as the U.S. trade representative in 2001 to
2005, during which America signed a free-trade agreement with
Singapore, its first in Asia.  “Zoellick is probably the most high-profile person that
Temasek has engaged and that says a lot about their global
ambitions,” said Wai Ho Leong, an economist at Barclays Plc in
Singapore. “It’s potentially significant, depending on what
they do with that. It’s extending their feelers, at the very
least, in the U.S. space.”  Temasek’s investments in North America and Europe make up a
bigger part of its holdings, rising to 12 percent of its S$215
billion ($169 billion) portfolio at the end of March, from 11
percent a year earlier. Chief Executive Officer  Ho Ching  said
last month that she sees “increasing opportunities” in the two
markets and is setting up offices in New York and  London  to
support its investments.  In the U.S., Temasek is the biggest investor in  Level 3
Communications Inc. (LVLT) , which runs a network that helps carry
telecommunications traffic, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It also owns stakes in  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s
largest social-networking site, and Mosaic Co., the second-largest North American potash producer, according to the  data .  New Chairman  The announcement came as former minister Lim Boon Heng
takes over from S. Dhanabalan as Temasek’s chairman today. The
state-owned company may add more foreigners to its board, the
Straits Times newspaper had cited Dhanabalan as saying.  Zoellick’s appointment “comes at an opportune time, as
Temasek sets out to establish its first U.S. office in the near
future,” Lim said in the statement. “Bob’s insights will be
especially helpful as we continue to explore opportunities in
U.S.A, Europe and also in the various growth markets.”  The value of Temasek’s holdings increased by 8.6 percent to
a record in the year ended March 31, the investment company said
in its annual report on July 4. Total shareholder return, which
includes dividends, widened to 8.9 percent from 1.5 percent in
the previous year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chua Baizhen in Singapore at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  