-- Emerging Stocks Snap Six-Day Slump on China Manufacturing
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   J e s s i c a   S u m m e r s   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-08-01T21:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/emerging-stocks-halt-six-day-drop-on-china-data-danamon-slumps.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
the first time in seven days as  China ’s manufacturing
unexpectedly strengthened and higher crude oil prices boosted
producers.  Brazil ’s real tumbled to a four-year low.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.7 percent to
954.15, after slumping 2.2 percent over the previous six trading
days. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.8 percent as
Jiangxi Copper Co. and China Shenhua Energy Co. surged. Oil
company Petroleo Brasileiro SA paced gains in Brazil’s Ibovespa,
while OAO Gazprom rallied in Moscow. Twenty three out of the 24
developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg retreated as
the Brazilian real declined 1.2 percent.  Stocks joined a rally in commodities amid expectations of
higher Chinese demand for raw materials. The unexpected gain in
manufacturing suggests a slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy may be stabilizing as the government rolls out targeted
measures to support growth. Equities also rose as European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the ECB expects rates
to remain low for an extended period, a day after the Federal
Reserve kept its stimulus pace.  “There’s been a lot of warnings about slowdowns in
developing economies, but in reality, those economies are still
growing much faster than developed markets,” Audrey Kaplan, the
New York-based head of international equities for Federated
Investors Inc., said by phone. Her firm manages about $377
billion in assets. “The pendulum could swing pretty quickly”
as data improve, she said.  Biggest Gains  Eight out of  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
gained as commodity shares rose at least 1.1 percent. The broad
gauge has dropped 9.6 percent this year, compared with a 14
percent increase in the MSCI World Index. The developing-nation
gauge  trades  at 10.1 times projected earnings over 12 months,
lower than the 13.9 multiple for the developed countries
measure, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund added 1.8 percent to $39.72. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
slumped 5.3 percent to 22.04.  Brazil’s Ibovespa, the worst-performing major equity
benchmark this year, rose for the first time in four days.
Petrobras climbed after saying crude and liquefied natural gas
output in Brazil increased 4.6 percent in June. JBS SA, the
world’s largest poultry producer, surged the most since March
2012 after its U.S. unit reported profit that beat estimates.
The real dropped to the weakest level since March 2009.  The Mexican IPC index gained 2.5 percent, the most since
November 2011, as homebuilder Desarrolladora Homex SAB jumped,
 extending  a two-day rally to 63 percent.  Russian Shares  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  increased the most in three weeks as
Gazprom rose 1.1 percent. OAO Mechel, a coking-coal producer,
climbed 3.1 percent after Yildirim Group of  Turkey  agreed to buy
ferroalloy assets from the company for $425 million. The ruble
snapped eight days of losses, rebounding from the lowest level
in almost four years, as Bank Rossii stepped up interventions to
curb currency swings.  Benchmark gauges in the Czech Republic and  Poland  gained at
least 1 percent, while stocks in  Hungary  retreated. The FTSE/JSE
Africa All Shares Index rallied 1.5 percent in Johannesburg as
Harmony Gold Mining Co. surged.  The Shanghai Composite Index advanced for a third day as
Jiangxi Copper and China Shenhua Energy led gains for metal and
energy shares after the government’s Purchasing Managers’ Index
jumped to 50.3, above the level of expansion.  Trading Halt  Indian stocks fell for a  seventh day  as a trading halt at
the nation’s biggest exchange for spot commodities spurred
concern that some investors may sell equities holdings to meet
margin calls.  Financial Technologies ( India ) Ltd. sank 65 percent after
its unit National Spot Exchange Ltd. suspended trading in some
contracts, merged the delivery and settlement of all others and
deferred them for a period of 15 days. Adani Ports and Special
Economic Zone surged 13 percent after earnings beat estimates.  Celltrion Inc. (068270)  fell from a record after the South Korean
drugmaker said newspaper reports yesterday it may be bought by
AstraZeneca Plc. contain inaccurate information.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries fell 0.11 percentage point to 316 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Summers in New York at 
 jsummers17@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  