-- Enel Profit Falls as Demand in Italy, Spain Weighs on Earnings
-- B y   N a d i n e   S k o c z y l a s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-08-01T16:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/enel-profit-falls-as-demand-in-italy-spain-weighs-on-earnings.html
Enel SpA (ENEL) ,  Italy ’s largest utility,
said first-half profit dropped 8.4 percent as shrinking power
demand in its home country and  Spain  hurt earnings.  Net income fell to 1.68 billion euros ($2.22 billion) from
1.84 billion euros a year earlier, the Rome-based company said
today in a statement. That beat the 1.53 billion-euro estimate
of eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Revenue fell 1.3
percent to 40.2 billion euros.  “Such results allow us to confirm the year-end targets
announced to investors in spite of the ongoing financial crisis
in mature markets and uncertainty in the Spanish regulatory
framework,” Chief Executive Officer  Fulvio Conti  said today in
a statement.  Enel is struggling with lower energy consumption and
falling prices in its main markets in Italy and Spain, where the
economic recession is curbing demand. Electricity sold to end
users in the first half of the year was 146.4 terawatt hours,
down 6.5 percent from the same period a year earlier.  The company, which became Europe’s most-indebted power
producer after buying Spain’s  Endesa SA (ELE)  in 2007, is planning 4
billion euros of cost cuts in Italy and Spain and 6 billion
euros of assets sales through 2017 to help cut debt to 37
billion euros next year. The company also plans to sell 5
billion euros of hybrid bonds by 2014. Net debt at the end of
the period rose to 44.5 billion euros, up 3.6 percent from the
end of the year.  Enel plans to battle stagnant profits in mature markets,
where the economic crisis is curbing power demand, by shifting
focus to faster-growing markets in  Latin America  and Eastern
Europe. The company said “unfavorable economic conditions” are
expected to continue in Italy and Spain through 2013, noting
that a reversal may take place starting from the fourth quarter.
A “growth scenario” is confirmed for some Latin American
countries and  Russia .  Enel currently sells electricity to 61 million clients in
40 countries, according to its website. The shares rose 2.4
percent to 2.56 euros, giving the company a market value of
about 24.1 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Nadine Skoczylas in Jerusalem at 
 nelsibai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  