-- Tenet, Health Management Accused of Paying Kickbacks
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-08-01T14:35:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/tenet-health-management-accused-of-paying-kickbacks.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) , the third-biggest publicly traded U.S. hospital chain, and  Health
Management Associates Inc. (HMA)  were accused in a lawsuit of paying
kickbacks to a  Georgia  clinic in exchange for referrals.  The two hospital chains were sued under the Federal False
Claims Act in a whistle-blower lawsuit brought by Ralph
Williams, a former chief financial officer of Health Management
Associates, on behalf of the U.S. and Georgia. The lawsuit,
filed in federal court in Athens, Georgia, was ordered unsealed
yesterday.  The clinic recruited pregnant, undocumented Hispanic women
who would be eligible for Medicaid benefits when they gave birth
and referred them to Health Management and Tenet hospitals in
exchange for kickbacks, according to the complaint.  The Tenet hospitals said in an e-mailed statement that the
agreements were appropriate and provided substantial benefit to
women in underserved Hispanic communities.  “The services provided under these agreements included
translation, determination of Medicaid eligibility, and other
services designed to improve the delivery of obstetric care and
increase the likelihood of a safe birth and a healthy baby,”
according to the statement.  Tenet, based in Dallas, rose 46 cents, or 1 percent, to
$45.11 at 10:08 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. Health Management rose 5 cents to $13.53.  Shamera Rye, a spokeswoman for Naples, Florida-based Health
Management, didn’t immediately respond to a phone message after
regular business hours seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is U.S. v. Health Management Associates Inc., 09-00130, U.S. District Court, Middle District of Georgia (Athens.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles 
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 