-- Eni Climbs Most in 7 Months in Milan on Second-Half Outlook
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-08-01T16:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/eni-profit-declines-more-than-expected-on-oil-prices-libya.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , the Italian oil company that
reported a slump in quarterly profit today, rose the most in
seven months in Milan trading after forecasting a “significant
improvement” in its second-half results.  Eni climbed 3.3 percent, the biggest gain since Jan. 2, to
17.15 euros. Adjusted net income fell 55 percent in the second
quarter to 576 million euros ($762 million), Eni said in a
statement, citing a weaker European market, disruption in Africa
and lower earnings at its Saipem unit. That missed the 763.5
million-euro mean estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “First-half results were affected by a difficult economic
situation across Italy and Europe, production interruption in
Libya and Nigeria and by the fall in Saipem’s results,” Chief
Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  said in the statement. “We
expect a significant improvement in our second-half results.”  The gain in Eni’s shares contrasts with  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , whose stock declined 4.7 percent today after the company
reported lower-than-expected earnings. While both have struggled
with falling  oil prices  and halts to production in Nigeria, Eni
has managed to maintain quarterly output.  “If you adjust for Saipem, results were in line with
expectations,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in London. “It looks like a relatively competent
performance and they have a base on which to build.”  Production, Sales  Eni produced 1.65 million barrels of oil a day in the
second quarter, little changed from a year earlier. Production
fell 2.7 percent in the first half. Quarterly sales slipped to
28.1 billion euros from 30.1 billion euros.  Eni said it expects full-year production to be in line with
2012 output, reducing earlier guidance for higher volumes. The
Rome-based company is starting projects in Algeria, Angola and
Kazakhstan and will increase output in Egypt.  Shell reported a 20 percent decline in second-quarter
profit, citing output disruptions in Nigeria and charges related
to its North American shale assets.  BP Plc (BP/)  also posted lower
earnings this week following the decline in oil prices.  Brent crude  averaged $103.35 a barrel in the second
quarter, 5 percent lower than a year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  