-- Heritage Foods Targets to Raise Ice Cream Sales Fivefold
-- B y   S h a r a n g   L i m a y e
-- 2013-08-01T05:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/heritage-foods-targets-to-raise-ice-cream-sales-fivefold.html
Heritage Foods (India) Ltd. (HTFI) , a milk
retailer, targets to increase ice-cream sales fivefold in three
years and expand other dairy products to lift operating  profit
margin  that fell to the lowest in four quarters.  The retailer will boost ice-cream sales to 50,000 liters a
day by adding capacity, President M. Sambasiva Rao said in an
interview in Hyderabad yesterday. It will spend 350 million
rupees ($5.8 million) on the business over the period, he said.  Heritage expects rising incomes and increasing consumer
preference for healthy food to drive demand for dairy products.
It will compete with companies including  Unilever (ULVR) , which
introduced its Magnum brand ice cream in south  India  this year,
and  Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN) ’s Baskin-Robbins in a market where
frozen dessert sales are estimated by consulting firm Technopak
Advisors Pvt. to double to 15.6 billion rupees in 2018.  “To achieve substantial growth in ice cream sales,
Heritage would have to venture outside its traditional south
India market,” said  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal
Research & Investment Services Pvt. “The southern Indian ice
cream market is just not large enough to support ambitious
expansion plans for a new entrant.”  Shares of Heritage rose 0.8 percent to 217 rupees as of
11:03 a.m. in Mumbai trading. The stock has dropped 13 percent
this year, compared with a 0.4 percent fall in the benchmark S&P
BSE Sensex.  Heritage has over the years been reducing its dependence on
milk by adding value-added products and building a network of
fresh food and grocery stores. Its operating profit margin was
5.35 percent in the three months ended June, the lowest in four
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company aims for value-added products such as ice
creams to contribute 23 percent of its dairy sales in three
years, up from 15 percent now, Rao said.  “Health consciousness is increasing and people are tilting
toward milk-based products from carbonated drinks. So the market
is growing for these products,” said Rao. “We are looking at
products like ice cream, curd, butter milk, ghee and butter as
these products give us better margins than milk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharang Limaye in Hyderabad at 
 slimaye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  