-- Terror Detainees on Agenda as Obama Meets Yemeni Leader
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-08-01T22:28:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/terror-detainees-on-agenda-as-obama-meets-yemeni-leader.html
President  Barack Obama  praised
Yemen’s “historic” steps toward a democratic government during
a White House meeting with Yemeni President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi
on cooperation with the U.S. on counterterrorism.  “Our cooperation against those terrorist elements are
actually serving the interests of Yemen,” said Hadi, who has
been working with the U.S. to improve conditions in his
economically strapped nation, which remains an al-Qaeda base.  Neither leader made any announcement on plans for the U.S.
to send detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, back to the Arabian
nation, although 89 of 166 prisoners who remain at Guantanamo
are Yemeni and 56 have been recommended for repatriation. Obama
also declined to answer a shouted question about detainees.  Obama is weighing a commitment to close the facility
against concerns that released individuals may turn to militant
activities.  Human rights advocates pressed Obama ahead of the meeting
to take concrete steps to let some detainees go and close
Guantanamo, and for Obama to declassify the names and locations
of those killed in U.S. drone strikes.  “It’s time for action,” said Zeke Johnson, director of
the security and human rights program for New York-based  Amnesty
International  USA. “Cleared Yemeni detainees who want to go
back to Yemen should be sent home today, and the Yemen
government must respect their rights.”  Drone Strikes  The White House meeting was to cover counterterrorism
policy, which has included U.S. drone strikes in Yemen, and
economic development and democratic governance. Hadi is
contending with separatists in the south of the country and
Shiite rebels in the north as well as al-Qaeda forces, while
developing a new constitution and preparing for national
elections next year.  The White House meeting marked the second between Obama and
Hadi, who took office in February 2012 and has cooperated on
counterterrorism with the U.S.  Hadi replaced Ali Abdullah Saleh, who was forced from power
after three decades during the wave of instability and civilian
uprisings that has swept the region.  Obama in May lifted a ban on returning detainees to  Yemen .
The rule was put in place in 2010 in response to the attempted
2009 Christmas Day bombing of a U.S.-bound airliner.  Four Americans  The Obama administration has acknowledged that U.S. drone
strikes in Pakistan and Yemen have killed four American
citizens, including al-Qaeda propagandist Anwar Al-Awlaki in
September 2011 and, two weeks later, al-Awlaki’s 16-year-old
son. Both died in Yemen.  Amnesty International asked Obama to use the summit to
press Hadi to expand legal rights for Yemeni women and girls as
well as journalists.  A six-month national dialogue in Yemen that’s set to end in
September is gathering comments from hundreds of representatives
ahead of a constitutional referendum in the coming months, as
well as on elections next year in which the U.S. is assisting.  Obama and Hadi met in September on the margins of the
 United Nations General Assembly . Hadi also met last year with
Vice President  Joe Biden  and  John Brennan , the Obama adviser on
counterterrorism who now leads the Central Intelligence Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  