-- Etihad to Buy Stake in Serbia’s JAT as CEO Hogan Reworks Carrier
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-08-01T12:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/etihad-to-buy-stake-in-serbia-s-jat-as-ceo-hogan-reworks-carrier.html
Etihad Airways PJSC, the third-biggest Gulf airline, said it will take a 49 percent stake in
 Serbia ’s unprofitable, state-owned Jat Airways as part of a
rebranding push that includes a new name and management.  Etihad’s initial $40 million investment in the Serbian
company will be converted into equity at the start of 2014, and
followed by a $60 million loan to help renew Jat’s  fleet , Etihad
Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan  said today in Belgrade.
Serbia will match the total, Deputy Premier Aleksandar Vucic
said.  “The Balkans as a crossroads to the world is a huge
opportunity,” Hogan said. “We believe we’re going to be very
well-positioned to take advantage of that.”  The Serbian company is Etihad’s sixth equity alliance
member following those with  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) ,  Air Berlin
Plc (AB1) ,  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , Air Seychelles Ltd. and  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  Serbia repeatedly tried to sell Jat in the
past, including to Hava Yollari AO, the carrier known as  Turkish
Airlines . The company will in future be called Air Serbia.  The Serbian government agreed to assume liabilities of its
flag carrier, “so Air Serbia is a new company, a clean sheet of
paper,” Hogan said.  Etihad’s Dane Kondic will manage the renamed and rebranded
company, overseeing fleet renewal that will start with a lease
of two Airbus A319s, under a five-year  management contract ,
Hogan said.  “Over the next 24 months, we’ll negotiate with Airbus and
Boeing,” about further aircraft for Air Serbia, he said.  Today’s accord follows an agreement for a code-sharing
partnership in April, and Etihad said at the time that it would
begin regular daily flights to Belgrade two months later.  With assistance from Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  