-- Metro Profit Beats Analyst Estimates on Disposals, Prices
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-08-01T11:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/metro-earnings-fall-as-austerity-weighs-on-spending.html
Metro AG (MEO)  reported second-quarter
profit that topped analyst predictions as Germany’s biggest
retailer’s electronics unit lured shoppers with lower prices
amid government austerity measures and sold businesses abroad.  Metro rose to almost a 16-month high after posting earnings
before interest, taxes and special items totaling 276 million
euros ($366 million). That beat the 269.2 million-euro average
estimate of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Operating
earnings will rise again in the 2013-2014 fiscal year after
dropping in the nine months until September, Chief Executive
Officer Olaf Koch told journalists today.  Since taking the helm a year ago, Koch worked to focus
Dusseldorf-based Metro on its Cash & Carry wholesale business
and Media-Saturn electronics chain. Disposals he has arranged
include the sales of  Real hypermarkets  in eastern Europe to
Groupe Auchan SA and the Makro U.K. wholesale unit to  Booker
Group Plc. (BOK)  He has also announced the Media-Saturn electronics
chain is leaving  China . Metro will focus on “strict cost
management” in 2013 while shoppers continue to rein in
spending, it reiterated today.  “The disposable income and purchasing power of our
customers in nearly all European countries were still burdened
by austerity measures,” Koch said in a statement.  Metro  jumped  as much as 2.09 euros to 28 euros, the highest
intraday price since April 5, 2012, and was trading up 7.6
percent at 1:14 p.m. in Frankfurt, bringing this year’s gain to
33 percent.  Retail Sales  German retail sales unexpectedly declined in June, a report
yesterday showed, suggesting that doubts about Europe’s economic
recovery weighed on  consumer spending . Euro-area unemployment
has reached a record 12.2 percent. Media-Saturn had a loss of 94
million euros in the quarter, Metro said, while the price cuts
helped the division win market share.  The electronics unit remains in a very competitive
environment, Koch told journalists on a conference call today.
The company invested about 100 million euros in price cuts at
Media-Saturn in the first half of the year, Chief Financial
Officer Mark Frese said.  “It’s still difficult trading in all business segments,”
said Christoph Schlienkamp, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in
Dusseldorf, by phone.  Second-quarter sales fell to 15.3 billion euros from 15.8
billion euros, in line with the 15.3 billion-euro average
estimate of 13 analysts. Revenue declined 5.4 percent to 4.6
billion euros in western  Europe  excluding Germany and dropped
2.4 percent to 5.8 billion euros in the company’s home country.
Adjusted Ebit dropped 12 percent from a year earlier, and the
company posted a net loss in the 2012 period.  The retailer reiterated that it expects a decline in
operating earnings for the transitional nine-month financial
year ending in September as it invests in Cash & Carry and the
economy remains challenging in southern and eastern Europe.  Adjusted Ebit at Cash & Carry, Metro’s biggest unit, fell
2.4 percent from a year earlier to 241 million euros in the
quarter as a decline in sales and price investments was
“mostly” compensated for by cost-saving measures, Koch told
analysts on a conference call today.  Transformation initiatives are “progressing well” and
Metro will make further price investments at the unit, Koch
said. The retailer is introducing new food product ranges at the
wholesale unit in  Germany  while the offering is becoming “much
more focused” for non-food goods.  “Management is talking a game of improvement, and there is
plenty going on, but trading conditions remain tough,” Andrew Gwynn, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in e-mailed
comments. “C&C sounds modestly better with slightly better
trading in  France ,  Spain ,  Turkey  and  Poland , and management does
seem to be controlling debt well. Accordingly, the business
feels like it is being better managed, but format issues remain
a drag.”  A sale of the Kaufhof department-store chain “still makes
sense strategically,” Koch told journalists. The retailer
suspended negotiations on a disposal in January 2012, citing
unsuitable market conditions. Koch said he’s pleased with the
business and that he won’t rush a sale. Adjusted Ebit at the
unit in the quarter quadrupled to 4 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  