-- Euro-Area Manufacturing Grows More Than Initially Estimated
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-08-01T08:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/euro-area-manufacturing-grows-more-than-initially-estimated-1-.html
Euro-area  manufacturing  expanded at a
faster pace than initially estimated in July as the industry
resumed growth after two years of contraction amid increasing
signs the economy is pulling out of a  record-long recession .  A manufacturing index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the industry increased to 50.3 last month, topping
the  50 mark  for the first time since July 2011, London-based
Markit Economics said today. A reading above 50 indicates
growth. The July reading was up from 48.8 in June and above an
earlier estimate of 50.1 on July 24.  Europe ’s economy is forecast to return to growth this
quarter after being mired in a recession for more than a year.
Economic confidence among executives and consumers in the euro
area improved in July to a 15-month high, while manufacturers’
capacity utilization is at the highest in more than a year.  “Euro-zone manufacturing made a  positive start  to the
third quarter,” Rob Dobson, senior economist at Markit, said in
the report. “This hopefully places the sector nicely to provide
a positive spur to the third quarter GDP numbers and help the
euro area exit recession.”  The euro was lower against the  U.S. dollar  after the data,
trading at $1.3235 as of 10:18 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.5
percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.5 percent.  ‘Extended Period’  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has pledged to
keep  interest rates  low for an “extended period” in his latest
bid to encourage a recovery. The ECB is expected to keep the
benchmark rate unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent when
policy makers meet today in  Frankfurt , according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  Draghi said last month that euro-area export growth
“should benefit from a gradual recovery in global demand.”  In  China , the world’s second-biggest economy, manufacturing
gauges today gave a mixed picture and the government in Beijing
pledged to prevent  economic growth  from slipping below a
“reasonable” level.  Gross domestic product in the euro-area economy, which has
contracted for  six quarters , probably stagnated in the three
months through June and is projected to return to growth in the
current quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg survey of
economists. The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the bloc’s
economy will shrink 0.6 percent this year.  Rising Confidence  “The hope for manufacturers is that current rising
confidence in most euro-zone countries increasingly encourages
businesses to invest more, and also encourages consumers to lift
their spending,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist
at IHS Global Insight in  London . “Even so, conditions remain
far from easy for euro-zone manufacturers with domestic demand
still constrained by strong headwinds in a number of
countries.”  The euro-area  unemployment rate  remained unchanged in June
at 12.1 percent, data showed yesterday. That matched the highest
on record after the jobless rate for May was revised down to
that figure from an initially reported 12.2 percent.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, a  manufacturing gauge 
moved into growth territory for the first time since February.
 France ’s factory index rose to 49.7 from 48.4 in June, Markit
said in a separate  report .  PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-largest automaker,
yesterday reported a narrower-than-estimated loss in the first
half as a tighter rein on costs offset a decline in deliveries
that outpaced the economy’s contraction. The Paris-based company
forecast that the European car market, on track for a sixth
straight annual drop, will shrink by about 5 percent this year.  Markit’s services gauge for the euro area rose to 49.6 in
July from 48.3 in June, according to an initial estimate on July
24. A  composite index  of manufacturing and services output
increased to 50.4, an 18-month high. Final figures for the
services and composite indexes will be published on Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at   fobrien@bloomberg.net  