-- Europe’s Hot Spell to Persist in August After July Heatwave
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-08-01T13:25:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/europe-s-warm-streak-to-last-through-august-after-july-heatwave.html
Europe  is facing warmer-than-usual
weather for a second month after temperatures soared in a July
heatwave, boosting  power prices  in the region’s biggest market.  Germany may be as much as 8 degrees Celsius (14 degrees
Fahrenheit) warmer than average on some days through Aug. 10,
Andreas Gassner, a meteorologist at Meteomedia AG in Gais,
 Switzerland , said July 30 by e-mail. MetraWeather, Deutscher
Wetterdienst and MDA Information Systems Inc. also predicted hot
weather in most of Europe for this month, while WSI Corp. and
MeteoGroup U.K. Ltd. said the warm spell will end.  “The recent heatwave in Europe has occurred with rapid
warming in sea surface temperatures across the North Atlantic,”
Bradley Harvey, an operational meteorologist at MDA in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said July 29 in an e-mailed report. “A
developing storm system in the eastern Atlantic will promote a
resurgence of heat across the west of Europe.”  Day-ahead  electricity prices  in Germany, a benchmark for
the rest of Europe, are on their longest weekly rising streak
since 2011 as hot weather boosts power use by air-conditioners
and fans. The heat makes thermal power stations less effective
and available generation capacity July 30 was 20 percent lower
than on a typical winter day in December, according to data from
 European Energy Exchange AG .  Sunshine Hours  Temperatures will be as much as 3 degrees Celsius higher
than average this week in  Germany , eastern  France  and  Italy ,
Byron Drew, lead forecaster at MetraWeather in Reading,  England ,
said July 29 by e-mail. Above-average temperatures are expected
in Germany,  Spain  and  Scandinavia  through Aug. 11 and Italy will
be warmer than average through Aug. 18.  Germany had 290 sunny hours in July, the most since 2006
and 39 percent above the long-term average, according to
Deutscher Wetterdienst, the national weather office based in
Offenbach, near  Frankfurt . Germany has 198 hours of sunshine on
average in August, Andreas Friedrich, a meteorologist at
Deutscher Wetterdienst, said July 30 by phone.  The average temperature for the month is 16.4 degrees
Celsius, based on the 1961-1990 reference period. The hottest
level ever measured in August was 40.2 degrees Celsius in 2003,
also a German year-round record, according to the forecaster.  “It doesn’t look like we are going to break this record,”
Friedrich said. “It’s not impossible, but it would be a
surprise.”  Days with temperatures of at least 30 degrees Celsius are
deemed “hot” in Germany, according to Deutscher Wetterdienst.
The southwest region of Rheinfelden had 11 hot days in July, the
most in the country.  Solar Power  German solar output will be above average this month and
may reach a record 25 gigawatts tomorrow, Meteomedia’s Gassner
said. The nation produced a record 24 gigawatts of electricity
from solar installations on July 21, according to  EEX data on
Bloomberg .  Day-ahead baseload power, for delivery around the clock
tomorrow, settled at 36.68 euros ($48.51) a megawatt-hour in a
daily auction on EPEX Spot SE in Paris today. The contract has
increased for four weeks, the longest run of gains since
November 2011.  Northern Germany, the Netherlands and the U.K. will see
above average wind generation this month, Harvey said.  “Calmer conditions are expected in the southern and
eastern Europe, where high pressure keeps conditions stable,”
he said. German daily wind output averaged 2,298 megawatts over
the past 30 days compared to an average of 4,802 megawatts for
the past year, according to  EEX data  on Bloomberg.  Wind Generation  German wind power generation next week is forecast to
average 1,696 megawatts, according to Bloomberg’s wind power
model for Germany. In the U.K., daily average wind generation is
expected to decline to 1,211 megawatts next week, from an
average of 1,916 megawatts this weekend, the Bloomberg model
shows.  MeteoGroup predicts European temperatures to drop in the
first half of this month. Northern Europe, except  Poland , will
be cooler than normal in August and September, Andover,
Massachusetts-based WSI said July 24.  “The first half of August will be cooler than recently as
low pressure systems move slowly across northern Britain toward
Scandinavia,” Stephen Davenport, senior energy meteorologist at
MeteoGroup said yesterday by e-mail. “Later in August there are
some signs of a degree of warming returning.”  U.K. Heatwave  The U.K. had 19 consecutive days in July when temperatures
were higher than 28 degrees Celsius, according to the  Met
Office . While the period is being referred to as a heatwave, the
definition varies depending on the location, Laura Young, a
spokeswoman for the national forecaster, said by phone from
Exeter, England.  The average temperature in the U.K. next week will be 15.9
degrees Celsius, according to the ECMWF model supplied by
MetraWeather at 7:55 a.m. London time. That compares with a
seasonal norm of 16.2 degrees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  