-- Dollar Advances as Jobless Report Spurs Fed Taper Expectations
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-08-01T21:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/euro-falls-from-six-week-high-before-ecb-decision-pound-weakens.html
The dollar gained versus all 16 of
its most-traded counterparts as claims for jobless benefits fell
to a five-year low, adding to speculation that the Federal
Reserve will slow the pace of monthly asset purchases this year.  The euro dropped from a six-week high against the dollar as
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said policy makers
expect interest rates in the region to stay low for an extended
period. The greenback extended its gain against the yen before a
Labor Department report tomorrow that will show U.S. nonfarm
payrolls rose by 185,000 workers in July, according to the
median forecast in a survey conducted by Bloomberg. The Swedish
krona slumped after factory orders slowed.  “The U.S. data today was very strong, and it points ahead
to a stronger NFP,” Dan Dorrow, head of research at Faros
Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “The data confirmed expectations that the Fed will
soon be taking action on tapering.”  The U.S. currency appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.3210 per
euro at 5 p.m. in New York after rising as much as 0.8 percent,
the most since July 9. The greenback climbed 1.7 percent to
99.48 yen, the biggest jump on a closing basis since April 8.
Japan’s currency declined 1 percent to 131.46 per euro.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, rose 0.9 percent to 1,034.46
after declining 1.4 percent last month.  Krona, Koruna  Sweden’s currency weakened against all except one of its 16
major peers as  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  said a  manufacturing index  based on
responses from purchasing managers fell to a seasonally adjusted
51.3 in July from 53.5 the previous month. Economists  surveyed 
by Bloomberg predicted a reading of 53.  The krona slumped 1.4 percent to 6.609 per dollar and
weakened 0.6 percent to 8.7223 per euro.  The Czech koruna declined versus most of its major peers as
central-bank Governor Miroslav Singer said at a news conference
in  Prague  that the likelihood of monetary intervention is
rising. The currency fell 1 percent to 19.6853 per dollar. It
decreased 0.2 percent to 25.99 per euro.  The pound rose from the weakest since March versus the euro
as the Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
left monetary policy unchanged and as a gauge of manufacturing
rose more in July than economists forecast.  The pound appreciated 0.1 percent to 87.35 pence per euro
after earlier sliding to 87.70, the weakest level since March
12. The U.K. currency fell 0.6 percent to $1.5120.  ‘Downside’ Risks  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside,” Draghi said at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  after the rate decision was announced.
“Looking ahead, our monetary-policy stance will remain
accommodative for as long as necessary.”  The euro has strengthened 4.3 percent in the past three
months, the best performer among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, amid signs
the region is emerging from its longest-ever recession. The yen
rose 1.2 percent and dollar advanced 3.1 percent.  “There has been an increasing level of frustration
pertaining to economic growth in the euro zone emanating from
the financial markets,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a senior market analyst
in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said in a telephone interview. “That’s
weighing on the euro.”  Jobless Claims  The dollar climbed the most in almost four weeks against
the yen as the Labor Department said  initial claims  for jobless
benefits unexpectedly declined by 19,000 to 326,000 in the week
ended July 27, the fewest since January 2008.  “We had much better-than-expected U.S. employment results,
which are helping to guide the dollar strength we’re seeing,”
Bharadwaj said. “Any upside surprises we see from tomorrow’s
economic reports will also play very strongly into the dollar’s
favor and increase changes of taper by the end of the year.”  The greenback extended gains after the Institute for Supply
Management’s U.S.  factory index  increased to 55.4, the strongest
since June 2011 and exceeding the highest projection in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, after 50.9 in the prior month.
Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  The yen declined after the Ministry of Finance said
Japanese investors bought 233.2 billion yen ($2.3 billion) more
of overseas bonds and notes than they sold last week.  Stimulus Plan  Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda in April unveiled a
plan to buy more than 7 trillion yen of Japanese debt a month to
spur the economy and end deflation. He has said the policy would
prompt domestic investors to rebalance their portfolios by
purchasing foreign bonds and other assets.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $29 billion, compared with $25 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen exchange rate amounted to $3.9 billion, the
largest share of trades at 14 percent. Options on the dollar-Chinese yuan rate totaled $3.2 billion, or 11 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 43 percent less than average
for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar- yuan  options trading was
139 percent more than the average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  