-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-08-01T14:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of European
Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s comments from his monthly
news conference in  Frankfurt  today.  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK:  Ladies and
gentlemen, the vice president and I are very pleased to welcome
you to our press conference.  We’ll now report on the outcome of
today’s meeting of the Governing Council.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analysis, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged.  Incoming
information has confirmed our previous assessment.  Underlying
price pressures in the euro area are expected to remain subdued
over the medium term.  In keeping with this picture, monetary - and in particular,
credit - dynamics remain subdued.  Inflation expectations for
the euro area continue to be firmly anchored in line with our
aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to 2 percent
over the medium term.  At the same time, recent confidence
indicators based on survey data have shown some further
improvement from low levels and tentatively confirm the
expectation of a stabilization in economic activity.  Our monetary policy stance continues to be geared towards
maintaining the degree of monetary accommodation warranted by
the outlook for price stability and promoting stable money
market conditions.  It thereby provides support to a gradual
recovery in economic activity in the remaining part of the year
and in 2014.  The Governing Council confirms that it expects the key ECB
interest rates to remain at present or lower levels for an
extended period of time.  This expectation continues to be based
on an unchanged overall subdued outlook for inflation, extending
into the medium term, given the broad-based weakness in the
economy and subdued monetary dynamics.  In the period ahead, we
will monitor all incoming information on economic and monetary
developments and assess any impact on the outlook for price
stability.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with economic analysis.  Following a six-quarter
economic contraction in the euro area, recent confidence
indicators based on survey data have shown some further
improvements from low levels and tentatively confirm the
expectation of a stabilization in economic activity at low
levels.  At the same time, labor market conditions remain weak.  Looking ahead to the remainder of the year and to 2014,
euro area export growth should benefit from a gradual recovery
in global demand, while domestic demand should be supported by
the accommodative monetary policy stance, as well as recent
gains in real income owing to generally lower inflation.
Furthermore, the overall improvements in financial markets seen
since last summer appear to gradually working their way through
the real economy, as should the progress made in fiscal
consolidation.  This being said, the remaining necessary balance sheet
adjustments in the public and private sectors will continue to
weigh on economic activity.  Overall, euro area economic
activity should stabilize and recovery at a slow pace.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside.  Recent developments in
global money and financial market conditions and related
uncertainties may have the potential to negatively affect
economic conditions.  Other downside risks - other downside
risks include the possibility of weaker-than-expected domestic
and global demand and slow or insufficient implementation of
structural reforms in euro area countries.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual
HICP inflation was 1.6 percent in July 2013, unchanged from
June.  Annual inflation rates are currently expected to
temporarily fall over the coming months, owing particularly to
base effects relating to energy price developments 12 months
earlier.  Taking the appropriate medium-term perspective, underlying
price pressures are expected to remain subdued, reflecting the
broad-based weakness in aggregate demand and the modest pace of
the recovery.  Medium- to long-term inflation expectations
continue to be firmly anchored in line with price stability.  The risks to the outlook for price developments are
expected to be still broadly balanced over the medium term, with
upside risks relating to stronger-than-expected increases in
administrative prices and indirect taxes, as well as higher
commodity prices and downside risks stemming from weaker-than-expected economic activity.  Turning to the monetary analysis, underlying money - and in
particular, credit growth - remained subdued in June.  Annual
growth in broad money, M3, decreased in June to 2.3 percent from
2.9 percent in May.  Moreover, annual growth in M1 decreased to
7.5 percent in June from 8.4 percent in May.  The annual rate of change of loans to the private sector
weakened further.  While the annual growth rate of loans to
households remained at 0.3 percent in June, broadly unchanged
since the turn of the year, the annual rate of change of loans
to non-financial corporations was minus 2.3 percent in June
after minus 2.1 percent in May.  Weak loan dynamics continue to reflect primarily the
current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk and
the ongoing adjustment of financial and non-financial sector
balance sheets.  The bank lending survey for the second quarter
of 2013 confirms that borrowers’ risk and macroeconomic
uncertainty remained the main factors restraining banks’ lending
policies.  At the same time, the degree of net tightening of
credit standards for loans to non-financial corporations
remained unchanged in the second quarter of 2013, compared with
the first quarter, and declined for loans to households.  Since the summer of 2012, substantial progress has been
made in improving the funding situation of banks and, in
particular, in strengthening the domestic deposit base in a
number of stressed countries.  In order to ensure an adequate
transmission of monetary policy to the financing conditions in
euro area countries, it is essential that the fragmentation of
euro area credit markets declines further and that the
resilience of banks is strengthened where it is needed.  Further
decisive steps for establishing a banking union will help to
accomplish this objective.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability over the
medium term.  A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  As regards fiscal policies, in order to bring debt ratios
back on a downward path, euro area countries should not unravel
their efforts to reduce government budget deficits.  The
emphasis should be on growth-friendly fiscal strategies, which
have a medium-term perspective and combine improving the quality
and efficiency of public services with minimizing distortionary
effects of taxation.  To reinforce the overall impact of such a strategy, member
states must step up the implementation of the necessary
structural reforms so as to foster competitiveness, growth, and
job creation.  Removing rigidities in the labor market, lowering
the administrative burden, and strengthening competition in
product markets will particularly support small- and medium-sized enterprises.  These structural reform measures are
essential to bring down the currently high level of
unemployment, in particular among the younger citizens of the
euro area.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF:  Eva Taylor (ph), Reuters, please.  QUESTION:  Eva Taylor (ph) from Reuters.  Mr. Draghi, first
of all, I’d like to know whether the Governing Council today
discussed cutting rates and whether the discussion to hold rates
at 0.5 percent was unanimous.  And my second question is regarding forward guidance.  You
just confirmed the forward guidance you gave in July, and the
market impact that you had in July fizzled out until now.  DRAGHI:  I’m sorry, the -  QUESTION:  It fizzled out.  I mean, it had an impact, and
then the impact weakened.  Now, other central banks started off
like the ECB.  They had a vague form - form of forward guidance,
and then they progressed on and introduced a more explicit way
of forward guidance.  And I would like to ask you, would you
rule out that the ECB could go down a similar path?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  So incoming information has confirmed
our previous assessment.  Underlying price pressures remain
subdued, as does money and credit growth.  Incoming survey data
in July showed some further improvements from low levels and
tentative confirm - tentatively confirm the expected
stabilization.  So against this background, our monetary policy
stance remains accommodative for as long as necessary.  We have
basically unanimously confirmed the forward guidance we gave -
we gave last time.  We want to be clear, and this responds partly to your
second question.  We want to be clear about our assessment of
the inflation outlook in the medium term and about our reaction
function.  And we want to - we want markets to see our reaction
function, timely linked to outlook for price stability.  So I
repeat here what we stated, and this was unanimous, confirms
that the - the Governing Council confirms that the key - key ECB
interest rates, including the rate on the deposit facility, to
remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of
time.  This expectation continues to be based on an unchanged
overall subdued outlook for inflation extending in the medium
term, given the broad-based weakness in the economy and subdued
monetary dynamics.  So how long will this - this horizon be?  As
long as our assessment that inflation remains subdued, as it is
indicated by weak economic activity, weak credit, weak monetary
aggregates.  So as I said, this assessment was unanimous.  All interest
rates including the rate on the deposit facility are part of the
statement.  At the same time, let me stress once again,
liquidity will remain abundant.  It will stay ample as needed,
as long as needed, so as to guarantee full access to banks, and
the fixed-rate full allotment will stay in place at least until
July 2014, although - let me tell you - there is no connection
between this date and the extended period of time to which the
forward guidance refers.  Let me also say that current expectations - and this is
partly in response to your last question - current expectations
of rate hikes in money markets are according to our assessment
unwarranted by our assessment.  The risks, as I’ve said current
data, confirm our baseline scenario and risks out (ph) on the
downside.  So developments have to be significantly better than
our current baseline scenario for our outlook for price
stability in order for us to change guidance.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Johanna Treeck, Market News.  QUESTION:  Johanna Treeck, MNI.  Mr. Draghi, how confident
can you be in your outlook of a gradual recovery, given credit
contraction that is at least in part driven by the supply side?
And since your last measures didn’t appear to have done much to
spur credit growth, how much longer can you wait before
launching targeted measures that could help credit (OFF-MIKE)
follow up.  I don’t you really answered the question on the
decision on interest rates.  Did you discuss cutting them?  And
was that decision unanimous, as well?  Thank you very much.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  Again, to the last question, we
discussed our forward guidance, and that was unanimously
decided.  Now, on credit growth, our last measures really - I’m not
sure I was completely ineffective.  I think it was effective in
compressing volatility.  And given the fact that it’s very hard
to assess the effectiveness of these measures in the midst of
lots of other communication, quite, I would say, abundant and
powerful - and from a variety of sources - it’s not easy to
assess it - I would - I would definitely said, in terms of
compressing volatility, it was successful, and I would say that
in terms of rates, short-term rates, it was partly successful.
In other words, if you - it depends very much which rates you
compare the current ones with.  So you would see that if you compare them with rates
prevailing in a certain date, it was successful.  If you compare
them with rates prevailing before the FOMC statement, it was
partly successful.  On credit growth, we have to - we have to acknowledge that
the underlying loan growth over the recent quarters remains
subdued and has been subdued for quite a time.  We know that
there are several reasons for that, first and foremost, weak
economic demand; second, heightened credit risk; third, the
continuing deleveraging by households and enterprises.  On the supply side, we know that fragmentation is still an
issue.  So we should expect an improvement in all these factors.
 Let me give you, for example, a list of - well, a quick example
or improvements on the fragmentation front.  We continue to
witness capital inflows.  We see that the dispersion, the cross-country dispersion in the growth rate of deposits for the
banking system is now at the same level as it was in 2007.  So if we look at the deposit component of bank funding, I
would say fragmentation is over.  It’s not an issue anymore.  On
the lending side, however, we still witness some fragmentation.
But the gain, if one really wants to give you some sort of a
little more, I would say, upbeat piece of news, one would look
again at the cross-country dispersion about lending rates and
would observe that that has stabilized.  In other words, it does
not - it has not increased.  We also know that credit growth is a lagged indicator of
growth in the real economy, and so we do expect credit trends to
improve, but with - with a certain delay with respect to the
improvement of - in the real economy.  STAFF:  Rolf Benders (ph), Handelsblatt.  QUESTION:  I’d like to know if you discussed tying the
forward guidance to a quantitative threshold or trigger.  DRAGHI:  I’m sorry.  Whether we -  QUESTION:  If you - if you discussed to tie the forward
guidance to a quantitative threshold or trigger or if we can
expect that this is a discussion that you might have wanted to
do in the future and so that we can expect that this is going to
be introduced any time soon.  The second question is if you discussed introducing minutes
and where this - where this issue is standing.  DRAGHI:  On the first question, no, we didn’t discuss that.
 But I should say that our formulation of forward guidance is in
line with our strategic framework, which is anchored on our
assessment of the medium-term outlook of inflation of price
stability.  And this outlook is conditional on economic activity
and on money and credit developments.  So this is our strategic framework, within which we can say
that inflation expectations - medium-term inflation expectations
remain firmly anchored.  So within this framework, we didn’t
discuss the introduction of thresholds or quantitative
benchmarks.  On the minutes and communication, let me say, first of all,
that we don’t start from scratch.  All central banks have
changed their communication throughout the years.  This central
bank did change its communication with the - probably all of you
are too young to remember, but with the introduction of - of the
publication of forecasts a few years ago, and even earlier with
the precise definition of inflation, of the inflation objective.  Other central banks have come to take our customs and
introduced press conferences in their communication strategy.
So it was only natural that the Governing Council asked for a
richer way of communicate our deliberations beyond what is
already a fairly transparent way of communicating, because you -
I mean, I’ve gone through this several times.  We have monthly
press conferences.  We have balloting.  We have many speeches
and other forms of communication.  In any event, also given the increasing complexity of
certain type of communication, but also in the long run, the
Governing Council thought that it would be - it would be wise to
have, as I said, a richer communication about the - about the
rationale behind the decisions that the Governing Council takes.  At this early stage, I can only be relatively general.  I
think this communication, as I said, should give an account of
rationale of why certain decisions have been taken or why
they’ve not been taken and a sense of the discussion that has
taken place within the Governing Council.  The - on the other hand, we are not a one-country set-up.
We are not the United States.  We are not the United Kingdom,
nor  Japan .  We are a 17-country members of the euro area.  So
it’s especially important that any modification we introduce
would not put at risk or into question that independence of the
members of the Governing Council.  I should remind all of us
that Governing Council members are - sit around that table in
their personal capacity.  They are not representatives of their
own countries.  They are acting in the interest of the euro
area, the euro.  So any change in communication should be respectful of this
essential ingredient of our - of our monetary policy, which is,
in a sense, at the basis of the credibility that this
institution has acquired through the years.  More specifically,
the executive board will present to the Governing Council a
proposal for discussion during the next fall - this fall.  This
fall.  I - next fall would be -  (LAUGHTER)  Thank you.  STAFF:  (inaudible)  QUESTION:  Yeah, thank you (inaudible) two questions.  On
forward guidance, it is still not exactly clear - entirely clear
to me what the difference between forward guidance and just a
forecast of the economic - outlook for the economy and inflation
is.  And could you tell us whether there actually is a
difference, rather than added value that you add to a forecast?  And on the minutes, I mean, one of the reasons that the ECB
has not published minutes so far is, as you mentioned, the fear
that debates will be politicized.  And I’m wondering what made
you change your view on this risk?  It seems to me that the
debate in Europe has even become more politicized in recent
months, not less so.  Why did you change your stance here?
Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  To the second point, clearly, that’s
where the challenge is, to be able to provide you and the
markets with a greater and richer information without putting
into question the independence of the Governing Council members,
without politicizing the discussion, because that would
certainly be a big loss.  So that’s where the challenge is.  And
we hope we will - we’ll be able to cope with this.  On the - on the first question, it’s not really forecast.
It’s more than a forecast.  We are saying that - I will repeat
the statement.  We do - we - we do expect - no, it’s - it
doesn’t say it is expected.  It doesn’t say, I don’t know, an
institution - international institution expects we, the
policymakers, expect the key ECB interest rates to remain at the
present or lower levels for an extended period of time.  So it’s
an expectation by a very specific set of policymakers.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Stefan Riecher, Bloomberg.  QUESTION:  Good afternoon, Mr. Draghi.  Stefan Riecher with
Bloomberg.  First question.  On the economy, you commented on
improved sentiment and the situation getting better.  Very
simple question:  Are we still in recession?  Or are we already
out of recession in the euro area?  Second question.  I will give it another try.  Was the
decision on interest rate cuts or no interest rate cuts
unanimous or not?  And if you don’t comment on it, why don’t you
comment on it?  Or maybe I missed it; then, I apologize.  Thank
you very much.  DRAGHI:  I’m sorry.  What’d you say last?  QUESTION:  If I missed it, I apologize.  If you did - if
you did comment on it.  DRAGHI:  No, no, you didn’t miss.  I mean, we actually
discussed only forward guidance and, within that forward
guidance, a confirmation of forward guidance, you have an
implicit decision about today’s interest rates.  And the
decision about forward guidance was, in fact, unanimous.  By the
way, it’s not a decision in the sense that we take a decision
each and every time.  Here I should say something.  It was a - there was some
discussion on whether we should repeat these words each and
every time.  And - I mean, the words are, the Governing Council
confirms that it expects the key ECB interest rates to remain -
now, because of an excess of prudence, we repeat them today.
And - but we may not repeat them if we judge that you and the
markets understand that a certain forward guidance is valid
until further notice.  So, in other words, we may not repeat.  If we are convinced
that you and the markets understand that if we don’t say
anything, it doesn’t mean that we’ve changed mind.  It means
that we stay with the same mind until we do change mind.  But
that’s - that’s an aside - an aside issue.  I think I’ve
responded to your first question.  On the second question, again, I can refer to our - our
statement here.  It says recent confidence indicators, based on
survey data, have shown some further improvements from low
levels and tentatively confirm the expectation of - the
expectation of a stabilization in economic activity in the
second part of the year.  In other words, it seems that the
signs we are seeing now confirm the baseline scenario of the ECB
staff projections for the second part of the year.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Brian Blackstone, Wall Street Journal.  QUESTION:  Brian Blackstone with Wall Street Journal.  I
want to get back to a point you said before.  I believe you said
that current expectations of rate hikes in money markets are
unwarranted by your assessment.  Is that kind of a warning, in a
sense, that if that doesn’t change next month, you might cut
rates?  Or next month, you might take concrete steps if you
consider to see money market rates as being unwarranted by your
assessment?  And I’m just - I kind of want to get back to this - this
rate cut question, because in this whole discussion of minutes
and increased transparency, how can you have the forward
guidance and an easing bias, and not have any - and an easing
bias, without having a discussion of rate cuts?  Why do you have
an easing bias if there isn’t even a discussion within the
Governing Council as to whether or not it makes sense to cut
rates?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  On the first point, I would say that
we don’t make - we don’t work on hypothesis.  It’s an assessment
that we give it now.  And we’ll certainly assess the situation
on - based on the incoming data and on our medium-term
assessment of economic activity and money and credit conditions
and, of course, the medium-term outlook of prices and inflation.  On the second point, is we’ve expressed the forward
guidance.  We haven’t reached the zero bound, keep in mind.  We
haven’t reached the zero bound.  So we have given a forward
guidance.  We’ve said that based on our medium-term outlook of
inflation, conditional on economic activity and money and
credit, interest rates are expected to stay where they are or go
lower.  And that’s the key thing.  And so we will - that’s - and
that is valid for an extended period of time.  Again, let me stress that there is no precise deadline for
this extended period of time.  As a matter of fact, you can -
like some of your colleagues have done - extract a reaction
function and then, from there, estimate what would be a
reasonable extended period of time.  And you know that some -
some of your colleagues have done that.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Alessandro Merli (ph), Sole.  QUESTION:  Alessandro Merli (ph), Sole 24 Ore.  After the
mid-July meeting, you issued a communique with some rules,
changing the rules for the collateral.  The commander calls the
changes broadly neutral, if I recall correctly.  The net impact,
though, will be positive for current core country banks and
negative for Italian banks and even more negative for Spanish
banks.  Isn’t this the opposite of what is needed at the moment?
 I mean, these are exactly the two countries where credit is
lacking.  The other question is about forward guidance again.  You
just explained the question about extended period of time, et
cetera, and that you may not even repeat the rate decision in
every communique, but another member of the -  DRAGHI:  Only if - only if we judge that you understand -  QUESTION:  Right, right.  DRAGHI:   -  that doesn’t repeat - it doesn’t mean that
we’ve changed mind.  QUESTION:  Right, OK.  But maybe you’re going to ask
questions to us at the next press conference.  DRAGHI:  OK, good.  Yes, that’s right.  (LAUGHTER)  QUESTION:  Another member of the executive board said that
this - the forward guidance would be revised monthly.  Is that
correct?  DRAGHI:  No.  Well, it didn’t say that, as a matter of
fact.  He said that - what he meant to say is that we may have
to repeat it every month, because he - because we are not sure
that he would actually get it, unless we do it.  So that is what
he meant.  But it’s certainly - you can see the point.  I mean, the -
the point is that if we repeat every month, you could infer from
this that actually it’s not forward guidance for an extended
period of time, but only for a month, and that is certainly not
what the Governing Council wants.  The other question on collateral, let me first state with
some emphasis that this - the decisions we’ve taken do not
weaken the Eurosystem collateral framework, that the objective
of these decisions was to have a consistent treatment of the -
of all classes of eligible collateral.  To have consistent
treatment means to enhance risk equivalence across all assets,
all eligible assets.  Let me give you two examples.  First, on ABS, we now have
lower haircuts than we used to have before because of
transparency and standardization on this asset class has
improved, significantly improved, also because of the
ineligibility of mixed-pool ABS and close links provisions and
servicing provisions.  So there are lots of technical reasons
why this asset class would deserve a lower haircut.  At the same
time, the single A require remains more stringent than for the
other asset classes, as it is defined on a second-best rating
basis.  So the second-best trip (ph) will be ABS, remain
acceptable in the temporary framework only.  That’s one example.  Another example is, we looked at covered bonds, and there
we distinguished now between retained that are more risky - and,
therefore, they deserve a higher haircut - and non-retained,
that are less risky, and, therefore, they have a lower haircut.
Now, this had overall a minimal impact on the overall
collateral.  And we will certainly review it at a proper time.  At country level, we estimate that the actual impact has
been at most around 1 percent.  Now, you have to judge this
negative impact that - you are right - went in this way against
the positive impact had previous decisions had, as far as some
stressed countries are concerned.  So it’s - you have to look at
in a dynamic way across the overall sets of decisions.  Let me just give some of these decisions.  On December
2011, we lowered the rating requirement at issuance for some
ABS, and we introduced the additional credit claims.  On June
2012, we eased again the conditions for ABS.  On September 2012,
we allowed ABS and loans and credit claims in other currencies.  So you have to judge the most recent decisions in the
context of the previous decisions, which have broadened the
collateral - the collateral and the classes - the treatment -
eased the treatment on eligible assets for collateral.  I think
that’s the way to look at - at this.  Thank you.  STAFF:  (inaudible) La Stampa.  QUESTION:  Yes, two questions.  The first is, I’m coming
back to you to ask you if you see any risk of deflation in - or
in some European countries, like Portugal?  And my second
question is on the minutes again, because you said it.  I mean,
you’re 17 countries and you represent - and from the 1st of
January, 18 countries.  Don’t you fear - why do you take this
decision?  Don’t you fear that some of your colleagues may feel
that they have to represent in future more nationalistic issues?  DRAGHI:  On the first question, we don’t see - if we define
deflation as generalized - as a generalized fall in the price
level across broad categories of assets, sectors, in a context
of self-fulfilling expectations, we do not see deflation in any
country in the euro area.  We see price falls for selected
commodities or sectors, which are due to a variety of reasons,
whether you have some waning off of the effects, one-off effects
of the - of the indirect taxation, or we see other local effects
of different kinds, or you see genuine price readjustment -
relative price adjustments.  But we don’t see deflation,
basically.  We don’t see deflation for any country at this point
in time.  The - on the other point, I think I - I think I made, if we
- if we were to have a - if we were to come out with a
communication that would put into question the independence of
the members of the Governing Council, we clearly failed.  We
would have clearly failed.  So I would rule this out.  I think
there is some added value in communication only to the extent
that this pillar of our credibility is not going to be
threatened.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Michael Steen and then Mark (inaudible) please.  QUESTION:  Hello, Michael Steen, Financial Times.  Mr.
Draghi, on -  DRAGHI:  When the legal acts are ready (ph)?  QUESTION:  I think I ran out of road on that one last
month, so -  DRAGHI:  OK.  QUESTION:   -  I’m working on a hardy perennial, but don’t
have it yet.  Just going back to the forward guidance, so I
understand, we should assume it’s carrying on unless you - even
if you don’t repeat it every month, but then the question is,
how do we know if forward guidance has ceased?  Would the first
signal be that you raise interest rates?  In which case, how do
we - or would you first say we’re now at a position where we
feel forward guidance is no longer appropriate?  And then - but
you might still hold rates?  DRAGHI:  Well, now, you’re asking me a second-derivative
question, really - or third-derivative question.  We’ve just
introduced it a month ago.  Now, you’re asking me, what signals
would we give in case we were to change forward guidance in the
coming months?  You know very well that another monetary policy
jurisdiction is now struggling exactly with this problem,
whether they should do it through interest rates or language
which - which hints at tapering or change some liquidity
provisions.  Now, the - or even change in the assessment.  In our case, we have all this sort of - we have an
equivalent variety of ways to signal this.  But certainly, if we
go back to the statement here, we say that this expectation of
interest rates - I will not repeat it - continues to be based on
an unchanged overall subdued outlook for inflation extending
into the medium term.  So that is one thing one should look at,
conditional or given the broad-based weakness in the economy and
subdued monetary dynamics.  I think you have all the parameters in you hands to judge
about the length of time and about - especially about when the
language about forward guidance might be changed.  QUESTION:  OK.  DRAGHI:  They’re not - they’re not - admittedly, they’re
not specified in quantitative terms as thresholds, because as I
said before, our strategic framework is different, and it’s
rooted in the assessment of the medium-term outlook of
inflation.  But they are expressed in qualitative terms.  QUESTION:  OK.  And just as a supplementary question on
minutes, you already gave us a small idea of where you’re going
on this.  There’s going to be the proposal in the autumn, but
can you - can you give us your thoughts on how this could work?
Would it be conceivable that the minutes reflect the discussion
without saying who said what?  Would you be publishing them with
a month’s lag, like other banks?  Or would you follow it up with
a transcript?  DRAGHI:  I prefaced my remarks on the minutes saying that -
on the minutes, on the communication, saying that it’s - at this
stage, I have to be very, very unspecific.  It’s just the
beginning.  It has to be also - we’ve got to be cautious about
putting forward our own views, our own personal views about what
we would like to see for two reasons, first of all, because it’s
a highly complex discussion in our specific institutional set-up, and, second, because it has - it’s one of those decisions
that has - truly - has to be truly, I would say, consensual.
All Governing Council members ought to be - feel at ease with
what will be produced.  So I urge - I urge caution on this,
discipline, and, unfortunately, this doesn’t allow me to be more
specific than I am being now.  QUESTION:  Thanks.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  QUESTION:  Yes, thanks (inaudible) with (inaudible) the
first one is on inflation.  The Fed stated yesterday - and let
me quote the comment - he recognizes that inflation persistently
below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic
performance.  While you very much emphasized the positive
benefits of low inflation for real incomes and domestic demand
and the real - and the economy, so does that mean that you’re
less worried about the consequence of too-low inflation for the
economy?  And the second question is on liquidity.  You said that
there was a need for ample liquidity in the banking sector, but
we have seen the excess liquidity in the banking sector coming
very close to the 200 billion threshold.  So is this something
you’re worried about?  Is there a need to act?  Or could it fall
below the 200 triggers on action (ph) by the ECB?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Well, on - on the first question - on the first
question, I - well, the answer is no, no to - in a sense, to be
- to be sort of - to be oblivious to the low inflation.  We are
not oblivious to the - to having an inflation which is
significantly below our objective, not at all, so much so that
the forward guidance says exactly this.  It says that we expect
the key ECB interest rates to remain at present lower levels for
an extended period of time, and this is based on a subdued
outlook for inflation, which extends itself into the medium
term.  So we’re not at all oblivious to the fact that the
inflation in the medium term undershoots our objective of
inflation close to - close, but below 2 percent.  We also say that the justification for this is the broad-based weakness in the economy and the subdued monetary and
credit dynamics.  So I think I answered your first question.  The other - the other question is about liquidity.  I said
that - and I’ll restate that liquidity will remain ample, as
long as it’s needed.  And I said that a fixed-rate full
allotment will stay in place at least until July 2014.  And
basically, I said everything I want to say about liquidity.  (LAUGHTER)  Yeah, thank you.  STAFF:  Klaus (inaudible)  QUESTION:  Klaus (inaudible) German television.  Mr.
President, you’ve shown that there are some slight improvements
in the euro area in economic terms.  You also showed the risks,
which are still there.  One year after your speech in  London ,
which certainly is a turning point in this crisis, could you
please tell us, where do you see where we are standing now at
the moment in this crisis?  And, secondly, would you say that the governments in the
euro area have used this time which the ECB Council has brought
them by the measurements?  Have they used - used them
sufficiently?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  Well, let me - let me welcome this
question, because it’s an opportunity to take stock exactly
what’s taken place since then.  Indeed, the Governing Council’s
actions of last summer - last year summer had some immediate
benefits.  And we’ve gone through these benefits several times.
Spreads narrowed.  Rates lowered.  Volatility became
significantly lower.  That is to say, basically, it introduced -
it produced a normalization of financial markets.  The second positive consequence was a reduction of
fragmentation - in fragmentation on the funding side, as I did
say before, and now we start seeing something on the lending
side, as well.  But it’s just the very beginning.  Third, we saw the beginning, again, of capital inflows in
the euro area, which is still continuing.  More generally, OMT
has decreased the riskiness, the general riskiness in the euro
area.  And this has been shown by a variety of indicators, one
of which is the significant reduction in the TARGET2 balances,
with great benefits for the creditor countries.  Also, we saw - following the general reduction in
riskiness, we saw a reduction in the size of the ECB balance
sheet.  So - and we saw, obviously, a reduction - a significant
reduction in risk premia, if we look at what stock markets did
and, in general, capital markets.  So what all this was basically necessary to reactivate the
two channels through which the stimulus would finally reach the
real economy, the interest rate channels, because they went
down, and the confidence channel, because risk went down.  But I also cautioned against - because - because, I mean,
people would be - you would - you would have people who tend to
think that OMT is the response to all the problems in the world.
 And so I cautioned way back in November last year, I was asked
whether we - whether I was satisfied with the financing
conditions.  The answer was, no, we are not satisfied at all.
We are observing a fragmentation of the euro area, difference in
the cost of funding that go beyond fundamentals.  Our priority
now is to repair the monetary policy transmission channels so
that our monetary policy will actually deliver.  And we - and that’s where we are.  We have a lot of work to
do yet on that front.  And now we start seeing possibly the
first signs that this significant improvement in confidence and
in interest rates is finding its way through to the economy.
But as I said, these are tentative signs.  Thank you.  STAFF:  (inaudible)  DRAGHI:  I’m sorry.  Sorry, you had another question.  QUESTION:  The second question, please.  Do you think that
the government in the euro area actually have sufficient used
the time which the Governing Council by these measurements
actually have bought to them?  DRAGHI:  I would say that some of them certainly did.  In
some of them, there has been significant progress.  In some
others, less so.  But by and large, if you look at - I mean, if
you just disregard our action, the ECB action, and you look at
the policy implementation, I think the progress has been quite
significant since a year ago.  On all grounds, very - certainly
on the front of fiscal consolidation.  On the front of
structural reforms is more staggered.  In other words, you had
countries which have undertaken more reforms than others.  But
all in all, the picture seems to be better from all angles than
it was a year ago.  STAFF:  (inaudible)  QUESTION:  Mr. Draghi, one question which refers to the
previous question, again, but you didn’t give any examples of
governments reforming strongly and others which are lagging or -
and in your assessment, in your introductory statement, you say
one of the downside risks is slow and insufficient
implementation.  If we remember more than one-and-a-half years
ago, you and the then-president of the ECB, Mr. Trichet, wrote a
letter to - to  Rome , to the then-prime minister, and you asked
for reforms.  And if you compare the letter and what has been done since
then, and what reforms are implemented and what reforms are kind
of revised or even put backward now, so what is your assessment
of Italy’s reforming agenda?  DRAGHI:  I’m sorry.  I have to answer like I do with your
Italian colleagues.  I don’t comment on Italy.  But more generally, I can tell you that some countries -
take  Greece , for example.  There was a labor market reform, bank
recapitalization, fiscal consolidation.  The same thing in
Ireland.  The same thing in Portugal.  The - to some extent,
labor market reform had been undertaken in Spain, and we can see
clearly the - look at the results more than - more than looking
through the least of reforms.  Look at the results.  If you look at the fiscal consolidation, you observe a few
things.  Let me give you a few numbers here, because I think
that would help you.  Now, we have - we have increasing in the -
in the fiscal consolidation, if you look at structural
improvements, all across the board, I don’t think you can find
country which hasn’t improved.  And overall, the improvement is
really very significant.  If you look at current account surpluses, the projection -
well, the actual figures are quite, quite impressive.  You have
strong increases in exports, not only in  Germany , but in Spain,
in  Italy .  So this shows that something has taken place in
reforming and enhancing competitiveness.  And, of course, you have all the other effects that I
mentioned before.  You have increase in stock markets.  You had
an increase - decrease in spreads.  And do you think that all
these improvements in financial markets were only due to OMT?  I
mean, I thank you so much, but I think we shouldn’t exaggerate
this too much.  I think much of this was due to the governments’
actions and also to the significant progresses that have been
taken place, that have taken place last year on the euro area
governance front.  STAFF:  The last question (OFF-MIKE)  QUESTION:  Yes (inaudible) my name’s (inaudible) got two
question on the publication of minutes.  The first one, in your
opinion, would the publication of minutes show that Bundesbank
and ECB are not as far apart as the German public has been made
to believe?  And the second question.  Do you think that the
publication would weaken the need for dissenting members to
communicate individually in the public?  Thank you.  DRAGHI:  As - I think all this is - would be - would nice
things to achieve, but at this point in time, for me, it would
be - as I said before, it would be highly premature to comment
on the specifics of what we will be - we, meaning the Governing
Council - will be able to produce in terms of improving
communication on this front.  Thank you.  STAFF:  Thank you very much.  DRAGHI:  Thank you.  Oh, yes.  Let me wish all of you good
holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  