-- Europe Manufacturing Expands for First Time in Two Years
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-08-01T08:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/europe-manufacturing-expands-for-first-time-in-two-years.html
Euro-area  manufacturing  expanded at a
faster pace than initially estimated in July as the industry
resumed growth after two years of contraction amid increasing
signs the economy is pulling out of a  record-long recession .  A manufacturing index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the industry increased to 50.3 last month, topping
the  50 mark  for the first time since July 2011, London-based
Markit Economics said today. A reading above 50 indicates
growth. The July reading was up from 48.8 in June and above an
earlier estimate of 50.1 on July 24.  Europe ’s economy is forecast to return to growth this
quarter after being mired in a recession for more than a year.
Economic confidence among executives and consumers in the euro
area improved in July to a 15-month high, while manufacturers’
capacity utilization is at the highest in more than a year.  “It is looking increasingly likely that the 17-country
economy will soon emerge from recession,” said Martin van
Vliet, senior euro-area economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“However, with more fiscal austerity in the pipeline,
unemployment elevated and still rising and, in some cases,
still-weakening housing markets and tight credit conditions,
consumers and businesses in many euro-zone countries still have
plenty of reasons to remain cautious.”  The euro-area  unemployment rate  remained unchanged in June
at 12.1 percent, data showed yesterday. That matched the highest
on record after the jobless rate for May was revised down to
that figure from an initially reported 12.2 percent.  Current Quarter  Gross domestic product in the euro-area economy, which has
contracted for  six quarters , probably stagnated in the three
months through June and is projected to return to growth in the
current quarter, according to a separate Bloomberg survey of
economists. The  International Monetary Fund  forecasts the bloc’s
economy will shrink 0.6 percent this year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has pledged to
keep interest rates low for an “extended period” in his latest
bid to encourage a recovery. Draghi said last month that euro-area export growth “should benefit from a gradual recovery in
global demand.”  The ECB is expected to keep the benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record low of 0.5 percent when policy makers meet
in  Frankfurt  today, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  PSA Peugeot Citroen, Europe’s second-largest automaker,
yesterday reported a narrower-than-estimated loss in the first
half as a tighter rein on costs offset a decline in deliveries
that outpaced the economy’s contraction. The Paris-based company
forecast that the European car market, on track for a sixth
straight annual decline, will shrink by about 5 percent this
year.  Markit’s services gauge for the euro area rose to 49.6 in
July from 48.3 in June, according to an initial estimate on July
24. A  composite index  of manufacturing and services output
increased to 50.4, an 18-month high. Final figures for the
services and composite indexes will be published on Aug. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at   fobrien@bloomberg.net  