-- Teva’s Second-Quarter Profit Drops on Fewer New Generics
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-08-01T11:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/teva-s-second-quarter-profit-drops-on-fewer-new-generics.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s (TEVA) 
second-quarter profit fell 8.9 percent as the company introduced
fewer new generic medicines.  Earnings excluding some costs declined to $1.02 billion, or
$1.20 a share, from $1.1 billion, or $1.28, a year earlier, the
Petach Tikva, Israel-based company said in a statement today.
Profit matched the average estimate of $1.20 a share from 22
analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The results underscore the challenge facing Chief Executive
Officer Jeremy Levin. Even as generic drug sales drop, the
company is trying to reduce its dependence on the branded
multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone, which makes up about 20
percent of revenue and a larger portion of profit.  Sales fell 1.4 percent to $4.92 billion, versus an average
estimate of $4.95 billion. Revenue from generic drugs in  North
America  fell 8 percent to $970 million, while European generic
sales declined 5 percent to $860 million.  Trading in Teva shares was halted in  Tel Aviv . Teva’s
American depositary receipts have returned 8 percent  this year ,
closing yesterday at $39.70. The Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical
Index returned 19 percent.  Sales of generics dropped as Teva and other generic-drug
makers had fewer opportunities to introduce new medicines
because patents expired on fewer blockbusters. Last year Teva
benefited from copies of Pfizer Inc.’s Lipitor and AstraZeneca
Plc’s hypertension treatment Atacand. Teva expects generic
opportunities to grow in the second half of this year.  Analyst Forecasts  Analysts predict Copaxone sales will fall each of the next
five years as the relative ease of new oral pills lures patients
from the injection. The drug also faces potential generic
competition as early as next year after a U.S. court decision
last week.  Revenue from Copaxone climbed 9 percent to $1.1 billion.
Teva raised the price of the injection by 9.9 percent in
January. Biogen Idec Inc.’s oral MS drug Tecfidera received U.S.
approval in March, adding to the competition Copaxone already
faced from  Novartis AG’s (NOVN)  Gilenya pill.  Tecfidera, which gave Biogen $192 million in second-quarter
revenue, captured 42 percent share of new written prescriptions,
according to a Barclays Plc report July 24.  Levin said in November revenue for 2013 will be between
$19.5 billion and $20.5 billion while earnings excluding some
costs will be $4.85 to $5.15 a share.  Results may come in at the lower end of Teva’s forecast if
a court ruling allows competition to its generic version of
Pulmicort Respules treatment for asthma, said Jonathan Kreizman,
an analyst at Clal Finance Batucha Brokerage Ltd.  With no immediate replacement for the expected decline in
Copaxone revenue, Levin has pledged to cut as much as $2 billion
of costs in the next five years.  Teva will hold a conference call with analysts at 8 a.m.
 New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  