-- Leveraged Loans Pass ’12 Level With Record Ahead: Credit Markets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-08-01T09:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/leveraged-loans-pass-12-level-with-record-ahead-credit-markets.html
The riskiest U.S. companies are
stepping up their borrowing in the market for leveraged loans,
with the amount of financings completed this year already
exceeding what they raised in all of 2012.  Borrowers from HJ Heinz Co. to  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)  have tapped non-bank lenders for $298.4
billion in 2013, more than the $295.3 billion obtained last
year, according to Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ Leveraged
Commentary and Data. At the current pace, the record of $386.6
billion in 2007 will be eclipsed before year-end.  Rather than leveraging up, more than half of the loans made
this year have been used to reduce interest costs or extend
maturities as companies take advantage of investor demand to
strengthen their balance sheets. Investors added a record $2.1
billion last week into funds that buy loans, bringing the total
for the year to more than $40 billion, according to  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   “We have seen significant demand” for high-yield, high-risk loans, said Scott Baskind, the co-chief investment officer
for the senior secured bank loan team in New York at Invesco
Ltd., which oversees $22 billion of the debt.  Buyouts Decline  More loans that aren’t tied to refinancings may be
completed by year-end as merger and acquisition activity heats
up, Baskind said, following a 17 percent drop in the number of
leveraged buyouts from the same period of 2012.  Loans have generated a  return  of 3.2 percent this year,
according to the S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index. That
compares with gains of 3.04 percent on the  Bloomberg High Yield
Index. (BUHY)   The average interest margin rose to 4.45 percentage points
more than benchmark rates in June from 3.7 percentage points in
May amid concern the Federal Reserve may begin to pull back from
its unprecedented stimulus. The gap shrank to 4.1 percentage
points last month as those concerns eased, according to S&P LCD.  Elsewhere in credit markets, BMC Software Inc. is planning
to sell $1.38 billion of notes denominated in dollars and euros
to help fund its purchase by a group led by Bain Capital LLC and
Golden Gate Capital. Wall Street banks are offering commercial-mortgage bonds at relative yields that are lower than on deals
issued earlier last month, aiding lenders with $5 billion of
transactions to sell. New York’s Metropolitan Transportation
Authority obtained $200 million of protection with bonds
designed to guard against wreckage linked to storm surges.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.3 basis point to 16.7 basis
points. The gauge widens when investors seek the perceived
safety of government securities and narrows when they favor
assets such as corporate bonds.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default fell.
The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased one basis point to a mid-price of
74.6 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of credit-default swaps tied
to 125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell 2.7 to 97.2
at 10:48 a.m. in  London . In the Asia-Pacific region, the Markit
iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers outside  Japan 
decreased 3.1 to 143.4.  JPMorgan Bonds  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers, accounting
for 2.7 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or
more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  BMC is marketing $1.05 billion of securities and 250
million euros ($332.5 million) of debentures and may price the
debt next week, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction. The information technology provider announced the
$6.9 billion buyout, which also includes investors GIC Special
Investments Pte Ltd. and Insight Venture Partners, on May 6
after abandoning a sale last year. Proceeds will be placed in
escrow until the acquisition is completed, the Houston-based
company said in a statement.  Property Debt  Top-ranked 10-year securities linked to U.S. properties are
being marketed by JPMorgan and Barclays Plc to yield as much as
108 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate, a person
with knowledge of the transaction said. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Citigroup Inc. sold similar notes on July 18 at a spread of
113 basis points.  Dealers have arranged about $45 billion in commercial-mortgage bonds this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales are poised to double from 2012 to $70 billion
by year-end, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  New York City’s subway operator is paying less than the
cost of traditional property coverage by buying protection from
MetroCat Re Ltd., a Bermuda-based special-purpose insurer that
issued the three-year securities, the MTA said in a statement.
The bonds yield 4.5 percentage points more than three-month
Treasury bills, Bloomberg data show.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened 4 basis points
to 340 basis points, or 3.4 percentage points, according to
 JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index . The measure has averaged 298.7
basis points this year.  Loan Prices  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index fell 0.01 cent
to 98.24 cents on the dollar. The measure, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has
declined from 98.4 cents on July 23, the highest since May 30.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at S&P.  Investors have been pouring money into mutual funds that
buy loans as a hedge against a possible rise in rates.  Mutual funds purchased 33 percent of loans sold to non-bank
lenders during the second quarter, up from 21 percent in the
first quarter, according to S&P LCD. Collateralized loan
obligations remain the largest buyers of the debt, with a 53
percent share, down from 60 percent during the first quarter.  Money managers have raised $52 billion of CLOs this year
globally, compared with $55.7 billion in all of 2012, according
to a July 26 JPMorgan report. CLOs are a type of collateralized
debt obligation that pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice
them into securities of varying risk and returns.  Repricings  Speculative-grade borrowers obtained $157 billion of loans
to refinance debt this year, while reducing the rate on $187.7
billion of existing loans, according to S&P LCD.  “You saw a pretty heavy repricing calendar in the first
quarter and early second quarter of this year,” John Cokinos,
the head of leveraged finance capital markets and syndicate at
Bank of America in New York, said in a telephone interview.  Borrowers typically take advantage of a slowdown in merger
activity and a rise in loan prices to seek a rate cut on their
loans, according to Cokinos.  Heinz obtained about $12 billion in loans backing the
ketchup makers acquisition by  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. and 3G Capital, Bloomberg data show.  Valeant got a $3.55 billion term deal as part of a
transaction financing its purchase of Bausch & Lomb Holdings
Inc.  Default Rates  The 12-month trailing global speculative-grade default rate
fell to 2.8 percent at the end of the second quarter from 3.1
percent in the same period last year, Moody’s said July 11. The
ratings firm expects the rate to rise to 3.2 percent by year-end, before falling to 2.7 percent by the end of the second
quarter of 2014.  Institutional loan issuance fell from $49.3 billion in May
to $28.2 billion in June after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
indicated in testimony to lawmakers that the central bank may
reduce the $85 billion it spends every month buying Treasuries
and mortgage bonds. The central bank pledged to keep buying the
bonds yesterday, the Federal Open Market Committee said after a
two-day meeting in  Washington .  The initial Fed statement “had a significant impact” and
“we saw a global pullback in fixed income, emerging markets,
investment grade and high yield, and that caused a broad
correction in the market,” Invesco’s Baskind said.  Junk Outflows  High-yield bond funds, which had been buying loans, saw
outflows of $12.6 billion in May and June, according to data
from Morningstar Inc. That led some investors to sell their loan
holdings, said Joe Moroney, a senior money manager who helps run
the senior credit business at Apollo Global Management LLC in
New York.  While loan issuance slowed in June and July, a recent
pickup in merger activity may mean new debt financings in coming
months. Merger and acquisition volume rose to $111 billion in
July, an increase from $71 billion in June, according to a July
30 Bank of America report.  Hudson’s Bay Co., (HBAYF)   Canada ’s biggest department store
operator, has obtained $2.8 billion of debt financing
commitments to back its acquisition of Saks Inc., according to a
July 30 regulatory filing.  Community Health Systems Inc., (CYH)  the
second-largest U.S. hospital chain, obtained $6.8 billion in
loan commitments backing its purchase of Health Management
Associates.  “There is some larger M&A activity coming that is going to
provide some good opportunity in terms of sizable
transactions,” Baskind said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  