-- Evonik’s First Year on Stock Market Marred by Profit Decline
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-08-01T07:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/evonik-s-first-year-on-stock-market-marred-by-profit-decline.html
Evonik Industries AG (EVK)  cut its outlook
for sales and profit in 2013 and said it will accelerate cost
cuts after a disappointing recovery in some markets.  The German maker of tire additives and ingredients for
cosmetics and animal feed now sees sales at last year’s level
and a decline in earnings, slashing a forecast for growth in
both metrics, it said. The stock dropped as much as 2.2 percent.  “Let me not beat about the bush, the new chapter in our
company’s history as a listed company got off to a more
difficult start than we expected in terms of the share price and
earnings,” Chief Executive Officer  Klaus Engel  said on a
conference call today.  Evonik said it held off from adjusting guidance earlier in
the year as it thought some markets would bounce back, as seen
in the past. The CEO earmarked 6 billion euros for investment
through 2016, yet opted to cut capital expenditure plans for
this year by 20 percent to 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion).  Second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell by 23 percent to 489 million
euros, compared with an average estimate from analysts of 484
million euros.  Evonik this year scaled back plans for an initial public
offering, listing 14 percent of its shares largely through a
private placement in April. So far, the stock has declined 20
percent since its debut in  Frankfurt .  Nicotine Patch Interest  After years of disposals, Engel is also trying to take the
company into new higher-margin areas and expand its nutrition
and health portfolio, where demand held steady in the first
half.  Evonik is also among the companies considering a bid for
nicotine-patch maker LTS Lohmann Therapie-Systeme AG, valued at
more than 1 billion euros, according to people with knowledge of
the matter. It’s holding talks with Morgan Stanley, which is
preparing the sale process for the German maker of plasters that
deliver drugs through the skin, said the people.  Sales at the consumer, health and nutrition business
reached 2.1 billion euros in the first half, with an adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
margin of 23.7 percent, boosted by demand for products such as
powdered gels that can absorb liquid.  The stock declined as much as 58 cents to 25.50 euros in
Frankfurt today and was down 1 percent as of 9:34 a.m., valuing
the company at 12 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  