-- Mexico Bonds Rise on Fed Amid Energy Overhaul Bets; Peso Weakens
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-08-01T14:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/mexico-bonds-rise-on-fed-amid-energy-overhaul-bets-peso-weakens.html
Mexico  peso bonds rose, pushing
yields down the most in a week, a day after the Federal Reserve
maintained stimulus and amid speculation the Latin American
country will pass legal changes intended to boost growth.  Yields on Mexican government peso bonds maturing in 2024
fell six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.95 percent
at 9:41 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The peso slid 0.4 percent to 12.7782 per dollar.  Bonds climbed after the Fed said yesterday that
persistently low inflation may hamper U.S. economic expansion
and pledged to keep buying $85 billion in bonds each month. The
outlook for Mexico is also fueling the debt’s rally as the
opposition National Action Party, or PAN, proposed an energy
overhaul yesterday, according to Alberto Bernal, the head of
fixed-income research at Bulltick Capital Markets.  “Probably the markets were too aggressive in expecting the
retirement” of stimulus,  Bernal said in a telephone interview
from Miami. “The news on the reforms is unequivocally good.”  Salvador Vega, PAN’s top member on the Senate Energy
Committee, said his party is proposing the most “audacious”
changes in Mexico’s energy industry since 1938, when Mexico
expropriated assets from U.K. and U.S. companies and changed its
constitution to assert control over its energy resources.  President Enrique Pena Nieto has pledged to pass
legislative changes to open the nation’s state-owned oil
monopoly to more private investment and boost tax collection,
part of an agenda that he has said could boost Mexico’s annual
growth to 6 percent.  Latin America’s second-biggest economy, which grew 3.9
percent in 2012, will expand 2.65 percent this year, according
to the median forecast of economists in a central bank survey
last month that was published today.  Mexico’s central bank said today on its website that
 remittances  fell 7.2 percent in June to $1.95 billion, compared
with $2.10 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  