-- Exxon Second-Quarter Profit Declines On Lower Oil Prices
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-08-01T12:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/exxon-second-quarter-profit-declines-on-lower-oil-prices.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  said second-quarter
profit fell for the first time in four years as crude oil prices
declined along with returns from its gasoline and diesel
manufacturing business.  Net income was $6.86 billion, or $1.55 a share, compared
with $15.9 billion, or $3.41, a year earlier, the Irving, Texas-based company said in an e-mailed statement today. The year-earlier quarter included a $7.5 billion net gain from tax-related items and divestments including the sale of part of its
stake in a Japanese refining business.  Brent crude futures, a global benchmark, averaged $103.35 a
barrel during the second quarter, down 5 percent from $108.76 a
year earlier. The average  margin  from processing crude into
transportation fuels narrowed by 12 percent during the April-to-June period as gasoline demand and  prices  declined in the U.S.
market that burns one of every five barrels of the world’s crude
supply, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exxon Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson 
has been steering exploration to  Russia , Liberia and the U.S.
Gulf of  Mexico  to revive crude production after $52 billion in
 natural gas investments  during the past three years floundered
amid depressed prices for the furnace and power plant fuel.  Exxon, the world’s largest publicly traded energy company,
said in March that its combined oil and gas output will fall for
a second straight year as the company constructs new platforms
and pipelines to bring recent discoveries online.  Production vs. Demand  Tillerson reduced the full-year capital projects budget by
4.5 percent this year to $38 billion. The company has
underperformed its biggest U.S. rival,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , and the
broader market this year, with shares advancing 8.3 percent.
During that period, Chevron increased 16 percent and the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 18 percent.  Global  oil prices  declined during the second quarter as
crude production growth outpaced the expansion in demand by an
almost 6-to-1 margin, according to data from the  International
Energy Agency  in Paris. The world’s oil supply increased by an
average of 590,000 barrels a day, overshadowing the 100,000-barrel rise in daily demand, the IEA said in a  July 11 report .  Rising natural gas prices in the U.S. failed to offset all
of the impact on profit from weaker crude and motor fuel prices
for Exxon, the largest U.S. gas producer. Benchmark  New York 
Mercantile Exchange gas futures jumped 71 percent to an average
of $4.018 per million British thermal units in the quarter, from
$2.354 a year earlier.  Gas comprised more than 48 percent of Exxon’s  overall
output  in 2012, up from 41 percent before the company acquired
XTO Energy Inc. for $34.9 billion in 2010 to tap into the North
American shale drilling revolution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  