-- Exxon Pegasus Pipeline Cracks May Have Worsened With Age
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m
-- 2013-08-01T18:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/exxon-pegasus-pipeline-cracks-may-have-worsened-with-age.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Pegasus pipeline
failed because of original manufacturing defects that may have
worsened, according to a report paid for by Exxon and released
by regulators today.  “It is highly probable that some micro-cracking within the
upset/heat-affected zones might have occurred immediately
following the pipe manufacturing,” Hurst Metallurgical Research
Laboratory of Euless, Texas, said in the report. “The micro-cracks then likely would have merged by further cracking through
the adjacent areas” during service.  Exxon doesn’t have a timetable for restarting the line,
 David Rosenthal , vice president of  investor relations , said
today on a conference call to discuss second-quarter earnings.  The line, which was built in the 1940s and delivers 96,000
barrels a day to  Gulf Coast refineries  from Patoka, Illinois,
was shut March 29 after spilling 5,000 barrels of oil in
Arkansas. Exxon said on July 11 that the report showed the line
failed because of original manufacturing defects.  The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration,
released the Hurst report and has finished an initial review of
it, said  Damon Hill , a spokesman based in Washington.  “The (Hurst) study is one part of our overall ongoing
investigation, as we continue working to identify the underlying
cause of the failure,” Hill said by e-mail today. “The
pipeline will remain shut down until PHMSA is convinced it can
be restarted safely.”  The failed seam was electric resistance-welded, Exxon said
in its statement. ERW seams in pipelines built before 1970 are
known to have defects, according to a 1989 federal report, and
the process was changed in the 1960s to use higher-frequency
current.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliot Caroom in  New York  at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  