-- The Lessons of the Fabrice Tourre Verdict
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-01T22:49:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/fabrice-tourre-verdict-leaves-sense-of-missed-opportunity.html
Fabrice Tourre, aka “Fabulous Fab,”
was a mere cog in the  Wall Street  machine that, in 2008,
crippled the global financial system and sent the world economy
into a deep slump. The former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vice
president’s trial, though, goes to the heart of the lessons we
must learn from that experience.  A jury found Tourre  liable  for misleading investors in a
2007 mortgage deal. Known as Abacus 2007-AC1, the deal allowed
investors to make side bets on the performance of bonds backed
by home loans made to shaky borrowers. At  issue  was whether
Tourre knowingly concealed the role of hedge fund Paulson & Co.
Inc., which was betting that the borrowers would default. By
disguising Paulson’s short bet, Goldman -- through Tourre as its
salesman -- was able to convince others, including  Germany ’s  IKB
Deutsche Industriebank AG (IKB) , to take the opposite side of
Paulson’s bet.  In parsing the verdict, it is important to recognize that
there is nothing wrong with selling investments you think are
bad, which is what happens whenever you sell a stock you think
will decline. Similarly, there is nothing wrong with buying
securities you think will rise in value, or with helping sellers
find buyers. That is part of what drives financial markets --
and part of how Goldman Sachs and all Wall Street securities
firms legally and rightfully make money. The investors who made
bullish bets on Abacus must have known that someone was betting
against them; the deal couldn’t have existed otherwise.  The crucial issue here is how Goldman and Tourre
represented what they were selling. Did Goldman act as an honest
dealer, bringing together investors with differing views? Or did
it, in concert with a seller, dupe a buyer? In its $550 million
settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in July
2010, Goldman admitted that its marketing materials, which
claimed that an independent investment manager had selected the
bonds in Abacus, shouldn’t have left out the fact that Paulson
had played a big role in the selection.  Now a jury has decided that Tourre’s misrepresentations
amount to civil  securities fraud . As a result, Tourre could end
up paying hundreds of thousands of dollars in penalties to
compensate the investors he misled, and he could be barred from
the securities business for life.  Our first reaction to the verdict is a sense of missed
opportunities. As the SEC prosecutor put it, Tourre was living
in a “Goldman Sachs land of make believe” in which deceiving
investors wasn’t fraudulent. It is unfortunate that the SEC
wasn’t able to use U.S. securities law to mount a case against
the more senior executives who allowed that behavior, rather
than focusing on a junior-level fall guy.  This suggests that the U.S. should follow the  example  of
the U.K. parliamentary commission that examined bank behavior
during the crisis. The commission concluded, and the government
has agreed, that the U.K. needs a new criminal offense for
reckless misconduct in which bank executives could be held
responsible for failing to stop illegal activity in the areas
they oversee.  The second takeaway is that the trial of Fabrice Tourre
should have been a curiosity in the world of Wall Street, not a
watershed event in the prosecution of a global financial crisis.
If regulators had been able to see the risks that deals like
Abacus posed to the whole financial system, if banks’
shareholders had provided enough capital to absorb the losses,
investors like Paulson and IKB could have made their bets
without affecting the lives and livelihoods of millions of
people who weren’t involved -- and who still have no idea what
the term “ABS CDO” means.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 