-- Fed Chairman Search Expanded by Obama Mention of Kohn
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-08-01T00:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/fed-chairman-search-expanded-by-obama-mention-of-kohn.html
President  Barack Obama  has opened up
the contest to become the next chairman of the Federal Reserve,
adding former Fed Vice Chairman Donald Kohn to the list of names
he’s considering.  At a closed-door meeting with Democrats in the U.S. House,
Obama yesterday rejected the notion that it’s a two-person race
between former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers and current
Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen to succeed Ben S. Bernanke, whose
term expires Jan. 31.  Then, in a separate meeting with Democratic senators, Obama
said he has interviewed “lots” of candidates, including “many
whose names have not been mentioned” in the press, said Senator
Richard Durbin of  Illinois , the chamber’s No. 2 Democrat.  By expanding the public list of potential nominees, Obama
is seeking to defuse the tension of a perceived Summers-Yellen
contest, which threatens to limit his options, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Yesterday, 37 House members
sent a letter to Obama urging Yellen’s appointment. Last week,
19 Senate Democrats and one independent did the same.  “The President’s advisers are doing what they should do,”
giving him “several options to consider,” Laura Tyson, a
former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said in an
interview. “It’s a very important choice, and to make the
choice well, you need to consider the options available.”  Kohn, 70, now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution
in  Washington , spent 40 years at the Fed. He was Bernanke’s most
important supporter and adviser during the financial crisis. He
became a Fed governor in August 2002 and served as vice chairman
from June 2006 until June 2010.  1987 Crash  Earlier, Kohn was one of former Chairman Alan Greenspan’s
closest advisers as director of the Division of Monetary Affairs
from 1987 to 2001. He helped Greenspan manage the 1987 stock
market crash and adopt the federal funds rate, the rate for
overnight lending among banks, as the Fed’s main signal for
monetary policy.  Unlike Yellen, a professor emeritus at the University of
California at Berkeley, and Summers, former president of Harvard
University and a professor there, Kohn doesn’t come from an
academic environment.  “He is a central banker,” said  Lou Crandall , chief
economist at Wrightson ICAP LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Yellen and Summers have “the policy making experience needed to
do the job, but they come originally from a different
background,” he said.  Summers Questioned  Obama mentioned Kohn to House Democrats in the course of
defending Summers after Representative Ed Perlmutter of  Colorado 
questioned whether Obama should nominate the former Treasury
secretary.  The president “took a minute to stand up for Larry
Summers,” Representative Brad Sherman of California said after
the meeting. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said after the Senate meeting with Obama that party
members in his chamber will support the president’s choice for
the Fed, “no matter who it is.”  White House officials have expressed frustration with the
public speculation that has surrounded one of the most
consequential nominations Obama will make in his second term.  “He puts a lot more stock in private advice than public
advice,” senior adviser Dan Pfeiffer said yesterday at a
breakfast in Washington sponsored by the Christian Science
Monitor. “He’ll weigh all that advice and then he’ll make a
decision who he thinks is the best person for the job.”  Wider Universe  Before Obama spoke on Capitol Hill, National Economic
Council Director Gene Sperling, also hinted that the universe of
potential candidates was wider than those discussed in the news
media. Sperling praised Yellen and Summers as “great
intellects” about whom he’d only have “extremely positive”
things to say, even in private.  The defense of Summers was also mounted by White House
press secretary Jay Carney, who said that people should
“separate” Obama’s defense of Summers from speculation about
whom the president will choose as the Fed nominee.  Summers “stood shoulder to shoulder” with Obama through
the financial crisis and “the president would defend that
individual as I would,” Carney said.  Obama told the senators yesterday that, “when it comes
down to their basic philosophy on the future of the Fed,” the
differences between the candidates were so small “you couldn’t
slide a paper between them,” Durbin said.  Bond Buying  After a two-day meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee, the Fed said yesterday that persistently low
inflation could hamper the economic expansion and it pledged to
keep  buying $85 billion in bonds  every month.  Some Senate Democrats, including Durbin, have publicly
questioned whether Summers should lead the Fed. They raised
concerns about Summers’s role in advocating deregulation during
President Bill Clinton’s administration that many blame for
later creating the financial crisis.  In 1998 Summers, Greenspan and Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin blocked efforts by Brooksley Born, then-chairman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to regulate the
derivatives market. It later expanded to include the toxic
instruments that led to the 2008 financial market crisis.  After the meeting yesterday, Durbin reiterated to reporters
that he would have “a number of questions” for Summers if he
were nominated.  “I’m not saying I’ll vote against him, but I’ll certainly
ask a few questions,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  