-- Fed Gender Embarrassment Raises Pressure to Name Yellen
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-08-01T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/fed-gender-embarrassment-raises-pressure-to-name-yellen.html
Wim Duisenberg, then chief of the
Dutch central bank, identified Susan Phillips by her gender at a
dinner with top international policy makers in Basel,
Switzerland -- much to her surprise.  “He stood up to greet everybody and he said ‘Welcome to
everyone -- and Ms. Phillips,’” said Phillips, who served as a
Federal Reserve governor from 1991 to 1998 and was attending
meetings with former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan . “I nearly
fell over; it was because I was the only woman in the room.”  More than a decade later, Phillips said the focus on gender
in speculation over who will succeed  Ben S. Bernanke  as chairman
-- Fed Vice Chair  Janet Yellen , former Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  or former Vice ChairDonald Kohn -- has
reminded her that women remain scarce as central-bank heads.  Yellen, 66, would be the first female leader in the central
bank’s 100-year history and, while women have populated its
senior ranks, there is a “big difference” in the authority and
visibility wielded by the chairmen, Phillips said. They speak
for the entire institution, set the agenda and often “preserve
to themselves” relationships with the administration and
Congress.  It is “the second most-powerful position in the country
after the president -- it’s a very influential position,” said
Mark Calabria, director of financial-regulation studies at the
Cato Institute in Washington and a former Senate Banking
Committee aide. “There is a glass-ceiling element to this that
does make this different than being vice chair.”  No Women  The U.S. central bank isn’t the only one to have been run
solely by men: Institutions including the  Bank of Japan ,  Bank of
England , Bank of Israel and  European Central Bank  have never
been led by a woman.  The contrast between Yellen and Summers, 58, who is not
“looked at as sensitive to gender,” has made sexism more of an
issue than it otherwise would have been in the succession
discussion, Calabria said. Summers resigned as president of
Harvard University in 2006 after apologizing in 2005 for remarks
he made in which he hypothesized that women might lack an
“intrinsic aptitude” for science and engineering. Calabria
said Summers’ appointment may be viewed as a regression for an
institution that has made strides in diversity.  “There has never been a woman chair of the Fed, and
correcting that inequity is long overdue,”  Terry O’Neill ,
president of the National Organization for Women in Washington,
said in a July 25  statement . “Dr. Yellen is the best person for
the job, male or female.” NOW cited Summers as having
“obnoxious views” that “are only part of the problem.”  Fed spokeswoman  Michelle Smith  declined to comment.  Unwelcoming Places  The entire banking and economics professions weren’t
welcoming places to women in the 1960s and 1970s, said Martha Seger, who has a Ph.D. in economics and served as chief
economist for Detroit Bank and Trust Co. and commissioner of
financial institutions in Michigan before President  Ronald Reagan  appointed her a  Fed governor  in 1984. She was the second
woman on the board.  “In commercial banking, when you had a boss whose wife
didn’t have a checking account, think of the mountain you have
to climb,” Seger said. “But once you get going and find that
when you have a woman she doesn’t force the whole place to
choose pink drapes or something, that spreads and the idea
becomes comfortable.”  A total of 12 women in the Fed’s history have become policy
makers on the Federal Open Market Committee. Eight have been
appointed governors and five have become presidents of the
regional banks. Yellen is in both groups, having run the San
Francisco Fed from 2004 to 2010 and also serving on the board
from 1994 to 1997.  Carter Appointment  Nancy Teeters was the first female governor,  appointed  by
President  Jimmy Carter  in 1978. She was previously chief
economist of the House Budget Committee, a senior specialist at
the Library of Congress Congressional Research Service and a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.  The FOMC voted yesterday to keep buying $85 billion of
bonds every month and said persistently low inflation could
hamper the economic expansion.  Putting a woman in charge of the Fed may have more of an
impact on the central bank’s public image than its internal
operations, given that numerous women do hold senior titles,
according to former Richmond Fed President J. Alfred Broaddus.  “It’s still an issue generally among ordinary Americans,”
Broaddus said. “They’re looking at Greenspan or Bernanke and
their bald heads on television, and if she’s put in the job
they’ll be looking at her,” he said, referring to Yellen.  ‘Most Qualified’  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
wrote in a July 22 Fortune magazine  column  that Yellen is
“clearly the most qualified successor” to Bernanke and it’s
time for a woman to run the Fed.  “The segment most directly involved in overseeing the
nation’s financial markets and the big financial institutions”
has lacked women leaders, Bair wrote. “Testosterone-laden  Wall
Street  usually feels more comfortable dealing with guys than
gals.”  No woman has ever headed the Fed, Treasury Department,
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  or the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  “To the extent that the Fed is perceived as being part of
an old-boys’ network, it would have an impact” to have a woman
at the helm, said former Minneapolis Fed President  Gary Stern .
“I don’t know if the Fed deserves that rap or not; I think the
Fed has worked quite hard on diversity.”  Women Inclusion  Forty percent of the Fed board’s executive senior level
positions were held by women in 2012, and about 45 percent of
employees were female, according to its March  report  to Congress
on the Office of Minority and Women Inclusion. The central bank
was required to establish this office by the Dodd-Frank
financial-overhaul legislation passed in 2010.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California said
that while Summers and Yellen are both well-qualified, “it
would be great to have a woman.” Pelosi was interviewed on
Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” which
aired last month.  A group of 37 female House Democrats led by Maxine Waters
of California, the ranking Democrat on the Financial Services
Committee, sent Obama a letter yesterday supporting Yellen
without mentioning any of the other candidates.  Not all women are pushing for Yellen’s appointment. Seger
said she’s skeptical of Yellen, who “like a lot of other people
at the Fed is a perennial government employee. They don’t know
what it’s like to actually be there in the real world and make
decisions that you’re held accountable for.”  Berkeley Professor  Yellen was a University of California-Berkeley economics
professor who specialized in labor-market research. She also
served as chairman of President  Bill Clinton ’s Council of
Economic Advisers.  The debate over whether to appoint Yellen as chairman of
the Fed comes as the number of women on the board of governors
is poised to dwindle. Elizabeth Duke announced July 11 she will
resign at the end of August. The White House said yesterday it
will nominate  Sarah Bloom Raskin  to become deputy Treasury
secretary, the No. 2 official after Secretary Jack Lew.  Yellen’s four-year term as vice chairman ends in October
2014, and if she’s passed over and departs, no women would
remain on the Fed’s board of governors.  Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto  and Kansas City’s
Esther George would be the only females left on the policy-making FOMC. They rotate voting on policy decisions: George this
year and Pianalto next year. Neither votes in 2015.  ‘Significant Consideration’  “It would be a problem if none of the replacements are
women,” said Stephen Oliner, a former Fed economist who is now
a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington.
“I think that would be a significant consideration for
President Obama, especially if he chooses Summers as chairman.”  Raskin and Duke have both been members of a board
subcommittee that examines how the Fed’s new supervisory tools
affect community banks, and their departure will leave a gap in
policy makers focused on such institutions. Their contribution
“was in crafting financial regulation in that part of the Fed’s
mandate,” Oliner said. The central bank will “need people who
have experience in the financial sector and with financial
issues.”  While the banking community and markets focus on the
composition of the entire board of governors, the average
American may be aware only of the Fed chief, said Phillips, the
former board member.  “The person who is watching television tends only to see
Bernanke’s head; that’s the symbol of the Fed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  