-- Fedex Overcharging Settlement Wins Preliminary Approval
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-08-01T19:29:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/fedex-overcharging-settlement-wins-preliminary-approval.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and lawyers suing the
company over claims it billed governments and businesses at
higher residential rates won preliminary approval of a
$21.5 million settlement.  Under the settlement, which was reached through mediation,
FedEx will “implement prospective relief regarding residential
delivery fee practices” as well as provide money to the
plaintiffs represented as a class in the suit, U.S. District
Judge John T. Fowlkes Jr. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , said today.  Fowlkes set a hearing for final approval for Nov. 22.  FedEx, the world’s largest cargo airline, was accused in
the 2011 complaint of overcharging commercial and government
customers as much as $3 each for tens of thousands of packages.
The company denied the allegations and said customers could
avail themselves of a procedure for challenging the charges.  The class of hundreds of thousands of FedEx customers
including those who used its services from Aug. 28, 2008, to
July 13, 2011, and didn’t get a full refund for claimed
overcharges on residential deliveries, Fowlkes said.  “Today’s preliminary approval is just another step in the
settlement process,” Shea Leordeanu, a FedEx spokeswoman, said
in a phone interview.  “We are pleased the court found the settlement to be fair,
reasonable and adequate,” Steven Rosenwasser, an attorney for
the plaintiffs, said by phone. Class members would be paid
within 75 days of final approval, he said.  Residential Rates  FedEx charged residential rates to destinations including
the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Office in  Chicago , a  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  facility in Tampa,  Florida , and the Safariland
Group body armor company in Jacksonville, Florida, according to
an amended complaint filed in December.  FedEx contended the plaintiffs would have been barred from
pursuing their claims in a class action by provisions in the
FedEx Service Guide. They would also have been barred from
pursuing settlements beyond 60 days after an alleged overcharge,
Memphis-based FedEx’s lawyers said in court filings.  The case is Gokare PC v. Federal Express Corp., 11-cv-02131, U.S. District Court, Western District of Tennessee
(Memphis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 