-- Farm Trade Halt by Bourse Triggers Financial Technologies Crash
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-08-01T11:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/financial-technologies-plunges-most-in-15-years-mumbai-mover.html
Financial Technologies (India) Ltd. (FTECH) ,
which controls the nation’s biggest commodity futures exchange,
lost more than half of its value after a subsidiary that runs a
spot bourse suspended trading in some contracts.  Financial Technologies  tumbled  by a record 65 percent to
191.65 rupees at the close in Mumbai, with volume 91 times the
daily three-month average. The National Spot Exchange suspended
some contracts, merged the delivery and settlement of all others
and deferred them for a period of 15 days, it said in statement
yesterday.  Volumes at the NSEL, where farm commodities and metal are
traded, will plummet, according to Arun Kejriwal, director at
Kejriwal Research & Investment Services Pvt. in Mumbai. The
bourse contributed 56 percent to  Financial Technologies ’s net
income in the year ended March 31.  “Turnover on NSEL may drop by more than half,” Badruddin
Khan, a vice president at Indiabulls Commodities Pvt., said in
an interview. “Some clients may shift to other exchanges like
NCDEX Spot Exchange as there’s uncertainty about trading and
settlement rules on the NSEL. There will be panic.”  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. , India’s biggest
commodity futures bourse that’s 26 percent owned by Financial
Technologies, fell by the 20 percent limit to 510.55 rupees, the
most since its debut in March 2012. The suspension won’t effect
its operations, MCX said in a filing. The S&P BSE Sensex lost
0.2 percent, erasing an intraday gain of 1.2 percent.  ‘Market Equilibrium’  The halt followed “certain abrupt structural changes in
the marketplace,” NSEL said in the statement. Those changes
“have disrupted the market equilibrium as volumes on the
exchange have gone down significantly.”  National Spot Exchange accounts for more than 98 percent of
 India ’s electronic spot market in commodities, according to its
website. Physical raw-material bourses operate separately from
futures exchanges in the country.  “The exchange is not facing a liquidity crisis,” Anjani Sinha, the chief executive officer of the exchange said in an
interview to Bloomberg TV India today. Trading was suspended
after the government raised some concerns and will resume after
all contracts are settled, he said without elaborating.  The National Spot Exchange overstated the amount of castor
seed inventories at its warehouses, the Economic Times reported
on July 19. The exchange denied the allegation, according to a
statement on the company’s website.  Financial Technologies’  profit  fell 14 percent to 2.27
billion rupees in the year ended March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  