-- Ford to Pay U.S. $17.4 Million for Delayed Escape Recall
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-08-01T15:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/ford-to-pay-u-s-17-4-million-for-delayed-escape-recall.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  agreed to pay $17.4
million, the largest penalty the U.S. auto-safety regulator can
impose, for delaying recalls involving unintended acceleration.  The June 28 agreement, announced today by the  National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration , involves Ford Escape SUVs
the automaker recalled last year after a fatal crash in  Arizona .  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  was assessed the same penalty by NHTSA
in December for delaying reports that accelerator pedals could
be entrapped by floor mats in some Lexus models. That followed
NHTSA’s $48.8 million in fines against Toyota in 2009 and 2010
for delaying recalls related to unintended acceleration.  “It is critical to the safety of the driving public that
manufacturers address automotive safety issues quickly and in a
forthright manner,” Nathan Naylor, a NHTSA spokesman, said in
an e-mail. “As government regulators, it is our job to ensure
that manufacturers are held accountable to address safety issues
promptly and responsively.”  The Wall Street Journal reported the fine earlier today.  Automakers are required to notify NHTSA within five
business days of safety-related vehicle defects. Ford, based in
Dearborn,  Michigan , recalled about 485,000 Escape and Maverick
models from model years 2001 to 2004 after NHTSA opened an
investigation into reports that a cruise-control defect could
cause throttles to stick.  NHTSA contended the company had enough information by May
2011 to recall the vehicles, Kelli Felker, a Ford spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Ford issued the recall in July 2012 for vehicles with 3.0-liter V-6 engines and speed control. Vehicles with other engines
weren’t included.  “While we are confident in our current processes for
quickly identifying and addressing potential vehicle issues,
Ford agreed to this settlement to avoid a lengthy dispute with
the government,” Felker said.  While the settlement amount is “whopping,” Escape sales
are running at record levels, Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst
at Edmunds.com, an auto-industry information provider, said in a
note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Durisin in Detroit at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  