-- Former Mongolian President Pardoned After 2012 Graft Conviction
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-08-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/former-mongolian-president-pardoned-after-2012-graft-conviction.html
Former Mongolian president Nambaryn Enkhbayar, found guilty in August 2012 of graft and sentenced to
four years in prison, was pardoned by the man who unseated him
in a 2009 election.  Enkhbayar, 55, was released yesterday by a decree from
current president Tsakhia Elbegdorj. The statement announcing
the decision posted to the  website  of the president’s office
didn’t give a reason for the pardon.  The former president, who also previously served as prime
minister and parliamentary speaker, was the most high profile
politician prosecuted in a corruption crackdown that Elbegdorj
began after taking office. Throughout his trial and time in
prison, Enkhbayar remained head of the Mongolian People’s
Revolutionary Party. He also maintained his innocence and argued
the verdict against him was politically motivated.  “It is good news for us,” Ochirbat Chuluunbat, a member
of the MPRP and the current deputy minister for economic
development, said of the pardon. He said Enkhbayar was released
because of poor health and so he could seek treatment overseas.  Enkhbayar, whose sentence was reduced to 2 1/2 years in
December, went on a hunger strike while in jail and due to
failing health was moved to a prison hospital. He’ll remain head
of the MPRP if his health permits, Chuluunbat said.  After losing the 2009 presidential election to Elbegdorj by
less than 4 percentage points, Enkhbayar was convicted on
multiple counts of graft including the illegal privatization of
a hotel. His party, which holds seven seats in Mongolia’s 76-seat parliament, is part of the coalition that forms the current
government.  Elbegdorj won re-election in June after running a campaign
that burnished his anti-corruption credentials. The victory
cemented the  Democratic Party ’s hold on power, with Mongolia’s
president, prime minister, parliamentary speaker and
Ulaanbaatar’s mayor all drawn from its ranks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  