-- Fortress Second-Quarter Profit Triples on Hedge-Fund Fees
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-08-01T20:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/fortress-says-second-quarter-profit-tripled-on-hedge-fund-fees.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
first publicly traded private-equity and hedge-fund manager in
the U.S., said second-quarter profit tripled as fees for beating
certain benchmarks rose.  Pretax distributable earnings, which exclude some
compensation costs and other items, increased to $148 million,
or 30 cents a share, from $50 million, or 9 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based Fortress said today in a statement. The
average  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was an
adjusted profit of 20 cents a share.  Fortress, which today said it appointed co-founder Randal Nardone chief executive officer, benefited from a fourfold
increase in incentive income tied to fund performance.
Fortress’s macro hedge funds that invest across asset classes
and geographies were the biggest contributors to earnings after
beating global markets in the quarter.  Distributable earnings reflected “the strongest quarter
since our very first as a public company,” Nardone said on a
conference call today with investors and analysts. “The
incentive income comes from  investment performance . We feel very
good about prospects for the remainder of the year.”  Fortress rose 1.7 percent to $7.98 at the close of trading
in New York, bringing its gain this year to 82 percent. The
stock is  down  57 percent since the company’s 2007 initial public
offering, when it sold shares at $18.50 apiece to become the
first U.S.-listed buyout and hedge-fund manager.  Macro Fund  The firm’s macro hedge fund, which has more than $3 billion
under management, returned 9.1 percent in the quarter, and its
Asia macro  fund  gained 9.8 percent, compared with a decline of
1.2 percent for  global stocks .  Fortress appointed Nardone CEO after  Daniel Mudd  resigned
last year amid a U.S. government lawsuit stemming from his
tenure as chief of mortgage-financing company  Fannie Mae .
Nardone, 58, was serving as CEO on an interim basis.  Fortress’s  businesses  include private equity, credit,
liquid hedge funds and a traditional  money manager  called Logan
Circle Partners, the company’s biggest unit by assets. Total
assets fell 1.8 percent to $54.6 billion in the quarter even as
the firm raised $1.2 billion. The decline was driven by a
recapitalization of its publicly traded Eurocastle unit, which
manages German commercial real estate assets.  Incentive Income  Incentive income, which Fortress earns when its funds
exceed certain performance thresholds, more than quadrupled to
$199 million in the second quarter, compared with $47 million a
year earlier. The increase was driven by the macro  hedge funds ,
where incentive income surged to $92 million in the quarter,
from $4 million a year earlier. Management fees, earned for
overseeing client assets, rose 13 percent to $129 million.  The firm’s private-equity portfolio appreciated 1.8 percent
during the quarter, resulting in $30 million of pretax
distributable earnings, compared with $27 million a year
earlier. Blackstone Group LP’s private-equity holdings gained
5.4 percent in the quarter, while  KKR (KKR)  & Co.’s increased 0.9
percent.  Fortress’s distributable earnings differ from U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Under those rules,
known as GAAP, the company showed net loss attributable to Class
A shareholders of $2.1 million, or 1 cent a share, compared with
net income of $5 million, or a loss of 12 cents, a year earlier.  Blackstone, KKR  Blackstone (BX) , the world’s biggest private-equity firm by
assets, reported net income of $211.1 million for the second
quarter, compared with a loss of $75 million a year earlier. KKR
reported a second-quarter profit of $15.1 million, compared with
$146.3 million a year earlier as weak performance in its buyout
holdings lowered its fund valuations. Both firms are based in
New York.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  The company said investors pulled $177 million from its
liquid hedge funds and $2 million from its credit hedge funds in
the quarter. That brought redemptions to $566 million this year,
compared with $1.6 billion in the same period last year.  Fortress last month finished raising about $1.7 billion for
its Asia macro hedge fund, according to a letter sent to
investors. Macro hedge funds seek to profit from macroeconomic
trends by trading stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  