-- Fortress to Blackstone Say Now Is Time to Sell on Surge
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-08-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/fortress-to-blackstone-say-now-is-time-to-sell-on-rally.html
Private-equity managers from  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG)  to  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which made billions
by buying low and selling high, say now is the time to exit
investments as stocks rally and  interest rates  start to rise.  Fortress, the first publicly traded buyout firm in the
U.S., is preparing holdings for public offerings while
struggling to find attractive new deals,  Wesley Edens , who runs
Fortress’s $14.3 billion private-equity business, said on a
conference call with investors yesterday. That environment
extends to credit and distressed investments, said Pete Briger,
who oversees the New York-based firm’s $12.5 billion credit
business.  “This is a better time for  selling  our existing
investments than making new investments,” Briger said on the
call. “There’s been more uncertainty that’s been fed into the
markets.”  Their comments echoed remarks from  Apollo (APO)  Global Management
LLC Chief Executive Officer  Leon Black  to Blackstone President
 Tony James , who said last month the environment is ripe for
selling because credit markets are still hot and equities
strong. Three rounds of bond purchases by the  Federal Reserve ,
coupled with improving earnings and economic growth, helped
propel the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  up  152 percent from its
bear-market low in 2009.  Speculation about the Fed’s monthly bond purchases has
whipsawed stocks since May, when Chairman Ben S. Bernanke first
indicated policy makers could begin reducing the stimulus this
year if the job market continues to improve.  ‘Almost Biblical’  “It’s almost biblical: there is a time to reap and there’s
a time to sow,” Apollo’s Black said at a conference in April.
“We think it’s a fabulous environment to be selling. We’re
selling everything that’s not nailed down in our portfolio.”  Black’s New York-based firm, which oversees assets worth
$114 billion, generated $14 billion in proceeds from the sale of
holdings between the first quarter of 2012 and the first quarter
this year.  The industry’s focus on exits has reduced volumes of
leveraged buyouts this year, with the number of private-equity
deals announced declining 20 percent to 3,047 worldwide from the
same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a difficult environment to find really attractive
things when the markets are robust as they are,” Fortress’s
Edens said yesterday.  Global stocks have  gained  11 percent this year, led by a 20
percent rally in the  S&P 500 , which rose above 1,700 for the
first time yesterday.  Stock Rally  The stock market rally helped push up average prices for
LBOs to nine times earnings, Black said in April. A reasonable
buyout price is less than eight times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to consulting
firm Bain & Co.  Blackstone, also based in New York, took advantage of the
rising markets to sell shares in three companies -- General
Growth Properties Inc., Nielsen Holdings NV and PBF Energy Inc.
-- and take three public, including  SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. (SEAS) ,
in the last quarter alone. The firm, run by CEO Steve Schwarzman
and James, last month reported second-quarter economic net
income of $703 million, more than triple its year-earlier
profit.  “With credit markets hot and equities strong, this is a
better time for selling assets than for buying,” James said on
a call with media on July 18. “Activity levels seem to be
shifting from the U.S., which has been our focus over the last
couple of years, to  Europe , where there’s more distress, and
 Asia  and  emerging markets , where liquidity issues are arising.”  Real Estate  Blackstone is also lining up real estate investments for
sales in the next two years. Among its holdings are global hotel
chain Hilton Worldwide Inc. and office properties from its $39
billion purchase of Equity Office Properties Trust in 2007.  “There will continue to be a growing series of real estate
realizations as we go forth over the next 12 to 18 months,”
said James.  Fortress, which in 2007 became the first publicly traded
private-equity and hedge-fund manager, yesterday said second-quarter pretax distributable earnings more than tripled to $148
million from a year earlier. The company sold remaining
investments in its first buyout fund. The firm’s aggregate
private-equity holdings grew to a value of 1.4 times invested
capital.  “Within the five-year period between 2008 to today, we
witnessed one of the best times to be a buyer to one of the best
times to be a seller,” said David Fann, CEO of TorreyCove
Capital Partners LLC, which advises buyout managers and
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  