-- Four Seasons Names Prudential’s Smith CEO After Search
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-01T17:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/four-seasons-names-prudential-s-smith-ceo-after-search.html
Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts hired
Allen Smith, the head of Prudential Real Estate Investors, as
chief executive officer after a five-month search.  Smith, 56, will start on Sept. 23, the Toronto-based
luxury-hotel chain said today in a statement. He succeeds
Kathleen Taylor, who left the company in February.  “Allen is a proven global growth leader and investor who
fits well with our strong company culture and understands the
value of preserving the quality of the existing brand,” Michael Larson, chief investment officer of Cascade Investment LLC, said
in the statement. The firm, owned by Bill Gates, is part of a
group including  Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal ’s  Kingdom Holding Co. (KINGDOM) 
that took the hotelier private in 2007. “We see great market
opportunities to further expand the Four Seasons brand
worldwide.”  Smith had been CEO of Prudential Real Estate Investors, the
real estate investment unit of life insurer  Prudential Financial
Inc. (PRU)  since 2008, the company said. He joined the company in
1987, according to the statement.  Prudential promoted Eric Adler, chief investment officer of
the real estate division, as Smith’s replacement, the  Newark ,
New Jersey-based company said in a separate statement.  Four Seasons  has 91 properties in 38 countries, including
the Four Seasons Hotel New York in  Manhattan  and Four Seasons
Hotel George V in Paris. Isadore Sharp founded the company in
the early 1960s with a 125-room Toronto motor inn, and was its
CEO until 2010, when Taylor succeeded him. Sharp’s Triples
Holdings Ltd. is part of the ownership group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  