-- Funds Flocking to Algos Signal Risks for Scottish Widows
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/funds-flocking-to-algos-signal-risks-for-scottish-widows.html
Traditional fund managers are using
computer programs to drive their trades as never before,
creating the potential for large losses if the strategies aren’t
implemented properly, according to  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s
asset-management unit.  “There are an absolute plethora of algorithms out there,”
Tony Whalley, who helps oversee 147 billion pounds ($223
billion) as head of equity dealing at Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership in Edinburgh, said in a phone interview. “The more
complex an algorithm, the more correct your assumptions about
market conditions and what is going to happen over the period of
that order have to be.”  More fund managers are employing software to try to obtain
the best price for a trade by feeding buy or sell orders into
the market gradually. European asset managers sent 43 percent of
orders using algorithms last year, up from 25 percent in 2008,
according to research by Tabb Group LLC, a consultancy firm
based in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  Investors using algorithms they don’t fully understand may
be contributing to  spikes in volatility  and money managers must
place controls on the bids and offers programs are able to place
as a safeguard against errant trades, according to Whalley.  “There are occasions where you look at the market and
there has been a sudden spike in the stock price,” said
Whalley. “It is nearly always down to an algorithm that has
been put in without a limit. To put an order into the market
without a limit on it is plain stupid.”  HFT Differences  Scottish Widows and other traditional fund managers
generally use algorithms in a different way to so-called high-frequency-trading firms, which employ computers to spot and
exploit price discrepancies in a fraction of a second. HFT firms
place their orders directly with exchanges while asset managers
often will trade via a broker. Scottish Widows doesn’t develop
its own trading programs, and tends to use software provided by
its broker, according to Whalley.  “Speed is very low in terms of our list of priorities,”
Whalley said. Still, the company has “no qualms” about dealing
with HFT firms because they have different investment horizons,
he said.  “They have a micro or nanosecond time scale in terms of
how long they want to get their business done in,” he said.
“We have a three-year view. If someone else is in there
providing liquidity, we want to be able to access that.”  Flash Crash  HFT has come under increased scrutiny from regulators after
the so-called flash crash of May 2010, when the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average (INDU)  briefly lost almost 1,000 points. HFT
algorithms buying and selling securities rapidly led to the
sudden removal of liquidity from futures markets, kicking off a
related plunge in stocks, a report by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
said in September 2010.  A computer error at Knight Capital Group Inc. in August
last year sent U.S. stocks swinging as much as 151 percent and
landed the market marker with more than $450 million of losses
that pushed the Jersey City, New Jersey-based firm to the edge
of bankruptcy. Knight later agreed to be bought by Getco LLC, a
closely held high-frequency trader based in  Chicago .  Scottish Widows also trades on so-called dark pools, venues
that match orders anonymously and don’t publish prices, when the
fund manager wants to obscure its trading strategy from other
market participants, Whalley said.  “They work well,” Whalley said. “They preserve our
anonymity and they minimize the market impact that any
particular order is going to have.”  It is more important than ever that fund managers employ
dealers with the experience necessary to figure out the best
route to market for orders, according to Whalley.  “Anyone who puts an order into the market without a limit
on it deserves everything they get,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  