-- GDF Suez Rises on Forecast for 2013 Earnings Near Top of Range
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-08-01T10:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/gdf-suez-first-half-profit-declines-26-on-weak-european-market.html
GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , a French power and gas
utility, advanced the most in 1 1/2 years in Paris trading after
saying 2013 profit will be near the top of its targeted range.  GDF Suez jumped as much as 6 percent, the biggest intraday
gain since November 2011, and was up 5.3 percent at 16.61 euros
as of 12:41 p.m. local time. Trading volumes already exceeded
the three-month daily average.  “We are very confident in our ability to reach our
targets,” Chief Financial Officer Isabelle Kocher said today on
a conference call. “There is a high probability for us to be
closer to the upper range than the bottom.”  GDF Suez, hurt by lower demand for gas-fired power, is
cutting capacity to contain costs. The utility has closed or
mothballed about 8,600 megawatts of plants in  Europe  since 2009
and sought expansion in  Asia ,  Latin America  and the  Middle East 
to counter the decline at home. Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet said today he may pursue further shutdowns or sales.  “We hope to announce some movement in the coming weeks in
the reduction of our exposure to thermal power generation in
Europe,” Mestrallet said in a presentation, describing the
potental sales and halts as a “strategic reorientation.”  GDF Suez today reported a 26 percent decline in first-half
net income to 1.73 billion euros ($2.3 billion), and kept a
target of net recurring earnings of 3.1 billion euros to 3.5
billion euros for 2013. The utility announced a stable interim
dividend of 83 cents a share.  Adverse Market  “We are suffering from adverse conditions in the European
markets,” Kocher said. Longer-than-expected shutdowns of
Belgian nuclear reactors for safety checks will cost 318 million
euros in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization this year.  Net debt fell to 32.2 billion euros as of June 30, down 4.4
billion euros from the end of last year, the company said. It’s
seeking an 11 billion-euro effect on net debt from asset sales
this year and next to reduce borrowings to about 30 billion
euros by the end of 2014.  At the end of last year GDF Suez reduced earnings targets,
citing a “demand crisis” in Europe’s energy markets. In
February the utility wrote down the value of its  power plants  in
Europe by 2 billion euros, saying weaker demand, falling
emission-permit prices and the cost of gas relative to coal
combined to make generation unprofitable.  Impairment Charges  GDF Suez recorded a further 200 million euros of
impairments in the first half after mothballing gas-fired
plants, Kocher said today.  “The group is evolving in a still uncertain and
challenging economic environment, particularly in power
generation in Europe where depressed market conditions do not
yet offer any sign of improvement,” GDF Suez said.  As European utilities shut more than 30,000 megawatts of
capacity across the region, countries will have to take “urgent
measures” to protect security of supply this winter, Mestrallet
said. GDF Suez plans to review an additional 2,000 megawatts of
capacity in southern and eastern Europe in the coming months
after mothballing 1,400 megawatts in the first half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  