-- Generali Second-Quarter Net Climbs 74% on Non-Life Business
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-08-01T10:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/generali-second-quarter-profit-rises-as-non-life-income-climbs.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (UCG) , Italy’s
biggest insurer, said second-quarter  profit  rose 74 percent as
higher non-life earnings outweighed a drop at its life business.  Net income climbed to 478 million euros ($634 million) from
274 million euros a year earlier, Trieste, Italy-based Generali
said today. That matched the average estimate of six  analysts
surveyed  by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Mario Greco  is selling non-strategic assets and refocusing on Generali’s core business to
strengthen finances and boost profitability. The insurer is more
than half way to its goal of raising 4 billion euros from asset
sales by 2015, after selling its U.S. reinsurance unit and
Mexican businesses.  “Generali published mixed results,” Raphael Caruso, an
analyst at Raymond James Euro Equities, wrote in an e-mailed
report to clients. “Earnings were supported by the strong
performance of the non-life insurance segment. Nonetheless, the
life insurance segment’s earnings were significantly hampered by
low investment results.”  Generali  shares  declined 0.9 percent to 14.68 euros as of
11:49 a.m., giving the company a market value of 22.9 billion
euros. The stock has advanced 6.8 percent this year compared
with the 16 percent gain in the 30-company Bloomberg Europe 500
Insurance Index.  Italian Operations  “We have taken significant strides in strengthening our
capital position and improving our operational and financial
performance,” Greco, who took over as CEO last year, said in a
statement. “Generali is more focused and profitable than it was
a year ago and we are well on track to achieve the targets we
have set ourselves,” he said, reiterating that Generali expects
to report higher operating results this year.  Generali yesterday replaced Raffaele Agrusti with Philippe
Donnet as CEO of its Italian operations, which are being
restructured.  “The Italian unit restructuring starts now a new step to
develop business, which will require several years,” Greco said
on a conference call. “It was the right move to have a manager
with long-term prospective.”  Greco said Generali’s 6.8 percent stake in Telecom Italia
SpA,  Italy ’s biggest phone company, is among the assets that
will be sold “ under right conditions.” Generali, which is the
second-biggest shareholder of Telecom Italia, may consider
exiting Telco SpA, the group controlling the phone company in
September, even if “no decision has been taken yet,” Greco
said.  BSI Sale  The Italian insurer is also selling its Swiss asset-management unit BSI Group as part of a plan approved in January.  “BSI is a good asset and we want to sell non-core assets
at the right price,” Greco said. “There is a complicated
market at the moment, so a sale at a fair value takes time,
requires negotiating, and this is what we are continuing to
do.”  Bankinter SA of  Spain  may buy BSI, CEO Maria Dolores Dancausa said in April. The firm offered 1.5 billion euros in
partnership with U.S.-based Apollo Global Management, Swiss
newspaper L’Agefi reported in March. Generali has said the unit
has a book value of 2.3 billion euros.  “The company is on track to achieve attractive earnings
growth and returns, driven by the ongoing restructuring,”
Michael van Wegen, an analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
wrote in a note to clients. “Although the Italian macro remains
challenging, in our view Generali still is an attractive
investment case for investors comfortable with exposure to
Italy.”  Mixed Results  Non-life operating profit increased 23 percent to 389
million euros as the insurer reduced costs. Claims and costs as
a proportion of premiums, known as the combined ratio, improved
to 94.7 percent in the first half from 97.1 percent a year
earlier.  Total operating earnings rose 1.7 percent to 1.05 billion
euros in the second quarter from a year earlier as profit at the
life business fell almost 13 percent to 683 million euros.  Generali’s solvency ratio, a measure of its capacity to
absorb losses, rose to 139 percent by June 30 from 130 percent a
year earlier, the insurer said. As of mid-July, the ratio was
142 percent, excluding a contribution from the sale of Mexican
minorities and U.S. assets, the company said.  Generali was one of nine insurers designated systemically
important by global financial rule makers last month, which may
mean it will face tougher capital standards and tighter
regulation. Greco said today the implications of being a
systemically important insurer aren’t clear and that the company
may not be included on the list in the future.  Generali was put on the list because of its non-insurance
activities, said Greco, adding that “the position in that list
might change over time as they are focusing on core insurance
activities, and disposing of non-core assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  