-- Ghana’s Dancing Pallbearers, Insurers Lead Funeral Boom
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-08-01T15:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/ghana-s-dancing-pallbearers-insurers-lead-funeral-boom.html
Benjamin Aidoo has brought his
dancing pallbearers to more than 200 funerals in  Ghana , easing
loved ones to their final resting places to the strains of
anything from reggae to gospel music.  “Customers say, ‘Papa loved dancing when he was alive, let
him dance more one time’,” said Aidoo, 27, who charges as much
as 800 cedis ($387) a ceremony. “This is a new business where
we dance the coffin to the grave instead of marching solemnly.”
Aidoo founded his business in 2010 and is now having to turn
customers away.  Funerals, among Ghana’s most important social events, are
placing growing financial demands on the country’s expanding
middle class as a fashion for extravagant ceremonies leads to
calls for restraint from religious and ethnic leaders.  An oil production-led boom boosted economic growth to 15.9
percent in 2011 from 3.1 percent in 2007 and increased gross
national income per capita almost fivefold to $1,550 over the
last decade. In addition to entrepreneurs like Aidoo, the
country’s biggest insurers including Enterprise Life and SIC
Insurance Co. are benefiting, Anastacia Arko, an analyst at
Accra-based Databank Financial Services Ltd., said in July 29
interview.  Stretching over days, funeral ceremonies, typically called
celebrations in Ghana, involve church services, receptions and
burials. Families spend thousands of cedis on food and drink,
shaded seating, a disc jockey or band, traditional drummers,
brochures, posters, photographers and often, a videographer
capturing mourners filing by the casket.  Insurance Opportunity  “Our funerals have become a big drain on families,” said
Vicky Wireko, who writes the ‘Reality Zone’ column for the
biggest selling Daily Graphic newspaper, which has classified
pages filled every day with full-color obituaries that list
“chief mourners” and far-flung relatives. “No wonder families
are turning to the banks to seek funds.”  While traditionally relatives have contributed to meet
funeral costs, those donations are no longer enough and
insurance companies are stepping in to cover the gap.  “When the burden to finance funerals became so high that
people began taking out bank loans, we saw there was space for
insurance,” C.C. Bruce, executive director of Enterprise Life,
a unit of Enterprise Group Ltd., the second-biggest listed
insurer, said in an interview in Accra.  The funeral insurance policy is now the company’s
“flagship product,” accounting for more than 65 percent of
revenue, Bruce said. The insurer covers as many as 900,000
Ghanaians, out of a population of 24.7 million, with a majority
aged 30 to 45. Lump sums of as much as 5,000 cedis are paid out.  Peaceful Sleep  Enterprise’s shares have more than tripled this year and
have posted the second-best performance on the 35-member  Ghana
Stock Exchange Composite Index (GGSECI) , which has gained 62 percent. The
stock gained 4.3 percent to 1.46 cedis by the close in Accra.  “Funeral costs are high,” Databank’s Arko said. “People
are becoming sensitized to take up life policies.”  The biggest insurance company in Ghana, SIC Insurance,
plans to increase the payout of its funeral policy as customers
complain of rising expenses, Alfred Ankrah, funeral policy
manager at SIC said in an interview.  “We have a policy targeting the so-called upper class that
pays out 10,000 cedis, but still people say it’s not enough,”
Ankrah said. “There is a call from society to prevent expensive
funerals, but it’s not working because people want to make sure
that the person they lost sleeps in peace.”  Social Pressure  Stanbic Bank Ltd., the Ghanaian unit of  South Africa ’s
 Standard Bank Group (SBK) , introduced funeral insurance plans last
year, offering a lump sum of 1,000 cedis at monthly premiums of
as little as 2.50 cedis. Ghana’s minimum daily wage is 5.24
cedis.  “Ghanaians spend too much on funerals,” said David Dogbe,
a 30-year-old telecommunications worker who had to borrow 2,000
cedis from a friend to meet his 5,000-cedi share of a 20,000-cedi funeral for his father-in-law in March. “It’s because of
the social pressure. People will come and look at the funeral
and say ‘oh, he didn’t want to pay for this or that,” said
Dogbe, who spent two weeks traveling repeatedly between Accra
and the eastern town of Ho to organize the event.  While funerals have always been extravagant, with coffin-carvers on the streets of the capital Accra charging up to 2,500
cedis for caskets in the shape of anything ranging from a
catfish to a soccer boot, people like Dogbe are now being
stretched beyond their means.  Death, Money  Death and money are inextricably linked in Ghana because
funerals are meant to both celebrate the life of the deceased
and show the success of a family, and flamboyant funerals carry
more social prestige than any other ceremony, said Marleen de
Witte, an anthropologist at the University of Amsterdam, the
Netherlands, who has researched Ghana’s funeral economy.  “Most Ghanaians agree that they are spending too much
money on funerals, but as soon as somebody in their own family
dies, the social pressure to hold an impressive funeral proves
very hard to resist,” she said.  To curb costs, tribal chiefs have issued funeral guidelines
ranging from prohibiting all-night wakes to restricting the
amount of traditional drummers. Their pleas haven’t been heeded,
she said.  Deliberations on the date and location of a ceremony and
the subsequent preparations mean that bodies spend an average of
two months in a mortuary, said Jacob Konlan, a clerk at the
Korle-Bu Hospital Mortuary, the country’s biggest morgue, as
dressers in scrubs applied make-up and cotton wool to corpses on
cement slabs. Outside, groups drummed and wailed while relatives
waited to retrieve the bodies.  With the arrival of refrigerated morgues, even the length
of stay of the body has become an indicator of the family’s
wealth, he said. The cost of storing a body is 400 cedis a
month.  “People boast about how much they spend on a funeral,”
Aidoo, the dancing pallbearer, said. “They say with pride: ’I
spent 10,000 cedis.’ Ghanaians spare no expense because we care
more about the dead than the living. Just die and you will see
how many loved ones you have.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  