-- GIC Says China Slowdown to Affect Outlook for Global Investments
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-08-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/gic-says-china-slowdown-to-affect-outlook-for-global-investments.html
GIC Pte, manager of more than $100
billion of  Singapore ’s reserves, said  China ’s slowdown and
credit crunch will affect global investments even as the fund
plans to maintain its holdings in the nation.  “It’s systemically important,” GIC Chief Economist Leslie
Teo said in an interview yesterday, calling the nation a “key
driver for global markets. ‘‘It will affect global equities,
including private equity. It will also affect emerging-market
equities.’’  China’s ruling Politburo this week pledged to stabilize
growth while pressing on with economic reforms to ensure the
country meets a target of expanding at a 7.5 percent pace this
year, a goal that could be under threat after a second straight
quarterly slowdown. Authorities also want to counter mounting
debt risks, with policy makers ordering an audit of government
borrowings this month and engineering a money-market cash
squeeze in June to encourage banks to better manage liquidity.  The nation’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which
doubled in 10 months through August 2009 as the government
poured $652 billion of stimulus into building roads, railways
and housing, has tumbled about 43 percent earlier this week from
its high, destroying $748 billion in market value.  China’s government yesterday pledged to prevent growth from
slipping below a ‘‘reasonable” level as manufacturing gauges
gave a mixed picture of the strength of the world’s second-biggest economy.  Positive Prospects  GIC said it remains invested in China because the slowing
growth as the result of government reforms is positive.  “The Chinese recognize the need to reform and actually are
actively taking measures,” Chief Investment Officer Lim Chow
Kiat said in the same interview. “The long-term prospects of
such efforts are actually very positive.”  GIC kept its allocation for North Asian markets unchanged
at 13 percent of its portfolio as of March, it said in its
annual report released today. The region includes China,  Hong
Kong ,  South Korea  and  Taiwan .  “In this environment, foreign investors are not going to
give China the benefit of the doubt,” Geoffrey Lewis, global
market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management in Hong Kong,
said in Singapore this week. “It will be a case of show me the
money, show me that you can stabilize your economy and then I
will invest. But of course, valuations now are historically
very, very cheap.”  The Shanghai Composite Index is trading at 8.9 times
estimated earnings, the lowest in  Asia  after  Pakistan , according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Complicated Economy  China’s gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the
previous period, extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent
expansion in at least two decades. Officials on July 25 ordered
more than 1,400 companies in 19 industries to cut excess
production capacity this year, part of efforts to shift toward
slower, more-sustainable economic growth.  Chinese leaders “have explicitly talked about 7 percent
being the floor and they have even last week put in place some
stimulus measures,” Lim said. “We are confident that policy
makers are on top of the situation. But because it’s such a
complicated and big economy, you want to make sure you are
monitoring it very, very closely.”  GIC has stakes in at least 40 listed Chinese companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The investment firm
owns 11 percent of the Hong-Kong listed shares of  China Pacific
Insurance Group Co. (2601)  and a 22 percent stake in  Beijing Capital
International Airport Co. (694) , the data shows.  Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s other state-owned
investment firm and the biggest foreign investor in Chinese
banks, last month said it’s not concerned by a cash crunch in
China and plans to increase its assets in the nation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  