-- Gold Futures Decline for Third Straight Day on Stronger Dollar
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-08-01T19:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/gold-swings-between-advances-and-declines-as-dollar-strengthens.html
Gold futures fell for a third
straight day as the dollar rallied on signs of stronger U.S.
economic growth, curbing demand for the metal as an alternative
investment.  The dollar gained versus all 16 of its most-traded
counterparts as claims for jobless benefits fell to a five-year
low and manufacturing expanded in July at the fastest pace in
more than two years, adding to speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  will slow the pace of monthly asset purchases this year.  “All of the economic data out today was better than
expected,”  Bill O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in  Upper
Saddle River ,  New Jersey , said in a telephone interview.  Gold futures for December delivery slipped 0.1 percent to
settle at $1,311.20 an ounce at 1:43 p.m. on the Comex in New
York. Prices capped a third day of losses, the longest slump
since late June.  Holdings in gold-backed exchange-traded products fell 3.6
percent last month, the least since March, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Assets in gold ETPs shrank 25 percent
this year.  Bullion rose 7.3 percent in July, the biggest increase
since January 2012. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last month
that it’s too early to decide whether to begin scaling back debt
purchases in September, after saying on June 19 that bond buying
could slow if the economy improves. The Fed said yesterday it
will continue its third round of quantitative-easing measures
and inflation will rebound in the “medium term.”  Silver futures for September delivery fell less than 0.1
percent to $19.624 an ounce in New York.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , platinum futures for
October delivery gained 1 percent to $1,443.80 an ounce, the
first increase in three days.  Palladium futures for September delivery climbed 0.8
percent to $731.85 an ounce. Prices jumped 9.9 percent last
month, the biggest advance since November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  