-- Goldman Sachs Says Sell India Stocks as Capital Outflows Deepen
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-08-01T02:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/goldman-sachs-says-sell-india-stocks-as-capital-outflows-deepen.html
India ’s capital outflows deepened in
July, spurring Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to recommend reducing
stock holdings as central bank efforts to support the rupee
threaten to worsen the nation’s economic slump.  Foreigners  sold  a net $2 billion of domestic debt last
month through July 30, extending the record $5.4 billion
withdrawal in June. The two-month  outflow  from stocks reached
$2.8 billion, the most since the global financial crisis in
November 2008, regulatory and exchange data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Goldman Sachs cut its rating on the nation’s
shares to underweight in a report dated July 31.  The rupee weakened 1.6 percent last month and reached a
record low on July 8 amid concern that reduced stimulus by the
U.S. Federal Reserve will make it harder for India to fund its
current-account deficit. The nation’s central bank increased two
of its policy rates on July 15 to stem the currency’s decline,
prompting a record surge in three-month interbank borrowing
costs. Higher  interest rates  may hurt the economy and cause more
currency weakness, triggering a “vicious circle,” Credit
Agricole CIB said in a report yesterday.  “Recent activity data has been sluggish with no signs of a
pick up in investment demand,” wrote Sunil Koul, an analyst at
Goldman Sachs in  Hong Kong . “The external funding environment
has also become challenging, causing RBI to tighten liquidity.”  Stocks Slide  The RBI raised its marginal standing facility and the  bank
rate  to 10.25 percent from 8.25 percent. It also capped the
amount banks can borrow in daily repurchase auctions at 0.5
percent of deposits and increased the daily balance requirement
for lenders’ cash-reserve ratios to 99 percent from 70 percent.  The central bank held the repurchase rate at 7.25 percent
on July 30, after saying the previous day that the currency has
become its policy priority. The RBI cut its  growth forecast  for
the economy to 5.5 percent for the year to March 2014 from 5.7
percent. The biggest risk to the economic outlook “stems from
the external sector” and a  current-account gap  that remains
above the sustainable level of 2.5 percent of GDP, it said.  Indian  government bonds  sank in July, with yield on the
7.16 percent notes due May 2023 increasing 75 basis points, the
biggest monthly surge for benchmark 10-year rates since March
2009. The rate was at 8.42 percent on July 24, the highest since
May 2012.  The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  slid 0.3 percent in July, extending
June’s 1.8 percent drop, which was the biggest in four months.
The gauge is valued at 14 times analysts’ earnings estimates for
the next 12 months, compared with 10 times for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index.  While foreigners sold shares during the past two months,
net inflows so far this year were $12.3 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with $7.2 billion of
withdrawals from  South Korea  and $2.5 billion from  Thailand .
India recorded about $25 billion of inflows last year.  “Very little foreign selling has occurred in Indian
equities relative to the massive foreign inflows over the past
few years,” Koul wrote. “We see increasing risk of a potential
flow reversal.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  