-- Gunvor Gets $900 Million in Financing From Germany, Middle East
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-08-01T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/gunvor-gets-900-million-in-financing-from-germany-middle-east.html
Gunvor Group Ltd., which is among the
five largest oil traders, signed two separate borrowing
facilities valued at $900 million to finance its German refinery
and trading operations in the  Middle East .  Gunvor closed a $500 million, 360-day revolving credit
facility that was placed in  Germany  and Austria and led by
UniCredit Bank AG and Deutsche Bank AG, the company said in an
e-mailed statement today. The loan will be used to provide the
working capital needs of Gunvor’s refinery in Ingolstadt,
Germany, which it purchased in 2012.  Gunvor, which is co-owned by billionaire  Gennady Timchenko ,
also closed a $400 million loan that will be used to finance its
Middle East trading operations, the company said in a separate
statement. The facilities’ arrangers included ABN Amro Bank NV,
which acted as bookrunner and lead arranger, as well as Arab
Petroleum Investments Corp. and Gulf International Bank B.S.C.,
Gunvor said.  The financings are part of a strategy to diversify funding
and follow a $299 million deal to sell receivables to  GE Capital 
announced last month. “Instead of going for a bigger gas tank
we are choosing to have a more efficient engine,” Mathieu
Coolen, Gunvor’s head of structured finance, said in a telephone
interview from Geneva.  Based in Cyprus with its major trading operations in
Geneva, Gunvor has financing relationships with about 60 banks
worldwide, Coolen said. The company, which earned a profit of
$301 million from revenue of $93.1 billion in 2012, according to
a bond prospectus issued in May, wants to strengthen its
relationships with local lenders where it has operations, Coolen
said.  Founded in 2000 to trade Russian  crude oil , Gunvor opened a
Middle East office in 2009 and created Dubai-based Gunvor Middle
East DMCC in 2010. The company said it’s now one of the region’s
main traders and wants to expand its operations and investments
in the Middle East.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  