-- Li’s Hutchison Port Profit Falls 5% on Depreciation Costs
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-01T09:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/li-s-hutchison-port-profit-falls-5-on-depreciation-costs.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , controlled by
Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing , said profit at the world’s
second-largest container-port operator declined 5 percent
because of higher depreciation charges.  Earnings before interest and taxes was HK$3.45 billion
($445 million) in the six months to June, Hutchison said in a
Hong Kong stock exchange statement today. The drop was mainly
because of HK$181 million depreciation charges, related to one
new berth and expanded facilities in five terminals in Europe,
Asia and  Australia , the company said.  “The division is expected to maintain a steady performance
for the remainder of the year and to resume growth in subsequent
years as the new berths and ports reach fully operational
status,” Hutchison said in the statement.  First-half sales rose 6 percent to HK$16.9 billion. The
Hong Kong-based company handled 37.9 million boxes, 2 percent
more than a year earlier.  Hutchison, which has interest in 52 ports worldwide from
 Panama  to the Netherlands, owns 28 percent of the container port
operations in Hong Kong and Shenzhen through Singapore-listed
 Hutchison Port Holdings Trust. (HPHT)  Its container volumes at Hong
Kong fell 20 percent in the second quarter as a 40-day strike by
some of the workers prompted shipping lines to divert vessels to
nearby Chinese harbors.  About 450 workers including crane operators and stevedores
at Hongkong International Terminals Ltd. walked out March 28,
demanding higher wages. That was the longest strike at the
city’s container terminal and the biggest labor action against
Li, Asia’s richest man. The workers ended their agitation after
accepting a 9.8 percent wage increase.  In March, Hutchison Port Holdings bought a Hong Kong box
terminal from DP World Ltd. and a unit of PSA International
Pte., the world’s biggest operator of container ports. Hutchison
Port said it would pay HK$3.2 billion in cash to buy the entire
stake in Asia Container Terminal Ltd.  Hutchison Whampoa, with businesses ranging from retail to
telecommunications, posted a 23 percent increase in first-half
net income to HK$12.4 billion, beating analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  