-- Liberty Global Has Second-Quarter Loss on Virgin Media Costs
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-02T15:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/liberty-global-reports-second-quarter-loss-on-virgin-media-costs.html
Liberty Global Plc, the international
cable company controlled by John Malone, reported a second-quarter loss on higher expenses from its deal to acquire  Virgin
Media  Inc.  The net loss for the period was $12 million, compared with
net income of $702 million a year earlier, Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Global said yesterday. Revenue for the period rose
25 percent to $3.16 billion, beating an average analyst estimate
of $3.09 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Liberty Global, which bought U.K. pay-TV provider Virgin
Media for $16 billion this year, said the deal increased costs
for depreciation, amortization, share-based compensation and
restructuring. The company, which added 149,000 Internet
subscribers in the quarter, has been amassing European cable
operators, taking advantage of low interest rates and central
bank efforts to boost the economy.  “We’ve come a long way from five or six years ago,” Chief
Executive Officer Mike Fries said on a conference call today.
There is “good organic growth” still to come in countries such
as  Germany , he said. The company offers Internet, TV and phone
services separately or as a bundled package.  The shares fell 1.7 percent to $79.59 at 11:24 a.m. in New
York, giving the company a market value of $29.6 billion.  Virgin Media  Liberty Global operates in 14 countries, and gets 80
percent of its revenue from Germany,  Belgium , Holland, the U.K.
and Switzerland, Fries said. The company had 24.5 million
customers at the end of the second quarter.  In a separate statement, Virgin Media said its second-quarter revenue was little changed at 1.03 billion pounds ($1.56
billion). The company had 4.9 million customers and average
monthly revenue per user rose about 3 percent to 48.80 pounds
after a price increase in February.  Virgin Media said growth in its cable business was partly
countered by a 6 percent revenue drop in its mobile-phone unit.  Fries confirmed Liberty Global is in talks to offer  BT
Group Plc (BT/A) ’s sports channels on the Virgin Media platform. It
currently offers an array of TV channels from satellite pay-TV
provider British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.  Sports Content  BT and BSkyB have been battling over sports rights to lure
customers from each other, as well as from Virgin Media, which
doesn’t hold the rights to sports content. BT began offering
three new sports channels to broadband customers at no extra
charge yesterday.  At a Liberty Global board meeting in  London  last week, the
CEOs of Sky and BT were invited to meet board members, Fries
said. “BT Sport is a defensive move targeting Sky” and “not
so much about us,” Fries said. “We are in the middle” of the
Sky and BT competition.  Elsewhere in Europe, Fries said the company is “constantly
looking at opportunities.” Last week, Liberty Global increased
its stake in Dutch cable provider  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  to 28.5 percent, as
“part of a hedging structure on our existing stake that allowed
us to acquire more.”  Liberty Global recently lost a race to add to its German
operations when it was outbid for Germany’s largest cable
company,  Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , by  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) 
Malone, who serves as chairman of Liberty Global, said in an
interview last month he’ll start to look to southern Europe for
opportunities when the economy there starts improving.  Fries said the company has no plans to enter the U.S.
market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 