-- Ibovespa Rises First Time in Four Days on Global Growth Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-08-01T20:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/ibovespa-futures-rise-as-china-manufacturing-boosts-commodities.html
The Ibovespa, the worst-performing
major equity benchmark this year, rose for the first time in
four days amid speculation that an improved outlook for the
world economy will spur a rebound in Brazilian stocks.  Vale SA, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, followed
metals higher. Oil company Petroleo Brasileiro SA climbed the
most in three months after saying crude and liquefied natural
gas output in  Brazil  increased 4.6 percent in June. Steelmaker
Gerdau SA advanced after posting second-quarter earnings that
exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The Ibovespa climbed 1.9 percent to 49,140.78 at the close
of trading in  Sao Paulo  after slumping 2.4 percent in the
previous three sessions. Fifty-seven stocks rose today while 11
fell. The gauge has tumbled 19 percent this year, the steepest
drop among the world’s major equity benchmarks tracked by
Bloomberg.  “After underperforming in the first half of the year, from
now on the Ibovespa will probably track global markets, where
the outlook seems more positive,” Alexandre Ghirghi, a
portfolio manager at Metodo Investimentos, said by phone from
Sao Paulo. “Economic data coming from the U.S. have been good,
and I don’t see China slowing down at a pace that’d cause major
problems.”  Claims for jobless benefits in the U.S. unexpectedly
dropped to the lowest level in more than five years in the week
ended July 27, the Labor Department reported today. In  China ,
the purchasing managers’ index rose to 50.3 in July, above the
level of 50 separating growth and contraction and exceeding the
median estimate of 49.8 among economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Vale added 1.4 percent to 28.55 reais.  Petrobras, Ultrapar  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is also known, rose 4
percent to 16.94 reais, the steepest jump since April 29, after
releasing its output report.  “So far Petrobras is adhering to its new capacity schedule
for 2013 in a pleasing way,” analysts including Auro Rozenbaum,
at Banco Bradesco SA’s brokerage unit, wrote in a note to
clients.  Gerdau jumped 4.3 percent to 15.22 reais.  The real depreciated 1.1 percent to 2.3016 per  U.S. dollar 
at 5:24 p.m. local time. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24
raw materials added 1.3 percent.  Brazil will cut import tariffs on basic materials, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said today. The measures, which include
tariffs on steel, textiles and paper, are aimed at improving
competitiveness of the country’s industry and easing inflation,
and will take effect in September, according to Mantega.  Petrochemicals maker Braskem SA sank 2 percent to 17.22
reais.  Ibovespa Valuation  Consumer prices in  Latin America ’s largest economy
increased 6.7 percent in June from a year earlier, exceeding the
6.5 percent of the upper limit of the central bank’s target,
according to the national bureau of statistics.  The Ibovespa’s rout this year wiped out $243 billion from
the  value  of Brazilian stocks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge trades at 12.2 times
analysts’  earnings estimates  for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.4 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of 21
developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.77 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.63 billion reais this year
through July 30, according to data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  