-- Libyan Army Official Shot Dead in East Amid Wave of Violence
-- B y   M a r i a m   S a m i
-- 2013-08-01T11:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/libyan-army-official-shot-dead-in-east-amid-wave-of-violence.html
Gunmen killed a senior army official
in Libya’s port city of Derna, east of Benghazi, where militants
have attacked courthouses, police stations and assassinated
three prominent figures over the past week.  Shortly after evening prayers yesterday, Colonel Adnan Al
Nueiseri’s car was sprayed by bullets, and two sons traveling
with him were wounded, state-owned Libya News Agency reported.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility.  Hours earlier, Prime Minister Ali Zaidan announced the
creation of a crisis committee to tackle rising unrest in the
country, holder of  Africa ’s largest crude reserves. The
ministers of foreign affairs, interior, justice, finance, as
well as the head of external intelligence will meet daily, he
said in a news conference in Tripoli. The defense minister, who
has yet to be named, will also join in, Zaidan said.  Libya is struggling with its transition to democracy, two
years after the uprising that removed Muammar Qaddafi from
power. Militias vying for political influence are ignoring calls
to disband as sit-ins by workers at oil installations disrupt
exports, the lifeblood of the country’s economy.  In Benghazi, a senior army official was killed two days
ago, at least 43 people were wounded in attacks on the city’s
courthouse and prosecutor’s office July 28, and three people - a
Libyan human rights activist, a police colonel and retired air
force colonel - were killed in separate assaults July 26.  On July 29, the government appointed Colonel Abdel-Salam Al
Obeidi as chief of staff, filling a post that had been vacant
since June 9 when Yousseff Mangoush resigned after militias in
Benghazi opened fire on protesters, killing 30.  It wasn’t immediately clear which groups were responsible
for the incidents. Several radical Islamist militias are present
in the east, including Ansar al-Sharia. Their calls for an
Islamic state have been opposed by central authorities, several
armed militia from the west and the secular National Front
Alliance, the biggest political bloc in the 200-strong General
National Congress, or parliament.  The recent surge in violence has been condemned by The
United Nations Support Mission in Libya, which called on the
government to address security challenges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Sami in Tripoli at 
 msami2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  