-- Icahn Accuses Dell Board of Trying to Ram-Through Buyout
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-01T21:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/icahn-sues-michael-dell-in-delaware-over-company-takeover-plan.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn , who has been
working to scuttle a $24.4 billion leveraged buyout of computer
maker Dell Inc., sued to stop the company from changing the
procedures for voting on the deal.  “The lame-duck board of Dell has been in office for over a
year,” refuses to hold a meeting to let investors choose new
directors and instead is trying “to ram through a going-private
transaction” engineered by company founder Michael Dell, Icahn
said in a complaint filed today in  Delaware  Chancery Court in
Wilmington.  The company founder, billionaire Michael Dell, 48, and
Silver Lake Management LLC originally offered $13.65 a  share  for
the struggling PC maker. Icahn, 77, and other shareholders
oppose the deal, saying it undervalues the company. Icahn
proposed an alternative plan that would keep Dell publicly
traded.  The suit comes after the buyout group offered this week to
raise its bid by a dime to $13.75 per share if Dell’s board
changed voting rules to make it easier to win shareholder
approval of the offer. So far, Dell directors have refused to
change a rule counting absentees as “no” ballots.  The board’s special committee evaluating  Michael Dell ’s
offer said in a securities filing it’s willing to change the
date at which investors must hold shares to cast ballots. A vote
on the deal currently is scheduled for tomorrow.  Dell Statement  Dell’s board has “sought to maximize value for, and acted
in accordance with its fiduciary duties to, Dell stockholders
and will continue to do so,”  David Frink , a company spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Dell rose about 30 cents or 2.3 percent to $12.95 in Nasdaq
composite trading today in  New York . The shares have risen
9.8 percent over the past 12 months.  Icahn is asking a Delaware judge to bar Dell from setting a
new shareholder record date, to stop Michael Dell and his
affiliates from voting any shares acquired since Feb. 5, the day
the deal was announced; to stop the company from changing voting
requirements; and find the  board  breached its fiduciary duties.  Icahn contends in the suit Dell directors put the founder’s
interests above  shareholder  concerns by agreeing to change the
ownership date allowing investors to vote on the offer.  The board “is loyal not to the stockholders but to Mr.
Dell and is willing to change the rules to help Mr. Dell force
his merger through as cheaply as possible,” according to
Icahn’s complaint.  Multiple Suits  Shareholders have already sued Dell officials in federal
court in Houston, and at least 20 other Delaware Chancery suits
are pending. The investors contend Dell board members are duty-bound to get the top price, and have shirked their
responsibilities.  “I think Mr. Icahn raises a good point,”  Charles Elson ,
director of the Weinberg Center for  Corporate Governance  at the
 University of Delaware , said in an interview. “Attempting to
change the rules in the middle of the game puts a cloud over the
deal. It could suggest the offer isn’t sufficiently robust to
attract enough support to win.”  Lawyers for Icahn said in the suit the board has taken
steps to chase away “long-term holders who opposed the merger
and replacing them with arbitrageurs who were far more likely to
accept it.”  The chief executive launched “a concerted effort” to
convince investors that Dell “is facing enormous headwinds” so
they’d sell their shares, which would be bought by arbitrageurs,
Icahn contends in court papers.  Record Date  Dell directors are seeking to entrench themselves by
agreeing to change the record date for the vote, the
billionaire’s attorneys added.  Still, if a judge finds the board committee agreed to
change the voting date to insure that the vote is more fair and
legitimate, then the change may not be a problem, said Larry Hamermesh, a Widener University professor who specializes in
Delaware corporate law.  “This may be okay if the change empowers a more meaningful
vote,” he said.  The case is High River v.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , CA8762, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 