-- Michigan’s Genesee County Postpones $54 Million Bond Offer
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-01T20:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/michigan-s-genesee-county-postpones-54-million-bond-offering.html
Michigan ’s Genesee County postponed a
$54.2 million bond offer planned for today, a sign that issuers
in the state are being penalized two weeks after  Detroit  filed
the nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy.  The sale would have been the biggest in Michigan since
Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr sought court protection for the
state’s most-populous city on July 18, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Genesee’s water-revenue securities were also
backed by the county’s limited-tax general-obligation pledge.
 Standard & Poor’s  rates the debt A+, its fifth-highest grade.  “You’re seeing credits associated with Michigan in general
having a tough time and spreads widening out in sympathy,” said
Dexter Torres, head trader in New York at Samson Capital
Advisors, which oversees about $7 billion of munis.  Genesee, about 70 miles (113 kilometers) north of Detroit,
is home to Flint, a city of about 101,000 that is also under a
state-appointed emergency manager. Investors in the $3.7
trillion municipal market have speculated Detroit’s treatment of
its general-obligation debt could set a precedent for other
distressed cities in Michigan. Orr’s June plan to avoid
bankruptcy proposed imposing losses on holders of some Detroit
general obligations.  Michigan Penalty  Michigan’s own bonds have also been penalized. The  extra
yield  investors demand to own 10-year general obligations rather
than benchmark munis rose yesterday to 0.43 percentage point,
the most since July 12, Bloomberg data show.  Terry Stanton , spokesman for Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon, didn’t immediately return a voicemail seeking comment.  Jane Ridley, S&P’s primary Detroit analyst, said in an
online presentation today that the company could change its
ratings on general obligations throughout Michigan depending on
how the bankruptcy judge treats Detroit’s debt.  Keith Francis, controller for Genesee County, and Deb Cherry, its treasurer, didn’t immediately return e-mails and
phone messages seeking comment. Paul Stauder at Stauder, Barch &
Associates, financial adviser for the deal, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message.  Justin Perras , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan
Chase & Co., the lead underwriter, declined to comment.  Saginaw County, north of Detroit, plans to sell $61 million
of general obligations on Aug. 8. The deal will help the county
of about 200,000 pay off unfunded pension liabilities, which
total about $60 million. The bonds have an Aa3 rating from
Moody’s Investors Service, the fourth-highest level.  Following Genesee’s postponement, Robert Belleman, Saginaw
County’s controller, didn’t immediately return e-mails and phone
messages seeking comment on Saginaw’s plans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  