-- IMF Issues Report Assessing Countries’ Exchange Rates (Text)
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2013-08-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/imf-issues-report-assessing-countries-exchange-rates-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of International Monetary Fund staff research released
today assessing the real effective exchange-rate, or REER, 
valuations of 28 countries and the euro area, their currency 
interventions and reserves. The assessments were made in a 
report dated June 20 and titled “2013 Pilot External Sector 
Report -- Individual Economy Assessments.” Click  here  to find 
the full report.  AUSTRALIA  Real exchange rate:  Australia  has experienced a structural
savings/investment imbalance for some time in part related to a
capital intensive mining sector resulting in a strong exchange
rate. These structural factors aside, and after accounting for
some depreciation since May, model results would suggest that
the real exchange rate remains overvalued by 5-15 percent. Aside
from these structural factors, there are a number of short-term
factors contributing to the current overvaluation of the
exchange rate, including the continued gap between domestic and
foreign interest rates and increased portfolio inflows. The high
exchange rate is accelerating structural change by increasing
price competition for the non-commodity tradable sector.  FX intervention and reserves: Although domestic banks’
external liabilities are sizable, they are either in local
currency or hedged with little or no counterparty risks, so
reserve needs for prudential reasons are also limited.  BELGIUM  Real exchange rate: Models point to a real exchange rate
moderately stronger by around 0 to 10 percent than the level
consistent with medium-term fundamentals and desirable policy
settings.  FX intervention and reserves: The euro has the status of a
global reserve currency. Reserves held by the euro area are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  BRAZIL  Real exchange rate: A combination of indicators suggests
that the real exchange rate is overvalued by some 10-15 percent.
Model-based estimates suggest that the real effective exchange
rate is above the level implied by medium-term fundamentals and
desirable policies, partly reflecting sizable net capital
inflows.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserves have increased to
more than adequate levels with respect to various criteria
including the IMF’s composite adequacy metric. There is no need
for further reserve accumulation for precautionary purposes,
although temporary further accumulation could be part of an
overall strategy to manage capital inflows.  CANADA  Real exchange rate: Models suggest a real effective
exchange rate overvaluation of 5-15 percent relative to medium-term fundamentals and desirable policy settings.  FX intervention and reserves: A free floater with minimal
reserves who has not unilaterally intervened since September
1998.  CHINA  Real exchange rate: Taking account of these developments
and uncertainties in the model-based estimates, staff assesses
the real exchange rate to be moderately undervalued by some 5-10
percent compared to medium-term fundamentals and desirable
policies.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserves are somewhat above
the IMF’s composite metric (161 percent at end 2012), and
further accumulation would be undesirable.  EURO AREA  Real exchange rate: Building from a view of external
positions in individual euro area economies and staff estimates,
the real exchange rate (in 2012 average) is close to equilibrium
as suggested by medium-term fundamentals and desirable policy
settings. Differences across euro area economies have remained
roughly the same as in previous staff evaluations: real exchange
rates seem moderately undervalued in surplus economies, while
remain overvalued in most deficit economies. By early April 2013
the real effective exchange rate is estimated to have risen by
about 2½ percent from its 2012 average.  FX intervention and reserves: The euro has the status of a
global reserve currency. Reserves held by the euro area are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  FRANCE  Real exchange rate: Structural rigidities and rising unit
labor costs relative to  France ’s main trading partners in the
euro area have contributed to loss of competitiveness and an
estimated overvaluation of between 0 and 5 percent.  FX intervention and reserves: The euro has the status of a
global reserve currency. Reserves held by the euro area are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  GERMANY  Real exchange rate: Various methodologies indicate a range
of estimates from an undervaluation of about 2 percent to 10
percent suggesting that the real exchange rate in  Germany  is
moderately undervalued relative to the value consistent with
medium-term fundamentals and appropriate policies.  FX intervention and reserves: The euro has the status of a
global reserve currency. Reserves held by the euro area are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  HONG KONG SAR  Real exchange rate: The real exchange rate is broadly
consistent with medium-term fundamentals and desirable policies.
A number of empirical methodologies confirm this assessment,
with analysis pointing to a range of under/overvaluation of -15
to +7 percent.  FX intervention and reserves: Currently reserves are
adequate for precautionary purposes, and future accumulation
should be limited to that required by the automatic adjustment
of the currency board system. Hong Kong SAR holds significant
fiscal reserves, held offshore and built up through a track
record of strong fiscal discipline.  INDIA  Real exchange rate: The real effective exchange rate is
some 3 percent above the average of the last 20 years. Despite
nominal depreciation since July 2011, the real exchange rate has
appreciated somewhat due to  India ’s large inflation differential
with its trading partners. The real exchange rate is broadly
consistent with medium-term fundamentals and desirable policies.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserves stand at 166 percent
of the IMF’s composite metric and 170 percent of short-term debt
covering about 6 months of imports. As such, reserve levels are
broadly adequate for precautionary purposes.  INDONESIA  Real exchange rate: In 2012, the real effective exchange
rate depreciated by a modest 2 percent. The model estimates
suggest the real exchange rate is in line with medium-term
fundamentals and desirable policies. Going forward, greater
exchange rate flexibility would help the economy better absorb
external shocks and facilitate necessary adjustment, supported
by appropriate macro-financial policies and growth-oriented
structural reforms.  FX intervention and reserves: At end-2013, reserves are
projected to be adequate at around 125 percent of the IMF’s
composite metric. With a sustained current account deficit
projected over the medium term, this level of reserve cover
could help to reduce risks associated with increasing reliance
on foreign financing. Given volatile capital flows, some foreign
exchange intervention may be warranted to smooth currency
fluctuations.  ITALY  Real exchange rate: Various approaches suggest a real
effective depreciation of 0-10 percent, would be appropriate.  FX intervention and reserves: The euro has the status of a
global reserve currency. Reserves held by the euro area are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  JAPAN  Real exchange rate: Relative to medium-term fundamentals
and desirable policies, the sharp depreciation since 2012
implies moderate undervaluation, with estimates ranging from
ranging from a 20 percent undervaluation to a 10 percent
overvaluation as this assessment is subject to greater than
usual uncertainty given market volatility. The exchange rate is
expected to move in line with fundamentals over the medium-term
assuming the implementation of comprehensive and credible fiscal
and structural reforms.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserves are higher than
other reserve asset issuers (about 20 percent of GDP) on legacy
accumulation. The level of the yen is market determined.
Isolated fx interventions during safe haven periods appear to
have reduced short-term exchange market volatility, while having
ambiguous effects on the exchange rate level.  KOREA  Real exchange rate: The REER is assessed to be around 2-8
percent below the level that is consistent with medium-term
fundamentals and desirable policies, i.e. moderately
undervalued, though less than during the last ESR round.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserves are adequate at 180
percent of short-term external debt and 130 percent of the IMF’s
composite metric, within the 100-150 percent recommended range.
Including forward positions, the reserve coverage looks more
comfortable. Therefore, there is no need for further reserve
accumulation for precautionary purposes although going forward,
a slow increase in line with rising liabilities would be
reasonable. Continued nominal exchange rate flexibility would be
desirable with intervention limited to smoothing volatility.  MALAYSIA  Real exchange rate: Estimates based on EBA suggest that the
exchange rate is undervalued relative to medium-term
fundamentals and desirable policies by about 17 percent.
However, as noted above, the model-based methodologies do not
fully capture  Malaysia ’s structural characteristics and there is
a broad range of uncertainty around such estimates. We assess
the REER to be undervalued by about 5-15 percent.  FX intervention and reserves: Official reserves are about
128 percent of the IMF’s composite reserve adequacy metric, and
cover about 280 percent and 32 percent of short-term external
debt and broad money, respectively. Therefore, current reserve
levels are adequate and there is no need for additional
accumulation for precautionary purposes. BNM intervention seeks
to limit excess exchange rate volatility and has generally been
two-sided. Thus, during the global financial crisis foreign
reserves fell by about 33 percent between August 2008 and March
2009, and a decline was again recorded in August-September 2011.  MEXICO  Real exchange rate: A range of metrics and methodologies
suggest that the current level of  Mexico ’s exchange rate is
broadly in line with medium-term fundamentals and desirable
policy settings.  FX intervention and reserves: The current level of foreign
reserves is adequate according to a range of standard reserve
coverage indicators, at the middle of the range of the IMF’s
composite adequacy metric. Going forward, there is the case for
a gradual increase in reserves consistent with the expected
gradual rise in foreign-held liabilities. The Fund FCL
arrangement has been an effective complement to international
reserves against global tail risks.  THE NETHERLANDS  Real exchange rate: Relative profitability in manufacturing
has been broadly stable, and a range of approaches suggest a
moderate undervaluation of 0-5 percent.  FX intervention and reserves: The euro has the status of a
global reserve currency. Reserves held by the euro area are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  POLAND  Real exchange rate: Model-based estimates suggest the
exchange rate is broadly consistent with medium-term
fundamentals and desirable policy settings.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserves are broadly
adequate, standing at about 140 percent of the IMF’s composite
reserve adequacy metric, but are less than 100 percent of short-term debt at remaining maturities plus the current account
deficit. The Fund FCL arrangement helps as a buffer to external
shocks. The zloty has floated freely.  RUSSIA  Real exchange rate: model-based approach points to a real
exchange rate undervaluation of 0-10 percent. However,
alternative competiveness indicators, such as estimates of
equilibrium dollar wages of the manufacturing sector using broad
cross-country panel data, suggest that ruble is broadly in line
with medium-term fundamentals, consistent with the current
account assessment.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserves, which include
National Wealth Fund savings, were around 172 percent of the
IMF’s composite adequacy metric at end-2012. Reserves assets are
adequate, and there is no need for further reserve accumulation
for precautionary purposes. Over time it would be appropriate to
invest oil reserve fund assets in less liquid and higher-yielding instruments, limiting the costs of reserve holdings.
The exchange rate has shown greater flexibility, and
interventions have been limited since early 2011.  SAUDI ARABIA  Real exchange rate: Empirical models linking the real
effective exchange rate to the real price of oil suggest that
the rate is broadly in line with fundamentals.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserve assets are more than
adequate for precautionary purposes (measured by traditional
metrics); foreign assets accumulation is consistent with the
intergenerational transfer of oil revenues.  SINGAPORE  Real exchange rate: While non-standard factors (Singapore
is a very small, very open economy that serves as a regional
financial center) make quantitative assessment difficult, the
real exchange rate appears around 0−10 percent weaker than
warranted by medium-term fundamentals (including rapid
population aging) and desirable policies.  FX intervention and reserves: With the nominal effective
exchange rate as the intermediate target, intervention is
undertaken as required to achieve monetary policy’s inflation
and output goals. At end-2012, official reserves covered 26
percent of short-term external debt, but are much higher than
thresholds for other traditional adequacy metrics. Reserves are
also a larger share of GDP than in most other financial centers,
but this may reflect in part that most other financial centers
are located in reserve-currency countries or currency unions.
While non-standard factors warrant generous reserve buffers,
current levels appear adequate and there is no clear case for
further reserve accumulation for precautionary purposes.  SOUTH AFRICA  Real exchange rate: Direct approaches to estimating the
equilibrium exchange rate are complicated by structural changes
since 1994 and the high volatility exhibited by the REER. Model-based estimates suggest that the CPI-based REER was slightly
undervalued as of 2013 Q1. However, several indicators of
external competiveness, including  South Africa ’s declining share
on world’s exports and the ULC-based REER, point in the opposite
direction. Applying mechanically trade elasticities to close the
current account gap suggested an overvaluation of 10-15 percent
by the first quarter of 2013. Although the rand depreciation
since then should help reduce the current account gap,
structural factors will likely keep the external position weaker
than justified by fundamentals and desired policies.  FX intervention and reserves: Some reserve accumulation is
desirable.  SPAIN  Real exchange rate: Model-based REER analysis suggests the
real effective exchange rate is about 8-12 percent above the
level consistent with medium-term fundamentals and desirable
policies. Achieving domestic equilibrium, especially full
employment, would, however, likely imply an even greater gap.  FX intervention and reserves: The euro has the status of a
global reserve currency. Reserves held by the euro area are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  SWEDEN  Real exchange rate: Despite the continued strengthening of
the krona, the model estimates suggest a real exchange rate
undervaluation of some 3.5-8.5 percent relative to its long-run
equilibrium.  FX intervention and reserves: Though such pre-emptive
reserve accumulation is a conservative move by the central bank,
given the large gross external liabilities of banks, maintaining
FX liquidity buffers--in the form of reserves and swap lines--is
advisable.  SWITZERLAND  Real exchange rate: Model-based estimates suggest that the
real effective exchange rate is overvalued by 5-10 percent
relative to its medium-term fundamentals and desirable policy
settings.  FX intervention and reserves: The introduction of the floor
was appropriate in light of the risk of economic contraction and
deflation. The credible exchange rate arrangement mitigated the
need for reserve accumulation initially, but reserves are on the
rise again with a large scale intervention from the SNB as a
result of the intensification of the European crisis and, to a
lesser extent, a continued increase in global liquidity. The
central bank has access to dollar swap lines with the US Federal
Reserve.  THAILAND  Real exchange rate: A number of methodologies suggest that
the  Thai baht  is consistent with medium-term fundamentals and
appropriate policies.  FX intervention and reserves:  Thailand ’s gross reserves are
more than adequate and there is no need to build up reserves for
precautionary purposes. Intervention has smoothed volatility but
sterilization costs have increased and there is room for more
two-way exchange rate flexibility.  TURKEY  Real exchange rate: Model results point to a real effective
exchange rate that is 10-20 percent stronger than the level that
can be explained by medium-term fundamentals and policy
deviations from desirable settings.  FX intervention and reserves:  Turkey ’s gross reserves of
$119 billion at end-2012 increased from $88 billion the year
before. The 2012 reserves account for 115 percent of the IMF
composite adequacy metric versus 99 percent in 2011. Reserves
cover of short-term debt rose to 87 percent in 2012 compared
with 71 percent in 2011. Reserve coverage is also adequate when
using other traditional metrics. However, reserves accumulation
is warranted for precautionary reasons given uncertainty in
global liquidity flows.  U.K.  Real exchange rate: Various methodologies suggest a decline
in the real effective exchange rate of the order of 5-10 percent
may be appropriate given medium-term fundamentals and desirable
policy settings, although, there is uncertainty regarding the
precise magnitude of exchange rate misalignment. For instance,
the recent depreciation of the real exchange rate has not
propelled an improvement of net exports suggested by standard
trade elasticities.  FX intervention and reserves: Reserves held by the UK are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  U.S.  Real exchange rate: Estimates relying on current account
assessments suggest a mild overvaluation given underlying
fundamentals and desirable policies. The range of direct
estimates of equilibrium real exchange rates is instead centered
around zero, reflecting primarily the dollar’s current weakness
relative to a long-run average. On balance, staff assesses that
a further depreciation of the dollar in the range of 0-10
percent would be associated with a level of the dollar and a
current account balance broadly consistent with medium-term
fundamentals and desirable policies.  FX intervention and reserves: The dollar has the status of
a global reserve currency. Reserves held by the U.S. are
typically low relative to standard metrics, but the currency is
free floating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Washington at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  