-- Inbee Park Is Three Back After Women’s British Open First Round
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-08-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/inbee-park-is-two-shots-back-in-women-s-british-open-slam-bid.html
Inbee Park is three shots off the
lead after the first round of the Women’s  British Open , where
the South Korean is trying to become the only golfer to win four
major professional championships in the same calendar year.  Morgan Pressel of the U.S. and Camilla Lennarth of  Sweden 
share the lead at 6 under par, one shot better than seven
players including Americans Stacy Lewis, Nicole Castrale, Sydnee
Michaels and Ryann O’Toole. South Koreans Mi-Jeong Jeon, Na Yeon Choi and Eun-Hee Ji are also 5 under entering today’s second
round on the Old Course in  St. Andrews ,  Scotland .  Park, who is tied for 17th place, has a chance to become
the first golfer to win four professional major championships in
a calendar year after securing her second U.S. Women’s Open
title last month. She also won the LPGA Championship in June and
the Kraft Nabisco Championship in April. The LPGA is adding the
Evian Masters in September as a fifth major this year.  “Because I know what I was playing for, I was a little
more nervous,” Park, 25, told reporters. “But then once the
round started, and especially playing so good in the first few
holes, that really gave me a lot of confidence.”  Park birdied six of the first 10 holes, getting to 6 under
before making bogeys at the 13th and 17th holes around her
second double-bogey in a major at the par-4 16th. She missed the
fairway to the right with her tee shots on all three holes.  “Those couple of bad shots really shocked me and I really
wanted to fix them right away,” said Park, who rebounded with a
birdie at the closing hole for a 69, matching her best opening-round score in seven Women’s British Open appearances.  Grand Slam  Babe Zaharias was the last woman to win the first three
majors in a season in 1950, five years before a fourth Grand
Slam tournament was added. Pat Bradley in 1986 was the last
woman to win three major titles in a year.  Tiger Woods  held all four men’s major titles at the same
time by winning the  U.S. Open , British Open and  PGA Championship 
in 2000 and adding the  Masters Tournament  the following year.
 Bobby Jones  is the only golfer to win four majors in one
calendar year, taking the U.S. and British opens and U.S. and
British amateur championships in 1930.  Pressel, 25, had seven birdies and a bogey in a first-round
66 after having missed the weekend cut in her last visit to St.
Andrews in 2007, when she had rounds of 80 and 76.  “The last time I played here I was pretty down on links
golf and wasn’t really looking forward to coming back to the
British Open,” Pressel said. “But since then I have gotten
better at managing my game and hitting shots.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  