-- India Eases Investment Rules to Woo Wal-Mart to Tesco
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-08-02T09:52:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/india-eases-rules-to-woo-wal-mart-to-tesco-to-open-supermarkets.html
India  eased requirements for foreign
retailers to invest in local supermarkets to lure global chains
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  to open stores in
 Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  Rules covering sourcing, infrastructure investment and
store location have been amended, Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma 
told reporters in New Delhi last night. The cabinet also
approved proposals to amend foreign direct investment rules for
a range of businesses including commodity exchanges, he said.  The government is loosening rules to attract overseas
investors to stem a ballooning current-account deficit and a
weakening rupee. While the nation changed laws in September to
allow foreign retailers to own majority stakes in stores selling
multiple brands, no companies have sought such licenses yet.  “The government is showing really positive intentions,”
Kumar Rajagopalan, chief executive officer of lobby group
Retailers Association of India, said in an interview on
Bloomberg TV India. “The state governments now have to go
forward and invite the companies to come and invest.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, and other foreign
chains already have some wholesale operations in the country.
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart is studying India’s
revisions and remains “optimistic” about the opportunity, Arti Singh, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart’s Indian unit, said in an e-mailed statement. A Tesco spokesman said the company welcomed
the proposed changes in the policy and is in the process of
reviewing the conditions.  Heavy Debt  Debt-heavy domestic retailers like  Future Retail Ltd. (FRL)  could
be one of the “key beneficiaries” of these policies, as it
would make it easier for them to seek overseas partners to trim
their borrowings, said Dhvani Modi, an analyst at brokerage
ICICI Direct.  Future, which runs the  Big Bazaar  grocery chain, climbed as
much as 14.7 percent to 84.5 rupees, headed for the biggest gain
since April 17. Apparel retailer Shoppers Stop  advanced  as much
as 4 percent before dropping 1.35 percent to 355.15 rupees as of
3.08 p.m.  A panel of Indian ministers also approved changes to the
definition of “control” of a company under the FDI rules to
help close mergers and acquisition deals faster. Taking control
of an Indian company will now mean the right to appoint a
majority of directors or to control the management or policy
decisions, the government said after the Cabinet Committee on
Economic Affairs approved the new definition.  Farmers Groups  Minister Sharma said foreign investment up to 49 percent
will be now allowed under the automatic route in sectors
including petroleum and natural gas, commodity and power
exchanges as well as in  stock exchanges . In defense, the
government will consider proposals of more than 26 percent FDI
on a “case to case” basis.  The government also amended a rule intended to help small
industries supply to the big chains. Retailers were earlier
required to source 30 percent of their manufactured products
from small- and mid-sized local firms, which were defined as
companies with less than $1 million invested in factories and
machinery.  The new rules allow sourcing from companies with
investments of up to $2 million, broadening the supply base for
retailers. Products from agricultural cooperatives and farmers
groups would also be considered under this requirement,
according to an e-mailed  statement  from the government.  Allowing farmers groups in this category “is a huge deal
as it includes all dairy products and fresh produce,” Modi
said. “This will make it very easy for retailers to meet the
requirement.”  The new rules could also offer more flexibility on  capital
investment . Companies will need to spend a minimum of $50
million on facilities such as warehouses, distribution networks
and refrigerated storage centers, according to Sharma.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  