-- India’s Nifty Futures Rise, Signaling Indexes to Snap 6-Day Loss
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-08-01T02:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/india-s-nifty-futures-rise-signaling-indexes-to-snap-6-day-loss.html
Indian stock-index futures gained,
signaling the nation’s benchmark indexes may rally after a six-day losing streak.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for August delivery rose 0.3
percent to 5,792.5 at 10:32 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying
CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index fell 0.2 percent to 5,742 yesterday. The S&P BSE
Sensex fell less than 0.1 percent, capping a second consecutive
monthly decline. The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR Index of
U.S.-traded shares rose 0.1 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained after the U.S. Federal
Reserve said yesterday it will maintain its bond-buying program.
The Sensex has slumped in the past six days after the Reserve
Bank of India tightened banks’ access to cash on July 23 to
stabilize a weakening currency and left its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at a policy meeting this week. The rupee reached
a record low on July 8 amid concern reduced Fed stimulus will
make it harder for India to fund its current-account deficit.  “Since the markets have been falling for the last few
sessions after the tightening by the central bank, it’s likely
the fall will get arrested now that the RBI policy is out,”
Sanjay Sinha, founder of Mumbai-based Citrus Advisors, said by
phone. “However, this is not reflecting the true picture
because the strong performance by consumer, IT and some
pharmaceutical stocks have masked the fact that a large number
of interest-rate sensitive stocks have seen heavy falling.”  Goldman Downgrade  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its rating on  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks to
underweight in a report dated July 31, citing a delayed recovery
in growth and “rising vulnerability” of the nation’s economy.
Goldman recommended investors buy “export-facing” stocks that
stand to benefit from better external growth and a weaker rupee,
and sell interest-rate sensitive shares.  “The investment case for India has turned less
favorable,” Goldman analysts led by Sunil Koul wrote. “We see
increasing risks of a potential ‘flow reversal’ in equities,
particularly in ‘crowded’ financials.”  Overseas investors sold a net $2.8 billion of Indian stocks
in the two months through July 30, the biggest outflow since the
financial crisis in November 2008, according to data from the
market regulator compiled by Bloomberg. That has pared this
year’s net investment to $12.3 billion, still the second-highest
inflow in Asia after  Japan , data show.  The RBI cut its economic growth forecast this week for the
year to 5.5 percent from 5.7 percent for the year ending March
2014.  Earnings Estimates  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM)  may announce today profit of
1.49 billion rupees ($24.7 million) for the three months ended
June 30, according to 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Bank of Baroda (BOB)  may report quarterly net income of 10.8
billion rupees, according to the median estimate of 41 analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Five of the 15 Sensex members that have posted earnings so
far for the June quarter missed analyst estimates. About 27
percent of companies in the measure missed forecasts for the
three months ended March, and 43 percent in the December
quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex has lost 0.4 percent this year and  trades  at
13.6 times projected 12-month earnings, down from a 17-month
high of 14.3 times on July 23. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
trades at 10 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  