-- India Tightens Currency Hedge Rules for Foreigners to Buoy Rupee
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-01T11:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/india-tightens-currency-hedge-rules-for-foreigners-to-buoy-rupee.html
India ’s central bank said foreign
funds that have sold offshore derivatives of local stocks and
bonds must get their customers’ approval to hedge  currency risk 
on the underlying onshore investments. The rupee rebounded.  Money managers, who have issued so-called participatory
notes to investors or  hedge funds  not registered in India, need
to provide a mandate from them stating an intention to hedge,
the  Reserve Bank  of India said in a  statement  on its website
today. Banks in India executing currency trades on behalf of
overseas funds need to verify such mandates, the RBI said.  India is tightening rules on foreigners’ currency trades to
curb exchange-rate speculation, according to UBS AG, after the
rupee plunged 10 percent since March and slid to a record
61.2125 per dollar on July 8. Inflows via participatory notes
accounted for 11 percent of the 13.5 trillion rupees ($224
billion) invested in Indian shares, debt and derivatives as of
June 30, data from the market regulator show.  “The RBI is looking to restrict speculative trading by
demanding proof that investors are only hedging an underlying
asset,”  Manik Narain , a strategist at UBS in  London , said in a
phone interview today. “In the very short term, the ruling will
flush out short-rupee positions.”  The rupee weakened 0.2 percent from yesterday to 60.4500
per dollar at the close, after earlier falling as much as 0.9
percent. The RBI restricted trading in currency derivatives and
tightened cash supply last month month to support the rupee.  Pressure on the rupee to weaken will persist because of
India’s  current-account  deficit and a slowdown in investment
inflows, according to Narain. The shortfall widened to an
unprecedented 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ended March 31. International investors pulled $3 billion from
local stocks and bonds in July, according to exchange data.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a gauge of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
surged 129 basis points last month, or 1.29 percentage points,
to 13.80 percent. That’s the highest in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  