-- India Panel Defines ‘Control’ in M&A Deals to Help Ease Inflows
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-01T16:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/india-panel-defines-control-in-m-a-deals-to-help-ease-inflows.html
A panel of Indian ministers today
approved changes to the definition of “control” of a company
under the nation’s foreign direct investment rules to help close
mergers and acquisition deals faster.  Taking control of an Indian company will now mean the right
to appoint a majority of directors or to control the management
or policy decisions, the government said in a  statement  after
the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs approved the new
definition.  The government’s move to define what constitutes control
will remove international investors’ doubts caused by different
interpretations in the nation’s FDI policy, Foreign Exchange
Management Act and the Companies Act, Arindam Ghosh, a partner
at Mumbai-based law firm Khaitan & Co., said in an interview
before the government statement was released.  India  is tidying up rules as it seeks to attract funds from
abroad to finance a record current-account deficit that pushed
the rupee to an all-time low against the dollar last month.
Foreign-direct investment into  Asia ’s third-biggest economy slid
about 21 percent to $36.9 billion last fiscal year from the 12
months through March 2012.  The  Foreign Investment Promotion Board  in June deferred a
decision  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) ’s agreement to sell a stake to
Etihad Airways PJSC as authorities sought more information on
Jet’s ownership. The $340 million deal, the first share sale by
an Indian airline to a foreign carrier after the nation eased
investment rules,later won the panel’s approval July 29.  Jet’s plan to sell a 24 percent stake to Etihad still needs
approvals from the  finance ministry  and the Cabinet Committee on
Economic Affairs. Etihad will have two representatives on Jet’s
board, according to Economic Affairs Secretary Arvind Mayaram.  The Indian government had on July 16 eased foreign direct
investment rules and allowed overseas investors to own all of a
phone carrier. The changes would also permit foreign investment
in defense production exceeding the current 26 percent cap, if
India stands to gain from access to modern technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  