-- India Rupee Drops on Outflow Concern as Goldman Says Sell Stocks
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-01T05:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/india-rupee-drops-on-outflow-concern-as-goldman-says-sell-stocks.html
India’s rupee fell on concern
outflows from stocks may intensify after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended cutting holdings amid the slowest growth in a decade.  The  Reserve Bank  of India tightened the cash supply last
month to buoy the rupee and said July 30 the measures will be
rolled back as the currency stabilizes, leaving its key policy
rate unchanged the same day. The monetary authority also lowered
its growth forecast to 5.5 percent for the year through March
2014 from 5.7 percent. Goldman yesterday cut its rating on
Indian shares to underweight, and said it sees “increasing risk
of a potential flow reversal.”  The rupee declined 0.4 percent to 60.58 per dollar as of
10:18 a.m. in Mumbai, after dropping as much as 0.8 percent
earlier, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The central bank probably sold dollars today to
support the rupee, according to two traders with knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be named as the information isn’t
public. The Indian currency fell 2.5 percent this week and
touched a record low 61.2125 on July 8.  “The Goldman report was a disturbing factor,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a trader at  Development Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai.
“Possible RBI intervention is a risk for the  exchange rate 
today.”  Overseas investors pulled $3 billion from Indian stocks and
bonds last month on concern the  Federal Reserve  will pare
stimulus that drove demand for emerging-market assets. While
data in the U.S. showed gross domestic product grew more than
economists estimated in the second quarter, the Fed said
yesterday persistently low inflation poses a risk. The  European
Central Bank  and the  Bank of England  review interest rates today.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 17 basis points,
or 0.17 percentage point, to 13.63 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards declined 0.1 percent to
61.98 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts rose 0.5 percent to 62.07. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  