-- Indonesia Inflation Rate at 4-Year High as Economy Set to Slow
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-08-01T08:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/indonesia-inflation-rate-at-4-year-high-as-economy-set-to-slow.html
Indonesia ’s inflation accelerated to
the highest level in more than four years in July, adding to
risks facing  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy as growth cools.  Consumer prices rose 8.61 percent in July from a year
earlier, after a 5.9 percent gain in June, the Statistics Bureau
said in Jakarta today. That exceeded all estimates in a
Bloomberg survey of 23 economists.  Gross domestic product 
probably grew 5.9 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the
first drop below 6 percent since March 2010, a separate survey
showed before a report due tomorrow.  Higher costs may hurt domestic consumption that has been
the driver of growth in Indonesia, at a time of falling demand
for the country’s commodity exports. Bank Indonesia has already
raised its benchmark  interest rate  by 75 basis points in the
past two meetings to fight inflation.  “Measures should be taken to stabilize inflation, contain
the current account deficit, and minimize financial stability
risks,” said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at Bank of America
Corp. in  Singapore , who expects another 25 basis-point rate
increase this year. “Inflation is driven by a fuel price
adjustment, not from demand.”  The Jakarta Composite Index and 10-year bonds pared early
gains after the inflation data, while the rupiah was little
changed. The rupiah has dropped more than 6 percent this year,
and led emerging-market currency declines in July, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  It may weaken a further 3 percent to 4 percent, Michael
Tjoajadi, chief executive officer of PT Schroder Investment
Management Indonesia, said in an interview in Jakarta yesterday.
 Bank Indonesia  has allowed the currency to decline, Deputy
Governor Perry Warjiyo said last month, and the central bank
said it sees the rupiah finding a new equilibrium.  Food Imports  The government raised subsidized fuel prices on June 22 for
the first time since 2008, resulting in an increase in
distribution costs across an archipelago of 17,000 islands. It
has tried to address higher prices by opening up the country to
more imports of food such as shallots and scrapping import
quotas for cattle.  The food imports will arrive in August and Bank Indonesia
is optimistic monthly inflation will slow to about 0.9 percent
in August from a 3.29 percent pace in July, Warjiyo said today.  The central bank has lowered its economic growth forecast
for 2013 to about 5.8 percent to 6.2 percent, from a previous
estimate of as much as 6.6 percent. The  World Bank  also cut its
forecast for economic growth to 5.9 percent from a previous
estimate of 6.2 percent for 2013.  Export Decline  Exports fell 4.5 percent in June from a year ago, the
Statistics Department said, compared with a survey median for a
1 percent increase. Imports dropped 6.8 percent in the same
period, more than the median 0.1 percent decline predicted by
economists, leading to a trade deficit of $847 million. Foreign
direct investment rose 18.9 percent last quarter from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since 2010.  “The softness in imports came despite a helpful base
effect and probably says a lot about the state of domestic
demand in the country,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an
economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in Singapore, said in a note
today. Tomorrow’s “GDP numbers will provide more detail on this
front but we expect to see a further decline in investment
growth.” With the rupiah under pressure, Credit Suisse expects
one more 25-basis-point rate increase this quarter, he said.  Given current conditions, the probability of an increase in
the benchmark rate is lower, Warjiyo said on July 26.  “It’s not easy to make a decision at this point because BI
needs to control two things,” said Eugene Leow, an economist at
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “To control inflation and
external stability needs a higher rate but to support the
economy, you don’t really want to go with a higher rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  