-- Iran Customs Hold Four Million Tons of Goods Amid Dispute
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-01T08:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/iran-customs-hold-four-million-tons-of-goods-amid-dispute.html
Four million tons of food and
medicines are stranded in Iranian customs because of
disagreements between the central bank and the Commerce Ministry
over access to a preferential currency exchange rate for
importers of essential goods, local media reported.  The central bank is legally bound to allocate dollars at a
cheaper rate for importers of goods classified as essential
until late March 2014, though it has not done so, the Tehran-based  Shargh  newspaper said. Importers are being asked to pay a
rate twice as high to release goods from customs, said the
 daily , which interviewed trade representatives.  Last month  Iran ’s central bank canceled the set
preferential rate of 12,260 rials per dollar, replacing it with
a variable rate posted on its  website . Today’s rate is 24,789
rials for the dollar.  The disagreement comes as President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
leaves office next week to be succeeded by Hassan Rohani, a
moderate cleric and lawyer by training. The new president has
pledged to tackle Iran’s inflation and unemployment. U.S.-led
sanctions over the country’s nuclear program have also cut the
Persian Gulf nation’s oil exports and its access to foreign
currency.  “We all admit that Iran’s foreign currency revenues have
dropped,” said Majid-Reza Ansari, who heads the imports
committee at Iran’s Chamber of Commerce. “Still, we need to
properly manage the existing revenues rather than avoid
allocating currencies and disrupting the market.”  Asadollah Asgaroladi, head of the Chamber of Commerce’s
export committee, said it was likely there would be shortages of
some essential goods in the absence of a quick solution, the
Iranian Labor News Agency said yesterday.  Masoud Daneshmand, a member of the Tehran chamber of
commerce’s board of representatives, expressed similar concerns
in the Shagh report today.  “If the dispute is not resolved and relegated to the next
administration it may not be possible for the goods to be
cleared before October,” Daneshmand said, “which means much of
the foodstuff will perish.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  