-- Ireland’s AIB Plans Crackdown as Borrowers Choose Default
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-08-01T09:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/ireland-s-aib-plans-crackdown-as-borrowers-choose-default.html
Allied Irish Banks Plc is preparing
to take legal action against thousands of homeowners, estimating
that more than 20 percent of borrowers behind in repayments are
opting not to pay in the hope of winning debt relief.  By value, the level of Irish owner-occupier residential
mortgages at least 90 days in arrears rose to 16.4 percent at
the end of June from 14.9 percent in December, the Dublin-based
bank said today. The share of buy-to-let loans behind in
repayments increased to 47.9 percent from 43.6 percent. Some of
the rise is due to strategic default, the bank said.  “It’s not discretionary to stay in your home and not pay
your mortgage” when it can be afforded, Chief Executive Officer
David Duffy, 51, said in an interview, after the Dublin-based
lender  said  its net loss narrowed 28 percent in the first half
amid falling bad loan losses. “You can’t live rent free.”  Now in the job for 20 months, Duffy said “a few thousand”
borrowers more than two years behind in mortgage repayments face
legal action, in the wake of the real estate bust which brought
the bank close to collapse. The state controls 99.8 of the banks
after receiving a 21 billion-euro ($27.8 billion) taxpayer
bailout.  “Our initial view is that we are very well capitalized
right now,” Duffy said in a separate interview with Mark Barton
on Bloomberg TV’s Countdown show. He said “everything we see in
the early stages” before stress tests next year “would suggest
that we are sufficiently well capitalized.”  Debt Offers  Allied Irish, aiming to return to profit next year for the
first time since 2008 and win new investors, has agreed to
restructure 4,000 unsustainable mortgages with easier terms,
including some debt write-offs, Duffy said. It has made 12,500
such offers, he said.  Ireland’s crash differs from the U.S. subprime bust as
banks have been reluctant to foreclose on properties, a cultural
taboo dating to memories of 19th century evictions by British
landlords. Repossessions were also hampered by a legal loophole
which the government closed yesterday with new laws.  Irish home prices have fallen by half from their 2007 peak,
helping blow a hole in the Irish financial system in 2008.
Allied Irish said today it’s now seeing “positive signs” in
the economy, as its loss narrowed to 758 million euros from 1.05
billion euros a year earlier. The loan impairment charge fell 16
percent to 744 million euros.  The lender’s net interest margin, the difference between
the rates at which it funds itself and lends to customers,
widened to 1.28 percent in the first half from 1.20 percent for
the last six months of 2012. The bank and Irish rivals cut
deposit rates and raised lending rates last year to revive
margins.  Job Cuts  The bank said it has completed 99.4 percent of a target set
by the central bank to shrink its loan book by 20.5 billion
euros in the three years through 2013.  It’s cutting at least 2,500 job cuts, executives’ pay and
shutting down a defined benefit staff pension plan, where
entitlements are linked to final salaries, under a plan,
outlined last year, to achieve about 350 million euros of annual
savings by 2014.  “Management appear to be making tangible progress in
rehabilitating the institution back to viability,” said Ciaran
Callaghan, an analyst with Dublin-based Merrion Capital, in a
note. “Income and cost trends are heading in the right
direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  