-- BMW to Fiat Part Sales Help ITT Beat Europe Car Slump, CEO Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/itt-supplying-bmw-to-fiat-beats-european-auto-slump-ceo-says.html
ITT Corp.’s (ITT)  sales of brake pads to
automakers such as  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and Fiat SpA are
bucking Europe’s auto slump, helping propel a 12-month  stock
gain  of 85 percent.  “We’ve been winning that business because we’ve been
taking business from others,” Chief Executive Officer Denise Ramos said in a telephone interview yesterday. “We’ve had great
growth rates in automotive in Europe, which frankly we did not
anticipate with the type of environment we saw in Europe.”  ITT’s brake-pad orders in western Europe rose 9 percent in
the second quarter while industrywide light-vehicle sales
declined 5 percent in the region. ITT, based in White Plains,
New York, is now expanding in the U.S. and China, where orders
increased 84 percent in the first half of the year, Ramos said.  The faster-than-expected growth at the auto parts unit led
ITT to increase its forecast for 2013 earnings per share to as
much as $1.92 from a previous projection of a maximum of $1.90,
according to a statement yesterday. ITT also raised the lower
end of its revenue growth rate to 10 percent from 9 percent.  ITT rose 9.9 percent to $34.34 at the close in  New York 
yesterday, the largest one-day gain since Aug. 3. The shares
have surged 46 percent this year, outpacing an 20 percent gain
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  ITT has almost 50 percent of the market for brake pads in
Europe and expects that to rise, Ramos said. Competitors in
Europe include  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  and  Federal-Mogul
Corp. (FDML) , she said. Growth will accelerate in both China and the
U.S., where the company has only recently begun selling brake
pads.  In China, ITT plans to expand a plant to increase capacity
fourfold to 20 million brake pads a year. In the U.S.,  General
Motors Co. (GM)  added ITT to its supplier list since the beginning of
the year, and ITT is working to become a Chrysler Group LLC
supplier within a year.  “We are gaining market share in the U.S. and we’re gaining
market share in China,” Ramos said. “We continue to stay ahead
of the curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  