-- J&J Fined in China as Eli Lilly, Sanofi Visited by Regulators
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-01T10:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/j-j-fined-in-china-as-eli-lilly-sanofi-visited-by-regulators.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest maker of health-care products, was fined by Chinese
authorities for monopolistic practices as the country continues
its crackdown on malfeasance in the health-care industry.  Two of New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J’s units were
ordered to compensate 530,000  yuan  ($86,483) to a distributor
after a court in Shanghai ruled today that their setting of
minimum resale prices constituted monopolistic conduct,
according to a  report  posted to chinacourt.org, a website
controlled by the nation’s Supreme Court. The company did not
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Separately, drugmakers Sanofi and  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  said
today they had received visits from regulators, the latest in a
series of steps Chinese authorities have taken to increase
scrutiny of the health-care industry that have included a probe
of  GlaxoSmithKline Plc. (GSK) , the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker.  Chinese authorities have accused Glaxo of economic crimes
amounting to 3 billion yuan in spurious travel and meeting
expenses as well as trade in sexual favours undertaken to boost
sales. Regulators will “severely crack down” on fake
medications, forged documents and bribery, the  China  Food and
Drug Administration said last month.  Glaxo’s head of  emerging markets , Abbas Hussain, said last
month after meeting with government officials in Beijing some
employees may have broken China’s laws.  In China, every province and city have local agencies that
regulate commercial activity. These units, formally known as the
Administration for Industry and Commerce, hold broad powers to
investigate possible malfeasance, seize evidence and impose
financial penalties without a warrant, according to a  note  from
consulting firm Control Risks.  Company Inspection  Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  said today one of its regional offices
was visited by authorities from the  Shenyang Administration for
Industry and Commerce . The company didn’t know the purpose of
the inspection, Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher said on
a call with reporters today, and its China headquarters in
Shanghai haven’t been checked.  Lilly was also visited by Shenyang authorities in a review
“early this year,” the company said in an e-mailed response to
questions, without elaborating on the date. The Indianapolis-based company said it hadn’t received any notice of the results
of the investigation.  In China, Lilly is “one of the first companies in the
industry to enforce compliance in a strict manner,” according
to the company. “Lilly has not and is not being investigated by
the Chinese Public Security Bureau,” its Beijing-based
spokeswoman Connie Li said in the e-mailed statement.  Julien Dedman, a Beijing-based spokesman for J&J, said by
e-mail when contacted today that he was seeking the appropriate
person to respond to inquries about the  Shanghai  court ruling.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  