-- Japan Atomic Should Widen Tsuruga Quake Probe, Review Team Says
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2013-08-01T06:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/japan-atomic-should-widen-tsuruga-quake-probe-review-team-says.html
Reactors at  Japan  Atomic Power Co.’s
Tsuruga nuclear plant require further seismic review to ensure
their safety, according to a team of international experts hired
by the company to review its own investigation.  The Tsuruga plant’s Nos. 1 and 2 reactors are susceptible
to seismic hazard from the active Urasoko fault, which lies
“within a few hundred meters” of the nuclear station,
according to prepared remarks by team member  Neil Chapman , a
professor of environmental geology at the U.K.’s University of
Sheffield and a partner with Switzerland-based MCM Consulting.  Japan Atomic, which has Tokyo Electric Power Co. as its
largest shareholder, commissioned the group of geology,
seismology and nuclear experts to review two reports that the
company submitted to Japan’s  Nuclear Regulation Authority  that
found a separate fault directly under the No. 2 reactor wasn’t
active.  At stake is the future of Japan Atomic, which may become
insolvent if its reactors are found to be too risky to restart.
The company will incur 256 billion yen ($2.6 billion) of losses
if it decommissions the two reactors at the Tsuruga plant and
one at its Tokai Dai-Ni nuclear station, the trade and industry
ministry estimated in June 2012.  Chapman endorsed Japan Atomic’s findings, saying it had
presented convincing evidence that the fault beneath or near
unit No. 2 was not active, contradicting a study approved by the
NRA in May that concluded the fault under unit No. 2 was active.  Active Fault  NRA Chairman Shunichi Tanaka said at the time that the
findings violated safety regulations, while declining to assert
that it meant the regulator would deny safety clearance needed
to restart the reactor in western Japan.  The separate Urasoko fault could endanger the plant, which
should prompt a review of possible hazards if that fault were to
move, Chapman said in his remarks before a briefing today.  “We recommend that the seismic hazard analysis of the NPP
should be continually improved and updated with new data and
techniques, as they arise,” he wrote, referring to the Tsuruga
nuclear power plant. “It should be broadened to include all
aspects of seismic hazards.”  Japan Atomic and the NRA did not immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment about the findings.  All but two of Japan’s reactors are idled for safety
assessments after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami caused
meltdowns and radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The NRA was set up after the disaster to
independently review Japan’s nuclear power industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  