-- Japan Buys Oregon Wheat as Checks Begin for Modified Crops
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2013-08-01T08:46:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/japan-buys-oregon-wheat-as-checks-begin-for-modified-crops-2-.html
Japan  bought 89,579 metric tons of
western-white wheat from the U.S. today, the first purchase
since the government banned the grain on May 30 after the
discovery of an unapproved gene-altered variety in  Oregon .  The government resumed purchases after it established a
system to detect the genetically modified strain before shipment,
said Sunao Orihara, director for grain trade and operation at
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. The health
ministry will also test U.S. cargoes upon arrival to confirm
supplies aren’t tainted, he said. The gene-altered wheat by
 Monsanto Co. (MON)  was found on a farm in Oregon.  Japanese purchases may support wheat futures in  Chicago ,
which have lost 14 percent this year on prospects for abundant
global production. The resumption also eased food industry
concerns about short supply, as the country depends on imports
for almost 90 percent of its wheat. Western-white wheat is used
in Japan for production of cakes and cookies.  The country’s food-safety law bans sales of food containing
GM crops that haven’t been confirmed safe by the nation’s health
ministry. Contaminated supplies must be shipped back to
exporting countries or disposed of.  Wheat for September delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade
gained 0.4 percent to $6.675 a bushel at 5:39 p.m. in  Tokyo 
after declining as much as 0.3 percent. Prices advanced 1
percent in July for the first monthly gain since April.  The risk of short supply prompted the agriculture ministry
to buy 23,963 tons of club wheat grown in neighboring Washington
state last month, along with 1,710 tons of U.S. soft-red winter
and 1,497 tons of Australian premium-white as alternatives to
the Oregon wheat.  South Korea, Taiwan  Monsanto and the U.S. Department of Agriculture are
investigating how a gene-altered plant that hasn’t been approved
for commercial use was found on the Oregon farm eight years
after nationwide field tests ended. After the USDA’s May 29
announcement, Japan, South Korea and  Taiwan  suspended some U.S.
wheat purchases. South Korea and Taiwan have resumed buying.  The experimental wheat, designed to survive a weed killer
called Roundup, may have gotten into an Oregon field by an
“accidental or purposeful” act, Monsanto’s Chief Technology
Officer Robb Fraley said in June.  The agriculture ministry controls overseas purchases and
domestic sales of wheat to stabilize supply in Japan, which
depends on imports for about 60 percent of its food. The U.S. is
the world’s biggest exporter. The Consumers Union of Japan on
June 4 asked the government to ban imports of all U.S. wheat to
ensure food safety.  The ministry bought a total of 178,212 tons of milling
wheat from the U.S.,  Canada  and  Australia  in today’s tender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  