-- KKR Said to Propose $463 Million Investment in Hilding Anders
-- B y   J u l i e   M i e c a m p
-- 2013-08-01T14:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/kkr-said-to-propose-463-million-investment-in-hilding-anders.html
KKR & Co., the private-equity company
that backed  Europe ’s largest-ever buyout deal, will invest 350
million euros ($463 million) in Hilding Anders AB, allowing the
74-year-old Swedish bedmaker to reduce its debt, according to
two people with knowledge of the situation.  The funds will repay 200 million euros of Hilding Anders’s
term loan B debt, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the deal is private. The investment will be
in the form of payment-in-kind notes, a type of funding where
interest can be paid using more debt.  The proposed funding comes after shareholder Arle Capital
Partners Ltd. planned to sell the Malmo, Sweden-based company
for as much as 10 billion kronor ($1.5 billion), a person
familiar with the situation said earlier this year. Arle,
formerly known as Candover Partners Ltd., acquired the business
in 2006 backed by about 930 million euros of debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The business restructured its
finances in 2009, according to a  statement  on Arle’s website.  A spokeswoman for KKR, who asked not to be identified
citing company policy, declined to comment on the investment.
Daniel Oelker, a spokesman for Hilding Anders, also declined to
comment, as did a spokeswoman for Arle, who asked not to be
identified.  Loan Extension  The investment is conditional on the company getting
lenders to agree a three-year loan extension, the people said.
The longer-maturity debt would pay interest margins 150 basis
points, or 1.5 percentage points, higher than existing loans,
and lenders have been offered a 50 basis-point fee if they
approve the request by August 20, the people said. Deutsche Bank
is coordinating the request.  KKR’s funds will help cut Hilding Anders’s leverage ratio,
a measure of debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, to less than 4.5 times from more
than 7 times, the people said.  Hilding Anders, whose customers include Ikea,  reported 
Ebitda in 2012 of 122 million euros and net sales of 851 million
euros, according to a statement on the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Miecamp in London at 
 jmiecamp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  