-- Komercni Says Quarterly Net Falls as One-Time Gains not Repeated
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-08-01T08:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/komercni-says-quarterly-net-falls-as-one-time-gains-not-repeated.html
Komercni Banka AS, the Czech unit of
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said second-quarter profit fell 23 percent
as one-time gains from the sale of its stake in Bohemian-Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank weren’t repeated and low
interest rates hurt income.  Net income for the three months ended June 30 dropped to
3.16 billion koruna ($161.7 million) from 4.12 billion koruna a
year earlier, the Prague-based lender said in a statement today.
Net interest income fell 3.3 percent to 5.33 billion koruna. Net
income from fees and commissions rose 2.2 percent to 1.8
billion, while gains from financial operations slumped 41
percent to 729 million, Komercni said.  “In the context of subdued aggregate demand in the economy
and heightened uncertainty, Komercni’s performance in the first
half was solid,” Chief Executive Officer Henri Bonnet said in a
separate statement. The lender is “well prepared to continue
its development and to face future challenges.”  Bonnet is leaving the lender as CEO and will hand over his
post to Albert Le Dirac’h as of tomorrow.  Czech banks, which reported record profits in 2012, have
been suffering from pressures on interest income because of low
base rates. Komercni’s competitor, Erste’s unit Ceska
Sporitelna, said this week that its first-half net interest
income, the lender’s largest source of revenue, dropped 10
percent.  Bottom Line  “Bottom line was affected by one-off gains from last year,
which weren’t repeated, and as the business environment
worsened, but operating results look better than the market
expected,” Cyrrus AS analyst Marek Hatlapatka said by phone
today. “Komercni is more focused on corporate loans and
mortgages, which are growing, so its net interest income wasn’t
as badly impacted as it was with its peers.” Hatlapatka has
“buy” recommendation under review.  The pace of lending growth in the Czech banking market
accelerated “marginally” in the second quarter, while demand
for lending, mainly for corporate and housing loans was boosted
by record-low interest rates, Komercni said in the statement.  The Czech central bank will leave its main interest rate
unchanged for a sixth meeting at what it calls “technical
zero” of 0.05 percent, almost half a point below the European
Central Bank’s benchmark, according to all 13 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The rate decision will be announced at 1 p.m.
in  Prague  today.  The total gross volume of loans provided by Komercni Banka
rose 4.1 percent to 475 billion koruna in the first half, the
lender said. The total volume of deposits climbed 1.8 percent to
591 billion koruna, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  