-- Won Falls to Two-Week Low as Trade Surplus Narrows; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-01T07:22:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/korea-won-rises-as-fed-pledge-counters-lower-surplus-bonds-rise.html
The won declined to a two-week low as
data showed  South Korea ’s trade surplus more than halved and
manufacturing shrank last month. Government bonds rose.  The nation’s exports  exceeded  imports by $2.7 billion in
July, compared with a revised $5.9 billion in June, according to
government figures released today. A  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to
47.2, the lowest level since September, a separate report
showed. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. The won gained
earlier after the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it will
maintain stimulus that has buoyed emerging-market assets.  “South Korea’s economic data didn’t meet expectations,”
said Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank in Seoul.
“Despite the Fed’s dovish comment, the market reacted to the
possibility of the tapering, which pushed most Asian currencies
down.”  The won fell for a third day in Seoul to 1,123.51 per
dollar, the lowest since July 19, from 1,123.28 yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency advanced
as much as 0.4 percent earlier. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, dropped 37 basis points, or 0.37 percentage point, to
8.04 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s 10 most-traded currencies excluding the yen, lost 0.1
percent today, after falling in each of the last three months.  Weak Momentum  South Korea will deregulate policies to spur corporate
investment and revitalize  service industries  in the second half,
Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok told reporters in Gwangyang today.
The economy’s growth momentum is “weak,” he said.  The won rose earlier as data showed China’s manufacturing
unexpectedly strengthened in July. The PMI for the world’s No. 2
economy was at 50.3, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today in Beijing.
That compared with the 49.8 median forecast of 35 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey and June’s 50.1 level.  The yield on the 2.75 percent South Korean  government bonds 
due June 2016 fell two basis points to 2.92 percent, according
to Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  