-- Krona in Retreat as Swedish Recovery Evaporates: Market Reversal
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-01T17:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/krona-in-retreat-as-swedish-recovery-evaporates-market-reversal.html
Sweden ’s krona is set to reverse its
biggest monthly advance against the dollar since June 2012 as
the nation’s growth stalls and trading patterns suggest limits
to further appreciation.  A series of diminishing peaks for the krona point to the
risk of a slump, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That may push
the dollar to its strongest level versus its Scandinavian
counterpart since 2010, technical strategists at the New York-based bank say, citing Elliott Wave Theory. The krona weakened
through its 200-day moving average two days ago, a sign it may
be set for further losses, as a report that day showed the
economy unexpectedly shrank in the second quarter.  “There is clearly a row of higher highs and higher lows
for the dollar versus the krona since February and that’s the
definition of a bull trend,” spelling further weakness for the
Swedish currency, Thomas Anthonj, a technical strategist at
JPMorgan in  London , said in a July 29 phone interview. “You can
argue that the bullish view for the dollar versus the krona is
certainly staying intact.”  The krona strengthened versus 14 of its 16 major peers in
July, boosted by speculation earlier in the month that Sweden’s
recovery would reduce the need for lower interest rates. The
currency slid the most in more than three weeks after the report
on July 30 showed second-quarter  gross domestic product  fell 0.1
percent, missing analyst estimates for a 0.1 percent expansion.  Triangle Pattern  The drop leaves the krona 3.71 percent stronger this year,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which track
10 major currencies. The dollar appreciated 5.6 percent in the
same period, and the euro added 5.8 percent.  Sweden’s currency strengthened 2.8 percent versus the
dollar in July and appreciated 0.6 percent against the euro. The
krona rallied from 6.8654 per dollar on July 8, its weakest
level in almost a year, to 6.4411 on July 23, the strongest
level since June 19. It closed at 6.5576 per dollar on July 30,
breaching the 200-day moving average at 6.5496.  The Scandinavian currency weakened 1.4 percent to 6.6081
per dollar at 1:44 p.m.  New York  time.  Technical indicators showed signs the krona’s appreciation
was likely to falter before the GDP data was released. The
dollar’s decline had taken it toward the base of a triangular
chart pattern that had been forming since the beginning of the
year, according to Stephanie Aymes, a technical strategist at
Societe Generale SA in London.  “There is a conjunction of supports,” for the dollar
versus the krona, Aymes said in a July 29 phone interview.
“It’s building a base in the form of a broadening triangle. As
long as we hold above 6.33 to 6.37 supports, there’s room to
reach 6.82.”  Elliott Wave  The krona has the potential to weaken to 7.6280 per dollar,
a level not seen since July 2010, said JPMorgan’s Anthonj,
citing Elliott Wave Theory. That would mark a “third wave C”
correction after the decline to 7.33 per dollar in 2012, which
was potentially an “A wave” that laid the foundations for a
greater drop, he said.  Elliott Wave Theory, created by American accountant and
author  Ralph Nelson Elliott  in the 1930s, seeks to predict moves
in financial markets by dividing past trends into five sections,
or waves. The theory proposes that a five-wave gain or decline
is followed by a three-wave move in the other direction.  The krona could even extend its depreciation to 9.4880 per
dollar, Anthonj said, though this move would be unlikely before
next year at the earliest, he said.  Slower Growth  Sweden’s second-quarter GDP contraction followed growth of
0.6 percent in the three months through March, the preliminary
data from Stockholm-based Statistics Sweden showed on July 30.  Manufacturing expanded less than economists estimated in
July as order growth slowed, a report today showed. An index
based on responses from about 200  purchasing managers  fell to a
seasonally adjusted 51.3 from 53.5 the previous month, said
Stockholm-based  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , which compiles the data. A reading
above 50 indicates an expansion. The index was seen falling to
53, according to the median estimate of seven economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank last month kept its main  interest rate 
unchanged and said it would probably start raising rates in the
second half of next year as the economy improves. The export-reliant nation’s recovery has been hampered by weak demand from
the euro area as it struggles to emerge from the bloc’s longest
recession since the introduction of the single currency.  The krona was fell 0.8 percent to 8.7330 per euro today,
depreciating from its strongest level in two months at 8.5185 on
July 23.  The decline may prove to be a significant turning point for
the krona, said Dag Muller, a technical strategist at SEB AB in
 Stockholm , also basing his assessment on Elliott Wave Theory.  “It is possible that we’ve seen a correctional low” for
the euro against the krona, signaling more weakness for the
Scandinavian currency, Muller said in a July 29 phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net  