-- N.Y. Resort Owners Charged With $96 Million Ponzi Fraud
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-01T21:17:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/n-y-resort-owners-charged-with-96-million-ponzi-fraud.html
A money manager and a real estate
developer already facing a regulator’s fraud lawsuit were
charged with running a $96 million Ponzi scheme and diverting
the proceeds to their New York beachfront resort.  Brian R. Callahan, 43, and his brother-in-law Adam J.
Manson, 41, were charged in a 24-count indictment unsealed today
in federal court in Central Islip, New York. They pleaded not
guilty and were released on bond.  The men are accused of telling investors that their money
was going into hedge funds and other investment vehicles while
actually much of it was going to the unprofitable 117-unit
Panoramic View Resort & Residences in Montauk.  “The defendants used one of Long Island’s landmarks, the
Panoramic View Resort, to perpetrate a wide-ranging fraud,”
U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch said today in a statement about the
scheme, which purportedly took place from 2006 to 2012 and
involved more than 40 investors. “To conceal their status as
business failures, the defendants employed all the tricks in the
typical con man’s bag.”  Callahan, of Old Westbury, and Manson, of New York, were
partners in Distinctive Ventures, a real estate investment firm
that purchased the resort in January 2007 for about $38 million,
according to the indictment. Callahan, a former securities
broker who was sanctioned by regulators in 2009, was also
managing a group of offshore investment funds, for which he was
soliciting money from investors, the U.S. said.  Investment Funds  The funds at issue managed by Callahan include Pangea
Offshore High Yield Portfolio LLC, Diversified Global
Investments, Horizon Millennium Investments LP and Masters
Global Fund LP.  Callahan used investor funds to cover part of the purchase
price of the resort and also dipped into the money to help make
loan payments for the property, according to the indictment. He
drained more of the funds and continued to seek other investors
as the property failed to generate enough income to pay its
debts, according to the indictment.  Prosecutors alleged the men sent investors fake account
statements and repaid them with some of their own money to keep
the scheme afloat. Callahan also misled an auditor by creating
bogus documents and impersonating some investors using a fake e-mail account and a forged signature, the government said.  SEC Lawsuit  In March 2012, Callahan was sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over the alleged fraud. Manson was later
added as a defendant in the suit. That case is pending.  Manson is accused of defrauding the New York-based lender
that provided the men with a $45 million loan for the property.
The lender isn’t identified by name in the indictment.  “Callahan gave his word that he would invest his clients’
funds safely and responsibly in established vehicles,” Lynch
said in the statement. “Instead, he simply stole the funds to
prop up his partner’s failing investment.”  Both men are charged with conspiracy to commit securities
fraud, conspiracy to commit wire fraud, securities fraud and
wire fraud. Callahan is also charged with aggravated identity
theft. They face a maximum of 20 years in prison if convicted of
securities fraud, wire fraud or conspiracy to commit wire fraud,
according to prosecutors.  The defendants pleaded not guilty in Central Islip, said
 Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch. Manson was released on a
$1 million bond and Callahan was released on a $2 million bond,
he said.  Money Seized  The government said it seized more than $1 million in
proceeds from the alleged scheme and is seeking the forfeiture
of interest in the resort.  Distinctive Ventures  still owns the
resort, according to its website. A representative who answered
a phone number for the resort declined to give any comment.  In its complaint, the SEC said both Callahan and Manson
asserted their Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination when asked about the scheme during an
investigation. U.S. District Judge Arthur Spatt in Central Islip
has issued an order freezing some of Callahan’s assets and the
funds he managed.  “It’s unfortunate that the government decided to escalate
it,” Robert Anello, a lawyer for Manson, said in a phone
interview today.  A lawyer for Callahan, Robert Knuts, didn’t immediately
respond to a call and e-mails seeking comment on the charges.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Callahan; the civil case is
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Callahan, 12-cv-01065,
both in U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  