-- NAB Leads Decline in Bank Shares After Bank Levy Report
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-08-01T07:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/nab-leads-drop-in-australian-bank-shares-after-bank-levy-report.html
National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  led a
decline in the country’s bank shares after the Australian
Financial Review reported that the government plans a new
deposit insurance levy.  National Australia ended 1.6 percent lower at A$30.73 in
Sydney.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  lost 1.5 percent,
 Australia and New Zealand Banking Group  Ltd. dropped 1.2 percent
and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  slipped 0.1 percent. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 0.2 percent.  In an economic statement tomorrow, the government will
propose a levy of between 0.05 percent to 0.1 percent, the AFR
reported, without saying where it got the information. Australia
currently guarantees deposits of up to A$250,000 without
charging banks, it said.  Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, who trails in polls to Tony Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition, is building a policy
platform before an election. Treasurer Chris Bowen is preparing
a budget update as declining tax revenue and lower export prices
threaten the government’s projections of a return to balance in
2015-16.  “Slapping a deposit insurance levy is the government’s way
of plugging a budget hole,” said Chris Weston, chief market
strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “The banks are
going to be unhappy about this as they’d think they don’t
actually need a bailout.”  Bowen is consulting about the need for a deposit protection
fund, Finance Minister Penny Wong told reporters today when
asked about the report.  “The IMF and the RBA have put a view to the government
about the need for a fund to cover deposit protections and the
treasurer has made clear he is consulting on that,” Wong said.
Media speculation before any budget update is often inaccurate,
she added, and declined to comment further on the report.  Stephen Ries, a spokesman for Melbourne-based ANZ, and
Steve Batten, a Sydney-based spokesman for Commonwealth Bank,
declined to comment. National  Australia ’s Chief Executive
Officer Cameron Clyne told a conference in Sydney that he would
discuss any proposed levy with the government before commenting.  A spokesman for Westpac couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment. Heather Wellard, a spokeswoman for the Australian
Bankers Association, didn’t have an immediate comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  