-- Naftogaz Subsidies Bleed Ukraine as President’s Options Wane
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-08-02T14:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/naftogaz-subsidies-bleed-ukraine-as-yanukovych-options-dwindle.html
Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych 
sees state-run NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy delivering energy
independence. International lenders see the company as a money
pit that posted losses for six of the past eight years.  Naftogaz, Ukraine’s biggest employer with 175,000 workers,
received more than $6 billion of subsidies in domestic bonds
from 2009 to 2012 as regulated gas prices and expensive Russian
energy imports led to losses. Handouts to the company, whose
pipelines carry about 25 percent of Europe’s gas imports,
prevented Ukraine from balancing its  budget  over the past decade
in a nation whose graft ranking is on par with  Syria , according
to data compiled by Berlin-based  Transparency International .  “Naftogaz captures Ukraine’s political and economic
corruption like a raindrop,” said  Volodymyr Omelchenko , head of
energy research at the Razumkov think tank in Kiev and director
of oil shipments for Naftogaz from 1998 to 2003.  Two days of meetings between Yanukovych and Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  ended July 28 without progress on the
gas talks. The  International Monetary Fund  said July 25 it
hasn’t discussed loan policies with Ukraine since April when
negotiations over a $15 billion aid package were abandoned.  Reserves Squeeze  The country is facing a reserves squeeze this month as the
central bank has to repay $950 million to the IMF and $253
million to domestic bondholders, analysts at Moscow-based VTB
Capital said July 30.  Ukraine’s biggest opposition party, led by jailed former
Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko , alleges that Naftogaz is being
driven toward bankruptcy as management uses purchases of
equipment and gas to embezzle cash.  Yield on 2014 Naftogaz bonds, which the company
restructured in 2009, rose to 9.686 percent as of 4:08 p.m. in
Kiev, to the highest level since July 17, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  The government has denied wrongdoing. Its press office
hasn’t replied to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment.
Officials at Kiev-based Naftogaz also haven’t responded to
requests for comment.  “While this company exists, one shouldn’t expect any
political changes as it’s linked directly with the interests of
key politicians,” Omelchenko said.  Investors’ Window  For investors, Naftogaz offers a window into how the nation
of 45 million runs its finances. The government won’t cut the
gas subsidies that are impeding a potential bailout from the
IMF, while a failure to boost corporate transparency is blocking
funds from the European Union to help repair the nation’s aging
pipelines. Domestic gas production fell 1.1 percent to 19.3
billion cubic meters in 2012.  The IMF is pushing Ukraine, the first Soviet republic to
produce gas before output moved to Siberia, to reduce household
energy subsidies to narrow a budget gap that reached 3.8 percent
of gross domestic product last year. The government says people
can’t pay more.  To lower energy costs, Ukraine is trying to diversify
imports away from  Russia , which supplies half its gas. In 2010,
Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  called the terms of the supply
agreement with Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  “enslaving.”  Russia says it may cut the payments if it gets Naftogaz’s
pipelines in return and if Ukraine agrees to join a Russia-led
customs union that also includes Kazakhstan and Belarus.
Opposition politicians have told the 63-year-old Yanukovych that
would be tantamount to treason.  Mystery Spaniard  One attempt at energy independence, a plan to build a
liquefied natural gas terminal near the Black Sea city of
Odessa, went awry. Vladyslav Kaskiv, head of the State
Investment Agency, called a news conference on Nov. 26 to
announce that Spain’s  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  and other European
companies would build an 856 million-euro ($1.1 billion) LNG
depot on the Black Sea near Odessa.  Jordi Sarda Bonvehi, who claimed to be the representative
for the European consortium at the signing ceremony in Kiev,
which was attended by Azarov and then-Energy Minister  Yuriy Boyko , smiled, shook hands with the Ukrainian officials and then
quickly left.  Gas Natural denied any involvement in the project about 30
minutes after the meeting ended. The company said in a May 30 e-mail that in December it filed a lawsuit against Bonvehi at the
Audiencia Nacional, Spain’s highest court, for fraud and forging
commercial documents.  ‘Painful Event’  A man who answered a call to the phone number provided by
the Energy Ministry and said his name was Bonvehi acknowledged
in November that he wasn’t authorized to represent Gas Natural.
Since then,  Bloomberg News  has been unable to verify the
person’s identity or reach him on the same number. Kaskiv, who
kept his job, called the affair a “provocation” to damp
Ukraine’s energy-independence goal.  “That was a very painful event for a lot of people in the
government,” Nick Piazza, chief executive officer of  SP
Advisors , a Kiev-based  investment company , said by phone. “It
made them look pretty ridiculous.”  The fiasco isn’t the only scandal involving Naftogaz to
tarnish Ukraine.  The opposition party of Tymoshenko, who’s serving a seven-year prison term for abuse of office, says the price of a 2011
oil-rig purchase by Naftogaz was inflated so managers could
pocket the difference to the true cost.  Access Frozen  Police in  Latvia , where the seller has a bank account,
froze the company’s access and opened a money-laundering probe
into its role in the transaction, Ukrainian television channel
TVi  reported  in December. The Baltic nation’s police have
confirmed the probe, declining to comment on the freeze claim.  Ukraine hired  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  to audit the purchase and the
U.S. company found no evidence of wrongdoing, with additional
equipment, services and delivery accounting for the difference
in the two prices, according to Boyko. Halliburton hasn’t
replied to questions to its Moscow and Houston offices.  Claims to the contrary stem from “certain individuals”
who wanted to stop Ukraine drilling in the Black Sea, Boyko said
on television in January 2012.  Ukraine ranks 144 of 174 countries in Transparency
International’s 2012 corruption perception  index , level with
Syria and the Congo Republic. Law-enforcement agencies need to
take advantage of legal improvements, according to Qimiao Fan,
the  World Bank ’s director for Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova.  Not Implemented  “There’s progress on the legislative side, but the
legislation isn’t being implemented consistently,” he said
April 2. “There are many ad-hoc amendments to the law and lots
of exceptions to exempt public institutions from meeting the
public-procurement law.”  While the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and the  European Investment Bank  said in 2009
that they’re ready to help fund an overhaul of Ukraine’s aging
pipelines, no money has been disbursed because of what the
lenders consider insufficient progress on improving
transparency, in particular by splitting the company into
separate units for extraction, transportation and sales.  Naftogaz will be divided into several companies “in the
nearest future,” Yanukovych said Jan. 24 in Davos,  Switzerland ,
repeating a pledge he first made three years earlier. “This
will help attract investment as state finances are limited.”  Pipeline Bill  The government blames opposition lawmakers for delaying
attempts at a revamp. Azarov’s cabinet sought support for a bill
submitted to parliament April 26 to allow the potential sale of
the company or the leasing of its pipelines before parliament
began its summer break this month.  The proposal may have been a means of putting pressure on
Russia for a quicker decision on  gas prices , rather than an
attempt at a meaningful overhaul of the company, Olga Shumylo-Tapiola, a visiting scholar at the Carnegie Europe in Brussels,
said May 30.  “I’d like to believe that there may be some movement in a
positive direction, but if one looks at the dynamics of
everything that’s been happening in Ukraine in the past several
years, I’m not sure this will benefit the country,” she said.
“It’s no secret that the  energy industry  is the biggest feeding
trough for Ukraine’s political and business elite.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  