-- Najib Plans Budget Measures After Fitch Cuts Malaysia’s Outlook
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-08-01T07:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/najib-plans-budget-measures-after-fitch-cuts-malaysia-s-outlook.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak
said he’ll announced steps in his budget speech later this year
to tackle risks to the fiscal position outlined by  Fitch Ratings .  Fitch cut its outlook to negative from stable this week,
citing the Southeast Asian nation’s rising debt levels and lack
of budgetary reform. The credit rating company’s concerns are
shared by the government, Najib told reporters at an  Islamic
finance  event in Kuala Lumpur today, without giving details of
fiscal measures planned for his October 25 budget address.  “We are just looking at various policy options but we do
understand that there’s a need for us to strengthen the fiscal
and macro position of the government,” he said. “The actual
details will be unveiled shortly, particularly in the
forthcoming budget.”  Najib, who is also finance minister, led his Barisan
Nasional coalition to victory in  Malaysia ’s general election in
May following a spending spree which saw him raise civil
servants’ salaries and give cash handouts to the poor. He also
froze planned cuts in state subsidies on essential items and
stalled on introducing a goods and services tax.  “It’s important for us to reduce our vulnerabilities and
one of the areas is in the fiscal area,” central bank Governor
Zeti Akhtar Aziz told reporters at the same event. “Malaysia has
the capacity and capability to address it in a gradual and
sequent manner.”  Malaysia remains committed to trimming the deficit to 3
percent of gross domestic product by 2015 and won’t let state
debt exceed 55 percent of GDP, the government said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. It still plans to reduce subsidies
and broaden the tax base, it said.  Deficit Gap  The  deficit  is forecast to narrow to 4 percent of GDP this
year from 4.5 percent at the end of 2012, according to the
central bank’s annual report in March.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index fell 1.3 percent
yesterday, the most in seven weeks, the ringgit slumped to a
three-year low and 10-year bond yields climbed to the highest
since January 2011 after Fitch cut its outlook July 30. Stocks
and the ringgit climbed today, while bonds were little changed.  The selloff was a “knee-jerk” reaction and investors
should take this opportunity to accumulate positions, CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd. analysts Terence Wong and Lee Heng Guie wrote in a
report today, standing by their prediction that the KLCI will
rally to 1,850 by year-end. The gauge closed at a record on July
24 and has climbed 5.3 percent this year.  “The average lifespan for a rating outlook is about 18 to
24 months before a downgrade is enforced, giving Malaysia time
to prevent that,” they said. “The rating watch outlook is a
warning for Malaysia to improve its macroeconomic management and
the government has time to get its house in order.”  Malaysia’s public finances are its key rating weakness,
Fitch said. Rising state subsidies pose risks and it would be
difficult for the government to achieve its 2015 deficit target
without additional steps, the company said.  The  economy  is projected to grow between 5 percent and 6
percent this year after expanding 5.6 percent in 2012, according
to the central bank. Growth may moderate in 2013 and next year
on external factors, Najib said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  