-- Natixis Sells Largest ‘Steepener’ Note in U.S. in Four Months
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n
-- 2013-08-01T18:53:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/natixis-sells-largest-steepener-note-in-u-s-in-four-months.html
Natixis (KN)  sold $35 million of 15-year
“steepener” structured notes, the largest such offering since
March 1.  The securities, issued July 26, yield 10 percent for the
first two years, then switch to four times the difference
between the 30- and five-year constant-maturity swap rates, with
a cap on returns at 10 percent and a floor at zero, according to
offering documents provided to Bloomberg. The Paris-based bank
can redeem the notes after a year.  The prospectus wasn’t listed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission because of an exemption available to foreign
banks. The notes are called “steepeners” because they pay more
when the difference between long- and short-term rates
increases.  Mitch Karig, a spokesman for the bank in  New York , said
this was Natixis’s first steepener offering in the U.S. under
the foreign bank exemption.  Banks sold $603 million of U.S. notes tied to constant-maturity swap rates this year, more than double the $299.3
million of issuance during all of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. issued $64 million of 15-year
steepener notes on March 1, the largest such offering this year,
Bloomberg data show. The securities also offer payments based on
the difference between the 30- and five-year constant-maturity
swap rates, according to a prospectus filed with the SEC.  Widening Spread  The spread between the measures widened to 207 basis points
yesterday from 194 on Dec. 31. The gap fell 14 basis points to
185 on June 19, the biggest contraction in almost two years,
when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced that the
agency may begin reducing its $85 billion a month in bond
purchases as long as the  U.S. economy  performs in line with the
central bank’s projections.  Banks create structured notes by packaging debt with
derivatives to offer customized bets to retail investors while
earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are contracts with
values derived from stocks, bonds, commodities and currencies,
or events such as changes in  interest rates  or the weather.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Dugan in New York at 
 kdugan4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  