-- National Bank Agrees to Buy TD’s Institutional Services Unit
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-08-01T20:53:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/national-bank-agrees-to-acquire-td-s-institutional-services-unit.html
National Bank of Canada  agreed to buy
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s institutional services unit in a C$250
million ($242.1 million) deal, expanding its own business
handling back-office operations for investment firms.  National Bank, the nation’s sixth-largest lender, expects
the transaction to boost earnings per share by 12 cents in 2014
and 14 cents in 2015, the company said today in a statement. The
unit, TD Waterhouse Institutional Services, provides trading,
clearing and record-keeping for asset managers and brokers.  The deal helps National Bank build on its own institutional
services business that already works with managers overseeing
more than $50 billion in assets, according to the statement. The
TD unit, founded in 1987, assists firms and handles $34 billion
in assets.  “We will extend our reach by adding over 260 additional
market intermediaries who serve over 130,000 client accounts,”
Luc Paiement, co-chief executive officer of National Bank, said
in the statement.  The acquisition’s price may be adjusted if assets decline,
National Bank said. The firm expects to complete the deal this
year.  TD,  Canada ’s second-largest lender,  rose  0.3 percent to
C$86.80 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. National Bank slipped 0.3 percent
to C$78.81.  The transaction will reduce National Bank’s common equity
Tier 1 ratio under Basel III rules by about 40 basis points,
leaving it above 8 percent, the firm said. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  The deal won’t be material for earnings but investors may
view the decline in capital ratios negatively, John Aiken, an
analyst at Barclays Plc, said in a note to clients.  “We view the acquisition by National Bank as neutral to
our valuation,” Andre-Philippe Hardy, an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets, said in a note to clients after the announcement. The
positive impact on earnings per share would be offset by the
negative impact on capital, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  