-- Netflix to Offer Individual Profiles on Family Accounts
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-08-01T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/netflix-to-offer-individual-profiles-on-family-accounts.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  will offer personalized
profiles in its video-streaming  service  to family members
sharing one account, allowing individuals to catalog shows they
have watched and receive recommendations.  With the enhancement, which is being introduced today, new
and existing users of the world’s largest subscription streaming
service will be able to create up to five individual profiles in
one household using Netflix’s $7.99 monthly plan, Neil Hunt,
chief product officer, said in an interview.  The profiles, which will make it easier for individuals to
find their favorite movies and television shows, is the latest
effort by the  Los Gatos , California-based company to cement its
subscriber base as competition in the market increases. Chief
Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  has said individual profiles
will make Netflix customers less inclined to cancel as
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Hulu LLC and others ramp up their offerings to
challenge the company’s leading position.  “It’s all about finding the right choices for each person
to watch,” Hunt said. “Most members, including people in a
family, have pretty different tastes.”  The updated software first will become available to
customers who access the service on Sony Corp. PlayStation and
Microsoft Corp. Xbox 360 consoles, Web-connected televisions,
mainstream computers and Apple Inc. devices. Users who connect
through  Nintendo Co. (7974) ’s Wii console will get the service by the
end of August and those using devices with Google Inc.’s Android
operating system by winter, Hunt said.  Individual profiles also will make it easier for users to
stop watching a movie or show on one device and pick up where
they left off on others, he said.  Movie Libraries  In March, Netflix began offering U.S. subscribers the
ability to peer into each others’ digital movie libraries
through an expanded partnership with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , updating
features offered to international users. In June, the company
introduced a new “Netflix Families” page, featuring rows of
curated content pushing kids programming to win more
subscribers.  Investors and analysts are watching Netflix for signs its
subscriber growth has peaked. The company last month reported
630,000 new U.S. streaming customers in the second quarter,
about 100,000 less than what analysts estimated, even after
introducing the high-profile original series “Arrested
Development” and “Hemlock Grove” in the period.  Netflix shares, which have more than doubled this year,
rose less than 1 percent to $244.48 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  