-- New York Times Falls as Ads Drop for 11th Straight Quarter
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-01T20:53:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/new-york-times-profit-beats-estimates-on-subscription-gains.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , the newspaper
publisher controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family, fell the
most in two weeks after reporting an 11th straight quarter of
declines in advertising sales.  The  shares  dropped 3.4 percent to $11.77 at the close in
 New York , the biggest one-day decrease since July 16. The stock
has climbed 38 percent this year.  The Times’  advertising business  slid 5.8 percent from a
year earlier, faster than the 5.1 percent increase in
circulation sales. Total revenue fell 0.9 percent to $485.4
million. Analysts had estimated $489.3 million on average.  The publisher, led by Chairman Arthur Sulzberger and Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Thompson , is focusing more on attracting
paying subscribers to depend less on advertisers, who have cut
spending industrywide over the past five years. The company is
also selling off all assets unrelated to the Times media brand,
culminating in its decision to put the Boston Globe newspaper
group up for sale earlier this year.  Excluding some items, profit was 14 cents a share, the
company said today in a statement. Analysts had projected 13
cents on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Digital subscribers to the New York Times and its
international edition increased 35 percent to 699,000, helping
fuel the gain in total circulation sales.  Pension Overstatement  While online readers advanced, digital advertising dropped
2.7 percent. Print ads fell 6.8 percent. The ad industry’s
increased reliance on automated buying systems for digital
venues has hurt ad rates.  An accounting error led the company to overstate its total
pension obligations by around $50.4 million at the end of last
year. The pension plans were underfunded by about $150 million
as of the end of June, the company told investors and analysts
on a conference call following the earnings announcement.  Times Co. expects to complete a sale of the Globe before
the end of September, Thompson said on the call. The Globe has
drawn bids of about $100 million, people told  Bloomberg News  in
June. The discussions had been hampered by disagreements with
bidders over what contingencies to attach to a deal, the people
said then.  Chief Financial Officer James Follo said on the call today
that he doesn’t expect the Globe’s pension liabilities to be
included as part of the purchase price.  The Times Co. division that manages the Globe has about
$110 million in pension liabilities, according to the people.
The company declined to say how much of the $50.4 million that
was originally unaccounted for in the pension obligation can be
applied to the Boston Globe division.  Online Products  As part of Thompson’s plan to create new online products,
last month the Times appointed its national editor, Sam Sifton,
to run a new digital magazine. The publication will seek to
replicate the success of the newspaper’s “Snow Fall” feature
-- a multimedia story about an avalanche in the Cascades
mountain range that drew  new readers  to the site.  The Times is also working on a lower-priced service, called
Need to Know, that will be designed for “quick and periodic
dips into the news,” according to a note from Executive Editor
Jill Abramson to staff last month. Its content will be shaped by
Cliff Levy, a deputy metro editor.  In addition, Abramson announced the creation of a “skunk-works team,” which will come up with digital offerings for the
publisher. The group will be led by Arthur Gregg Sulzberger, the
son of Arthur Sulzberger. Arthur Gregg, currently a metro
editor, has been a national correspondent and metro reporter
since joining the Times in 2009.  David Perpich, Arthur Gregg’s cousin and a member of the
Ochs-Sulzberger family that controls the newspaper, will also be
working on the company’s new digital efforts, according to
Abramson’s memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Nick Turner  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  