-- New Jersey Gun-Carrying Limits Upheld by Appeals Court
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-08-01T21:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/new-jersey-gun-carrying-limits-upheld-by-appeals-court.html
New Jersey ’s law requiring residents
show a “justifiable need” to get a permit to carry a handgun
in public was upheld by a federal  appeals court .  A mandate that residents demonstrate an “urgent necessity
for self-protection” to get authorization to publicly carry a
handgun doesn’t run afoul of U.S. constitutional protections of
the right to bear firearms, a three-judge panel of the U.S.
Court of Appeals in Philadelphia ruled yesterday.  “The justifiable need standard is a longstanding
regulation that enjoys presumptive constitutionality,” the
panel wrote.  The ruling comes more than four months after the U.S.
Supreme Court rebuffed a similar Second Amendment challenge to
 New York  state’s requirement that people wishing to carry a
handgun in public show a special need for protection.  Alan Gura , an Alexandria, Virginia, attorney who
represented New Jersey residents challenging the state’s gun-permit law, said his clients will appeal the panel’s ruling.  “We’ll ask the full court to review the decision and then
potentially the U.S. Supreme Court,” he said in an interview.  In the 2010 lawsuit in federal court in New Jersey, four
state residents, along with the  Second Amendment Foundation Inc. 
and the  Association of New Jersey Rifle & Pistol Clubs  Inc.,
argued the justifiable-need standard violated their
constitutional rights.  ‘Presumptively Lawful’  The four residents had been denied a permit because they
couldn’t show they met the standard for carrying a gun in
public. A lower-court judge threw out the suit.  The appellate judges upheld that ruling, finding the New
Jersey permit law was a “presumptively lawful, longstanding
regulation and therefore does not burden conduct within the
scope of the Second Amendment’s guarantee.”  The New Jersey case is part of a gun-policy debate raging
in  Washington  and statehouses across the country in the wake of
the Dec. 14 school  school shooting  in Newtown,  Connecticut . The
deaths of 20 first graders and six educators  unleashed  a flurry
of legislative activity around the country, often dividing
lawmakers along partisan lines.  New restrictions on guns have passed in Connecticut, New
York,  Colorado  and  Maryland , all of which are led by Democrats.
More states have moved in the opposite direction: Six states
relaxed restrictions, including those on carrying guns into
churches, schools or workplace parking lots.  In 1981, just three states -- Maine, Washington and  Vermont 
-- let residents carry weapons in public without giving a
reason. Today, about 40 states do.  The New Jersey case is Drake v. Filko, 12-1150,  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia). The lower-court
case is Muller v. Maenza, 2:10-cv-06110, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  