-- NII Holdings Still Seeks Tower Deal After Missing Deadline
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-08-01T21:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/nii-holdings-still-seeks-tower-deal-after-missing-own-deadline.html
NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , the Latin American
mobile-phone company that uses the Nextel brand, said it’s still
working on a deal to sell wireless towers after missing a self-imposed deadline today to reach an agreement.  The company is getting close to a transaction, Chief
Executive Officer Steven Shindler said today on a conference
call. He declined to answer a question on how many buyers are
interested in the assets, which  Wells Fargo & Co . has estimated
would bring in $800 million to $900 million for NII.  “I might’ve been a little overly optimistic. I shouldn’t
have pointed to a specific date,” Shindler said. “The most
important thing for us is to get the right deal.”  NII, based in Reston,  Virginia , is selling off assets to
fund network improvements in Brazil and  Mexico , its two largest
markets. The company reached a deal in April to sell its Peru
unit to Chile’s Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones SA, and
has said it is reviewing whether to part with its Argentina and
Chile divisions.  NII shares dropped 6.8 percent to $6.71 at the close in  New
York , the biggest one-day decline since June 24. The stock is
down 5.9 percent this year.  Shindler resumed the post of chief executive officer last
year after the company posted losses in four out of five
quarters amid declining customer spending. The company is
converting to third-generation, or 3G, technology for its phone
network to catch up to competitors such as America Movil SAB and
 Telefonica SA (TEF) , which are already beginning upgrades to 4G.  NII said its second-quarter loss, leaving out the Peru
business, widened to $384.9 million, or $2.23 a share, from
$85.3 million, or 50 cents, a year earlier. Sales slid 11
percent to $1.26 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  