-- Obama Orders Tighter Rules on Fertilizer Plants
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-08-01T18:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/obama-issues-order-tightening-chemical-safety-after-texas-deaths.html
President  Barack Obama  ordered the
drafting of tighter rules for the handling and storage of
ammonium nitrate, the chemical responsible for a deadly
explosion in April at a  Texas  fertilizer plant, as part of a
plan to improve safety.  Explosions such as the one that killed at least 14 people
in West, Texas, are “tragic reminders that the handling and
storage of chemicals present serious risks that must be
addressed,” according to a White House fact sheet issued today
along with an executive order. The announcement came as the
administration faces growing pressure from lawmakers of both
parties and safety advocates to beef up federal oversight of
chemical facilities, refineries and fertilizer depots.  “This is a step in the right direction,” Representative
Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican and chairman of the  Homeland
Security  committee, said at a hearing after the White House
announcement. “The West facility was a disaster waiting to
happen, but as dangerous as West was, the Department of Homeland
Security had no knowledge of it.”  A series of fatal explosions this year have highlighted the
risks posed by these facilities, common in agricultural areas.
In addition to the 14 killed in the April blast in Texas, a
subsidiary of  Williams Cos. (WMB)  had a chemical plant explode in
 Louisiana  in June.  90 Days  “Our chemical security system is fraying,” Representative
 Henry Waxman , California Democrat, said today. “The overhaul
ordered by the president will help secure communities living
next to facilities with huge stockpiles of explosive
chemicals.”  Obama ordered federal agencies to come up with new options
to deal with “safe and secure storage, handling and sale” of
ammonium nitrate within 90 days.  The April 17 explosion at Adair Grain Inc. left a crater 93
feet (28 meters) wide by 10 feet (3 meters) deep and represents
the deadliest U.S. industrial accident in three years. The U.S.
Chemical Safety Board said that 30 tons of ammonium nitrate at
the facility detonated because of a fire in the wooden
warehouse.  The blast prompted a debate over the adequacy of chemical-safety laws and regulations and led to criticism of the Obama
administration’s safety record. Most of those critics praised
the administration’s move today.  ‘Positive Move’  “As much as I don’t like the big footprint of government,
I think the president’s order is a positive move,” said West
Mayor Tommy Muska. “I don’t like more oversight, but I agree
with his decision and I applaud it.”  Still, delays remain. Five years after Congress mandated
that sales of ammonium nitrate be tracked, federal rules to do
that haven’t been issued. The Department of Homeland Security is
still developing its final rule now, David Wulf, the program’s
director, told the House Homeland Security panel today. The
department’s approval of site plans is so far behind schedule it
could take seven to nine years to approve the 3,120 plans in the
queue, according to a General Accountability Office report
today.  Separately, the Environmental Protection Agency has a risk-management program for facilities such as the West fertilizer
plant, though it doesn’t require disclosure of ammonium nitrate.
Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman  Barbara Boxer  on July 9 said the EPA should add the chemical to that
program. The order issued today requires EPA to review that
risk-management program to assess if additional substances or
types of hazards should be regulated.  Multi-agency Effort  In addition to Republicans, public health and safety groups
are pressing Obama to take far-reaching action. A letter those
groups handed to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy today called on
the agency to use its authority under the  Clean Air Act  to force
chemical makers to use safer chemicals or processes.  “Prevention is the only fool-proof way to ensure the
safety of millions of people whose communities are needlessly in
danger,” said the letter, which was signed by the  Sierra Club ,
United Auto Workers and MoveOn.org. Instead of focusing on
managing risks, the administration should and can prevent them,
they said.  The EPA is considering using just that approach, according
to a letter it sent Republican Mike Pompeo of  Kansas  today.
“EPA is currently evaluating various methods of improving
increased chemical plant safety including safer management,”
the agency said in its letter to the Republican.  Obama directed U.S. agencies to better coordinate operation
and information sharing with states, update policies,
regulations and standards and prompt the use of best management
practices in handling hazardous chemicals, according to the fact
sheet.  Obama’s order creates a multi-agency group, led by the
secretaries of Homeland Security and Labor and the head of the
EPA, to meet at least once a quarter to assess progress in
developing safeguards. The group was directed to report to the
president within nine months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  