-- Obamacare’s Legal Hurdles Seen Leading to New High Court Review
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-08-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/obamacare-s-legal-hurdles-seen-leading-to-new-high-court-review.html
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law, which survived a test before the U.S.  Supreme Court  in
2012, is facing new legal challenges that make another high
court showdown all but inevitable.  More than 65 lawsuits around the country are targeting key
provisions of the Affordable Care Act, from its contraceptive
mandate to the Medicare spending-cut mechanism, raising the
prospect that the law could be partially dismantled.  “This law is going to be litigated up and down for
years,” says Jonathan Adler, who directs the Center for
Business Law & Regulation at Case Western Reserve University
School of Law in  Cleveland . “And the litigation is not going to
come exclusively, or necessarily even primarily, from those we
might characterize as the law’s opponents.”  The lawsuits are part of the resistance the health-care law
continues to face three years after its passage. Republicans in
the House today will hold their 40th vote to defund or repeal at
least part of the law, and state Republican officials last year
came within one Supreme Court vote of overturning the measure.
The court upheld the law’s centerpiece, the requirement that
people get insurance or pay a penalty, with Chief Justice  John Roberts  joining the four Democratic appointees in the majority.  The next Supreme Court clash may be over the federal
government’s requirement that employer-provided insurance plans
include contraceptive coverage. A case involving that issue
could reach the high court within a year.  Hobby Lobby  Hobby Lobby Stores Inc., a family-run craft store chain,
and at least 34 other companies have sued for an exemption. They
say the birth-control mandate would violate their religious
freedom, forcing them to offer a benefit they consider immoral.  “The government has plenty of other ways to deliver these
drugs,” says Mark Rienzi, a lawyer for the Becket Fund for
Religious Liberty. The group represents Hobby Lobby, whose
owners say they run the company “consistent with biblical
principles.”  The core legal question is whether companies can assert the
same rights as people, an issue that drove an ideological wedge
through the court in the 2010 Citizens United case, which
 cleared  the way for corporations to spend unlimited sums on
political campaigns.  The Obama administration says for-profit corporations
aren’t covered by the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, a 1993
law that says the U.S. government may “substantially burden a
person’s exercise of religion” only in rare cases. The law was
a response to a 1990 Supreme Court decision that cut back on the
constitutional protections for religious practices.  Triggering Review  One federal appeals court backed Hobby Lobby in June. In
late July, a different appeals court rejected a similar claim by
a Mennonite-owned cabinet-maker in  Pennsylvania , Conestoga Wood
Specialties. The at-odds rulings created the type of lower court
division that often triggers a Supreme Court review.  Two other suits would undercut a crucial aspect of the law:
the subsidies being offered to help lower-income people buy
insurance through the online marketplaces known as exchanges.  One case is being pressed by  Scott Pruitt , the Republican
attorney general of  Oklahoma , the other by Michael Carvin, a
lawyer who helped argue the case against the health-care law at
the Supreme Court last year.  The legal challenges stem from what Case Western’s Adler
says is the law’s slipshod wording. In maneuvering to ensure
passage in 2010, congressional Democrats took a procedural
shortcut by skipping the typical House-Senate conference that
would have provided an opportunity to clarify the language.  No Flyspecking  “ The bill  didn’t get to go through the normal flyspecking
that a large regulatory statute usually goes through,” Adler
says. “You have all these provisions that aren’t written the
way people had hoped.”  Pruitt and Carvin are making an argument that, if
successful, would free some people from the penalties that the
Affordable Care Act imposes for not carrying coverage.  They say the law makes subsidies available only to people
who buy insurance through state-run exchanges, and not to those
who use the federal exchange that will operate in more than half
the states. A ruling in their favor would abolish the subsidies
in much of the country and by extension let more people claim
that insurance is unaffordable. Under an exemption in the law,
people who can’t afford insurance don’t have to pay the penalty.  Defenders of the law say Congress’s aim was clear -- to
make subsidies broadly available -- even if its wording wasn’t.  Opponents “have yet to come up with a figment of any kind
of indication that Congress intended federal exchanges to do
anything other than issue premium tax credits,” says Tim Jost,
a health-law professor at  Washington  and Lee University School
of Law.  Medicare Cuts  Two other challenges filed by conservative groups are now
on appeal.  The Goldwater Institute, on behalf of an  Arizona  doctor, is
trying to block the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which is
supposed to impose cuts in Medicare, the federal insurance
program for the elderly, if spending exceeds inflationary
targets.  The institute contends that the agency would exercise vast
authority with little oversight, in violation of separation-of-powers principles.  The Pacific Legal Foundation is pressing the second suit,
for a small-business owner in  Iowa  who wants to invalidate the
entire law for violating the constitutional requirement that
revenue-raising bills originate in the House.  The Senate passed the health-care law first, though it did
so by amending a House-passed bill on an unrelated subject. A
trial judge found that procedure to be adequate and said the
origination clause didn’t apply anyway because revenue-raising
wasn’t the main purpose behind the law.  “It’s just like trench warfare in World War I,” says
Jost. “It’s going to be, ‘Fight every hedge row, fight every
ditch.’ ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 