-- OCBC Profit Misses Estimates on Lending Margins, Insurance
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2013-08-02T01:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/ocbc-second-quarter-profit-declines-8-on-loan-margins.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,
Southeast Asia’s second-largest lender, posted an 8 percent
decrease in second-quarter profit, missing estimates as lending
and insurance profitability fell and staff expenses climbed.  Net income declined to S$597 million ($468 million) from
S$648 million a year ago, the Singapore-based lender said in a
statement to the stock exchange today. That lagged behind the
S$640 million  average  of seven analysts’ estimates.  OCBC’s results contrast with those of  DBS Group Holdings
Ltd. (DBS)  and  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB) , which yesterday reported
higher quarterly profit led by gains in fee income. Singapore
banks, which have the lowest loan profitability in Asia, may
start to see lending returns stabilize as interest rates rise
and competition for deposits eases.  “We’re expecting a quarter-on-quarter stabilization of net
interest margins going forward as longer-term  interest rates 
move up,” Ken Ang, a Singapore-based analyst at Phillip
Securities Pte, said before the results. “Banks have also
become more rational in competing for deposits, thereby lowering
their funding costs.”  OCBC’s  net interest margin  narrowed to 1.64 percent in the
quarter from 1.77 percent a year earlier, the 16th straight
decline. It was unchanged compared with the previous quarter.  Net interest income, the difference between what the bank
earns on loans and what it pays on deposits, advanced 3 percent
from a year earlier to S$961 million as loan growth of 15
percent offset the narrower margin, the report showed.  OCBC shares slipped 0.5 percent to S$10.61 in Singapore
trading at 9:52 a.m. today, while the benchmark Straits Times
Index rose 0.4 percent.  Fee Businesses  Non-interest income advanced 2 percent to S$606 million as
fees and commissions from  wealth management , brokerage services
and  fund management  offset declines in profit from life
assurance.  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE) , OCBC’s insurance unit,
said on July 31 that its second-quarter profit fell 77 percent
from a year earlier to S$18.6 million.  OCBC’s operating expenses swelled 9 percent to S$718
million as the lender boosted headcount 5 percent over the
quarter, increased salaries and paid incentive compensation.  China, Indonesia  Chief Executive Officer Samuel Tsien has focused on
expansion in markets including China and  Indonesia  in search of
higher-yielding loans. At 1.82 percent, banks in Singapore have
the lowest average net interest margins in Southeast Asia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg before this week’s
earnings.  Bigger rival DBS’s efforts at expanding abroad suffered a
setback this week when it dropped its $6.5 billion offer for PT
Bank Danamon Indonesia after failing to win regulatory approval
for a majority stake.  DBS,  Southeast Asia ’s largest bank, said yesterday that net
income for the quarter climbed 10 percent to S$887 million, led
by fees and commissions and trading income. UOB’s profit jumped
10 percent to S$783 million, beating analysts’ estimates on
increases in lending and fees and commissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  