-- Lockheed F-35 Faces ‘Significant Challenges,’ Panel Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-08-01T20:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/lockheed-f-35-faces-significant-challenges-panel-says.html
The Senate committee that approves
 defense spending  said in a report today that “significant
challenges remain” for  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter
even as progress is made.  The program “continues to experience considerable
challenges with software development, system reliability and
maintenance system development,” the Senate defense
appropriations panel said in its report on the Pentagon’s $516
billion budget request for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1.  The full Senate Appropriations Committee adopted the bill
and the panel’s report.  The panel cut $80 million and six aircraft from the
Pentagon’s initial $562 million request to start buying hardware
for 42 aircraft that would be purchased in fiscal 2015. The
Pentagon is planning an increase from the 29 planes that were
requested, and approved by the committee, for fiscal 2014.  Given the “significant challenges,” a “large increase in
the production of aircraft” to 42 from 29 “is not yet
warranted” the defense panel said in its report.  The F-35 is the Pentagon’s costliest weapon system, with an
estimated price tag of $391 billion for a fleet of 2,443
aircraft, up 68 percent from the projection in 2001, as measured
in current dollars. The rising costs and troubles in building
the plane as it’s still being developed have led to criticism in
Congress.  ‘Close to Right’  “What we are trying to do is get it as close to right the
first time as possible” rather than be forced to upgrade or
repair aircraft after quantities are increased, Senator  Richard Durbin , an Illinois Democrat and chairman of the defense
subcommittee, said when asked about the reduction.  Durbin praised the concept behind the F-35 as an airframe
that can be used by three military services.  Now “there are still many, many unanswered questions as to
whether this Joint Strike Fighter will become a reality that can
protect us,” Durbin said.  Separately, the committee directed the Pentagon to review
whether the  Air Force ’s goal of buying 1,763 F-35s remains
feasible.  “Given these times of fiscal austerity,” the Pentagon
“should review the Air Force tactical fighter force mix,”
according to the report.  The committee also deleted for now a Pentagon request for
$10 million to evaluate how to integrate the B61 nuclear bomb on
later F-35 versions because the requirement hasn’t been
thoroughly vetted by the Joint Chiefs of Staff’s requirements
group, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 