-- Thomas Cook Raises Savings Goal as Capacity Management Pays Off
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-08-01T08:04:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/thomas-cook-raises-savings-goal-as-capacity-management-pays-off.html
Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG)  said current
bookings were in line with its forecasts as the 172-year-old
U.K. tour operator had fewer trips left to sell and raised a
savings target.  “Current bookings match our expectations and we are
optimistic that we will maintain satisfactory prices and margins
during the remainder of the summer season,” the company said in
a  statement  today.  The company raised a goal for cutting costs and improving
profit by 10 million pounds ($15 million) to 400 million pounds
by fiscal year 2015. Committed capacity left to sell declined 9
percent from a year earlier, the company said, after strong
bookings along with planned reductions in committed capacity of
about 6 percent. Sales in the quarter ended June 30 rose 4.9
percent to 2.35 billion pounds, while the loss before taxes
narrowed to 79 million pounds, from 84 million pounds last year.  Chief Executive Officer Harriet Green, at the helm for one
year, is refinancing debt under a three-year turnaround plan to
improve margins, closing underperforming stores, cutting costs
and selling non-core assets, including hotels in  Spain . Summer
season bookings in the company’s mainstream business currently
are flat compared with last year, Green told journalists on a
conference call today.  “We make sure supply and demand are well-aligned,” she
said.  Shares Rise  The stock rose as much as 2.3 percent in  London  and was
trading up 2.1 percent to 156.8 pence as of 8:38 a.m. local
time. The shares have more than tripled this year, making them
the best performer on the 11-member Bloomberg  Europe  Leisure
Time Index.  “We continue to believe that the ‘real’ costs-out target
for fiscal 2015 is 500 million pounds and we welcome the ongoing
progress toward this ultimate figure,” James Hollins, an
analyst with Investec Bank plc in London, said in a note to
clients. “Current trading remains positive.”  Recent unrest in  Egypt  and Turkey is not having a
significant effect on the company, while hot weather in Europe
may slow late bookings,  Thomas Cook  said.  “We do recognize that the ‘lates’ market last year was
particularly strong due to inclement weather throughout much of
Europe, which has not been replicated this year,” the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  