-- Honda, Toyota Mid-Size Clash Aids Asian Makers’ U.S. Gain
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-08-02T07:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/honda-toyota-mid-size-car-clash-aids-asian-makers-u-s-gains.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (TM)  led U.S. volume gains in July for Asia-based automakers as
they battled for mid-size sedan sales leadership amid intense
competition from Ford Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co.  Honda beat analysts’ estimates with a 21 percent increase.
 Toyota (7203) ’s deliveries rose 17 percent, matching expectations and
topping Ford’s for the first time in more than three years.
Nissan’s 11 percent gain trailed estimates, and combined sales
for South Korean affiliates  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  grew 4.5 percent, more than anticipated.  Low  interest rates  and competitive leases, particularly on
mid-size models such as Toyota’s Camry, are helping boost U.S.
auto sales as the economy strengthens. Industry demand remains
on pace for its best showing in six years as consumers replace
the oldest cars and trucks ever on U.S. roads.  “Camry held on to the top spot in the top-selling segment
in the country, but it came with a price,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at Edmunds.com. “Camry incentives are at
its highest level in nearly two years” and are four times more
than those of Honda’s Accord, she said.  Camry Incentives  Toyota offered incentives averaging $2,581 for each Camry
sold in July, compared with $627 per Accord, said Edmunds.com, a
vehicle pricing and data company in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Honda’s gain was the best among large-volume carmakers,
contributing to a 14 percent increase in industrywide sales to
1.32 million light vehicles, according to Autodata Corp. Along
with demand for Camrys and Accords, U.S.-based automakers’ more-competitive cars and fuel-efficient pickups are driving demand.  The increases for Toyota, Honda and Nissan gave Asia-based
automakers a 47.5 percent market share in July, according to
 Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.  Toyota rose 3.4 percent to close at 6,430 yen in Tokyo
trading, extending its  climb  this year to 61 percent, beating
the 39 percent increase of the broader Topix index. Honda
advanced 2.9 percent to 3,710 yen and has gained 18 percent this
year.  July sales of Toyota, Lexus and Scion models totaled
193,394, the Toyota City, Japan-based company said yesterday in
a statement. That edged  Ford (F) ’s 193,080 cars and light trucks,
ranking Toyota behind only  General Motors Co. (GM)  in U.S. volume for
the first time since March 2010, according to Autodata.  ‘We’re Fine’  Sales of Camry, the best-selling U.S. car for more than a
decade, rose 16 percent to 34,780. Toyota has said it expects to
sell at least 400,000 of the model this year. While incentives
have risen, they aren’t out of line for Camry, Bill Fay, group
vice president for U.S. Toyota sales, said in a conference call.  “We’re fine,” he said yesterday. “In general our
incentive spending is still way below the industry average.”  Toyota’s incentives across its brands averaged $1,960 in
July, compared with $2,684 for the industry, according to
TrueCar, a Santa Monica-based vehicle data company. Honda spent
an average of $1,868 and Hyundai and Kia’s combined incentives
were $1,789, according to TrueCar.  “Camry is pretty well optimized for the moment, and I
don’t think we need to ring the bell for Camry spending just
yet,” said  Jesse Toprak , a TrueCar analyst.  Acura MDX  Toyota also benefited from sales increases of 40 percent
for Prius hybrids and 26 percent for Lexus luxury vehicles.  Asia ’s biggest carmaker today raised its profit forecast by
8 percent to 1.48 trillion yen ($15 billion) for the year ending
March, as the weaker yen bolsters the value of cars sold
overseas. Toyota’s net income for the quarter ended June almost
doubled to 562.2 billion yen.  Honda delivered 141,439 Honda and Acura vehicles last
month, and its increase surpassed the 16 percent average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The gain for
the Tokyo-based automaker helped rank it fourth in U.S. sales,
ahead of Chrysler Group LLC. That hadn’t happened since April
2011, according to Autodata.  Accord sales rose 10 percent to 31,507, and Honda’s Civic
ranked as the market’s second best-selling car in July behind
Camry, with 32,416, its best-ever volume for the month. Better-than-expected sales of the new Acura MDX crossover helped Honda
beat projections, said Kelley Blue Book analyst Alec Gutierrez.  “No one anticipated a 29 percent increase for MDX,”
Gutierrez said in a phone interview yesterday. “To see a large
luxury crossover take off like that with  fuel prices  rising a
bit was a surprise.”  Nissan Record  Nissan (7201) ’s sales set a company record for the month.
Deliveries of the Yokohama, Japan-based automaker’s Altima mid-size car rose 11 percent, and its Pathfinder SUV more than
tripled.  “This is the third consecutive month that Nissan North
America has set sales records,” Fred Diaz, U.S. vice president
of Nissan brand sales and marketing, said in an interview. “The
new Pathfinder is continuing to do very well.”  Nissan’s increase for the month was short of the 13 percent
average of seven analyst estimates. A 33 percent drop for its
Infiniti line pared the company’s July gains as the brand awaits
the start of sales of the new Q50 luxury car.  The combined Hyundai-Kia increase of 4.5 percent to 115,009
vehicles exceeded the 3.4 percent average of seven analyst
estimates. The Seoul-based carmakers have trailed industrywide
sales growth in every month since September. Deliveries of
Hyundai’s Elantra small car increased 29 percent.  Among other Asia-based automakers, the Subaru brand of
Tokyo-based  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270)  had a 43 percent sales
increase, and Hiroshima, Japan-based  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  reported
a 29 percent gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  