-- OPEC to Cut Exports by Most in Seven Months, Oil Movements Says
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-01T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/opec-to-cut-exports-by-most-in-seven-months-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will curb shipments by the most in seven
months as refiners begin seasonal maintenance while summer
demand for driving fuel ebbs, tanker-tracker Oil Movements said.  The group, which supplies about 40 percent of the world’s
oil, will cut exports by 500,000 barrels a day, or 2 percent, to
24 million barrels a day in the four weeks to Aug. 17, the
researcher said today in an e-mailed report. It’s the biggest
reduction since early January. The figures exclude two of OPEC’s
12 members, Angola and  Ecuador .  “By this point any long-haul barrels will be hitting the
shore at the end of summer,”  Roy Mason , the company’s founder,
said today by phone from Halifax,  England . “In the West,
refinery maintenance is under way by mid-September,” when
cargoes for this loading period will arrive, he said.  Refiners typically trim imports at the start of the third
quarter while performing maintenance as summer demand for
gasoline and diesel ebb.  Brent crude  traded for about $108 a
barrel today on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London ,
having slipped almost 2 percent this year.  Middle Eastern shipments will drop by 2.6 percent to 17.7
million barrels a day to Aug. 17, compared with 18.2 million in
the month to July 20, according to Oil Movements. That figure
includes non-OPEC nations Oman and Yemen.  Crude on board tankers will be little changed at 495.6
million barrels, data from Oil Movements show. The researcher
calculates the volumes by tallying tanker bookings. Its figures
exclude crude held on vessels for storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. It will next meet in Vienna on Dec. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  