-- More Bankruptcies Won’t Solve Cities’ Crises
-- B y   S t e p h e n   E i d e
-- 2013-08-01T13:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/more-bankruptcies-won-t-solve-cities-crises.html
In debating the meaning of  Detroit ’s
collapse, commentators on the right and the  left  have found
evidence for the benefits of municipal bankruptcy as a way to
put distressed cities back on track.  “More bankruptcies, please,” David Skeel  wrote  in the
Weekly Standard, pointing to federal laws that might make
adjustments in unfunded pension liabilities possible.  But the record on municipal bankruptcies -- from  Central
Falls ,  Rhode Island , to Vallejo,  California  --  demonstrates  how
such expectations ultimately come to little, and for good
reason. Bankruptcy will never play a significant role in
municipal reform beyond its rather modest current one.  Its advocates conceive of a process that would work like
corporate bankruptcy, restoring troubled cities to strength, as
happened with  General Motors Co. (GM) , Twinkies and other high-profile comeback stories. But, for the most part, even corporate
bankruptcy doesn’t work like corporate bankruptcy is supposed to
work, as Haifa University’s  Omer Kimhi  and others have pointed
out: About three-fourths of companies that file for bankruptcy
do so to liquidate their assets under Chapter 7 of the
bankruptcy code, not to reorganize under Chapter 11. And these
figures don’t account for the many attempted reorganizations
that eventually result in liquidation.  Obviously, we can’t liquidate municipalities. No matter how
insolvent and dysfunctional a city may be, if people still live
there, basic services must continue to be provided.  Vallejo Fails  This is a huge challenge right now in Detroit, where entire
neighborhoods have been mostly abandoned save for an isolated
squatter or elderly widow, who, given  existing resources , are
very difficult to serve and protect.  Bankruptcy will cut Detroit’s debt, thereby freeing up
revenue to devote to services. It won’t address the city’s high
poverty and crime rates, its cratered tax base (property values
aren’t expected to start growing until 2021), and 16 percent
unemployment rate. Bankruptcy can’t eradicate corruption or a
union-friendly political culture. Two years after emerging from
bankruptcy, Vallejo’s budget remains unbalanced, services are
still diminished and the city has yet to regain access to
credit.  And let’s not forget that debt reduction comes at a cost:
Detroit’s legal and professional-services fees have already run
into the millions and, in the distant post-bankruptcy future,
the city will likely face a steep borrowing premium when it re-enters the  bond market .  The localities that stand to benefit most from bankruptcy
are those that have been overwhelmed by some unforeseen
catastrophe, such as a big, one-time tort settlement, as was the
case in Bay St. Louis,  Mississippi , in 1977 and South Tucson,
 Arizona , in 1983. The government abruptly finds itself saddled
with a claim it can’t pay, but the source of the debt is
isolated and doesn’t impugn the locality’s basic ability to
function.  The 1994 bankruptcy of Orange County, California, while not
wholly unforeseen, was  rooted  in an overleveraged investment
plan run by the county treasurer. When, contrary to his
expectations,  interest rates  rose, lenders threatened to seize
collateral, and bankruptcy became the only option. But Orange
County’s basic ability to function was never in question, and,
after restructuring its debt in bankruptcy, it returned to
credit markets relatively rapidly.  By contrast, Detroit’s troubles are many and deeply rooted.
Municipal bankruptcy can’t remedy a lack of political will.  Indeed, Section 904 of the federal  bankruptcy code ’s
Chapter 9, which permits cities to reorganize their debts,
specifically prohibits courts from interfering with a city’s
“political or governmental powers” while in bankruptcy. The
municipal debtor retains exclusive authority to design its
reorganization plan, and thus decide which debt should be cut
and by how much.  Pension Protection  That is why, despite their well-documented pension
problems, the three recent California bankruptcies either didn’t
seek (Vallejo) or aren’t currently seeking (Stockton and San
Bernardino) pension cuts through the Chapter 9 process. Detroit
is seeking pension cuts in bankruptcy as a result of the state’s
emergency-manager law, not the bankruptcy process itself.  Of course, Congress could strengthen Chapter 9, thus giving
unelected federal judges authority over debt, taxation, service
levels and decisions about whether to merge with nonbankrupt
neighboring communities. The  University of Chicago Law School ’s
Eric Posner welcomes this prospect because “federal courts have
a reputation for impartiality.”  But it’s hard to imagine that most Americans and their
representatives in Congress would embrace an even more thorough
takeover of city operations by federal judges. Resistance to
 Michigan ’s emergency-manager law, which allowed the state-sanctioned takeover of Detroit’s city government, has been
strong enough.  It’s also difficult to imagine Congress waiving the
requirement that only insolvent cities be allowed access to
bankruptcy. Insolvency is a very rare condition among local
governments in the U.S., particularly among general-purpose
entities such as cities and counties.  The many struggling cities in Michigan,  Pennsylvania  and
upstate  New York  will always retain taxing authority and a
monopoly over public services. Thus, their revenue position is
inherently more stable than that of a failed corporation with an
obsolete product or fatally uncompetitive cost structure.  Although it would be unfair to characterize the pro-bankruptcy arguments as a solution in search of a problem, most
cities now are far less concerned with insolvency than the
“crowd out” effect on their finances. Pension and health-care
costs continue to rise more rapidly than revenues, leaving less
and less room in budgets to support basic services.  Few Insolvencies  On a per-capita basis,  New York City  owes more in
retirement obligations than Detroit does, but it’s also a
wealthier, growing city. It won’t face insolvency anytime soon,
but neither will services improve much, so long as employee-benefit-cost trends continue.  In essence, the “more bankruptcies, please” approach will
never go far because cities are simply different from
corporations. Insolvency will always be rarer in the public
sector than in the private sector, and respect for local self-government will always limit bankruptcy judges’ power. Municipal
bankruptcy has a useful but limited role to play in reforming
local finances. As a solution to cities’ most pressing needs,
it’s a dead end.  (Stephen Eide is a senior fellow at the Manhattan
Institute’s Center for State and Local Leadership.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen Eide in New York at  seide@manhattan-institute.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  