-- Los Angeles Diesel Gains to Three-Week High After Supplies Slide
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-08-01T22:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/los-angeles-diesel-gains-to-three-week-high-after-supplies-slide.html
Spot diesel in  Los Angeles  advanced
to the highest level against futures in more than three weeks
after stockpiles of the fuel tumbled to the lowest level for
this time of year since 2006.  California-grade, or CARB, diesel supplies slid 21 percent
in the seven days ended July 26 to 1.95 million barrels, the
lowest level in three months, the state Energy Commission said
yesterday.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s El Segundo refinery was scheduled to
shut the No. 2 crude unit this month for a full turnaround that
will last several weeks, a person familiar with the work said
June 13.  Ultra-low-sulfur diesel supplies on the U.S. West Coast,
known as the PADD 5 region, declined 10 percent to 10.9 million
barrels last week, the lowest level since June 28, according to
the Energy Information Administration, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  CARB diesel in Los Angeles gained 0.5 cent against ULSD
futures on the Nymex to a premium of 5 cents a gallon, the
highest level since July 8, data compiled by Bloomberg at 4:30
p.m.  New York  time show. The same fuel in  San Francisco  was
unchanged at 4 cents a gallon above futures.  Low-sulfur diesel in  Portland ,  Oregon , a benchmark for the
U.S. Pacific Northwest, climbed 0.5 cent to 3.5 cents a gallon
over futures.  Conventional gasoline in Portland weakened 9 cents against
gasoline futures on the Nymex to a premium of 0.5 cent a gallon.
California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles gained 0.75
cent to 7.75 cents a gallon below futures.  Retail Gasoline  Retail gasoline  in  California  fell 0.7 cent to $3.978 a
gallon, Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the nation’s largest
motoring organization, said today on its website. Prices in most
Southern California areas have dropped by almost 1 cent a day in
the past week, moving closer to $4 a gallon, the Los Angeles-based Automobile Club of  Southern California  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “It appears that gas prices are returning to their normal
pattern of dropping over the summer, after a couple of
relatively short-lived but unusual June and July price spikes,”
Jeffrey Spring, a spokesman for the Southern California auto
club, said in the statement.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles narrowed a second
day, losing 38 cents to $13.81 a barrel at 4:10 p.m. New York
time, a one-month low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  