-- Our Hotter, Wetter, More Violent Future
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-01T19:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/our-hotter-wetter-more-violent-future.html
Earth’s atmosphere seems to have
found a way to get back at the human race. For almost three
centuries, we humans have been filling the air with carbon
dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Now, it turns out,
the  climate change  these emissions have wrought is turning
people against one another.  So says  a review , published today, of 60 studies on how
climate change helps spark conflict throughout the world. The
researchers found a surprisingly close link between climate
change and civil wars, riots, invasions and even personal
violence such as murder, assault and rape.  Rising temperatures are especially provocative. A shift
toward greater warmth of one standard deviation caused personal
violence to increase by 2.5 percent and intergroup conflict by
24 percent. (One standard deviation varies from place to place;
in an African country, for example, it could amount to a warming
of 0.6 degrees Fahrenheit for a year.)  Why? The science so far doesn’t answer this question,
though it’s easy enough to imagine how subsistence farmers could
come into greater conflict with one another as their croplands
become less productive. Or how, in the face of rising sea
levels, coastal dwellers could come to blows over shrinking
habitable land. The scientists who did the review point as well
to many psychological and economic studies that show people
simply behave more aggressively or violently when temperatures
are higher.  Unfortunately, humans also fight, if nonviolently, over
climate change itself -- specifically, over how, and how
quickly, to reduce our destructive emissions. This makes the
necessary reductions difficult. The United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change, for example, originally aimed to
have an accord setting firm greenhouse-gas-reduction targets for
all countries  by 2009 . It is now hoping to accomplish this task
 by 2015 . Meanwhile, in the U.S., President  Barack Obama  has been
forced to act outside Congress, through the Environmental
Protection Agency, to limit carbon-dioxide pollution from coal-fired  power plants . Republicans in the House have predictably
 introduced legislation  to forbid any such action.  This resistance is especially frustrating because the
longer we wait, the harder it becomes to lower emissions.
Delaying the start of action just five years, from 2020 to 2025,
would drastically dim any hope of limiting the rise in global
mean temperature to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees Celsius) -
- long considered the point at which it becomes significantly
more difficult to adapt. Chances of success would fall to just
34 percent from 56 percent,  new research  shows. On the other
hand, starting to take action in 2015 would improve humanity’s
chances to 60 percent.  Even if the temperature target can be met, the ocean will
still grow more acidic, cropland will still become less
productive, and sea levels will still gradually rise --
according to  new research , by 4.8 meters (15.7 feet), or almost
twice the height of  Hurricane Sandy ’s peak storm surge at
Battery Park in  New York  City. And as we continue emitting
greenhouse gases, we  lock in  an underwater future for hundreds
of U.S. cities and towns.  Climate scientists use a  bathtub analogy  to explain the
problem: Greenhouse gases are like water flowing from a faucet
into a tub with a limited drain -- the trees, plants and oceans
that soak up the gases. With the faucet wide open, the tub
quickly fills to the point at which the concentration of carbon
in the atmosphere reaches 450 parts per million, and the only
way to prevent overflow is to shut the tap entirely. By slowing
the stream now, we would allow ourselves the relative luxury of
reducing emissions gradually.  Turning the tap slowly is something we know how to do -- by
increasing  energy efficiency , developing renewable energy
sources and, as  Obama plans , subjecting carbon dioxide to the
same kind of limits we put on mercury, arsenic and other
pollutants. The alternative is to let the tap run and leave the
overflow for the next generation to deal with.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 