-- P&G Profit Tops Estimates as Lafley Takes Over
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-08-01T20:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/p-g-profit-tops-estimates-as-lafley-takes-over.html
Procter & Gamble Co . posted fourth-quarter profit that topped analysts’  estimates , giving Chief
Executive Officer A.G. Lafley some breathing room as he works to
turn around the company he rejoined two months ago.  Net income slid 48 percent to $1.88 billion, or 64 cents a
share, from a year earlier, when Cincinnati-based P&G benefited
from the sale of the Pringles business. Excluding items such as
restructuring costs, profit was 79 cents a share, P&G said today
in a statement. Analysts estimated 77 cents, on average.  Lafley returned in May, almost four years after stepping
down, to help the world’s largest consumer-products maker regain
customers in key categories such as detergents and beauty. He
announced no major changes to the company’s strategy, and P&G
forecast profit that was in line with analysts’ estimates.  “That could suggest that A.G. Lafley has confidence in
what the direction of the company is,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York , said in an interview.
“On the other hand it might suggest that there just hasn’t been
enough time figuring out where the problems are and that there
are bigger problems.”  He rates the shares the equivalent of a buy.  Profit excluding some items in the current fiscal year will
rise 5 percent to 7 percent, the company said today. That
implies earnings of $4.25 a share to $4.33 a share. Analysts’
estimated $4.32, on average.  P&G rose 1.7 percent to $81.64 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 20 percent this  year , matching the
advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sales Beat  P&G’s fourth-quarter  sales  rose 2.2 percent to $20.7
billion, topping analysts’ $20.5 billion estimate. Sales volumes
increased 5 percent in the company’s health care segment and 6
percent in its home care business.  Foreign-currency fluctuations will lower sales growth this
year by about 2 percent and earnings per share by 6 percentage
points, P&G said.  About a year ago, activist investor  Bill Ackman  bought a
$1.8 billion stake in the consumer-products company and then
began agitating to replace CEO Bob McDonald.  McDonald started during the depths of the recession in July
2009, and some analysts and investors expressed dismay that
P&G’s strategy was too timid during his tenure. By contrast,
Lafley was known for big moves, such as his $57 billion
 acquisition  of Gillette Co. in 2005.  In May, a month after P&G reported revenue at the bottom
end of its forecast, the company announced that Lafley would
return to replace McDonald.  Lafley Moves  Lafley’s first major move was to streamline P&G’s
businesses into four industry-based groups to help speed product
innovations and the company’s global expansion. He said today
that he’ll focus on boosting innovation and productivity to win
back customers, particularly in P&G’s home market.  “We have the tools and techniques to understand who our
best consumer is, business by business, brand by brand, and to
act on it,” he said during the company’s earnings call today.
“So we’ve rededicated ourselves to really understanding the
consumer, really winning with the consumer.”  Separately,  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , which competes with P&G in
beauty products, reported second-quarter profit excluding some
items of 29 cents a share, beating the 26-cent average estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The New York-based company’s
sales fell 1.9 percent to $2.51 billion, trailing analysts’
$2.58 billion estimate.  Avon’s sales fell the most in its home market, with North
American revenue sliding 12 percent as the number of
representatives shrank.  Clorox Results  Clorox Co. (CLX) , maker of its namesake bleach and Burt’s Bees
skin care, also reported profit that topped analysts’ estimates.
Earnings per share were $1.38, compared with an average estimate
of $1.34. Sales of $1.55 billion trailed the projected $1.57
billion.  The company, based in Oakland,  California , reaffirmed its
forecast for adjusted earnings per share of $4.55 to $4.70 in
its fiscal 2014. Analysts estimated $4.61.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  