-- Acetaminophen Linked to Rare Fatal Skin Issues, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/pain-reliever-acetaminophen-linked-to-fatal-skin-reaction.html
Painkillers with the active
ingredient acetaminophen such as  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Tylenol
have been linked to serious skin reactions including rash and
blisters, U.S. regulators said.  Reports to the  Food and Drug Administration ’s adverse event
database reveal the most serious reactions, while rare, led to
hospitalizations and deaths. The majority of cases involved
single-ingredient acetaminophen products, the FDA said yesterday
in a  statement . The agency advised people who develop a skin
rash or reaction to stop taking the drug and seek medical
attention.  The FDA will require  prescription drugs  containing
acetaminophen to add a warning to labels about the reactions and
will work with over-the-counter drugmakers to do the same. Other
pain relievers including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
such as Pfizer Inc.’s Advil and  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Aleve already contain
warnings about the risk of serious skin reactions.  “It is extremely important that people recognize and react
quickly to the initial symptoms of these rare but serious, side
effects, which are potentially fatal,” Sharon Hertz, deputy
director of the FDA’s Division of Anesthesia, Analgesia and
Addiction, said.  Acetaminophen is one of the most widely used drugs in the
U.S. and has been taken by millions of people to treat pain and
fever for decades, the FDA said. It is found in more than 600
medications. J&J lowered the maximum recommended dose for its
Tylenol family of medicines starting in 2011 to lessen the risk
of overdoses and liver damage caused by too much acetaminophen.  Beneficial Effects  “FDA’s actions should be viewed within the context of the
millions who, over generations, have benefited from
acetaminophen,” Hertz said. “Nonetheless, given the severity
of the risk, it is important for patients and health-care
providers to be aware of it.”  A search of the FDA’s adverse event database from 1969 to
2012 found 107 cases of three types of skin conditions that
resulted in 67 hospitalizations and 12 deaths. The FDA said
there were 91 cases of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome and toxic
epidermal necrolysis and 16 cases of acute generalized
exanthematous pustulosis. Acetaminophen can be used alone or in
combination with other drugs including codeine and oxycodone.  “We agree with FDA that this information about skin
reactions should be viewed within the context of the millions
who, over generations, have benefited from acetaminophen,” J&J
said in a statement from its  McNeil Consumer Healthcare  unit.
“Many medications can cause allergic reactions. Stevens-Johnson
Syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis are extremely rare
conditions, the causes of which remain the subject of debate in
the medical community. We will continue to work closely with the
FDA on this issue and next steps related to label changes.”  The ingredient was linked two years ago to liver injuries
and the FDA required all prescription acetaminophen products to
carry a boxed warning of the risk. The agency also required
prescription products to limit each pill to 325 milligrams of
acetaminophen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  