-- Patriot Coal Seeks to Change Loan Accord to Avoid Default
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-08-01T14:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/patriot-coal-seeks-to-change-loan-accord-to-avoid-default.html
Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ) , the bankrupt
mining company, said sharp declines in demand for coal could
cause it to default on loans this year if it can’t change its
current loan agreement.  Over the past year, falling prices for metallurgical coal
have cut into the company’s earnings forecasts, Patriot said in
papers filed in Manhattan bankruptcy court July 30. The St.
Louis-based company filed for bankruptcy in July 2012, citing a
drop in demand and $1.6 billion in lifetime health-care
obligations for its retirees.  Patriot is seeking court approval of a proposed amendment
to a $375 million loan, which lenders have already consented to.
The company said it believes “there is a substantial likelihood
that, if the amendment is not approved, they may not comply”
with current thresholds for earnings beginning in the third
quarter.  Under the previous loan agreement, Patriot was required to
have a minimum of consolidated earnings of $205 million by Dec.
31. The proposed amendment would drop the threshold to $101.3
million.  Patriot, which has $802 million in operating loans, is
still negotiating with representatives of its unionized workers.  On May 29, Patriot won permission to cut pensions and
benefits for 13,000 unionized workers and retirees. The United
Mine Workers of America has objected to its plan to reorganize
under Chapter 11.  The union said the company hasn’t been quick enough to take
action against its former parent,  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , which
profited by spinning off Patriot in 2007, giving it 16 percent
of its assets and 40 percent of its retiree liability.  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-51502,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Missouri ( St. Louis ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  