-- Pennsylvania Will Extend Voter-ID Ban Through Next Election
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   D r e w   G i n g r i c h
-- 2013-08-01T21:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/pennsylvania-agrees-to-extend-voter-id-ban-to-november-election.html
Pennsylvania agreed to let a court
order barring enforcement of the state’s voter-identification
law continue through the November elections.  The agreement, reached as a nonjury trial over the law
concluded, means Pennsylvanians will be able to cast ballots
without presenting photo IDs. The extension needs court
approval. The judge didn’t say when a final decision on the case
will be announced, and the loser will probably appeal, lawyers
have said. The trial started July 15.  “We all have the right to choose our leaders,” Jennifer
Clarke, an attorney for the plaintiffs and executive director of
the Public Interest Law Center of Philadelphia, said today in
closing arguments.  The center, the  American Civil Liberties Union  and other
advocacy groups are asking the court to overturn the voter-ID
legislation, arguing that it unconstitutionally disenfranchises
the poor and elderly.  Alicia Hickok, an attorney for the state, argued that the
law protects the integrity of elections and doesn’t equal
disenfranchisement. She noted that most individual plaintiffs in
the ACLU’s case received valid forms of ID in time to vote in
the past two elections.  “The statute is only to be found unconstitutional if it
clearly violates the Constitution,” Hickok said. “You cannot
assume that the General Assembly intends to violate the
constitution.”  Never Enforced  The law hasn’t been enforced since it was enacted in March
2012. State officials were barred from enforcing it in the
November 2012 and May elections.  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, the ID law
followed similar measures passed in Republican-controlled
states, leading opponents to claim the intent is to suppress the
votes of lower-income people and the elderly, who may be more
inclined to vote for Democrats. Supporters say the laws are
needed to prevent voter fraud.  Pennsylvania ’s law requires a driver’s license, state-issued ID or acceptable alternative such as a military ID to
cast a ballot. IDs must have an expiration date, which
eliminates common forms of photo identification such as
veterans, state employee and student IDs, the ACLU said.  Pennsylvania and the plaintiffs are at odds over the number
of people lacking appropriate ID in the state. The ACLU argued
it may be as many as 710,000.  State’s Count  State officials countered that about 2,500 people applied
for a Pennsylvania Department of State ID, a last resort for
those who lack government-issued identification or wouldn’t
qualify for it.  Judge Bernard McGinley will rule on barring the law’s
enforcement for the next election after lawyers submit written
arguments on Aug. 5. A ruling on a permanent injunction will be
made by full Commonwealth Court, Clarke said.  The case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
330-md-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Gingrich in state court in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
at  gingrichdrew@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 