-- Polish Manufacturing Expands as Growing Orders Signal Recovery
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2013-08-01T08:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/polish-manufacturing-expands-as-growing-orders-signal-recovery.html
Poland ’s manufacturing expanded for
the first time in 16 months, adding to signs of a nascent
recovery in the European Union’s largest eastern economy,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The purchasing managers’ index, a gauge of manufacturing,
rose to 51.1 in July from 49.3 in June, HSBC said today, citing
data compiled by  Markit Economics . That was the strongest
reading since January 2012 and above the median estimate of 50
by 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A result above 50
indicates expansion and a figure below that shows contraction.  Retail sales  and industrial output grew faster than
predicted in June, adding to evidence that Poland is emerging
from its deepest slowdown in more than a decade. The central
bank said last month it was done with cutting  interest rates  as
the record-low borrowing costs should ensure a gradual recovery.  “The PMI survey is yet another data piece that shows that
the Polish economy has bottomed in the first half of 2013,”
 Agata Urbanska , an economist for central and eastern  Europe  at
HSBC in  London , said in an e-mail. “Going forward, the big
question is about the pace of recovery.”  The zloty strengthened 0.5 percent to 4.2342 per euro at
10:47 a.m. in Warsaw. It has gained 2.4 percent in the past
month, the best performance among 24 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The benchmark WIG20 stock index climbed
0.8 percent to 2,345.94 advancing for a fourth day.  ‘Proven Wrong’  Output expanded for the first time since April 2012 and new
orders grew at the fastest pace since April 2011 as
manufacturers start to benefit from rebounding demand from the
euro area, Poland’s biggest export market, according to HSBC.  At the same time, companies continued to shed jobs as they
faced spare capacity and a decline in the volume of outstanding
business, HSBC said.  “Those who thought the economy will succumb to stagnation
have been proven wrong,”  Grzegorz Maliszewski , chief economist
at Bank Millennium SA, said by phone from Warsaw today. “At the
same time, the growth continues to stay weak, which doesn’t
encourage companies to boost employment, supporting the argument
that rates will stay low for an extended period.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  