-- Porsche Wins Ruling in Bid to Torpedo Pendragon U.K. Suit
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2013-08-01T15:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/porsche-wins-ruling-over-bid-to-block-pendragon-u-k-suit.html
Porsche SE won a ruling in its bid to
block a U.K. court from hearing a $195 million suit filed over
the 2008 use of options in the failed bid to take over
 Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   The Stuttgart Regional Court said it can continue to hear a
case Porsche filed against Cayman Islands investment fund
Pendragon (Master) Fund Ltd. because the suit was filed 10 days
before the fund filed its own action in  London . The ruling can
be appealed, Bernhard Schabel, a spokesman for the tribunal,
said by telephone today.  The decision is a win in Porsche’s battle against lawsuits
that are seeking more than 5.4 billion euros ($7.1 billion)
combined. A London court in March stayed Pendragon’s U.K.
action, saying it will wait until the German courts have
determined which case was filed first. A suit in the U.K. would
allow plaintiffs to ask for more disclosure than in  Germany . The
information could subsequently be used against Porsche in the
German courts.  By filing a so-called torpedo suit in Stuttgart, Porsche,
the holding company that sold the Porsche car brand to VW last
year, invoked European Union rules saying the venue where a
party files an action first prevails, and bars another country’s
court from assuming jurisdiction over the same issue.  Lara Melrose, a lawyer representing Pendragon in the U.K.,
declined to immediately comment on today’s ruling.  Failed Bid  Porsche shares advanced 1.9 percent closing at 65.25 euros
in Frankfurt trading.  Most of the cases filed by  hedge funds  and other investors
are now pending in Germany after Porsche won dismissal of many
of the lawsuits filed in the U.S.  Investors claim Porsche lied for months about its
intentions to acquire VW before disclosing on Oct. 26, 2008,
that it controlled 74.1 percent of the larger company’s common
stock and was seeking a takeover. The news caused the shares to
surge as short sellers tried to cover positions.  Porsche welcomes today’s ruling and believes the claims are
unfounded,  Albrecht Bamler , a spokesman for the company, said in
an e-mailed statement.  The fallout from Porsche’s failed bid has shown no signs of
fading. After an investigation of more than three years, former
Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking and ex-Chief
Financial Officer Holger Haerter, who led the takeover drive at
the time, were charged with market manipulation in December.  Lawyers for the two have denied the allegations and said
the charges won’t stick.  Soaring debt eventually led Porsche’s takeover bid to
unravel, prompting a rescue by Volkswagen and reducing Porsche
to a holding company for 50.7 percent of VW’s  common stock . The
Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer completed the purchase of
the Porsche unit that makes the 911 sports car in August last
year.  Today’s case is LG Stuttgart, 18 O 220/12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  