-- Potash Price War Risks Weighing on Uralkali Bonds: Russia Credit
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-08-01T14:32:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/potash-price-war-risks-weighing-on-uralkali-bonds-russia-credit.html
Investors drove OAO Uralkali’s
borrowing costs to a record and Moody’s Investors Service warned
it may cut the Russian potash producer’s debt rating to junk
amid concern the company’s earnings may suffer after it exited a
cartel for the crop nutrient.  The yield on Uralkali’s dollar bonds due April 2018 jumped
28 basis points to 5.65 percent yesterday, taking its two-day
advance to 70 basis points, the biggest increase since the debt
was sold in April. That squeezed the company’s yield discount to
emerging-market metal and mining peers to 151 basis points July
30, from 187 the day before,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes  show.  “It’s unclear what this will do to the market and what
will happen to Uralkali’s” earnings, Konstantin Nemnov, who
helps manage the equivalent of $2.4 billion in debt at TKB BNP
Paribas Investment Partners in  St. Petersburg , said by phone.
“This lack of clarity is the worst thing for bondholders.”  The world’s biggest potash producer, whose board approved a
new Eurobond program last month, announced July 30 it would end
production restrictions that underpinned global prices and
abandoned a venture with a Belarusian miner that controlled
exports from the former  Soviet Union . The decision drove up the
cost of borrowing for Uralkali’s rivals, lifting the yield on
similar-maturity bonds of Saskatchewan-based  Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc.  24 basis points to 2.19 percent July 30.  Belarus Deadlock  Moody’s, which rates Uralkali Baa3, its lowest investment-grade ranking, said the company’s financial and liquidity
profile may come under pressure. The bonds kept gains, with the
yield down 18 basis points at 5.47 percent as of 6:11 p.m. in
Moscow.  Uralkali’s cooperation with Belarusian potash producer
Belaruskali reached “a deadlock” after the government in Minsk
canceled the companies’ exclusive right to export the country’s
potash and Belaruskali made independent deliveries, according to
Uralkali’s July 30 statement. The joint venture controlled about
40 percent of global potash exports.  Uralkali’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization may fall 40 percent next year and its net debt
may climb to a record two times Ebitda, Konstantin Artemov, who
helps manage about $500 million at Raiffeisen Capital in Moscow,
said by phone yesterday.  The company’s net debt was 0.99 times Ebitda in 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Uralkali’s press representative
declined to comment when contacted by phone.  Uralkali sees global potash prices falling below $300 a ton
after the company changes its trading policy, Chief Executive
Officer Vladislav Baumgertner said July 30. The last price
accord for  China  was $400 a ton.  Belarus Bonds  Belarusian bonds sank for a eighth day today, the longest
slump since June, on concern a drop in the price of the county’s
main commodity will crimp budget revenue.  The yield on Belarus’s dollar notes due 2015 rose 35 basis
points, or 0.35 percentage point, to 9.38 percent yesterday, the
highest since June 26.  Belarus, which has no significant natural resources other
than potash, earned $2.7 billion from selling the fertilizer
abroad last year, or 5.6 percent of total export revenue.  The yield on Russia’s dollar bonds maturing in March 2030
fell one basis point to 4.01 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to hold  Russia ’s dollar debt rather than Treasuries
dropped 11 basis points to 214, compared with 193 for  Mexico ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  “Uralkali has launched a price war,” Raiffeisen’s Artemov
said. “There’s uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  