-- Potash Turmoil Threatens England’s First Mine in Forty Years
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2013-08-02T16:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/potash-upheaval-threatens-england-s-first-mine-in-four-decades.html
Opponents of  England ’s first planned
potash mine in 40 years can thank Russian billionaire Suleiman Kerimov for helping their cause.  A decision by OAO Uralkali to withdraw from a powerful
marketing venture has upended the world’s $20 billion potash
industry and is set to slash prices. The news reverberated in
the seaside town of Whitby this week, where a former Citigroup
Inc. banker wants to spend $1.9 billion tunneling beneath a
national park and the  North Sea  to unearth the commodity.  The community of 13,000, some of whom will profit should
the mine pass beneath their land, largely backs the plan,
according to developer  Sirius Minerals Plc. (SXX)  The company argues
it may create more than 1,000 jobs in an area where traditional
industries from fishing to farming are in decline, while critics
from environmental groups to  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  say it’s not
wanted.  “It’s going to be difficult to attract the scale of
investment that’s needed to build these projects,” Paul
Burnside, a principal consultant on potash for research group
CRU in London, said by phone. “You’ve got to either raise that
money or look sufficiently attractive to a buyer to sell the
project. Falling prices are clearly going to make that more
difficult.”  For Sirius Chief Executive Officer Chris Fraser the fallout
from Uralkali’s move is just the latest obstacle in his three-year effort to build the U.K.’s first potash mine in more than
four decades. The Australian’s current focus is winning support
for the mine from a key local planning authority.  Sydney Move  “The value proposition for us is very much longer term,”
Fraser, 39, said in a phone interview from Yorkshire, where he
moved with his wife and two children from Sydney last year.  Sirius’s York Potash will help inject an estimated 1.4
billion pounds ($2.1 billion) annually into the U.K.’s economy
should the mine start producing in 2017. The implications of
Uralkali’s move may even help his project, Fraser said.  “High-cost producers will come under stress and therefore
we will have possibly over the medium term a more consolidated,
more rational, stronger industry.”  The potash marketing venture that Uralkali, co-owned by
Kerimov, is abandoning is one of two that until now have
controlled most of the world’s supply by negotiating fixed-term
supply contracts for their members.  Price War  That means producers don’t compete with each other
individually in export markets, helping them to match output
with demand. The move could be a “game changer” and start a
price war that could last as long as 18 months, Citigroup said
July 30.  Potash is a key crop nutrient used to strengthen plant
roots and protect them against drought. In the U.S., potash
accounts for 21 percent of fertilizer used by farmers.  The price may fall below $300 a metric ton, the lowest
level in at least three years, and hold above $200, which is the
output cost at marginal mines, Uralkali Chief Executive Officer
Vladislav Baumgertner said this week.  Indian Potash Ltd., the country’s biggest importer, said
yesterday it would seek to renegotiate prices for the crop
nutrient. The company had contracted to buy 1 million tons at
about $400 to $410 a ton until March 31.  Key to Sirius’s strategy is that it has already signed
sales agreements with customers for future exports of its
product. The mine will extract polyhalite, Greek for “many
salts,” which contains sulfate of potassium, calcium and
magnesium. Sirius says its 2.66 billion ton resource at 85.7
percent polyhalite is the biggest of its kind in the world.  Underground Pipeline  The company estimates it can produce polyhalite for an
average cost of $36.90 a ton. Uralkali has costs of $62 a ton,
which compares with more than $100 for North American miners and
almost $240 for producers in  Europe , according to a July
presentation by Uralkali. Liberum Capital Ltd. analyst Ash Lazenby estimates the company can achieve a sales price of $150
a ton, the discount stemming from its lower potassium content.
Uralkali’s most recent sales deal with  China  was at $400 a ton.  Sirius’s plan involves extracting polyhalite more than a
mile underground, then crushing, milling and feeding it into a
pipeline -- all beneath the surface to protect the Yorkshire
moor parkland. The submerged 44.5 kilometer (28 mile) pipe will
transport slurry to a port on Teesside, about 220 miles north of
London, where five million tons of product a year will be dried,
granulated and shipped.  Market Unravels  “Landscapes designated as National Parks should be what
they were set up to be,” said Tom Chadwick, chairman of North
Yorkshire Moors Association. “Areas of tranquility, areas of
beautiful landscapes which are for people’s enjoyment. This is
the biggest threat to the national parks for 40 years, since the
last potash mines were put forward.”  Sirius has said it’s confident of satisfying environmental
requirements and has also rebuffed suggestions from Israel
Chemicals that there isn’t demand for its product.  This week’s unraveling of the potash market has coincided
with heightened debate in the coastal community before a
decision by local planners on whether to approve the
development. Recent submissions to the authority have
highlighted environmental and economic hurdles. Sirius last
month asked for a third delay on the ruling as it sought to
respond to objections by an environmental consultant.  “There’s well over 1,000 different types of fungi that
have been recorded in the Whitby area, and that’s just the tip
of the iceberg,” said David Minter, 62, chairman of the Whitby
Naturalists’ Club, which has about 200 members. “We have very
little idea what impact digging a 30 mile pipeline is going to
have on fungi in the soil and other micro-organisms and
invertebrates. There are a lot of unknowns.”  Share Slump  Some local residents are more concerned about the Sirius
share price, which has dropped 35 percent this year. It fell 2.8
percent to 17.5 pence today, giving it a market value of 236
million pounds ($361 million).  “Quite a lot of people have bought shares,” said John
Cook, 64, who is chairman of the Yorkshire Coast Minerals
Association, which represents 190 landowners in the area set to
benefit from the mine. “It is virtually the talk of the town in
this area because it will have an impact on a lot of people.”  Sirius acquired the project in 2011 from Fraser in a deal
that saw his York Potash Ltd. issue 25 million pounds of Sirius
stock.  Locals near the mine own 18 percent of the stock, while 1
percent is controlled by people living within the national park,
according to Sirius.  Fortescue Metals  “One of my goals when I put York Potash into Sirius was to
enable ownership to take place and have transparency,” Fraser
said. “There’s nowhere I can go now without people talking
about the shares.”  Fraser has history in getting huge mining projects up and
running. At Citigroup, he helped  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) 
fund a $2.8 billion iron-ore mine in  Western Australia  that has
transformed that company from a simple explorer to the world’s
fourth-biggest iron-ore exporter worth $10 billion.  Fraser owns 8.5 percent of Sirius. Former senior Fortescue
executives are also major investors and on the company’s board.
Chris Catlow, deputy chairman, holds 7.4 percent and Russell Scrimshaw, chairman, controls 2.7 percent.  While London-based Sirius currently employs just some 65
people, it has estimated the mine could contribute 0.1 percent
to U.K. gross domestic product.  Jobs, Money  “I don’t think nationally we can afford to ignore these
reserves, because the world does need potash to grow food for
the world population,” Peter Beeforth, 60, a Whitby resident
and landowner, said by phone. “It’s supported very widely,
there’s very few dissenters.”  Payments to the 485 mineral rights owners in the park are
estimated to total about 13 million pounds annually, according
to Sirius. The company also projects it will spend 46 million
pounds a year on supplies for the operation, supporting as many
as 239 jobs.  That all translates to moderately increased prosperity for
the locals, said Cook from the Yorkshire Coast Minerals
Association.  “You aren’t going to see many Aston Martins in this part
of the world, but you will see a few battered 4x4s replaced with
new ones.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in  London  at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  