-- Pound Rises Versus Euro After BOE Maintains Policy; Gilts Rally
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-01T12:21:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/pound-weakens-for-fifth-day-against-dollar-before-boe-decision.html
The pound strengthened for the first
time in eight days versus the euro after the Bank of England
left monetary policy unchanged and as a gauge of manufacturing
rose more in July than economists forecast.  Ten-year gilts rose as the central bank’s nine-member
Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor Mark Carney refrained
from expanding its bond-purchase program and kept its benchmark
interest rate at a record low. The Bank of England releases its
quarterly Inflation Report next week, which is scheduled to
include deliberations on providing guidance on future borrowing
costs. The purchasing managers’ index of factory output rose to
the highest since March 2011.  “Sterling has rallied, with flows coming out of the
euro,” said Peter Frank, global head of currency strategy at
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in London. “The rise in
manufacturing PMI doesn’t really make a big difference to the
Bank of England. Carney wants to iron out the deficiencies in
the U.K. economy and that’s going to come through in the
Inflation Report.”  The pound appreciated 0.7 percent to 86.92 pence per euro
at 1:07 p.m. London time after depreciating to 87.70, the
weakest since March 12. The U.K. currency added 0.1 percent to
$1.5228 after dropping as much as 0.5 percent.  The U.K. currency stayed stronger after the  European
Central Bank (EURR002W)  kept its main refinancing rate at a record-low 0.5
percent.  Sterling reversed earlier declines against the dollar after
the MPC kept its stimulus program of asset purchases, known as
quantitative easing, at 375 billion pounds and held its
benchmark interest rate at 0.5 percent, as predicted in separate
Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Forward Guidance  Carney joined the Bank of England from the Bank of Canada,
where he introduced forward guidance in 2009, and now must
fulfill a directive from Chancellor of the Exchequer George
Osborne to assess introducing the strategy in the U.K.  After today’s decision was announced, the  Bank of England 
said it would “respond to the Chancellor’s request for its
assessment of the use of thresholds and forward guidance” in
next week’s Inflation Report.  The pound has weakened 2.4 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro has appreciated 5.4
percent and the dollar has gained 5 percent.  An index of U.K.  manufacturing  activity rose to 54.6 from a
revised 52.9 in June, Markit Economics and the Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply said. Economists forecast
52.8, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Readings above 50
signal expansion.  Data Positive  “This data is clearly positive but the U.K. is coming from
a pretty weak position so it needs to be viewed in that
context,” said Christian Lawrence, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International in  London , speaking before
the central bank’s announcement.  The 10-year gilt yield fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, today to 2.30 percent after dropping to 2.28
percent, the lowest since July 23. The 1.75 percent bond due
September 2022 rose 0.44, or 4.40 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 95.49.  Gilts lost 2.8 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bunds declined
1.3 percent and U.S. Treasuries slid 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  