-- Protesters Stand Their Ground in Scott’s Office Over Florida Law
-- B y   T o l u s e   O l o r u n n i p a
-- 2013-08-01T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/protesters-stand-their-ground-in-scott-s-office-over-florida-law.html
For 17 days and nights, college-aged
activists calling themselves the Dream Defenders have camped at
 Florida  Governor Rick Scott’s office, pledging to eat, sleep and
protest there until he meets their demands.  The group has used debate over the shooting of unarmed
teenager Trayvon Martin -- and the acquittal of his killer last
month -- to push for policies that include outlawing racial
profiling and repealing Florida’s Stand Your Ground law, which
allows deadly force in self-defense outside the home.  The sit-in at the Tallahassee statehouse, the longest-running in recent Florida history, follows demonstrations in the
capitals of North Carolina, Texas and  Wisconsin  over Republican-backed policies. The Florida protesters, mostly black and
Hispanic college students, have made it a mission to target
Scott, a 60-year-old Republican who polls show is vulnerable in
his 2014 re-election bid.  “The pressure is on him because he’s a year and a few
months away from being able to be re-elected,” said Melanie
Andrade, 21, president of the Dream Defenders chapter at Florida
A&M University in Tallahassee. The protest “is going to make
him look bad, because we have national and international
attention.”  Wearing a T-shirt that read “The World is Ours” under a
sleeveless leather motorcycle jacket, she said: “At some point,
he’s going to be forced to act.”  Summoning Lawmakers  Scott met with the group two weeks ago, and rejected their
request for a special session of the legislature, which isn’t
scheduled to convene again until March. Instead, the governor
declared a day of prayer.  “The Stand Your Ground law should stay on the books,”
Scott told the protesters.  Demonstrations in other capitals haven’t swayed lawmakers
and governors.  In North Carolina, protests every Monday have denounced a
Republican agenda that included regulations on abortion
providers, voting restrictions and cuts to unemployment
benefits. In  Texas , protests began in June seeking to prevent
abortion restrictions that were later adopted.  In Wisconsin, labor advocates calling themselves the
Solidarity Singers have been coming to the Capitol in Madison
nearly every weekday since Governor Scott Walker curbed
collective-bargaining rights for public unions in 2011.  Stalemate Frustration  Partisanship has meant heightened unrest, said Rory
McVeigh, director of the Center for the Study of Social
Movements at the University of Notre Dame in  Indiana .  “There’s been quite a bit of frustration with stalemates
in politics and things not being done,” he said. “That helps
encourage people to take it to the streets.”  The Dream Defenders, whose occupation has ranged from about
a dozen protesters to more than 200, said they can sustain it
for months. Singer Harry Belafonte and civil-rights activist
Jesse Jackson Sr. joined them to rally support. Musician Stevie Wonder said he wouldn’t perform in Florida until the state
changes the Stand Your Ground law.  The students, many on summer break, have settled in,
stockpiling pillows, blankets and food. They’ve set up shop in
the reception area outside Scott’s office, crowding onto antique
couches and chairs during the day. They organize strategy
sessions, host discussions on race and stage poetry slams.  Marble Beds  At night, they sleep on mats covering marble floors in the
corridor just outside the reception area.  The Scott administration has allowed them to remain even
when the office is closed. The governor has avoided his Capitol
office since the protest began.  The group formed last year after Martin was shot dead in
Sanford, a city of 54,000 about 20 miles (32 kilometers) north
of Orlando. The shooter, George Zimmerman, claimed self-defense
and initially was not charged with a crime. The group re-emerged
last month when a jury acquitted Zimmerman in a murder trial
that sparked a national debate over race.  The jury considered Florida’s Stand Your Ground law, which
grants immunity to people who use deadly force to respond to the
threat of bodily harm. Stand Your Ground was first introduced in
Florida in 2005 and has spread to more than two dozen states
with the help of the National Rifle Association.  ‘Freedom Rides’  President  Barack Obama  last month said it would be
“useful” to examine Stand Your Ground laws that he said may
encourage confrontations.  Leaders of the 16-month-old Dream Defenders are organizing
“Freedom Rides” to bring in additional protesters from New
York, Philadelphia and Atlanta to push the cause.  “Florida’s youth, specifically black, brown and poor
youth, are in a state of crisis,” said Phillip Agnew, executive
director of Dream Defenders, at a July 23 news conference at the
Capitol. “Young people are dying, no matter their color, and
the governor of Florida has remained silent.”  The students threaten to hound Scott with demonstrations
and criticism at a critical time. Scott has battled low approval
ratings since he was elected in 2010, and a June poll of likely
voters by Quinnipiac University found him trailing potential
opponents by at least 10 percentage points.  The Dream Defenders are pushing lawmakers to pass a measure
called Trayvon’s Law that would repeal Stand Your Ground, ban
racial profiling by law enforcement and end strict discipline
policies that send thousands of public-school students to
prison.  Law-enforcement officials have opted against arresting the
protesters as long as they remain peaceful. They say security
costs have climbed above $200,000, with much coming in the
form of overtime pay for Capitol police officers.  Some lawmakers say they’re growing impatient.  State Representative Dennis Baxley, a Republican from Ocala
who sponsored the Stand Your Ground law in 2005, said it’s time
for the demonstration to end.  “They have been heard and they have been responded to,”
he said. “They should stop creating an unbudgeted expense for
the taxpayers of Florida.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toluse Olorunnipa in Tallahassee, Florida at 
 tolorunnipa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  