-- Puerto Rico Electric Agency Near Highest Yield Before Debt Sale
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-01T17:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/puerto-rico-electric-agency-near-highest-yield-before-debt-sale.html
Bonds of  Puerto Rico ’s electric
agency, which runs the biggest U.S. public-power system, are
trading near historically high yields a week before the
authority plans the first bond sale from the island in eight
months.  Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority securities maturing in
July 2040 and rated one step above junk by Moody’s Investors
Service traded with an average yield of 6.85 percent today. The
 interest rate  reached 7.37 percent last month, the highest since
the debt sold in March 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The agency, which plans to sell $600 million of tax-exempt
bonds, is the sole provider of electricity on the island of 3.7
million people. The economy shrank 4.5 percent in the year
through June, the steepest contraction since 2010, according to
Puerto Rico’s Government Development Bank. The fiscal health of
the utility is linked to that of the commonwealth, which is
ranked one level above speculative grade by the three major
rating companies, said Lord Abbett & Co.’s Daniel Solender.  “People don’t always pay their bills,” said Solender, who
helps manage $19.5 billion of local debt in  Jersey City ,  New
Jersey . “Will they need to get backup support from the
commonwealth? Ultimately you hope they’re a stand-alone credit,
but you don’t know if they’re necessarily going to be.”  Yield Pull  Next week’s sale may offer yields of about 6.75 percent,
said Solender, along with portfolio managers Dennis Derby at
Wells Capital Management, Tom Spalding at Nuveen Investments
Inc., and Michael Walls at Waddell & Reed Financial Inc.  It’s the first borrowing from a Puerto Rico entity since
November and the biggest in almost 16 months, Bloomberg data
show. Debt sold on the island is tax-exempt in all U.S. states.  Morgan Stanley, the lead underwriter, declined to comment
because the bank isn’t talking about the deal publicly yet, said
Lauren Bellmare, a spokeswoman for the New York-based company.  Joele Frank, a New York communications firm that represents
the Government Development Bank, didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment. The GDB handles the island’s capital-markets transactions.  The utility may need to offer yields above 6.75 percent to
lure buyers given the deal’s size and withdrawals from municipal
mutual funds, said Walls, who helps manage $2.2 billion of high-yield munis at Waddell & Reed in  Overland Park ,  Kansas .  Cash Drain  Investors have pulled $14.7 billion from muni funds in the
eight weeks through July 24, the most since February 2011,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  The Puerto Rico agency’s securities are appealing when
compared with corporate bonds, Walls said. For investors in the
top federal tax bracket, the 6.85 percent yield equals a taxable
return of 11.34 percent.  That’s more than double the  5.28 percent  on an index of 30-year company bonds with similar ratings. The spread between the
electric-authority bonds maturing in July 2040 and the corporate
index is 1.2 percentage points, the most since the Puerto Rico
bonds were sold in 2010.  Moody’s rates the agency’s debt Baa3 with a negative
outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  