-- Putin Sway Over Lukashenko Bolstered as Potash Bet Backfires
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2013-08-02T12:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/putin-sway-over-lukashenko-strengthens-as-potash-bet-backfires.html
Belarus is poised to become more
reliant on Russia after President Aleksandr Lukashenko’s hard
line on sales of potash, the country’s main natural resource,
shattered an alliance that helped set the crop nutrient’s price.  Lukashenko, who has ruled since 1994, faces the prospect of
dropping export revenue as potash prices plunge. That raises
uncertainty about funding once the final payment from a Russian-led $3 billion bailout loan is made this year. The cash is tied
to policy measures, including state assets sales.  The east European country is part of a customs union that
Russian President Vladimir Putin has championed to strengthen
economic ties among former Soviet republics. Lukashenko sold its
natural gas pipelines to  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  after disputes over energy
prices, leaving state potash company Belaruskali as the nation’s
most valuable asset. Lukashenko says it’s worth $36 billion.  “Russia wants to get its hands on key assets in Belarus,”
said Joerg Forbrig, a senior program officer at the German
Marshall Fund of the United States in Berlin. “If share prices
of potash companies are plummeting, this makes it easier for
Russians to take over Belarusian producers.”  Belarus’s dollar-denominated debt due in 2015 declined for
a ninth day, increasing the yield 10 basis points to 9.62
percent as of 1:39 p.m. in Moscow. The yield has jumped 149
basis points, or 1.49 percentage points, from the July 29 close
after OAO  Uralkali (URKA) , part owned by billionaire Suleiman Kerimov,
broke off cooperation with its Belarusian competitor.  Export Driver  The country, which lies between Poland and Russia, earned
$2.7 billion selling potash abroad last year, or 5.9 percent of
total exports. Belaruskali is its most profitable company.  Financing talks with the International Monetary Fund have
stalled over what Belarus says are political demands, as it
waits for a final $440 million payment from the Russian-led
facility this year. The country is now looking to China, the
world’s biggest potash consumer, for a loan to boost its foreign
currency reserves, central bank chairman Nadezhda Ermakova said
July 19.  Potash prices may “easily” drop by a quarter, which would
increase Belarus’s trade deficit by about 40 percent, according
to  Michael Ganske , head of emerging-market debt at Rogge Global
Partners in  London . The company has $56 billion under
management.  ‘Strong Grip’  “At some stage the system will change, but that would have
to happen without Lukashenko,” Ganske said yesterday by e-mail.
Lukashenko has a “strong grip on all institutions,” allowing
him ride out economic crises such as a 2011 currency devaluation
that sent inflation above 100 percent, he said.  Uralkali, the world’s largest potash producer, said it
decided to end output restrictions that underpinned global
prices and suspend exports through Minsk-based Belarusian Potash
Co., a venture it established with Belaruskali in 2005. BPC had
controlled about 40 percent of global exports.  Both companies are racing to buyers to shore up orders,
with Uralkali betting Russia’s rail links to  China  will secure
its access to the world’s biggest consumer of the nutrient.
Belarus, which is landlocked, is looking to  Brazil .  Belaruskali plans to build ports in Brazil, which consumes
about 20 percent of its exports, Director General Valery
Kiriyenko said in an interview July 31. In April, the company
bought 30 percent of  Lithuania ’s Klaipeda port terminal, which
handles more than 90 percent of its exports.  China Investment  China has also shown interest in Belarus, building a $5
billion city in the forests near Minsk, the capital. The
manufacturing hub is designed to house as many as 155,000
people, according to Chinese and Belarusian officials.  It may take as long as nine months for Belaruskali to
organize a new trading structure, Elena Sakhnova, an analyst at
VTB Capital in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. While
profitability may fall next year, revenue may recover to $3
billion from $2.7 billion in 2012, thanks to low costs
comparable with Uralkali’s, she said.  Ties between Putin, 60, and Lukashenko, 58, haven’t always
been warm. They have sparred over prices for exported Russian
fuel, leading to a brief shut-off in oil supplies in January
2007. Still,  Russia  has provided its smaller neighbor with
discounted natural gas and crude for years, seeing the nation of
9.5 million as a loyal political ally.  Bigger Fish  Belarus has embraced a Russian-led customs union and common
economic space with Kazakhstan. The closer integration has
boosted trade, while volumes between Russia and Ukraine, which
opted against joining, dropped in the first quarter, Putin said
July 27 in a meeting with Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych
in Kiev.  Lukashenko skipped that meeting. He also showed a sense of
one-upsmanship after Putin claimed to have caught a 21-kilogram
(46 pounds) pike during a vacation last month. Putin’s boast was
lampooned on social networks, with professional anglers saying
the weight appeared exaggerated.  “I personally pulled out a 57-kilogram catfish,”
Lukashenko said in televised comments this week. The catch, he
said, came from the Pripyat river, which was contaminated in the
1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster.  Russia may come to the rescue again as the Belarusian ruble
comes under pressure, Jacob Nell and Alina Slyusarchuk,
economists at Morgan Stanley, said in a research report.
Belarus’s $8 billion reserves equal two months of imports.  Ruble Weakening  “The failure to agree to any significant privatizations
since 2011 and the collapse of the potash marketing arrangements
suggest that reaching agreement with Russia may be complex,”
they said.  Uralkali says the decision to break with the alliance was
motivated by business interests.  “There is no politics in our decision to abandon the BPC
joint venture,” Vladislav Baumgertner, Uralkali’s chief
executive officer, said in an interview in Moscow on July 31.
“We just didn’t want to lose money after the actual cooperation
with Belaruskali in international trading collapsed once they
started shipping some volumes outside BPC.”  The decision was “unilateral” and without warning,
Belaruskali said in a  statement  July 31. Uralkali sold about 20
percent of its exports through the joint venture in 2012 and the
first half of this year, with the rest going through its own
trading unit, Belaruskali said. Uralkali’s press office declined
to comment.  U.S. Sanctions  American sanctions against the Belarusian state holding
company that manages Belaruskali have closed some markets to
potash from Belarus or sold by BPC, while the U.S. accounted for
as much as 5 percent of Uralkali’s sales last year.  Cooperation with Belarus reached “a deadlock” after
Lukashenko canceled BPC’s exclusive right to ship the nation’s
potash abroad in December, Uralkali said July 30.  “It’s hard to say why Belarus was pushing to the split of
the partnership, as the cooperation was a win-win for both
parties,” said VTB Capital’s Sakhnova. “Maybe Lukashenko was
just seeking more freedom for his country’s most valuable
asset.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  