-- TransCanada to Proceed With $12 Billion Pipe to East Coast
-- B y   D a v i d   S c a n l a n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-08-01T20:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/transcanada-to-proceed-with-c-12-billion-pipeline-to-east-coast.html
     Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) -- TransCanada Corp., the country’s
second-biggest pipeline operator, plans to go ahead with a C$12
billion ($11.6 billion) pipeline that will ship oil from Western
Canada to the East Coast.  The Energy East project would have a capacity of 1.1
million barrels a day and be in service by the end of 2017 for
deliveries to  Quebec  and to New Brunswick in 2018, the Calgary-based company said today in a statement.  The project to supply East Coast refineries and export
terminals involves converting a portion of 3,000 kilometers
(1,864 miles) of existing 42-inch natural gas pipeline and
building 1,400 kilometers of new pipeline, the company said.  The new line would be in addition to the proposed $5.3
billion Keystone XL pipeline from  Alberta ’s oil sands to the
Gulf Coast, which is pending approval from the U.S. government.  “Energy East is one solution for transporting crude oil
but the industry also requires additional pipelines such as
Keystone XL to transport growing supplies of Canadian and U.S.
crude oil to existing North American markets,” Chief Executive
Officer  Russ Girling  said in the statement.  The project is bigger than TransCanada’s previous estimate
of 850,000 barrels a day, and the company has an agreement with
Irving Oil Corp. to build a new deepwater marine terminal in
Saint John, New Brunswick, according to the statement. Irving,
which runs a 300,000-barrel-a-day refinery, said in a separate
statement it will spend $300 million on the marine terminal.  Higher Cost  TransCanada’s cost is almost twice the $7 billion that  Carl Kirst , an analyst at BMO  Capital Markets (QGCM) , had estimated.
Investors are “near the good-riddance” point with the Keystone
XL project, Kirst wrote in a note today to clients. “Energy
East not only can take the place of XL, it becomes an even
larger driver to future value.”  Girling said the cost is “in line with a project this
size.”  “It translates into a toll that is very reasonable,” he
said at a press conference.  The connection to the coast will allow oil from  Western
Canada (CWB)  to be shipped to the U.S. Eastern Seaboard, and to
destinations as distant as Asia, Girling said.  It’s more likely that the oil will go to Canadian
refineries, where it will replace higher-priced imports from the
Middle East, Girling said.  Bakken Oil  TransCanada has discussed shipping oil from the Bakken
formation, TransCanada President Alex Pourbaix said. He didn’t
specify how much or say whether the oil would come from the U.S.
or Canadian portion of the field.  Oil-sands production is expected to more than double to 5.2
million barrels a day by 2030, according to the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers. Canadian oil has traded
below the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude, because
producers lack transportation to ship it to refiners. Western
Canada Select averaged $16.75 a barrel below WTI in the second
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Council of Canadians said the project would endanger
waterways, citing oil spills caused by other pipeline operators.
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  spilled 20,000 barrels of oil into the Kalamazoo
River in  Michigan  in 2010 and Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Pegasus
pipeline ruptured in March, sending 5,000 barrels of oil flowing
through streets in Mayflower,  Arkansas .  Bay Threatened  “This would threaten the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Bay
of Fundy, water bodies that must be protected as part of the
commons and a public trust, not as a highway for oil exports,”
Maude Barlow, national chairwoman of the social justice group,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Pourbaix said the project will have a minimal environmental
footprint, since it will use existing pipe for most of its route
and follow existing rights-of-way where possible. TransCanada
will use electric pumps, which will reduce air emissions, and
build pump stations on the site of existing gas-compression
stations.  TransCanada rose 2.3 percent to C$48.01 at the close in
Toronto.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Scanlan in Toronto at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  