-- Treasury Yield 3-Month Rally Capped by Growth Data, Nomura Says
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-08-01T16:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/treasury-yield-3-month-rally-capped-by-growth-data-nomura-says.html
Treasury  yields  will halt their
three-month rise amid insufficiently strong U.S. economic
growth, according to George Goncalves of Nomura Holdings Inc.  “In order to break meaningfully above 2.75 percent, you’ve
got to have strong economic data and the housing market not
showing weakness,” Goncalves, the head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura, said during an interview on Bloomberg
Radio’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Scarlet Fu. “The
first moment we saw rates back up we saw some housing
pullback.”  Mortgage applications  fell  3.7 percent yesterday after a
1.2 percent decline the prior month. Rates for a 30-year home
loan rose to 4.39 percent in the week ended August 1, from a low
of 3.35 percent in May, Mclean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac said
in a statement. Mortgage rates tend to track the 10-year
Treasury bond.  Benchmark  note yields  rose 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 2.69 percent today. They last touched 2.75
percent on July 8, the highest since August 2011. Yields have
soared more than 100 basis points since May 3, when a better-than-forecast Labor Department payroll report kicked off
speculation the Federal Reserve would begin to draw down its
record stimulus.  “The question is: are we going to get more momentum in the
data?” said Goncalves of Nomura, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “If we’re just going to hit consensus,
there is the risk they don’t taper in September. They never
definitely said September is the time to taper.”  The Fed, which has been buying $85 billion of bonds each
month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs, will start
trimming purchases in September, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in  New York  at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  