-- Richter Rallies to Highest in Week as Sales Rise: Budapest Mover
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-08-01T09:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/richter-rallies-to-highest-in-week-as-sales-rise-budapest-mover.html
Gedeon  Richter Nyrt .,  Hungary ’s
biggest drugmaker, rose to the highest in almost a week after
the company posted a second-quarter jump in sales and management
maintained its forecast for revenue growth.  The stock  added  as much as 3 percent and traded up 1.1
percent at 3,499 forint by 10:27 a.m. in Budapest, poised for
its first increase in seven days. A close at that level would be
its highest since July 26. The BUX index  slid  0.5 percent.  Richter’s  sales  increased 9.5 percent to 92 billion forint
($407 million) in the second-quarter, driven primarily by a
boost in exports to Ukraine and stong revenue from China, the
company said. “China could become our second-largest market as
soon as this year or in the next couple of years,” Chief
Executive Officer Erik Bogsch told reporters in Budapest today.  Bogsch reiterated a February forecast for group-level sales
rising 3 percent in euro terms this year and an operating margin
of 14 percent. Management sees as much as 35 million euros in
annual sales from  China , he said. Ukraine and former Soviet
states represent other areas of growth, while U.S. revenue may
drop as much as a quarter, Bogsch said.  Net income for the period declined 16 percent to 9.5
billion forint as a result of financial losses on the re-evaluation of foreign-currency loans and trade receivables.  “Richter earnings beat the most optimistic expectations as
sales rose to a record high” and profitability showed signs of
“stable strengthening,” analysts at Budapest-based brokerage
Equilor Zrt. said in an e-mailed note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  