-- Rupiah Forecasts Cut as Central Bank Eases Grip: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-08-02T05:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/rupiah-forecasts-cut-as-central-bank-eases-grip-southeast-asia.html
Analysts are lowering their rupiah
forecasts by the most in 18 months as Bank Indonesia allows the
 exchange rate  to more accurately reflect worsening exports and
an exodus of funds from the nation’s stocks and bonds.  The median estimate for end-2013 dropped 2.4 percent to
10,100 per dollar in July, the biggest decline since January
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Macquarie Group
Ltd. (MQG) , the second-most accurate forecaster in the past year, cut
its view by 3.8 percent to 10,600 on July 23, the day the rupiah
fell by the most in 13 months. Among banks that freshened
projections since then,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  sees 10,800, Credit
Suisse Group AG 10,597 and Barclays Plc 10,333.  Indonesian exports fell for 15 straight months through June
as coal,  palm oil  and tin prices plummeted, contributing to a
current account that has been in deficit for six quarters
through March. Concern the  Federal Reserve  will cut stimulus has
triggered $3.6 billion in outflows from stocks and bonds in the
past three months, while Bank Indonesia has raised its  benchmark
rate  by 75 basis points over the past two meetings to stem
inflation that surged to a four-year high in July.  “The recent depreciation of the rupiah is helping to take
the currency toward levels more consistent with fundamentals,”
 Prakriti Sofat , a regional economist at Barclays in  Singapore ,
said in a July 30 interview. “Whilst the recent rate hikes from
the central bank were a positive step, we think it may not be
enough against a backdrop of Fed tapering and associated dollar
strength.”  Worst Performer  The rupiah fell 3.4 percent in July to 10,278 per dollar,
prices from local banks show. That was the biggest drop since
February 2009 and the sharpest depreciation among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The rupiah lost 1.8
percent in the week through July 26, including a 1.3 percent
decline on July 23, the day Bank Indonesia said the exchange
rate was moving toward a  new equilibrium  that is in line with
economic fundamentals.  The spot rate, which fell 0.1 percent to 10,280 per dollar
as of 12:30 p.m. today in Jakarta, is weaker than the median
year-end forecast, reflecting the fact that 17 of the 27
estimates were made before the central bank allowed a more rapid
slide on July 23. The rupiah is now trading 1.1 percent stronger
than the one-month non-deliverable forwards, compared with a
premium of as much as 5 percent in June.  Inflation accelerated to 8.6 percent in July from 5.9
percent the previous month, official data showed yesterday,
after the government increased the price of subsidized gasoline
in June by 33 percent. Consumer prices will advance 6 percent
this year, according the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Basic Balance  Indonesia will still spend 199.85 trillion rupiah ($20
billion) subsidizing fuel this year, according to the revised
2013 budget. The nation’s  current-account shortfall  will
probably widen to $8 billion in the second quarter, from the
$5.3 billion gap in the first three months of 2013, and remain
in deficit until at least the third quarter, Bank Indonesia
Deputy Governor Perry Warjiyo said on July 30.  The current-account shortfall exceeded  foreign-direct
investment  in the country for the two quarters through March,
official data show. This “basic balance” deficit is the main
factor influencing the direction of the currency, said  Helmi Arman , a Jakarta-based economist at Citigroup Inc., the most
accurate rupiah forecaster over the past year, which has a year-end estimate of 10,158 per dollar made on July 16.  Forex Reserves  “Because of this gap, a stall in the inflows of portfolio
investments is already enough to exert pressure on the balance
of payments and the rupiah,” he said in a July 29 interview.
“There need not necessarily be a capital outflow.”  Indonesia’s  foreign-exchange reserves  fell $7.1 billion,
the biggest drop since September 2011, to $98 billion in June,
official data show, as the central bank defended the currency.
Reserves probably declined at a slower pace in July to about $94
billion to $96 billion as  Bank Indonesia  reduced intervention,
Leo Rinaldy, an economist at PT Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta,
wrote in a July 30 research note.  Credit Agricole CIB (ACA)  maintained its year-end forecast for
the rupiah at 9,890 per dollar, the only one of 10 analysts that
submitted new estimates since July 23 to predict the currency
will strengthen beyond 10,000. The lender is waiting to gauge
the reaction to the Fed’s possible stimulus reduction, said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist.  “By the end of the year, two factors will have changed,”
he said in a July 31 interview. “Inflation will have begun to
decline and the market will learn to live with the idea of Fed
tapering, so sentiment will improve.”  Structural Problems  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy posted trade deficits in
eight of the nine months through June. The price of palm oil has
fallen 23 percent over the past 12 month in  Kuala Lumpur , while
thermal coal and tin have dropped 15 percent and 12 percent,
respectively, in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Indonesia’s terms of trade are worsening and one way to
address this is to allow the currency to weaken, Khoon Goh, a
foreign-exchange strategist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Singapore, said in a July 30 interview. The
government needs to boost infrastructure spending and lure more
foreign investment to the oil and gas and mining industries to
remedy structural problems in the economy, he said.  “The fact that Bank  Indonesia  was trying to hold the
rupiah previously at above 10,000 was never sustainable given
that it was eroding the level of their reserves,” Goh said,
adding that his year-end estimate was 10,350 per dollar. “The
rupiah will continue to depreciate as the country needs to
address the current-account deficit, which is structurally
weak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  