-- Russia Manufacturing Unexpectedly Shrinks as PMI at 43-Month Low
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-08-01T07:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/russia-manufacturing-unexpectedly-shrinks-as-pmi-at-43-month-low.html
Russian manufacturing unexpectedly
shrank in July, with a gauge of conditions in the industry
falling to the lowest since December 2009 and marking the first
contraction in almost two years, according to HSBC Holdings Plc.  The HSBC  Russia  Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index
fell to 49.2 from a four-month high of 51.7 in June, HSBC  said ,
citing data compiled by London-based Markit Economics. The
median estimate of three economists in a Bloomberg survey was
for a drop to 50.9. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Declining production follows a surprise contraction in
 service industries  in June, adding to evidence the Russian
economy is slowing. The drop, combined with signs of a weakening
labor market and slower inflation, suggests stimulus measures
may help revive growth, according to HSBC.  “This should move forward cuts in key policy rates in
Russia,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist for Russia at HSBC,
said in the statement. “Output, new orders and employment –-all
key PMI indexes –- marked significant falls to below the 50
point no-change mark in July.”  The RTS Index of 50 stocks climbed 1.1 percent to 1,328.41
as of 11:14 a.m. in Moscow. The dollar-denominated gauge has
retreated 13 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent drop
in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Rail cargo volumes tumbled 2.2 percent in July from a year
earlier, state-run OAO Russian Railways said today in an e-mailed statement. The contraction will probably slow to 1.5
percent in August, Chief Executive Officer  Vladimir Yakunin  told
reporters yesterday outside Moscow.  Economy Slows  Economic growth decelerated to 1.7 percent in the first
half, according to Economy Ministry estimates, from a 3.4
percent expansion for 2012. Signs are emerging that the economy
is operating below potential, meaning fiscal or monetary
stimulus may help bolster output, Economy Minister  Alexei Ulyukayev  said at a cabinet meeting July 25.  The central bank refrained from cutting its main lending
rates for a 10th month in July as inflation remained above this
year’s target range of 5 percent to 6 percent. Policy makers
will keep the overnight auction-based repurchase rate at 5.5
percent at their next meeting August 9, according to the median
estimate of 14 economists in a Bloomberg  survey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  