-- Sanofi Cuts Forecast as Earnings Miss on Brazilian Woes
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-08-01T15:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/sanofi-cuts-forecast-as-earnings-miss-on-generic-woes.html
Sanofi (SAN)  cut its full-year forecast as
second-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates, hurt by
inventory mismanagement in  Brazil  and generic competition.  Earnings per share excluding some costs and currency swings
may fall between 7 percent and 10 percent,  France ’s largest
drugmaker said in a statement. Sanofi previously expected profit
to show no change or drop 5 percent at worst. The stock slumped
the most in six weeks.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said today he
continues to expect a return to growth in the second half. Last
quarter’s 23 percent earnings decline reflected generic
competition for some of the Paris-based company’s best-selling
medicines and poor performance at several units, including the
one that sells generic drugs in Brazil.  “There’s no point in sugar-coating this, this is a quarter
where we have disappointed,” Viehbacher said on a call with
analysts today. “I personally don’t like disappointing, my team
doesn’t like disappointing. There’s clearly some work to be
done.”  Sanofi fell 4.1 percent to 76.85 euros in Paris. The shares
have returned 11 percent this year including reinvested
dividends,  trailing  a 19 percent return in the Bloomberg Europe
Pharmaceutical Index.  ‘Shocking Results’  Profit excluding some costs fell to 1.48 billion euros
($1.96 billion), or 1.11 euros a share, last quarter. That
missed the 1.74 billion-euro average of 12  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue slipped 9.8 percent to 8 billion euros last
quarter, also falling short of estimates.  “It’s a pretty shocking set of results,”  Michael Leuchten , an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London , said in a
telephone interview. “The whole idea that you can sleep quietly
with this stock because it’s an emerging markets story, it’s a
consumer story, you’re not exposed to pipeline risk -- clearly
that hasn’t quite worked out this quarter.”  The company took two charges totaling 201 million euros
because inventory at customers in Brazil was “significantly and
inappropriately” higher than necessary. Sanofi has recalled
some stock that is expiring and appointed new local management,
Viehbacher said. The problems may take 12 to 18 months to
reverse, he said.  Brazil Setbacks  The setbacks took place at Sanofi’s Medley unit, which
Viehbacher bought for 1.5 billion reais ($660 million) in 2009,
his second acquisition after joining as CEO. The first was the
Mexican generic-drug maker Kendrick as Viehbacher pursued a
strategy of seeking growth in developing markets. Sanofi in
February bought Genfar, a Colombian maker of generics.  “ Emerging markets  were meant to be that driver, that
platform that allows them to push the topline at least 5
percent, which they’ll now struggle to do,” Leuchten said.  Sanofi’s branded drugs also suffered last quarter as
revenue from new medicines failed to offset generic competition
for treatments including the blood thinner Lovenox and the
cancer drug Eloxatin, which lost patent protection a year ago.  Generic competition wiped out 1.04 billion euros of sales
in the first half, Sanofi said. The company forecast in May that
cheaper copies of its medicines would probably lead to a total
of 800 million euros in lost profit in the first half.  Sales of vaccines also fell, as did revenue from animal-health products as the Frontline flea-killer faced generic
competition. The company plans to introduce a new product with
“significant benefits” over Frontline in time for next year’s
flea and tick season, according to Viehbacher.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  While the second-quarter performance is “disappointing,”
the one-time nature of the Brazil problem and the fact that
Sanofi is now over most of the patent cliff means future
quarters will be more favorable, said Jeffrey Holford, an
analyst at Jefferies International Ltd. in  New York .  “This may be the last great buying opportunity on Sanofi
before the rebound,” Holford wrote in a note today.  The report wasn’t all bad news. Sales of the diabetes drug
Lantus climbed 18 percent in constant currencies to 1.41 billion
euros, while revenue from the Genzyme unit, which sells
treatments for rare genetic diseases, jumped 26 percent in
constant currencies to 525 million euros.  More Acquisitions  Sanofi continues to seek bolt-on acquisitions of about 1 to
2 billion euros per year, Viehbacher said today, declining to
comment on specific targets. The company is looking primarily
for deals in emerging markets, non-prescription products and
branded generics, but isn’t interested in buying companies with
a single product, Viehbacher said.  “There’s an awful lot of things out there in the market
where given the high price of them it’s pretty easy to make
someone else’s shareholders wealthy, but it’s not so obvious how
you make a beneficial difference to Sanofi shareholders,” he
said. “It’s a lot tougher to find value-enhancing deals at the
moment.”  Viehbacher said local authorities in  China  visited a
regional office in Shenyang on July 29, though the company
didn’t know what the purpose of the inspection was. Sanofi’s
China headquarters in  Shanghai  haven’t been checked, he said.  Chinese authorities have accused Sanofi’s rival
GlaxoSmithKline Plc of economic crimes amounting to 3 billion
 yuan  ($489 million) in spurious travel and meeting expenses as
well as trade in sexual favors that were conducted through a
travel agency it used. Sanofi said last week it had used the
same travel agency but stopped when the allegations of
wrongdoing surfaced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  