-- Saudi Arabia Appoints Al-Ghamdi Bourse CEO Amid Opening Bets
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-08-01T14:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/saudi-arabia-appoints-al-ghamdi-bourse-ceo-amid-opening-bets.html
Saudi Arabia  appointed Adel Al-Ghamdi
as chief executive officer of the Arab world’s largest stock
exchange, amid bets the kingdom will open its $416 billion
market to foreign investors as early as next year.  Al-Ghamdi replaces Abdullah Al-Suweilmy, according to a
 statement posted  on the exchange website today. He started as
CEO on July 1 and was most recently general manager of the
corporate finance and issuance division at the Saudi Capital
Market Authority, it said. The benchmark  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX) 
fell less than 0.1 percent in Riyadh today, after rallying 5.6
percent in July, the fifth consecutive monthly gain.  Foreign investors outside the Gulf Cooperation Council
countries can’t buy Saudi shares directly, and access the market
through equity swaps and exchange-traded funds. Deutsche Bank AG
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are among banks that have predicted the
market may loosen the restrictions. Such a move could attract as
much as $30 billion of inflows,  John Burbank , founder of $3.7
billion hedge fund Passport Capital LLC, said in February.  “The indications are that the plans are being put in place
to open up to foreigners,”  Oliver Bell , London-based  money
manager  at T. Rowe’s Africa & Middle East Fund, said by e-mail
today. “It’s encouraging that someone who understands foreign
investors is put in an important place.”  Gradual Opening  Al-Ghamdi’s appointment follows the reshuffling of some
government positions in the kingdom since 2011. Fahad al-Mubarak, previously a managing director at Morgan Stanley, took
over as the central bank governor in December that year, while
Abdulaziz Al-Helaissi from JPMorgan Chase & Co. became deputy
central bank governor.  Mohammad Al-Sheikh, a World Bank executive representing
Saudi Arabia, was named chairman of the market regulator in
February. The kingdom will only open the bourse to foreigners
“after intensive study and gradually,” and the regulator is
seeking to boost institutional investments, he said in May.  The Tadawul, whose market value is close to that of  South
Africa ’s bourse, has rallied 16 percent this year. That matches
the advance of the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  and compares with a
decline of about 10 percent for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Broker Hub  “Being an ex-CMA executive will improve and increase the
synchronization between market-related bodies,” Fadi Al Said,
senior  fund manager  at ING Investment Management in Dubai, said
by e-mail today. “This will hopefully set the ground for the
opening of the market.”  The largest Arab economy has taken other steps in recent
months to facilitate the change. In April, the market regulator
announced a plan to issue credit ratings for local companies,
and a month later it adopted a stock-price fluctuation limit of
10 percent for shares on their first trading day.  Weekend Change  Saudi Arabia in June aligned its working week with GCC
countries to span Sunday through Thursday. The move demonstrates
the kingdom is “keen to have more overlap with the rest of the
world when it comes to doing business,” Bell said.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch are among global banks that have set up offices in
Riyadh as a hub for brokers covering the GCC region in
anticipation the market will open up. MSCI Inc., whose gauges
are tracked by investors managing about $7 trillion, last year
resumed Saudi coverage and said it would consider including the
nation in frontier or emerging-market indexes if it allows
foreigners direct access.  MSCI in June upgraded the  United Arab Emirates , the second-biggest Arab economy, and Qatar to emerging-market status. The
index provider’s decision “puts additional pressure on Saudi
Arabia to accelerate its qualified investor program and we now
believe this is likely over summer,” Emad Mostaque, a
strategist at Noah Capital Markets EMEA Ltd., said June 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deema Almashabi in  Riyadh  at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  