-- SEC’s Money-Fund Rule Boosted by Economic Study, Paredes Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-08-01T19:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/sec-s-money-fund-rule-boosted-by-economic-study-paredes-says.html
A revised proposal to limit the
systemic risk posed by money-market mutual funds shows how
economic analysis can improve financial regulation, Securities
and Exchange Commission member Troy A. Paredes said today.  The SEC measure released in June reflects the progress the
agency has made in studying the costs and benefits of new rules,
Paredes said at an event sponsored by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness.  “That proposal laid out in pretty crisp terms, ‘this is
what we are trying to achieve subject to the following
constraint,’’ said Paredes, who is scheduled to step down as a
commissioner this month. ‘‘When you read that document, you
understand the starting point and the subsequent analysis which
adds to the transparency of government.’’  Paredes, a law professor who joined the SEC in 2008, has
pushed the agency to analyze how rules affect competition and
capital formation. Federal courts have invalidated SEC rules for
inadequate economic analysis, including last month when a U.S.
district judge tossed out a rule mandating disclosure of
payments by oil and gas companies to foreign governments.  The money-market mutual fund proposal, which was backed by
Paredes and fellow Republican Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher,
would impose a floating-share price on the riskiest funds that
cater to institutional investors and buy corporate debt. The
five-member commission coalesced around a money-funds measure
after an effort in 2012 splintered the agency under former
Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  The commission has improved how it includes economists in
rulemaking but still employs too few, he said today.  ‘‘The release really reflects the benefit, frankly, of
rooting what we do in economics and rooting what we do in the
data,’’ Paredes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  