-- Serbia Has Cash to Last Through September, Deputy Premier Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-08-01T11:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/serbia-has-cash-to-last-through-september-deputy-premier-says.html
Serbia has enough cash to finance
public wages and pensions through the end of September, Deputy
Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said, increasing pressure on
coalition partners to deepen an austerity program.  Vucic, whose poll-leading Serbian Progressive Party agreed
to eject a junior ruling coalition partner and continue in a
cabinet with Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Socialists yesterday,
told Belgrade-based broadcaster B92 last night the government
would continue cutting the  budget deficit . Coalition partners
“who don’t want to make savings, can leave,” he said.  “I think we have funds through mid-September or end-September,” Vucic told B92, when asked how much cash the
government had to pay public wages, pensions and other budget
liabilities. He wasn’t asked by the interviewer what the
government would do in October to fund itself. Vucic declined to
elaborate to Bloomberg at a later press conference.  Serbia is under pressure to shrink spending and clinch a
new agreement with the IMF to backstop its public finances and
restore investor confidence. The fund refused to discuss a new
deal in May after saying Belgrade had slipped on its
commitments, drawing criticism from Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic , dismissed from his post on July 30, that it was “too
tough”.  The yield on the government’s dollar bond maturing in 2021
fell 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, by 11:19 a.m. to
6.79 percent, falling back from an almost half a percentage jump
yesterday to its highest level in a month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘No Backstop’  “Serbia has no backstop in place,” Nomura international
Plc strategist Peter Attard Montalto said in a note to clients
last night. “We remain very negative on Serbia as a credit.”  The Finance Ministry was not immediately available for
comment.  Serbia spent on average 80.1 billion dinars ($931 million)
a month in the first half of the year, versus average revenue of
63.9 billion dinars, according to  Finance Ministry  data.  The government held 104.5 billion dinars ($1.2 billion) in
hard currency deposits with the central bank at the end of June,
more than double what they inherited from the previous
government one year ago, according to central bank  data . It has
102.44 million dinars in debt coming due by the end of the year.  Vladimir Vukovic, a member of the Fiscal Council, a three-member body that monitors Serbia’s financial performance, said
the  cash flow  was worrisome and it’s unclear how investors would
react.  Fiscal Warning  “This is the situation the Fiscal Council has been warning
about,” he said by phone today. “Still, I wouldn’t expect
Serbia to default on its debt under current global circumstances
and considering its overall economic performance.”  Serbia ’s debt is rated junk by all three major credit
rating companies. Standard & Poor’s said in May Serbia risked a
downgrade unless the government cut spending, promoted export
growth and secured a new IMF deal.  Dacic’s year-old cabinet plans to raise $1 billion from a
Eurobond sale by year-end to finance its budget gap. The Fiscal
Council warned on July 4 that it would be “crucial” for the
government to hammer out a new agreement with the IMF and more
spending cuts to keep a lid on borrowing costs.  The political turmoil surrounding the cabinet shuffle cut
the ruling coalition’s majority to one vote in the 250-seat
parliament, though early elections were averted for now.  “The political crisis is far from being resolved and the
risk of early elections has clearly increased,” a Barclays
Capital Plc economist in  London , Eldar Vakhitov, said in a note
to clients. “We recommend maintaining a cautious stance on
Serbia credit for now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  