-- Sharp Considering Ways to Raise Capital Amid Share Sale Report
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-08-01T01:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/sharp-considering-ways-to-raise-capital-amid-share-sale-report.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s largest maker of
liquid-crystal displays, is considering ways to raise capital
after Nikkan Kogyo newspaper reported it plans to raise 100
billion ($1 billion) through share sales this year.  No decisions have been made on capital, the Osaka-based
company said in a statement today. Sharp may sell 70 billion yen
of stock through a public offering and also sell shares to other
companies, Nikkan Kogyo reported without attribution.  Sharp, which reports first-quarter earnings today, has cut
jobs and sold stakes to  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM)  to raise cash after posting 921 billion yen of losses in
the past two financial years. The Japanese electronics maker is
in talks with  Denso Corp. (6902)  to invest as much as 2 billion yen, a
person familiar with the plans said July 23.  “If Sharp is really doing a public offering, it should be
a sell,” said Toshikazu Horiuchi, a market analyst at Iwai
Cosmo Holdings Inc. in Tokyo. “There are clouds over Sharp amid
concerns about outlook for Samsung, which is essential for
Sharp.”  The 100-year-old company, which supplies screens for Apple
Inc., has said LCDs will remain a core business and the unit
will probably turn an operating profit of 30 billion yen this
fiscal year after losing 139 billion yen in the year ended
March.  Sharp  shares  rose 3 percent at 9:58 a.m. in  Tokyo  trading.
The stock is up 37 percent so far this year,  compared  with a 33
percent gain by Japan’s benchmark Topix index.  In May, the company said it had an informal agreement with
lenders Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. to continue 360 billion yen of loans. The company
agreed to get a 150 billion-yen loan from lenders to redeem
convertible bonds, Tetsuo Onishi, Sharp’s senior executive, said
at the time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  