-- Sharp Narrows Loss as Smartphone Surge Boosts LCD Demand
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-08-02T00:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/sharp-narrows-loss-as-lcd-panel-and-solar-cell-sales-rise-1-.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese electronics
maker that supplies screens to Apple Inc., posted a narrower
loss than estimates as surging smartphone sales boosted demand
for its liquid-crystal displays.  The net loss totaled 18 billion yen ($182 million) in the
 three months  ended June 30, compared with the 138 billion-yen
loss a year earlier, the Osaka-based company said yesterday.
Sharp was expected to post a loss of 24 billion yen, according
to the median estimate of three analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . Shares jumped the most in a month.  Sharp, which is benefiting from a weaker yen and cost cuts,
needs additional funds to boost its capital ratio, executive
Tetsuo Onishi said yesterday in Tokyo. The company, which has
previously sold stakes to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and Samsung Electronics
Co., plans to raise about 100 billion yen through public and
private share sales in September, people familiar with the
situation said yesterday.  “Abenomics has helped turn the economy around and it’s
saving the electronics makers,” said  Mitsushige Akino , chief
 fund manager  at Ichiyoshi Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The
question is, while the environment is still good, what do you do
next? For Sharp, that means raising capital and coming up with a
growth plan.”  Global smartphone shipments surged 46.7 percent to 229.6
million units in the second quarter from a year earlier, Boston-based  Strategy Analytics  said last month. Sharp reported an
increase in sales of small- to medium-size LCDs for handsets and
tablets, and President Kozo Takahashi has pledged to make the
unit profitable.  Solar Division  Sharp’s solar-panel  division  posted an operating profit of
6.8 billion yen, compared with the 6.9 billion yen loss a year
earlier, the company said. The unit’s sales doubled to 84.3
billion yen from 41.9 billion yen a year ago.  Sharp shares rose as much as 5.1 percent to 432 yen at 9:11
a.m. in  Tokyo  trading. The stock is up 41 percent so far this
year, compared with a 37 percent gain by  Japan ’s benchmark Topix
index.  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, totaled 3 billion yen during the three
months, compared with a loss of 94 billion year earlier, the
company said. Sales rose 33 percent to 608 billion yen during
the quarter.  The operating loss at the LCD unit narrowed to 9.5 billion
yen during the three months, from a loss of 63.5 billion yen a
year earlier, according to the company.  Operating loss at the audio-visual and telecommunication
unit, which sells TV sets and mobile-phone handsets, totaled 1.4
billion yen, compared with a loss of 20.3 billion yen a year
earlier, Sharp said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  