-- Shell Profit Declines 20% on Nigeria, U.S. Shale Charges
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-08-01T16:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/shell-quarterly-profit-drops-20-on-nigerian-output-disruptions.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  missed earnings
estimates by the most since 2008 after oil theft in Nigeria and
writedowns in North America led to a 20 percent slump in
results. The shares fell the most in two years.  Profit excluding one-time items and inventory changes slid
to $4.6 billion in the second quarter from $5.7 billion a year
earlier, Shell said today in a statement. That fell short of the
$6 billion mean  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
and was the biggest miss since the fourth quarter of 2008.  Europe ’s largest oil company has suffered disruptions in
Nigeria, where it lost about 100,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day in the quarter because of crude theft, sabotage and a
blockade of gas shipments. The effect on earnings was compounded
by charges in  North America  following unsuccessful exploration.  Shell tumbled 4.7 percent to 2,133 pence in  London  trading,
the biggest decline since August 2011.  The company, based in The Hague, expects to continue losing
money from production in the Americas this year. It booked a
$2.1 billion charge in the quarter mostly related to liquids-rich shale exploration and announced plans to accelerate asset
sales in the U.S.,  Canada  and Nigeria.  Uncertain Strategy  It’s a “disappointing charge,” said  Jason Kenney , an
analyst at Banco Santander SA in Edinburgh. “A few things are
unwinding at Shell, with the risk being that this provides for
uncertainty on delivery of long-term strategy.”  Shell plans to exit at least four North American areas of
operation in the next 18 months, outgoing Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Voser  said. In Nigeria, Shell will sell production
capacity totaling as much as 100,000 barrels a day in the
eastern part of the Niger River delta.  “They are pulling back from what you could say was too
much exposure,” said Iain Reid, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London. “They haven’t been as successful
as they thought they’d be.”  Total output fell about 1 percent to 3.062 million barrels
of oil equivalent a day in the quarter from a year earlier,
reflecting not only declines in the U.S. and Nigeria but also
maintenance at fields in  Brazil , Canada and the U.K., Chief
Financial Officer Simon Henry said. Shell scrapped a target to
pump 4 million barrels a day by 2017.  Financial Focus  “We have retired our outlook statement on production,”
Voser said. “Our recent portfolio moves make the production
target less and less relevant. Overall we are targeting
financial performance.”  Exploration expenses increased to $1.2 billion in the
quarter because of well writeoffs of about $600 million.  “Higher costs, exploration charges, adverse currency
exchange-rate effects and challenges in  Nigeria  have hit our
bottom line,” Voser said in the statement.  Shell holds a 25.6 percent stake in  Nigeria LNG Ltd. ,
 Africa ’s biggest liquefied natural gas exporter, which agreed in
July under protest to pay $140 million in disputed levies to the
nation’s maritime agency to end an export blockade.  “Oil theft and disruptions to gas supplies in Nigeria are
causing widespread environmental damage, and could cost the
Nigerian government $12 billion in lost revenues per year,”
Voser said.  Investment Plan  Shell plans to start five major projects in the next 18
months, adding more than $4 billion to 2015 cashflow. Voser, who
will retire at the end of the year, has been overseeing a $100
billion investment program through 2014. He reiterated a 2012
plan to generate  cash flow  from operations of $175 billion to
$200 billion through 2015.  Shell expects to return to profitability from Americas
production by the end of next year, Voser said. Its liquid-rich
Permian assets acquired from  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  for $1.9
billion last September are “developing very well,” he said.  The company has reduced capital employed in North American
shale resources to about $24 billion from $28 billion last year,
Henry said. Its shale projects have been producing more than
300,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, with liquids accounting
for about 50,000 barrels. The company last November booked a
$298 million charge on shale-gas assets.  The producer has increased its net spending plan this year
by about 21 percent to  $40 billion , in part a result of its
agreement to acquire liquefied natural gas assets from  Repsol
SA. (REP)   Shell is the last of Europe’s biggest oil producers to
publish earnings.  BP Plc (BP/)  and Total SA saw first-quarter profit
drop on lower  oil prices .  Eni SpA (ENI)  today reported a 55 percent
plunge in adjusted net income, in part because of disruptions in
Nigeria. Exxon Mobil Corp. said second-quarter profit fell for
the first time in four years.  Shell has chosen refining director Ben van Beurden to
succeed Voser at the start of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  