-- Small Defense Contractors Rebound as Budget Concerns Fade
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/small-defense-contractors-rebound-as-budget-concerns-fade.html
In five months leading up to the
automatic U.S. budget cuts that unnerved defense industry
executives,  Kratos Defense & Security Solutions Inc. (KTOS) ’s stock
price plunged 29 percent.  Since March 1, when the across-the-board reductions began
kicking in, San Diego-based Kratos has surged 59 percent --
forecasts of economic catastrophe notwithstanding.  “At the end of 2012, there was talk of doom and gloom that
defense companies are going to go off a cliff, so investors sold
us off,” said Eric DeMarco, chief executive officer of the
contractor. “But that hasn’t happened, so they’re returning.”  After the start of the cuts known as sequestration, labeled
a “doomsday scenario” by former Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, investors are returning to many of the smaller
government suppliers whose shares slumped during months of
budget uncertainty.  A Bloomberg index providing a sample of 17 small and mid-sized contractors, including Kratos,  API Technologies Corp. (ATNY) ,
Anaren Inc. and  CPI Aerostructures Inc. (CVU) , has gained 20 percent
since March 1. It fell 14 percent in the five months before
sequestration kicked in, partly reflecting concerns they would
be more vulnerable to budget cuts.  The surge comes as top U.S. defense contractors such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) 
reported second-quarter profits last week that beat analysts’
estimates and raised profit outlooks for the full year.  ‘Bounce Back’  “You’re seeing a little bit of bounce back” for small
defense stocks, “because the sky is not falling and companies
are not going out of business,” said Mark Jordan, a St. Louis-based analyst at Noble Financial Capital Markets. “They may be
able to manage in some reasonable manner.”  The shares of API Technologies, which makes electronics
components for defense and medical applications, have risen 16
percent since March 1 after falling 4 percent during the
previous five months.  The Orlando, Florida-based company, which has a market
capitalization of $167 million, hasn’t been “affected by any
programs that were either eliminated or to be eliminated,” Bel Lazar, API’s chief executive officer, said in a July 11
conference call.  The Pentagon, though, is now “more careful in terms of
what they’re procuring and how much they’re paying,” he said.  Executives at  Anaren (ANEN) , a small contractor that makes
technology for military radar systems, assumed the cuts would
prevent sales from increasing more than roughly 5 percent.  Failed Negotiations  Instead, the East Syracuse, New York-based company projects
a 10 percent boost in revenue from its defense and space
businesses this year, President Larry Sala said.  “We definitely had expected it to be more severe on the
impact on our business than it has been to date,” Sala said in
a phone interview of the sequestration process.  The automatic budget reductions were agreed to by President
 Barack Obama  and Congress after they failed to reach an
agreement on a deficit-reduction strategy. The cuts will strip
$1.2 trillion from national security and domestic programs over
nine years unless a compromise is reached.  Anaren’s stock has  jumped  19 percent since March 1, which
Sala attributed mostly to a buyout offer from a private equity
firm, which the company rejected in May.  The surging shares of defense contractors from Kratos to
Lockheed Martin don’t mean the industry has escaped the effects
of the budget cuts, which required the Pentagon to make $37
billion in reductions this year.  Contractor Survey  An anonymous survey of executives from 84 defense companies
conducted by the Arlington, Virginia-based Aerospace Industries
Association found that 88 percent of respondents reported being
affected by budget cuts in the last two years.  The group’s survey, conducted from May 21 to June 5, showed
84 percent had reduced sales or profits, 62 percent had trimmed
production and 60 percent had contracts postponed or canceled.  Some small defense suppliers say sequestration already has
hurt their businesses.  JWF Defense Systems LLC, which provides metal for weapons
and armor systems, had revenue decline 80 percent from two years
ago, said John Polacek, chief operating officer of the closely
held company based in Johnstown,  Pennsylvania .  The Pentagon has been slow to place orders because of
budget indecision, compounded by furloughs of civilian defense
employees, Polacek said in a phone interview.  Seeking Diversification  With the prospect of budget cuts continuing for another
year, “we haven’t seen the worst of it yet,” Polacek said. The
company has diversified, supplying the oil and gas industry, as
a way to remain stable, he said.  Leading contractors such as Lockheed Martin and Northrop
Grumman, whose shares have outpaced the 18 percent gain for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  this year, boosted net income by
cutting jobs, divesting poorly performing units and using cash
reserves to buy back shares. The Pentagon has shielded big
weapons programs such as the F-35 jet, the military’s most
expensive weapons system, from the mandatory cuts.  “We’ve seen less impact from sequestration, writ large,
than we expected to through this part of the year,” Bruce Tanner, Lockheed’s chief financial officer, told analysts last
week. “The Pentagon has done a fairly masterful job kind of
deflecting” cuts to weapons programs.  The increase in stock prices doesn’t mean small-cap
companies are out of danger, analyst Jordan said. After $37
billion of defense reductions during the year that ends Sept.
30, the Pentagon estimates it will have to cut $52 billion if
sequestration continues into the next fiscal year.  Sequestration ‘Reality’  “The real question is what kind of 2014 are you going to
be facing?” he said. “The environment is probably not going to
change, and sequestration is still a reality.”  Kratos, which makes electronics components for ballistic
missile defense programs, has weathered the budget cuts partly
because its sales to the commercial security market have jumped
about 20 percent, making it less dependent on government
contracts, DeMarco said.  With $1 billion in annual  revenue , Kratos is also better
positioned as a maker of defense products than some government
service contractors may be, he said.  Even as the  military  cuts, some programs benefiting Kratos
are getting funding increases, such as the Navy’s EA-18G Growler
electronic attack aircraft. The Navy’s plan to buy 21 of the
planes next year, up from 12 this year, is one of the changes
that are “very important to Kratos’ overall business, our 2013
business plan and our future prospects,” DeMarco said in a May
9 conference call with investors.  Small Businesses  Kratos, with about 4,300 workers, also provides electronics
for the ground-based interceptors in the U.S. missile defense
system. The Obama administration announced plans in March to add
14 interceptors to 30 already in place in Alaska and  California .  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said last month in a letter
to lawmakers that the $52 billion in 2014 cuts would lead to
continued furloughs of civilian employees, reduced training,
base closings and less spending on weapons. Small business may
be the most likely to be affected, he said.  “The disruption would spill over to defense industry,”
Hagel wrote in a July 10 letter to leaders of the Senate Armed
Services Committee. “Defense industry jobs would be lost and,
as prime contractors pull back work to protect their internal
work forces, small businesses may experience disproportionately
large job losses.”  Sala, the head of Anaren, isn’t ready to predict such gloom
for his own company anytime soon.  “We’re still pretty optimistic about growth,” he said.
“Right now, we’re planning on our business being even stronger
next year than it is this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  