-- Smith & Nephew CEO Has $1.5 Billion for Acquisitions
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2013-08-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/smith-nephew-ceo-has-1-5-billion-for-acquisitions.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , the U.K.’s
biggest medical-device maker, has $1.5 billion to spend on
acquisitions and is scouting wound-care companies in the U.S. as
well as potential deals in trauma and sports medicine.  Smith & Nephew also is looking to buy distributors and
manufacturers in emerging markets to support a new focus on more
affordable products for countries such as India,  China ,  Brazil 
and  Russia , Chief Executive Officer Olivier Bohuon said in an
interview yesterday. The company plans to introduce its first
so-called mid-tier wound products this year, he said.  The dealmaking is part of Bohuon’s strategy to reduce the
company’s reliance on orthopedics as people put off getting hip
and knee implants because of the sluggish economy. While there
is still a market for premium-priced products, the company sees
much potential in the mid-tier segment, Bohuon said in an
interview today.  “We need to bring them products which are appropriate,
which means low cost and a different business model,” said
Bohuon, 54, who joined Smith & Nephew in April 2011 after
serving as CEO of French drugmaker Pierre Fabre SA.  Smith & Nephew second-quarter sales rose 4.4 percent to
$1.07 billion, the company said yesterday, as growth in wound
care and  emerging markets  offset declines in orthopedics, which
accounts for 35 percent of the company’s revenue. The business
is expected to be “flat at best” and will become a smaller
portion of revenue as other areas grow, he said.  Hips, Knees  Smith & Nephew gained 0.4 percent to close at 787.50 pence
yesterday in London, giving the company a market value of 7.1
billion pounds ($10.8 billion). The stock has returned 18
percent  this year  including reinvested dividends.  The orthopedics unit produces artificial hips and knees.
The trauma business makes plates and screws that hold fractured
bones in place, while sports medicine covers minimally-invasive
surgery on joints, particularly the knee, shoulder and hip. Its
wound-care products include antimicrobial dressings.  India ’s Adler Mediequip Private Ltd. will be Smith &
Nephew’s hub for developing mid-tier trauma products for the
emerging markets if the purchase of the company is approved by
authorities this year, said Bohuon. Smith & Nephew announced the
acquisition of Adler, as well as the brands and assets of
Sushrut Surgicals Private Ltd., in May.  Smith & Nephew produces wound products for emerging markets
in Suzhou, China, and has based its mid-tier orthopedics hub in
Beijing.  Bohuon has announced eight deals since joining Smith &
Nephew, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The largest was
the $782 million purchase last year of Healthpoint
Biotherapeutics, a Fort Worth, Texas-based company that makes
treatments for wounds that are difficult to heal.  Speculation arises periodically that Smith & Nephew will
attract a takeover bid. Bohuon said the company wants to be the
acquirer and not the acquired.  “We want to stay independent,” he said. “Everything we
do is to stay independent. The board is very clear on that and I
am their steward.”  For Related News and Information:
Smith & Nephew Revenue Rises on ‘Stand-Out’ Emerging Markets (3)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  London  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  