-- Snowden Asylum Undercuts Obama’s Efforts on Russia Ties
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-08-02T05:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/snowden-asylum-undercuts-obama-s-efforts-on-russia-ties.html
Russia’s decision to grant temporary
asylum to fugitive National Security Agency leaker Edward Snowden is a blow to President  Barack Obama ’s desire to
“reset” U.S. relations with its Cold War enemy.  The Russian action yesterday puts in doubt a summit planned
for next month between Obama and Russian President  Vladimir Putin , and drew calls from U.S. lawmakers for retaliatory
actions likely to further strain relations between the two
military powers. The U.S. is evaluating the “utility” of a
summit, according to White House spokesman  Jay Carney , who said
the president is “extremely disappointed.”  Obama’s call early in his first term for improving
relations has been hindered by conflicts over human rights,
 Syria , and even U.S. adoptions of Russian orphans, as well as by
the chilly personal relationship between the two leaders.  “We’re far apart on a lot of issues, we don’t have a lot
of leverage, and the Russians seem to like it this way,” said
Barry Pavel, director of the Scowcroft Center at the Atlantic
Council, a Washington policy group. “This is part of the
pattern of relations since the Obama administration began.”  Ariel Cohen , a Russia scholar at the  Heritage Foundation ,
another Washington policy research organization, called the
Snowden decision a “slap in the face to the U.S. and President
Obama” and a further sign that “under Putin, the vector of
Russian foreign policy is away from the West and away from the
 United States .”  ‘A Setback’  Senator  Robert Menendez , the New Jersey Democrat who chairs
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called the action “a
setback” to U.S.-Russia relations, while Republican Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona  called for the White House to
“fundamentally rethink our relationship with Putin’s Russia.”  The administration’s business with Russia extends far
beyond the flap over Snowden, whom administration officials
routinely dismiss as a computer hacker.  Russia has supported international sanctions to pressure
 Iran  to abandon its suspected pursuit of nuclear weapons. The
two nations have sparred over Syria, as Russia used its UN veto
to block efforts to censure the Assad regime.  “Obama, being in his second term, is more preoccupied by
his legacy rather than winning the domestic electorate,” Lilit Gevorgyan, senior analyst for Russia and the  Commonwealth of
Independent States  at Englewood, Colorado-based IHS  Global
Insight , said in an e-mail. “To achieve a peace deal in the
 Middle East , quell Syria and end the Iranian standoff, Russia’s
support would be instrumental. Hence, Obama may still chose to
make the trip to Moscow if there are informal assurances that he
would not leave Russia empty-handed and some progress can be
made in Syria and Iran.”  Afghan Exit  The Obama administration, eager to withdraw most U.S.
troops from Afghanistan by the end of next year, also is
counting on Russia to approve transit rights through some former
Soviet republics for American forces and equipment. Obama also
is seeking an accord on reductions in both countries’ strategic
nuclear arsenals beyond the New Start nuclear treaty negotiated
during his first term.  U.S. ties with  Russia  are “based in realism, and it is a
simple fact that the so-called reset in our relations with
Russia produced positive benefits” in terms of U.S. national
security, Carney said yesterday at the White House.  Pavel of the Atlantic Council was less optimistic. “If
Putin cared about these things, he’d have Snowden on a plane,”
he said.  Growing Market  The  economic relationship  between the two countries is less
significant. According to an April 2013 report by the
nonpartisan U.S. Congressional Research Service, U.S. exports to
Russia in 2012 were $10.7 billion, up from $9.3 billion in 2008,
and American imports from Russia were $29.3 billion, up from
$26.8 billion in 2008.  “Russia and the United States have never been major
economic partners, and it is unlikely that the significance of
bilateral trade will increase much in the near term,” the
report found. “However, in some areas, such as agriculture,
Russia has become an important market for U.S. exports. Russia
is the largest foreign market for U.S. poultry.”  “U.S. exports to Russia of energy exploration equipment
and technology, as well as industrial and agricultural
equipment, have increased as the dollar has declined in value.”
the research service said. “Russian demand for these products
will likely grow as old equipment and technology need to be
replaced and modernized.”  Airport Limbo  Snowden’s arrival at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo Airport from
Hong Kong on June 23 disrupted efforts to improve relations and
smooth the way for the September summit. As Snowden waited in
airport limbo pending a Russian decision, U.S. officials
repeatedly refused to confirm that Obama would keep a commitment
to meet with Putin in Moscow in conjunction with a Group of 20
nations economic summit Sept. 5-6 in  St. Petersburg .  As recently as eight days ago, Secretary of State  John Kerry  appealed to Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  in a
phone call. Kerry “reiterated our belief, the belief of the
United States, that Mr. Snowden needs to be returned to the
United States, where he will have a fair trial, that Russia
still has the ability to do the right thing,” State Department
spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters July 24.  Instead, Snowden left the airport yesterday after receiving
temporary asylum for one year in Russia. Giving Snowden refuge
lets Putin position Russia’s democracy as equivalent to
America’s and demonstrate internationally “that democracies
come in all different forms,” said Matthew Rojansky, director
of the Russia Program at the Wilson Center, also a Washington
policy group.  Lingering Mistrust  “They can say, ‘We’ll give him amnesty just like you,
America, have given plenty of Russian dissidents asylum,’”
Rojansky said.  The  Cold War  legacy of mistrust lingers between the U.S.
and Russia, Rojansky said.  “You can never truly reset, and you can never truly
forget,” Rojansky said. “The idea you can wipe the slate clean
of all the little slights since the end of the Cold War and the
Cold War itself, it’s absurd.”  In March 2009, then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
presented Lavrov with a red “reset button” intended to
symbolize efforts to improve relations. The gesture misfired
because the word “reset” was incorrectly translated into
Russian as “overcharge.”  “You got it wrong,” said Lavrov, commenting on the
translation as the two pushed the reset button together.  Lost Ground  His comment could have applied to the attempted reset
itself, as a succession of disputes has led to a tit-for-tat
dynamic that Kerry, in his Senate confirmation hearing on Jan.
24, said has set back relations.  “We have some ground to make up,” Kerry said, referring
to a Russian decision to bar Americans from adopting Russian
orphans in response to Congress’s approval of a law that banned
Russian human-rights violators from entering the U.S. He said
relations had “slid backwards for the last couple of years.”  The increasing uncertainty about next month’s summit
follows Putin’s decision not to attend a meeting with Obama in
May 2012, one sign of how he’s pulled back from ties with the
American leader.  The snub was particularly acute because in an effort to
make Putin more comfortable, Obama had moved the meeting to the
presidential retreat in Camp David, Maryland, from the margins
of a NATO summit in Chicago to which Putin wasn’t invited.  “Russia is playing a role with which it’s been comfortable
for a long time and has become something of a default -- that
is, a counterweight to the United States on major international
issues,” said Rojansky.  U.S. Leverage  The U.S. still has influence with Russia, Rojansky said.
“There’s always leverage, the question is what you want to
lever,” he said, adding that the planned summit is important to
Putin since “it’s always significant to be seen to be meeting
with the president of the United States.”  Even so, there’s little indication that a summit would
produce anything substantive right now, Rojansky said.  “It’s pretty clear the president’s top priority with
Russia is the nuclear agenda, not Snowden,” Rojanksy said.
“He’s given several major speeches on the issue that have
fallen on deaf ears in Russia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  