-- Societe Generale Resists Pressure for More Deleveraging
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2013-08-01T07:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/societe-generale-resists-pressure-for-more-deleveraging.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) , France’s second-largest bank, doesn’t plan following Deutsche Bank AG in taking
more measures to reduce leverage, Chief Executive Officer
 Frederic Oudea  said.  “The generation of capital is strong,” Oudea said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today. Asked whether a fresh
asset-cutting plan was needed, he said “I don’t think so. We
decreased the assets by 10 percent with the deleverage and we’ve
not touched the model.”  Societe Generale  joins  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest
bank, in saying it has already taken the measures needed to meet
more stringent global standards on leverage. Europe’s banks have
been cutting risky assets and building
up capital to meet tougher rules from regulators seeking to
avoid a repeat of the taxpayer-funded rescues of 2008. Societe
Generale,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Deutsche Bank AG need to do more on
leverage,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said in a report last month.  Societe Generale won’t draw up new plans as the bank will
achieve a ratio of equity to total assets of 3 percent, the
leverage threshold proposed by global regulators for the start
of 2018, by the year-end, Oudea said. A rights issue, such as
that announced by Barclays Plc this week, is “not at all”
needed as the bank’s core Tier 1 capital ratio under Basel III
rules will rise to close to 10 percent by year’s end, he said.  Societe Generale will need to reduce assets by a further 53
billion euros ($70 million) to meet the 3 percent guidance by
2015 under Basel III rules, which are expected to be enhanced,
JPMorgan said in the report. The bank has too much leverage,
Berenberg Bank said in a report published in June.  Stricter Rules  Deutsche Bank, continental Europe’s biggest bank, said two
days ago that it will shrink its balance sheet by 250 billion
euros to cut leverage, joining Barclays and  UBS AG (UBSN)  in seeking to
comply with stricter capital rules.  Capital measures weighted by risk, such as the core Tier 1
ratio, should be preferred over leverage measures, said Oudea,
who chairs the  Institute of International Finance ’s steering
committee on regulatory capital.  “We are risk managers,” he said. “I don’t like the
 leverage ratio  because fundamentally you don’t look at the
quality of the assets. The leverage ratio can be a backstop, not
the backbone of the regulation.”  Deleveraging “has been done,” BNP CEO Jean-Laurent Bonnafe told journalists yesterday. JPMorgan said BNP has “to
do few business changes” to meet leverage requirements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  