-- Sony Deepening Discussions of Loeb’s Plan for Entertainment IPO
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   G r a c e   H u a n g
-- 2013-08-01T07:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/sony-deepening-discussions-of-loeb-s-plan-for-entertainment-ipo.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ’s board is “deepening”
its discussions of billionaire investor  Daniel Loeb ’s proposal
for an initial public offering of entertainment assets, yet no
decision has been made, Chief Financial Officer Masaru Kato said.  Investors have asked for more information about the units,
and Sony has hired financial advisers, Kato said after the
Tokyo-based company raised its full-year revenue forecast on the
weaker yen. Sony cut sales forecasts for TVs, digital cameras
and personal computers.  “It is an important proposal, and the board will make a
decision after having a thorough discussion,” Kato said. “We
cannot comment further.”  Loeb’s Third Point LLC, which controls about 6.9 percent of
the stock, broached the plan in May to raise money to help
revive Sony’s electronics divisions and boost the company’s
valuation. Loeb this week criticized management of the film unit
for movie box-office flops including “White House Down” and
“After Earth.”  Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  has stressed the
importance of ties between electronics and the entertainment
businesses since Loeb first wrote to the company. Third Point,
based in  New York , said in May that it held a Sony stake valued
at $1.1 billion.  An independent board and shareholders for the film,
television and music assets would lead to more disciplined and
accountable management at Sony’s  Culver City , California-based
movie and television studio, Loeb has said. Music and film-studio earnings before taxes, interest, depreciation and
amortization at Sony trail industry peers, according to Loeb.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Grace Huang in Tokyo at 
 xhuang66@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  