-- South Africa’s Post-Apartheid Failure in Shantytowns
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-08-02T11:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/south-africa-s-post-apartheid-failure-in-shantytowns.html
Cecily Ghall speaks with pride about
the neat, whitewashed two-room shack she built in an
acquaintance’s backyard using scrap wooden planks and asbestos
plates. It’s warm and -- important in the midst of a wet South
African winter -- dry, she says. But it isn’t hers.  Ghall, 47, has waited for a government-provided home since
2008, when she and her daughter Deonie, then 13, moved to
Kurland Village, a predominantly mixed-race settlement of about
2,000 residents. Less than 10 miles (16 kilometers) away is
Plettenberg Bay, a seaside resort where homes selling for more
than 15 million rand ($1.5 million) are common.  “I don’t know how they decide who gets a house,” said
Ghall, who works part-time as a domestic servant. “I’ve been on
the waiting list all this time, but I never hear anything. In
the meantime, I have to live in someone’s backyard and I can get
kicked out at any time.”  Substandard housing remains a legacy of apartheid almost
two decades after former PresidentNelson Mandela’s African
National Congress came to power in the nation’s first
multiracial vote. Since then, 3.3 million low-cost homes have
been built, yet shantytowns have mushroomed around cities as the
state program failed to keep pace with population growth. The
housing backlog of about 1.5 million in 1994 has burgeoned to
2.1 million as the population has grown by 13 million to 53
million, according to government data.  Feeling Pinch  It’s not only the poor who are feeling the pinch. Only 15
percent of South Africa’s 14.45 million households earn enough
to secure a mortgage, while 60 percent earn less than 3,500 rand
a month and can qualify for state housing, government data
shows. The remaining 25 percent, including most teachers,
nurses, police officers and soldiers, have had access to
neither.  Jody Lee, who lives in an outbuilding formerly used as
servants’ quarters on his parents’ property in the lower middle-class Cape Town suburb of Blackheath, is caught in a bind common
among new entrants to South Africa’s middle class: they earn too
much to qualify for free government housing yet not enough to
buy their own.  After six years of teaching high-school economics and
business studies, Lee, 27, takes home about 13,000 rand a month
after taxes and other deductions, which qualifies him for a
mortgage of about 400,000 rand. That’s just over half the
average price of a small home, according to  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the
country’s biggest home-loan provider.  ‘Free Services’  “It’s the middle-income group that’s struggling the most
because we don’t get free services,” Lee said in a July 23
phone interview. “You have to pay for everything.”  The government says it has little scope to increase funding
for housing, with Finance MinisterPravin Gordhan forecasting
the economy will expand by no more than 2.2 percent this year.
Red tape, corruption and poor communication have bedeviled the
efforts so far.  “People are not aware of the rules of the game, and there
are so many processes during which problems and tensions can
arise,” said Kate Tissington, a senior researcher at the Socio-Economic Rights Institute of South Africa (SERI), a non-government advocacy group. “There is very little monitoring and
oversight of the process, and corruption around allocation is
often reported.”  Policy Shift  Former Human Settlements Minister Tokyo Sexwale, an
erstwhile liberation fighter who shared prison time with Mandela
on Robben Island before becoming one of the country’s richest
businessmen, was fired from the Cabinet on July 10 after losing
his bid for the deputy presidency of the ANC to Cyril Ramaphosa
-- President Jacob Zuma’s favored candidate -- in December. The
housing portfolio passed to Connie September, a lawmaker and
former deputy president of the Congress of South African Trade
Unions, the country’s largest labor group.  September will oversee a shift in housing policy, initiated
by President Zuma, to upgrade shacks and provide services to
informal settlements rather than building more free housing for
the poor, said Marie Huchzermeyer, a professor of urban planning
at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. Helping
middle-income earners -- known as the gap-housing market -- gain
access to mortgage financing -- is also a priority, she said.  “Sexwale tended to champion gap housing and the
involvement of the private sector,” Huchzermeyer said by phone
on July 29. “He never really strongly championed informal
settlement upgrading.” While September has no background in
housing, she “doesn’t have to be a specialist, but she must be
a good politician who listens to specialists.”  Upgrading Shacks  Zuma’s target is to upgrade 400,000 informal shacks, while
maintaining waiting lists for free housing “which comes right
at the end of the process,” Hunchzermeyer said. The new policy
amounts to an acknowledgment that the government can’t meet the
demand for free housing, she said.  To encourage lending, the government in January introduced
subsidies on down payments for first-time buyers of properties
costing 350,000 rand or less, reducing the potential size of the
loan and the risk of default.  “Quite clearly, the continuous allocation of grants for
free housing to the poorest of the poor is unsustainable going
forward,” Sexwale said in his last speech to lawmakers in May.
The subsidy will empower more people to “become real estate
owners, to become real participants in the capital markets.”  Neither Sexwale nor September responded to e-mailed
requests for interviews.  Mortgage Profitability  Households must earn between 3,501 rand and 15,000 rand to
qualify for a cash deposit from the government, ranging from
10,050 rand to 87,000 rand. The more they earn, the lower the
subsidy. The grants are only available for homes in developments
approved by the National Housing Finance Corp., a unit of the
Department of Human Settlements.  “The profitability in the mortgage market is just not
enough to compensate banks for the risks of lending,” Johann Scholtz, an analyst at Afrifocus Securities Ltd. in Cape Town,
said by phone. “Banks are deploying capital in other asset
classes, such as unsecured lending” and the subsidy “may be
just what is needed” to re-channel money toward mortgages, he
said.  Residential  mortgage lending  in South Africa grew 1.2
percent in the year through April, compared with 11.5 percent
growth in total loans and advances by banks, central bank data
shows. The pace of mortgage growth was as high as 9.9 percent in
2009 as the central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a
three-decade low of 5.5 percent and kept it there for a record
18 months.  Loan Growth  Loan growth for the four largest banks,  Standard Bank Group
Ltd. (SBK) , First National Bank, Absa and  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , was less
than 6 percent in 2012, while provisions for bad debt jumped 36
percent. South African banks tightened lending conditions in the
fourth quarter, the central bank said in a financial stability
report on April 25, offsetting the benefits of lower interest
rates.  First National,  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s retail unit, aims to
double its affordable housing business in the next five years,
and the subsidy will play a role, according to Marius Marais,
the Johannesburg-based lender’s head of housing finance.  “There are about 1 million households who shouldn’t be
living in backyard shacks” because they qualify for financing,
he said in a telephone interview on July 5. “We see that as
quite a lucrative market.”  Affordable Housing  First National holds about 12 billion rand of affordable-housing loans, about 7 percent of its total loan book. The
company has financed 100,000 homes in that market segment since
2002. Among the developments it is funding are two projects in
Cape Town and one in the southern city of Port Elizabeth that
qualify for the state subsidies and are targeted at households
earning 8,000 rand to 10,000 rand.  “Those are the people that just don’t make the normal
affordability cut” and benefit most from the state incentives,
Marais said. Expanding the program requires more “developers to
create stock that we can finance.”  Calgro M3 Holdings Ltd. (CGR)  is one of those. Created in 2007 to
build low-income housing, the Sandton, Johannesburg-based
company reported a 55 percent rise in full-year revenue in May
as it built large-scale housing developments in partnership with
the government and lenders. The share price has climbed 49
percent in the past year.  Shack Dwellers  The number of shack dwellers able to finance their own
homes is limited, with a quarter of the workforce unemployed and
many households surviving on a single salary or welfare grants.
Affordable housing accounts for about 5 percent of the nation’s
838 billion rand mortgage market, central bank data shows.  Low-income communities are running out of patience. Last
year, there were a record 173 protests over a lack of proper
shelter and basic services, according to Johannesburg-based
research group Municipal IQ. Refugees from other African
countries are adding to the pressure on available housing. South
Africa harbors about 2.9 million legal and illegal immigrants,
Statistics South Africa estimates.  Ghall, the domestic worker living in the shack she built
herself, earns about 800 rand in a good month. For her, a
mortgage isn’t an option and free housing is little more than a
dream.  “They say it’s for people who earn less than 3,500 rand a
month, and that’s me,” she said. “Some people are getting
houses but not me. My child has moved out already and I’m still
waiting.”  While private-sector involvement is helping, especially in
the gap-housing market, the onus is on the government to provide
housing for the poor, SERI’s Tissington said.  “It needs to take the lead and drive the private sector in
the right certain direction, coming up with a very clear agenda
on ensuring adequate housing for all in South Africa,” she
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  