-- Sprouts Shares More Than Double in Best Debut in 2 Years
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-08-01T20:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/sprouts-skyrockets-after-pricing-organic-grocery-ipo-above-range.html
Sprouts Farmers Market LLC (SFM) , the
organic grocery chain backed by Apollo Global Management LLC,
more than doubled on its first day of trading, the biggest gain
for a U.S. initial public offering in more than two years.  The shares surged to $40.11 at the close in  New York . The
123 percent increase was the biggest first-day gain for an IPO
larger that $65 million priced in the U.S. since Qihoo 360
Technology Co.’s debut in March 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Phoenix-based Sprouts raised $333 million in its
initial public offering yesterday, pricing the shares at $18
each, above the marketed range of $14 to $16.  The IPO benefited from increasing  consumer confidence 
that’s spurring interest in companies that benefit from
increased spending. Cyclical consumer companies such as
Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. and fast-casual restaurant
chain Noodles & Co. have completed about $4 billion in U.S. IPOs
in 2013, on pace to raise the most this year since at least
1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Investors like the story, they like the space --
obviously there’s a lot of momentum in natural and organic,”
Sprouts Chief Executive Officer Doug Sanders said during an
interview. “Consumers today are wanting to feel better about
the food they eat, and they want to make sure they don’t pay too
much.”  The grocer is targeting the U.S. Southeast for store growth
and next year will open a location in Atlanta, Sanders said.
Sprouts will open 20 new stores in 2014 and is forecasting 12
percent annual unit growth and 15 percent annual sales growth
going forward, he said.  Expansion Plans  Sprouts, which has increased sales at a compound annual
rate of more than 17 percent since 2008, operates more than 160
stores in eight states and has targeted 13 more states for
expansion, Sanders said in an online presentation to investors
before the IPO.  That growth was sustained even as consumers’ willingness to
spend remained choppy since the financial crisis. Consumer
confidence in the U.S. fell slightly in July, after surging
earlier this year to the highest in more than five years,
according to the Conference Board’s index, spurred by increases
in personal wealth tied to higher property values and stock
portfolios.  At the midpoint of the proposed IPO range, Sprouts was
valued at about 29 times estimated 2014 earnings, according to
marketing information for the sale obtained by  Bloomberg News .
At the IPO price, the company has a market value of $2.6
billion, or about 34 times, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s more expensive than larger peer Whole Foods
Market Inc.  Rival Valuations  Whole Foods traded at 32 times 2014 earnings as of
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show, and  Natural Grocers
by Vitamin Cottage Inc. (NGVC)  traded at a multiple of  57 times . Both
companies are named as competitors in Sprouts regulatory
filings. Fresh Market Inc., the Greensboro, North Carolina-based
grocer that completed its IPO in 2010, traded at 28 times next
year’s estimated earnings.  Demand for natural foods in the U.S. is increasing, Whole
Foods Co-CEO Walter Robb said during an interview on Bloomberg
TV today.  “The market for fresh, healthy food continues to grow,”
he said.  Sales at U.S. supermarkets and grocery stores are projected
to increase 0.8 percent a year for the next five years and reach
about $538.3 billion in 2018, according to an April report from
researcher IBISWorld Inc. in  Santa Monica ,  California .  Kroger
Co. (KR)  has the most U.S. market share, followed by Safeway Inc.,
the report shows.  Sprouts and existing owners sold 18.5 million shares for
$18 each, according to a statement yesterday. The stock is
listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol SFM.  Following the IPO, about 13 percent of the company is
publicly traded. Apollo, which retained a 45 percent holding, is
the largest shareholder. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Credit Suisse
Group AG and Bank of America Corp. led the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  