-- STX Group’s Shares Trading Halted After Stock Prices Double
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-08-02T09:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/stx-group-s-shares-halted-for-trading-after-stock-prices-double.html
Shares of  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) , the
South Korean shipping line that’s under court receivership, and
its affiliates were halted for trading in  Seoul  after stock
prices doubled in the past eight trading sessions.  STX Pan Ocean, STX Corp. and STX Heavy Industries Co. are
suspended for trading today, the Korea Exchange said in a
regulatory filing yesterday. Shares of Pan Ocean, the country’s
largest commodities-shipping company, jumped 99 percent since
the July 22 close in Seoul, while STX Heavy increased 163
percent and STX Corp. 156 percent in that time. The stocks will
resume trading on Aug. 5 and will be monitored by the regulator
until Aug. 7, it said.  Creditors agreed on a debt restructuring of the group’s
shipbuilding unit on July 31, prompting investors to bet on a
turnaround. The conglomerate, with businesses ranging from
shipbuilding to components, has been trying to raise 2.5
trillion won ($2.2 billion) by selling stakes after a slump in
charter rates and orders for new vessels prompted flagship Pan
Ocean to file for court protection in June.  “Investors have been irrational,” said Park Moo Hyun, an
analyst at E*Trade Securities Korea in Seoul. “Investors are
being too optimistic on news that creditors will help revive STX
Group units. They aren’t considering the stock write-offs that
will follow as part of the restructuring plan.”  The shipping company today requested the lifting of a
trading halt of its Singapore-traded stock.  Court Protection  Pan Ocean, STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co.,  STX Corp. (011810) , the
group’s holding company, and STX Heavy all gained 15 percent
each in Seoul trading yesterday. The benchmark Kospi index rose
0.4 percent.  Kang Duk Soo, who founded STX Group in 2001 with his life
savings, resigned as the chief executive officer of Pan Ocean,
the shipping company said today in a statement to the Singapore
stock exchange.  A South Korean court accepted Pan Ocean’s filing to seek
protection in June. The shipping company sought court
receivership after  Korea Development Bank , the main creditor and
Pan Ocean’s second-biggest  shareholder , decided against buying
the company from debt-ridden STX Group.  Korea Development Bank, which was considering buying Pan
Ocean through its private-equity arm, decided against using that
route after evaluating the shipping company, the lender’s
Executive Director Ryu Heui Kyoung said on June 7.  Long-Term Contracts  Pan Ocean had about 300 vessels, including 97 it owns, when
it filed for court protection. About a third of those ships are
operated under long-term contracts with companies such as
 Brazil ’s Vale SA and  South Korea ’s Posco.  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , a global measure of commodity-shipping rates, has fallen more than 90 percent from its peak
five years ago because of excess capacity.  Since the credit crisis, orders to build new ships have
plunged. Contracts for new vessels halved to $84.7 billion last
year, compared with $174.7 billion in 2008, according to
 Clarkson Plc , the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Pan Ocean had 4.5 trillion won of loans, ship financing and
other debt, Korea Development Bank said in June. It had  cash and
near cash  of 173 billion won at the end of March, compared with
287.8 billion won at the end of last year and 501 billion won in
2011, according to its financial statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  