-- Suncor Second-Quarter Profit Doubles After Charge a Year Ago
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2013-08-01T02:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/suncor-second-quarter-profit-doubles-after-charge-a-year-ago.html
Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,  Canada ’s largest
energy company by market value, said second-quarter profit more
than doubled after earnings a year ago were crimped by a one-time charge on its Syrian operations.  Net income was C$680 million ($661 million), or 45 cents a
share, from C$324 million, or 21 cents, a year earlier, the
Calgary-based company said yesterday in a statement on
Marketwired. Excluding one-time costs, per-share profit was 62
cents, less than the 63-cent average of 15 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Suncor Chief Executive Officer Steve Williams has been
cutting costs by halting or delaying projects like the Voyageur
upgrader and the Fort Hills oil-sands facility. At the same time,
the company has wrestled with volatile commodity prices. Brent,
the global benchmark at which Suncor prices most of its output,
traded at an average of $103.35 a barrel in the second quarter,
down 5 percent from a year earlier.  “Suncor remains the least expensive name in the Canadian
integrated space,” Chris Feltin and Brian Bagnell, analysts for
Macquarie Capital Markets, wrote in a July 11 note to clients.
An integrated oil company explores for and produces oil in
addition to refining it into fuels like gasoline and diesel.  The announcement was made after the close of regular
trading on North American markets. Suncor fell 0.7 percent to
C$32.46 in Toronto. The stock, which has declined 0.8 percent
this year, has 21 buy and two hold recommendations from analysts.  Cancel Project  Suncor on March 27 abandoned plans with partner Total SA to
build the C$11.6 billion Voyageur upgrader amid rising
competition from U.S. oil production. Canceling the project,
which converts tar-like bitumen into a light, synthetic oil,
reduced net income by C$140 million in the first quarter. The
company boosted its quarterly dividend and announced a C$2
billion share buyback on April 30.  Williams has been evaluating expansion plans since taking
over from predecessor Rick George last year. The company is
looking to reduce costs as it seeks to expand its oil-sands
operations to boost output to 1 million barrels a day by 2020.  Suncor operates four refineries in North America in  Alberta ,
Ontario,  Quebec  and  Colorado  that produce fuels, solvents and
petrochemicals, according to the company’s website. The company
also owns wind farms, a biofuel plant and offshore oil assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  