-- U.K. Growth Forecasts Raised by Niesr on ‘Robust’ Retail Outlook
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-08-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/u-k-growth-forecasts-raised-by-niesr-on-robust-retail-outlook.html
Britain’s economy will grow faster
than previously forecast this year and next as consumers
increase spending, according to the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research.  Gross domestic product  will expand 1.2 percent this year
and 1.8 percent in 2014, compared with forecasts in May of 0.9
percent and 1.5 percent respectively, the institute said in a
report in  London  today.  “The strength of the growth appears to be due to a further
robust expansion of consumer spending,” Niesr economist  Simon Kirby  said in the report. “Such revisions do not change the
general outlook for U.K. economic growth: one of a gradual gain
in economic momentum, but not to the degree that is consistent
with economic recovery.”  With the British  economy strengthening  and the euro-area
showing signs of a pickup, the  Bank of England  left its stimulus
program on hold yesterday. BOE officials are now  focusing on
how to provide guidance on policy to investors to help cement a
recovery that isn’t yet assured.  Rising house prices and increasing  consumer confidence 
aided the U.K. economy’s expansion of 0.6 percent in the second
quarter.  Unemployment claims  fell at the fastest pace in three
years in June and a manufacturing index released yesterday rose
to a 28-month high in July.  With that backdrop of an improving outlook, the central
bank’s Monetary Policy Committee left the size of its bond-buying program at 375 billion pounds ($571 billion) and its  key
interest rate  at 0.5 percent, a record low.  Policy Withdrawal  The MPC will raise borrowing costs for the first time since
the financial crisis struck in the second half of 2015, and
“rates will rise only gradually,” Kirby said.  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  will present a review on how to
steer policy expectations on Aug. 7 after saying in July that
bets on future  interest-rate  increases were “not warranted.”  “Forward guidance is a useful additional policy tool for
the MPC to use,” Kirby said. “However, if implemented, it will
do little to improve credit conditions.”  He added that Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
also has scope to boost the economic recovery by relaxing his
fiscal squeeze.  With faster-than-expected economic growth this year and
next fueled by consumer spending, the institute said it had
“modestly” revised down its GDP forecasts beyond that horizon
as it expected Britons to save more.  ‘Worrying’ Prospect  “An unbalanced recovery driven primarily by  consumer
spending  -- especially if accompanied by rising house prices --
is worrying from a long-term perspective,” Niesr said in a
separate statement. “A balanced recovery will require a
significant contribution from net trade and gross fixed capital
formation.”  The forecast revisions leave the prediction for overall GDP
expansion from 2013 to 2017 “broadly the same” as before, Niesr
said.  Growth will not be enough to erase the “large” amount of 
slack in the economy or reduce unemployment “significantly,” the 
institute said. It expects the  unemployment rate  to increase to 
more than 8 percent “in the near term” from 7.8 percent in the 
three months through May, before falling to an average of 7.25 
percent in 2017.  If policy makers tie any guidance on future policy to
economic data, they are most likely to choose the jobless rate,
Kirby said.  “If this  unemployment rate  threshold is no more than 7
percent, and the MPC expect the labor market to evolve broadly
as we currently project, then interest rates should not be
expected to rise for a number of years beyond 2015,” he said.
“The concern must be that the MPC misdiagnose the magnitude of
the equilibrium unemployment rate in the economy. If it is
higher than they estimate, then monetary policy would be kept
far too loose for too long and vice versa.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  