-- U.K. Factory Growth Quickens as Recovery Strengthens
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-08-01T13:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/u-k-factory-growth-strengthens-as-recovery-builds-momentum.html
U.K. manufacturing growth  accelerated
more than economists forecast in July, adding to evidence
Britain’s recovery is gathering pace as the Bank of England
voted to keep stimulus paused.  A  factory gauge  rose to 54.6 in July from 52.9 in June, the
highest in 28 months, Markit Economics and the Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply said today in London. That’s
above the 50 level indicating expansion. That momentum was
echoed in the euro area, where survey manufacturing grew more
than initially estimated, while  China ’s official factory index
also showed expansion.  Signs of  economic growth  building in the U.K. and abroad
will be welcome news to manufacturers, as demand for British
goods increases at home and in the euro area, the country’s
biggest trading partner. The Bank of England left stimulus
unchanged today as it switches focus to forward guidance, and
the European Central Bank kept its interest rate at a record-low
0.5 percent.  “The U.K. is picking up speed now,” said Rob Wood, an
economist at Berenberg Bank in London and a former BOE official.
“The manufacturing sector may finally be able to look forward
to a period of sustained growth driven by rising domestic demand
and improving exports.”  The pound slipped 0.1 percent against the dollar and was at
$1.5194 as of 2:05 p.m.  London  time. It traded as low as $1.5135
earlier.  Euro Area  Markit’s factory gauge has increased in each of the past
five months. Economists had forecast a manufacturing reading of
52.8, according to the median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The reading for June was revised higher to 52.9
from 52.5.  A euro-area factory index increased to 50.3 last month,
topping the 50 mark for the first time since July 2011, a
separate report by Markit showed today.  In China, an unexpected gain in the official manufacturing
index suggested progress toward arresting an economic slowdown.
China’s  official factory gauge  increased to 50.3 in July from
50.1 in June, while a measure from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit
fell to 47.7, an 11-month low. The increase in the official
index suggested progress toward arresting a slowdown that has
put the nation’s 7.5 percent growth target for 2013 in jeopardy.  By contrast, Russian manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in
July, with the gauge at the lowest since December 2009.  In the U.K., building momentum in factory growth follows a
0.6 percent increase in  gross domestic product  in the second
quarter after a 0.3 percent gain in the first three months.
Unemployment claims fell the most in three years in June.  Production High  Markit said that growth in production and new orders was
the highest since February 2011. New export business rose at the
fastest pace for two years, reflecting increased sales to
markets including Australia, China, the euro area and the U.S.  “The sector looks to be building on the foundation of the
second quarter,” said Rob Dobson, senior economist at Markit in
London. The BOE won’t change policy today, “preferring instead
to wait and see if the broader economic recovery takes a firmer
hold,” he said.  The Bank of England kept its target for bond holdings at
375 billion pounds ($570 billion) today, in line with the
forecast of all but one of 42 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Increasing momentum in Britain’s economy is also helping
boost confidence. An index by GfK NOP Ltd. this week showed
 consumer sentiment  rose to the highest in more than three years
last month.  Next Profit  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer, this
week increased the higher end of its full-year profit target by
10 million pounds to 675 million pounds as it sold more summer
items at full price.  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) , the maker of
Nurofen painkillers, said on July 29 that sales growth this year
will be at the higher end of its forecast range.  With the economy showing signs of growth and the arrival of
Mark Carney as its governor last month, the Bank of England is
now shifting gear as it looks to adopt ways of steering policy
expectations instead of providing direct stimulus. He will
present the findings of a review on forward guidance methods
next week after saying in July that changes in bets on future
interest rates were “not warranted,” which helped lower 10-year gilt yields about 20 basis points from a June 24 high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  