-- Manufacturing in U.S. Accelerates More Than Forecast
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-08-01T21:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/u-s-ism-manufacturing-index-increased-to-55-4-in-july-from-50-9.html
Manufacturing expanded in July at the
fastest pace in more than two years, sparked by surges in orders
and production that signal companies are growing more optimistic
about the U.S. economy’s prospects.  The Institute for Supply Management’s  factory index  jumped
to 55.4, exceeding the highest projection in a Bloomberg survey
of economists, from 50.9 in the prior month, according to the
Tempe, Arizona-based group. Readings above 50 indicate
expansion. A separate report showed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance fell to the lowest in five years.  Stocks rallied on signs of a global production pickup
extending from China through Europe and as central banks pledged
to maintain stimulus. Strength in U.S. manufacturing, which
accounts for about 12 percent of the world’s largest economy,
underscores the Federal Reserve’s view that the expansion will
gain momentum as the impact of  federal budget  cuts wanes.  “The Fed has been looking for an acceleration in second-half growth, and this is probably the first real sign that
that’s going to happen,” said  Michael Feroli , a former Fed
staff member who is now chief U.S. economist for JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in New York. “It probably gives them some comfort that
their forecast may be shaping up.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.3 percent to
1,706.87 at the close of trading in New York, topping 1,700 for
the first time. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note
jumped to 2.71 percent from 2.58 percent late yesterday.  Unemployment Insurance  Applications for  unemployment insurance  payments declined
by 19,000 to 326,000 in the week ended July 27, the fewest since
January 2008, from a revised 345,000 the prior week, the Labor
Department said today in Washington.  The economy added 185,000 jobs in July after 195,000
increases in the previous two months, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate may have
declined to 7.5 percent last month from 7.6 percent.  The 4.5-point increase in the ISM gauge from June was the
biggest since June 1996. The median forecast of 84  economists 
surveyed by Bloomberg called for the index to climb to 52.
Estimates ranged from 49.6 to 53.5.  Factories in the rest of the world are showing signs of
stabilizing. U.K. manufacturing growth accelerated more than
economists forecast in July. That momentum was echoed in the
euro area, where manufacturing grew more than initially
estimated, while  China ’s official factory index also showed
expansion.  The ISM’s U.S. data showed a measure of orders climbed to a
more than two-year high, while a gauge of production was the
strongest since May 2004.  Federal Reserve  The figures help explain the Fed’s optimistic outlook.
Central bankers said yesterday at the conclusion of their two-day meeting that “economic growth will pick up from its recent
pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline.” The
Federal Open Market Committee also said it will maintain its $85
billion in monthly bond purchases aimed at stoking the expansion
and boosting employment.  “We all have seen the bumps and slips in the first half,
so I believe that we are positioned well for a good second half
of the year and that this is a nice way to get that started,”
Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the supply management group’s
factory committee, said on a conference call today with
reporters.  Manufacturing is finding support from the housing market as
sales of new homes rose in June to the highest level in five
years. The housing recovery has spurred demand for the
appliances and furniture needed to fill them, giving companies
such as  Armstrong World Industries Inc. (AWI)  a reason to invest in
new facilities.  Cabinet Maker  The Lancaster, Pennsylvania-based maker of flooring,
ceiling and cabinets is planning to build a $40 million North
American plant later this year to produce luxury vinyl tile.  “Given current and projected volumes, manufacturing in the
U.S. is now a financially attractive option,” Matthew Espe,
Armstrong’s chief executive officer, said in a July 29
conference call.  The ISM index of factory  employment  increased to 54.4, the
highest since June 2012, from 48.7 in June. Economists forecast
tomorrow’s Labor Department report to show a net 2,000 gain in
manufacturing payrolls in July, the first increase in five
months.  Sustained employment gains help explain recent increases in
consumer sentiment. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to
minus 27 last week, the strongest reading since January 2008,
from minus 27.3 in the prior period.  Economy Views  The advance was driven by a more optimistic view of the
state of the economy, with the measure improving to minus 49.8,
the strongest reading since January 2008, from minus 50.5.  “The uncertainty about the economy has diminished, and
that is starting to be seen as businesses pick up hiring and
pick up investment plans,” said Ted Wieseman, an economist at
Morgan Stanley in New York. “We are still going to have the
lingering effects of sequestration in the third quarter, but the
steady healing in private-sector demand is becoming more
pronounced.” Wieseman projects growth will accelerate to about
3 percent by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  Washington  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  