-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Climb for First Time in Three Weeks
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-08-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/u-s-mortgage-rates-climb-for-first-time-in-three-weeks.html
Mortgage rates  in the U.S. rose for
the first time in three weeks, resuming an upward climb that has
begun to affect home sales.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage increased to
4.39 percent in the week ended today from 4.31 percent, McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. The average 15-year rate rose to 3.43 from 3.39 percent.  Mortgage rates for 30-year loans jumped to the highest
level in two years last month on speculation that the  Federal
Reserve  may begin to scale back its bond purchases. Rising rates
are “a correcting force on the market” that will push more
sellers to list their properties before buyer demand dwindles,
according to Tim Ellis, an analyst at Seattle-based Redfin
Corp., an online real estate brokerage.  Buyers competing for a small  supply  of homes have been
pushing up  prices  at a pace that’s “just not sustainable” in
certain markets, he said yesterday in a telephone interview.
“As  interest rates  go up, a lot of sellers who were waiting are
going to rush to put their homes on the market. So you’re going
to see inventory climb and climb.”  Almost half of U.S. home sellers are concerned that
interest rates will reduce demand for their properties,
according to a July 19-21  survey  by Redfin. That’s up from the
second quarter, when 23 percent of the website’s users said they
were concerned about rising rates.  Purchase Contracts  In a sign that buyers are starting to hold back,  contracts 
to purchase previously owned U.S. homes slipped 0.4 percent in
June after climbing in May to the highest level since December
2006, the National Association of Realtors reported this week.  D.R. Horton Inc. (DHI) , the biggest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
said rising mortgage rates contributed to increased
cancellations and a dropoff in traffic in June. Potential buyers
were “a little bit shocked and disturbed” that rates had
jumped so much after hovering near record lows the previous
month,  Donald Tomnitz , chief executive officer of the Fort
Worth, Texas-based company, said last week on a conference call
with investors.  The  Mortgage Bankers Association ’s index of home-loan
applications fell for a seventh straight week in the period
through July 26. The  refinancing  measure dropped 3.8 percent and
the  purchase  gauge declined 3.8 percent to the lowest level
since February, the Washington-based trade group said yesterday.  The 30-year average has climbed from a near-record low of
3.35 percent in early May. It’s still below the average of about
5.3 percent for the past 10 years, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  