-- U.S. Scraps $1.7 Billion Trucking Paperwork Requirement
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-08-01T16:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/u-s-scraps-1-7-billion-trucking-paperwork-requirement.html
The U.S. Transportation Department
relaxed a requirement that trucking companies file equipment
inspection reports regardless of whether defects were found, a
move it said will save the industry $1.7 billion a year.  It’s the biggest savings under a directive from President
 Barack Obama  to regulators to cut red tape and improve
conditions for business, Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx
told reporters today in Washington.  “It’s the kind of win-win solution that I hope our
department will continue to find over the coming months,” Foxx
said. The proposal would save “business billions of dollars
while maintaining our commitment to safety,” he said.  The paperwork reduction may help offset the cost of other
regulations on trucking companies now taking effect. A U.S.
requirement for shorter driving shifts and more rest that took
effect July 1 has added about $18 billion in costs for lost
productivity to a $600 billion industry, according to the
freight data and forecasting consultant FTR Associates, based in
Bloomington,  Indiana .  The paperwork reduction is a “good first step” that may
lead to re-examining other regulations that add cost for the
industry, the American Trucking Associations said in a statement
today.  The Arlington, Virginia-based group wants flexibility on
the driver-rest rules and revisions to a safety-scoring system
the Transportation Department uses to select companies for
audits.  “This step will provide modest relief to professional
drivers and motor carriers,” ATA President and Chief Executive
Officer  Bill Graves  said in a statement. The industry is
optimistic Foxx “will quickly act to provide relief on more
substantive issues,” he said.  Highway Projects  On another important issue for the trucking industry,
highway construction, Foxx declined to comment on the breakdown
in Congress on bills to fund transportation programs. He pointed
to the president’s call this week to link highway spending to a
broader deal on cutting corporate taxes.  The administration has also proposed paying for
transportation projects with money saved from winding down the
wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan , Foxx said. It would take a
dialogue between the administration and congressional leaders to
find a solution, he said.  “There’s an openness to hearing what further ideas there
might be in Congress,” Foxx said. “I don’t think anybody is
going to be able to unilaterally cross that Rubicon.”  The trucking industry had been required to conduct
inspections on rigs and other trucking equipment before and
after trips, and to file reports regardless of whether safety
deficiencies were discovered. Under the new rules, truckers will
only have to file reports if defects are found.  Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration chief Anne Ferro said the new rule would eliminate 95 percent of the
reports, allowing the agency to “better focus on the 5 percent
of problematic truck inspection reports.”  Obama issued an executive order in May 2012 for agencies to
cut regulations that add unnecessary costs to businesses,
according to a Transportation Department statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  