-- Turkey Yields Drop Most in 3 Weeks as U.S. Tapering Fears Fade
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-08-01T14:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/turkey-yields-drop-most-in-3-weeks-as-u-s-tapering-fears-fade.html
Turkish bond yields fell the most in
three weeks as the U.S. Federal Reserve pledged to keep buying
$85 billion in bonds every month, boosting demand for riskier
assets.  Yields on the two-year benchmark bonds tumbled 29 basis
points to 8.94 percent as of 3:50 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest
retreat since July 12 on a closing basis. The yield surged 134
basis points in July, the third monthly gain, as the Fed
signaled it may reduce bond buying that fueled gains in emerging
assets and after anti-government protests. The lira weakened 0.1
percent to 1.9365 per dollar today.  The U.S. central bank said yesterday persistently low
inflation may hamper economic expansion. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who has said any reduction in stimulus would depend on
the economy’s performance, didn’t indicate the timing for a cut
to bond purchases after the two-day policy meeting in
 Washington . Foreign investors sold $586 million of Turkish bonds
in the week ended July 26, raising total outflows to $2.9
billion since May 31, according to central bank data.  “The Fed’s dovish talk on inflation has spurred
expectations that bond buying in the U.S. will not end soon and
this spurred buying,” Bugra Bilgi, a hedge-fund manager at
Garanti Asset Management in Istanbul, said by e-mail today.  The Turkish currency declined in each of the past three
months against the dollar, dropping 0.3 percent in July in the
second-biggest depreciation among  emerging markets  in Europe,
 Africa  and the  Middle East , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Three-month volatility against the dollar rose to
9.57 percent today, the highest level since March 2012, the data
show.  “Today’s data showed foreigners sold $4.4 billion of bonds
since mid-May,” Erkin Isik, a fixed-income strategist at  Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , said in e-mailed comments. The “low level
of positioning, the level that the yields have reached and Fed’s
dovish messages are spurring bond purchases,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  