-- Turkey Joins Emerging Market Slump as Manufacturing Contracts
-- B y   O n u r   A n t
-- 2013-08-01T08:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/turkey-joins-emerging-market-slump-as-manufacturing-contracts.html
  Turkey ’s economy is showing signs of
slowing, with the weakest manufacturing data in a year
bolstering speculation it will miss its year-end growth target.  A gauge of manufacturing declined to 49.8 in July,
according to the HSBC purchasing managers’ index released by
Markit Economics today. The figure is the lowest since July
2012, when the index measured 49.4. Its 2013 peak was 54 in
January. A reading above 50 indicates expansion and below 50, a
contraction.  Turkey joins emerging markets including Russia and  Hungary 
that are showing signs of weakening economic activity as
volatility rises amid questions over how long the U.S. Federal
Reserve will continue its bond-buying program. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in May that he may consider tapering the
purchases, sparking a sell-off in emerging market assets. That
was amplified in Turkey by anti-government protests throughout
June that were sparked when police forcefully evicted
demonstrators from Gezi Park in Istanbul on May 31, eventually
leaving six people dead and thousands injured.  “Very weak print,” Tim Ash, chief emerging market
strategist at Standard Bank in  London , said in e-mailed comments
after the PMI data today. “It kind of affirms my thinking that
the combined impact of lira weakness/volatility and political
instability around Gezi will impact significantly on domestic
confidence.” Turkish growth probably won’t be much higher than
the 2.2 percent expansion last year, he said.  Cutting Forecasts  Economists have been gradually cutting growth forecasts for
the country, with the average estimate of 32 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg at 3.8 percent on July 25, compared with 4 percent
in the previous month’s survey. Turkish central bank Governor
Erdem Basci yesterday joined other officials in saying forecasts
could be revised.  “It should not be a surprise if we had to revise down our
growth expectations while the same is being done in all emerging
economies,” Turkish Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan said in
an interview with CNBC-e television on July 17.  The lira weakened 0.2 percent to 1.9375 per dollar at 10:55
a.m. in Istanbul. The  yield  on benchmark two-year notes fell 28
basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 8.95 percent. That
compares with its 2013 low of 4.79 percent on May 17. Turkey’s
increase in yields since Bernanke’s May 22 speech is the biggest
in  emerging markets , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It appears that volatility in the recent period in
foreign and domestic markets has had some negative effect on the
manufacturing industry,” Murat Ulgen, chief economist at HSBC
Turkey, said in an e-mailed report. “Production volumes are
staying the same and new order volumes are decreasing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Onur Ant in Ankara at 
 oant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  