-- Virginia Gay Couples Ask U.S. Court to End Marriage Ban
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-02T15:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/virginia-gay-couples-ask-u-s-court-to-end-marriage-ban.html
(Corrects New Mexico same-sex marriage status in fifth
paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Virginia  same-sex couples sued state
officials seeking to overturn a ban on gay marriage, claiming
the restriction is discriminatory and tramples on their
constitutional rights.  Two lesbian couples, in a lawsuit filed today in federal
court in Harrisonburg, Virginia, argue the state’s refusal to
allow them to marry or to recognize same-sex marriages from
other states violates the due process and equal protection
guarantees of the 14th Amendment.  Same-sex marriage bans under Virginia’s Constitution and
laws “send a purposeful message that they view lesbians, gay
men and their children as second-class citizens who are
undeserving of the legal sanction, respect, protections, and
support that heterosexuals and their families are able to enjoy
through marriage,” according to the complaint, which seeks to
represent all same-sex couples in the state.  Since the U.S. Supreme Court in June struck down the
portion of the Defense of Marriage Act that limited federal
recognition of marriage to relationships involving one man and
one woman, a lawsuit has been filed challenging a Pennsylvania
law banning same-sex marriage rights.  The American Civil Liberties Union last month asked New
Mexico’s Supreme Court to recognize that right in a state that
does not expressly sanction or ban the practice.  Gay marriage advocates, who filed two cases in  Chicago  last
year, asked an Illinois judge to find that state’s same-sex
marriage ban unconstitutional, citing the Supreme Court’s ruling
for support. A 2011 New Jersey lawsuit also seeks same-sex
marriage recognition, contending that state’s civil union law is
inadequate.  The case is Harris v. McDonnell, 13-cv-00077, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Virginia (Harrisonburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 