-- Vodafone Promotes Humm as Europe Unites a Year After Split
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-01T14:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/vodafone-merges-europe-group-a-year-after-split-promotes-humm.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  is merging its
northern and southern Europe units -- reversing a split of the
continental business a year ago -- to make the mobile-phone
company’s focus on cable and Internet services more efficient.  Philipp Humm, head of northern Europe, will lead the
enlarged business, Newbury, England-based Vodafone said today.
Paolo Bertoluzzo, who leads the southern division, will be in
charge of an expanded commercial operations unit that is
responsible for branding and marketing, customer service and
enterprise customers. Both executives will report to Chief
Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao .  The reorganization, effective from October 1, is to help
speed delivery of Internet, phone and TV service across Europe,
Vodafone said. Europe’s largest wireless carrier agreed to buy
German cable company Kabel Deutschland Holding AG for 7.7
billion euros ($10.2 billion) in June, and last year purchased
Cable & Wireless Worldwide in the U.K. for $1.6 billion to
expand outside of mobile-phone services.  Humm joined Vodafone in October last year from  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , where he ran the European units and served as CEO of
the wireless business in Germany and more recently, in the U.S.  Vodafone’s European business, which accounts for almost
two-thirds of the carrier’s revenue, will now exclude  Turkey ,
one of the fastest growing markets. Turkey, where revenue grew
19 percent to 1.95 billion pounds ($3 billion) in the year
through March, excluding currency swings and acquisitions, will
fall under the Africa, Middle East and Asia region.  Europe Slump  Vodafone shares rose 1.2 percent to 199.85 pence at 2:59
p.m. in London, bringing their gains this year to 28 percent.  Vodafone is looking for ways to reverse service-revenue
declines in Europe, where there are more mobile devices than
people and sagging economies have hurt growth.  Bertoluzzo’s new position will replace former Chief
Commercial Officer Morten Lundal, who resigned last month to run
Malaysian wireless company  Maxis Bhd (MAXIS) , according to Simon Gordon,
a Vodafone spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  