-- Wall Street Brokers Seek to Strip Exchanges’ Legal Shield
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-08-01T16:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/wall-street-firms-back-removing-legal-protections-for-exchanges.html
The government should strip U.S.
stock exchanges of the legal status that protects them from most
lawsuits, a trade group for brokers said.  In a  letter  to the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association said the
self-regulatory model of organizations such as the  New York
Stock Exchange (NYX)  and Nasdaq Stock Market is outdated. Though the
SEC fined Nasdaq for mishandling Facebook Inc.’s initial public
offering last year, the legal protections may shield the market
operator from liabilities.  The Sifma letter is the latest salvo in the fight between
brokers and exchanges, who in recent years have become
competitors for stock transaction volume. The proliferation of
trading venues such as dark pools at broker-dealers and the
decline of the public exchanges’ market share has created
tensions on  Wall Street .  Exchanges’ status as self-regulatory organizations, or
SROs, means “one group of businesses is empowered to oversee
and regulate the business and activities of its competitors,”
Theodore R. Lazo, associate general counsel at Sifma, wrote in
the letter to the SEC. “Conflicts of interest in this model
abound and only worsen as they are left unresolved.”  1929 Crash  The self-regulatory structure for U.S. exchanges dates to
the aftermath of the 1929 stock market crash. Under that model,
exchanges write and enforce rules of conduct for their members,
including how they interact with customers.  In the last decade, the two biggest U.S. bourse operators -
- NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. -- became shareholder-owned companies. At the same time, the brokerages they oversaw
increasingly executed trades on venues they own.  Being an SRO brings both costs and benefits to exchanges.
They are under more regulatory scrutiny than the broker-dealer
venues, which are known as alternative trading systems. Joe Mecane, head of U.S. equities at NYSE Euronext, said in a
December Senate hearing that ATSs “are able to employ different
practices than exchanges with far less oversight and
disclosure.”  Richard Adamonis , NYSE spokesman, said the proposal is
motivated by the firms’ commercial interests.  ‘Heavily Conflicted’  “We have long been supportive of a comprehensive review of
the balance of benefits and obligations among exchanges and non-exchange trading venues, which we do not believe is accurately
represented in the Sifma letter,” Adamonis said in an e-mail.
“We also continue to be discouraged by the efforts by heavily
conflicted brokers to reduce the influence of exchanges and
interests of investors, further decrease transparency and price
discovery in the equities marketplace, and generate additional
profits for the broker community.”  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq, and  Randy Williams 
of Bats Global Markets Inc., another U.S. exchange owner,
declined to comment on the letter.  James Gorman , spokesman for
bourse owner Direct Edge Inc., couldn’t be reached for comment.  The request from Sifma follows an escalation in the fight
between U.S. exchanges and dark pools, the venues run by broker-dealers that don’t publicly post bids and offers. The chief
executive officers of NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX and Bats met
with SEC officials on April 9 to discuss the migration of
trading from their venues to dark pools. The meetings in
 Washington  followed requests by the exchanges that regulators
consider measures to introduce curbs on the venues.  Nasdaq Fine  In the letter, posted on Sifma’s website today, the trade
group for securities firms argued that the exchanges’ SRO status
works in their favor, in particular in limiting their
liabilities.  Nasdaq  agreed to pay $10 million in May to settle
SEC charges that its mishandling of Facebook’s IPO was a
violation of securities laws.  “Exchanges have claimed a right to immunity even in
connection with damages flowing from activities that appear to
be commercial in nature,” Lazo wrote. “With exchanges seeking
to engage in more broker-dealer-like activities, the risk grows
that exchanges will claim that more of these commercial ventures
are entitled to immunity based on some incidental regulatory
aspect. A broker-dealer cannot fairly compete with a party that
offers the same services but does not face the same risk of
liability.”  New Market  The letter is part of a broad review of market structure,
said Lazo in an interview, and Sifma isn’t suggesting one side
is right or wrong.  “It’s about regulating who does what in a more rational
manner,” he said in a phone interview. “You might see more
exchanges -- maybe make everyone exchanges with a more
appropriate market structure around them, and then have one or
more entities, such as the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, fully dedicated to being the SRO.”  While the SEC can’t change the exchanges’ special status,
it can support changing the rules, which could influence
Congress, Lazo wrote in the letter. A change in the SEC’s
position may also provide guidance for courts, he added.  “Because courts have based exchanges’ immunity on their
SRO status, the commission’s support for an eventual legislative
end to this status would undermine the basis for the doctrine,”
Lazo wrote in the letter. He added that the SEC could also force
exchanges to adopt rules that would strip immunity from their
commercial offerings.  Sifma also argued that exchanges have too much authority in
designing and implementing changes to market structure.  “Viewing exchanges as independent regulators that will
design and implement the Commission’s market structure
initiatives without considering their own competitive interests
is no longer realistic,” Lazo said in the letter. “As for-profit businesses, exchanges should no longer be entrusted with
such important public functions and expected to act as if they
are disinterested parties acting in the public interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  