-- What Pakistan Needs Most From the U.S.
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-08-01T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/what-pakistan-needs-most-from-the-u-s-.html
If you blinked you would have missed
John Kerry’s one-day trip to  Pakistan . The lightning visit
barely registered next to the U.S. secretary of state’s talks
this week with Israelis and Palestinians.  Although Kerry’s stopover produced the usual dutiful talk
of friendship, “strategic dialogue,” and shared interests
between the U.S. and Pakistan, both sides know that a true
partnership is out of reach for the moment.  Nevertheless, Pakistan poses a crucial challenge. The
country will soon have the world’s fifth-largest population, and
its army is already the seventh-largest. Its huge nuclear
arsenal is growing, and it has, in India, a nuclear-armed
archenemy. The chances of a nuclear weapon falling into the
hands of a terrorist group or of an outright nuclear war
breaking out may be small -- but they are greater in Pakistan
than anywhere else.  Billions of dollars in military and civilian aid to
Pakistan over the past decade have hardly dented Islamabad’s
support for militants fighting U.S. forces across the border in
 Afghanistan . Once the bulk of those troops leave next year, many
U.S. policy makers understandably see little reason to continue
pretending Pakistan is an ally. But walking away would be
disastrous.  Bad now, all the trend lines in Pakistan would move to the
worse. Pressure to strike a deal with militant groups on the
Pakistani side of the border -- something Nawaz Sharif, the new
prime minister, has pledged to pursue -- would increase.
Islamabad would probably ramp up its covert support for the
Afghan Taliban to cement Pakistan’s influence across the border.
And wink-and-nudge tolerance of U.S. drone strikes inside
Pakistani territory would dry up.  Instead of assuming the only two choices are full-fledged
partnership or enmity, the U.S. must focus on the one core
interest it has in Pakistan: stability. Fortunately, several of
Sharif’s initiatives would further that goal. The prime minister
seems genuinely interested in rapprochement with  India , for
instance, not least because the businessmen who form his power
base in the Pakistani Punjab want to increase cross-border
trade. Officials in the Indian Punjab, who have proposed selling
energy to their counterparts, seem equally keen. Washington
could nudge the neighbors closer by  offering to reduce  U.S.
tariffs on Pakistani and Indian textiles -- as long as they
lower their trade barriers against each other, too.  Such measures would help the ailing Pakistani economy far
more than the relatively small amount of non-military U.S. aid
that Kerry himself pushed through as a senator. More important,
they would raise the costs to Pakistan of continued cross-border
tension. Right now many if not most Pakistanis simply do not see
the urgency of fighting certain militant groups -- the Afghan
Taliban, the Haqqani network, anti-India insurgents such as
Lashkar-e-Taiba, even brutal anti-Shiite extremists such as
Sipah-e-Sahaba. Once they can rely on a  regular supply of
electricity  and look forward to rising incomes, though, they may
become less tolerant of the violence and chaos that such groups
spread.  Sustained U.S. engagement is no less important in this
region than in  Israel  and the Palestinian territories. A full
U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan next year -- the unlikely
“zero option” -- would only encourage Pakistan to interfere in
Kabul more in order to ensure its interests were secured.
Washington could work harder now to restart talks, backed by
Pakistan, with the Afghan Taliban. In the long term, the U.S.
should offer more help with projects such as the TAPI pipeline,
which would bring natural gas from  Turkmenistan  across
Afghanistan to Pakistan and India. Only when Islamabad sees
profit in a stable Afghanistan will its insurgent proxies such
as the Haqqani network begin to look like liabilities.  Such deals may be designed to increase stability in the
region. They’re also the only way to restore some equilibrium to
the perennially seesawing relationship between Pakistan and the
U.S.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 