-- Worst July Since 2003 Seen Paving Way for a Rebound: Muni Credit
-- B y   E m i l y   F r e e m a n   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/worst-july-since-2003-seen-paving-way-for-a-rebound-muni-credit.html
The municipal market’s biggest July
decline in a decade is leading investors such as Vanguard Group
Inc. to bet history is on their side as they buy with yields
close to a two-year high.  Tax-exempt debt fell about 1 percent in July, the worst
performance for the month since 2003, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data show. If the past is any guide, the trend for 
munis is poised to reverse in August: Only once in the past 
24 years has the market declined in both months.  Benchmark 10-year munis yield  2.91 percent . That’s about
112 percent of  interest rates  on similar-maturity Treasuries,
where the average since 2001 is 93 percent. For Chris Alwine at
Vanguard and Rick Taormina at J.P. Morgan Asset Management,
which oversee a combined $135 billion in munis, the elevated
 ratio  is a signal to add tax-exempt securities.  “Municipal bonds are relatively cheap, and we’re seeing
people come in and take advantage,” said Phil Fischer, head of
muni research at Bank of America in New York. “While this is
typically a strong period for muni performance, this is not a
strong year. Mutual-fund flows continue to be strongly negative
and we had a shock from the  Detroit  bankruptcy.”  Defying History  The $3.7 trillion municipal market has typically gained in
July and August as investors receive cash from coupon and
principal payments while issuance dwindles.  Yet demand from individual investors, who own about 70
percent of local debt either directly or through mutual funds,
collapsed over the past two months as a growing economy fueled
bets that interest rates will rise. Individuals pulled $11.8
billion from all muni mutual funds in the past month, the most
since at least 1992, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Just as withdrawals began to slow, Detroit sought court
protection on July 18. The move led  Meredith Whitney , founder of
Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC, to write an article in the
Financial Times saying Detroit’s filing “should not be regarded
as a one-off” in the municipal market.  The banking analyst incorrectly predicted in December 2010
that there would be “hundreds of billions of dollars” of muni
defaults in the following 12 months.  Whitney Wave  July marked the third straight month of declines for munis,
the longest slide since the month after Whitney made the
forecast on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes.”  “The effect of these negative headlines on the muni market
should not be ignored,” Dan Toboja, vice president of muni
trading at Ziegler Capital Markets in  Chicago , said in an e-mail. “Traditional individual buyers of muni funds invest for
peace of mind. If munis appear to have even marginally more risk
the buyer base shrinks.”  The higher yields may pull some individual investors back
into the market.  Benchmark tax-exempt munis maturing in 10 years have a
taxable-equivalent yield of 4.82 percent. That compares with an
interest rate of about 2.6 percent on similar-maturity
Treasuries.  “I don’t believe Detroit means the entire muni sector is
in disarray,” said  David Kotok , chief investment officer at
Sarasota, Florida-based Cumberland Advisors Inc., which oversees
about $2.2 billion of munis. When yields on tax-exempt local
debt exceed those on federal securities, “the tax-free muni is
a terrific buy,” he said in an interview.  Cash Ahead  Muni investors will receive $36 billion in August from
coupon, redemption and principal payments, according to Chris Mauro, head of muni strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.
That dwarfs the $12 billion in debt that states and cities are
set to sell over the next 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  CNA Financial Corp., the insurance unit of  Loews Corp. (L) ,
said it added local debt after the decline. CNA held munis that
cost $10.1 billion as of June 30. Chief Financial Officer Craig Mense on a July 29 conference call said the market presented
“attractive yield opportunities.”  Past performance suggests buyers such as CNA Financial will
be rewarded with gains in August. State and city bonds have had
positive returns every August since 2008, Bank of America data
show.  2003 Precedent  In 2003, when local debt declined 4.6 percent in July, the
market rebounded with a 1 percent gain in August and a 3.5
percent return in September.  “The relative value of munis should bear out and
outperform Treasuries over the coming six to 12 months,” said
Alwine, head of muni funds at Vanguard in  Valley Forge ,
 Pennsylvania . The company holds more than $100 billion in local
debt. “We’ve been looking to add munis at these levels.”  Investors will have an opportunity to buy debt from the
states of Washington and  Alabama  next week, as local governments
are set to offer $6.2 billion of bonds, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s more than the $5.3 billion pricing this
week.  Longer-dated munis have trailed Treasuries even more than
their 10-year counterparts. At  4.54 percent , yields on 30-year
benchmark munis are about 125 percent of those on like-maturity
federal debt, a one-year high.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emily Freeman in New York at 
 efreeman14@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  