-- TMX Group Profit Tops Estimates as Listing Fee Revenue Rises
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-08-01T20:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/tmx-group-profit-beats-estimates-as-listing-fee-revenue-rises.html
TMX Group Ltd. (X) , owner of the Toronto
Stock Exchange, reported second-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates after higher listing fees boosted revenue.  TMX’s net income was C$25.5 million ($24.8 million), or 47
cents a share, the Toronto-based company said today in a
statement. Revenue was C$182.3 million. The numbers from a year
earlier aren’t strictly comparable because a new company was
formed by the sale of the exchange owner to a group of banks and
pension funds.  TMX reported profit of 89 Canadian cents a share excluding
some items, beating the 83-cent average  estimate  of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares of the exchange rose 3.7 percent
to C$46.89 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, a seven-week high. The  stock 
has lost 7.6 percent this year.  “The Montreal Exchange had quite a solid quarter, which
helped offset some of the year-over-year volume declines in our
cash markets,” Tom Kloet, chief executive officer with TMX,
said in a conference call this morning. “This clearly
underscores the benefits of the diversified nature of TMX
Group.”  Options trading in the Montreal Exchange rose 2 percent
compared with the same period last year, Kloet said.  Combined trading volume across the Toronto Stock Exchange,
Venture exchange, Alpha and select fell 10 percent in the
quarter compared with year ago figures, Kloet said. Financing
raised was flat in the second quarter, compared with 2012, he
said.  “Our equities business, particularly equities financing,
continued to feel the effects of ongoing market weakness due to
the current macroeconomic cycle,” Kloet said.  Rising Revenue  Michael Ptasznik, chief financial officer, said improvement
in revenue “reflects an increase in initial and additional
listing fee revenue” and contributions from buying Equity
Financial Holdings Inc.’s transfer agency and corporate trust
services business. The C$64 million deal closed in April.  Trading volume for TMX’s Boston Options Exchange slumped 40
percent in the quarter due to a decrease in market activity and
shrinking market share, Kloet said.  “It’s a highly competitive market,” Kloet said. The
company is considering various pricing strategies.  Shubha Khan, analyst with National Bank Financial, lowered
his 2013 earnings estimate for TMX to C$2.93 from C$3.15 and cut
his rating for the stock to underperform, the equivalent of
sell, from sector perform, the equivalent of a hold, in a July
18 note to clients.  Rival Exchange  The  company  has one buy, four holds and five sell ratings,
according to analyst recommendations compiled by Bloomberg. The
one-year price target is C$48, implying a 2.4 percent increase
from the current level.  TMX was acquired last September by a group of Canadian
banks and pension funds as part of a C$3.73 billion takeover
that combined its competitor, Alpha Group, and the Canadian
Depository for Securities Ltd. clearinghouse.  Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s largest lender, along
with partners including Barclays Plc and Toronto investment firm
 CI Financial Corp. (CIX) , announced in June plans to build a new
exchange through Aequitas Innovations Inc., targeted at
investors concerned with the rise of high-frequency trading.  “The Toronto Stock Exchange gets the tail-end effects of
economic conditions, ease of financing and appetite for new
issues, so there are lots of events that are beyond their
control,”  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive officer with
Caldwell Securities Ltd, said in a July 24 interview. The firm
manages about $1 billion, including shares of TMX. “The
uncontrollables are becoming more positive and that will help
the exchange and stock price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  