-- TMX Shares Trailing Exchange Peers as Volume Slumps
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-08-01T20:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/tmx-trailing-exchange-peers-as-volume-slumps.html
TMX Group Ltd. (X)  is the worst-performing exchange stock in  North America  this year, as a rout
in global commodity prices cuts equity trading volume and a
bank-led competitor prepares to enter the business.  Shares of Toronto-based TMX have dropped 7.6 percent in
2013, the only decline among a group of six North American
exchange providers including NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The top
performer, Chicago-based  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , has gained 72
percent in the same period.  TMX rose 3.7 percent to C$46.89 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, the
highest close in seven weeks.  The owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange,  TSX Venture
Exchange , and Alpha and TMX Select trading platforms, posted a
17 percent slide in stock-trading volume through the first half
of the year as investors exited the resource-dominated  Standard
& Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. (SPTSX)  The company today reported second-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates after higher
listing fees boosted revenue.  “It’s well known that trading is down in the TSX and on
the sell side every day we live with that,” Ed Sollbach, a
strategist with Desjardins Securities Inc. in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview July 30. “A lot of it is because the TSX is
40 percent energy and materials. People chase performance, and
the U.S. market is one of the strongest markets globally, so
that helps them.”  The benchmark S&P/TSX has risen 1.3 percent this year,
compared with a 20 percent advance in the  S&P 500. (SPX)   Net Income  TMX’s net income was C$25.5 million ($24.8 million), or 47
cents a share, the company said today in a statement. Revenue
was C$182.3 million. The numbers from a year earlier aren’t
strictly comparable because a new company was formed by the sale
of the exchange owner to a group of banks and pension funds.  The company reported profit of 89 Canadian cents a share
excluding some items, beating the 83-cent average estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  TMX’s equity exchanges have traded about 73.4 billion
shares valued at C$764.1 billion this year, compared with 88.4
billion shares for C$868.8 billion a year ago, company data
show. In  Canada , TMX had about 82 percent of equity trading by
volume as of June, according to  data  from the Investment
Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada in Toronto.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., a collective including
Toronto-Dominion Bank, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and
Manulife Financial Corp., acquired the former TMX Group Inc.
along with Alpha Trading Systems and the Canadian Depository for
Securities Ltd. in a C$3.73 billion deal that closed in
September.  Rival Exchange  Royal Bank of Canada , Canada’s largest bank, along with
five partners including Barclays Plc and CI Financial Corp.,
announced in June the creation of Aequitas Innovations Inc.,
which will operate a stock exchange to compete directly with the
TSX.  Joanne Kearney, a spokeswoman for Aequitas, said the
company will apply for regulatory approval with the Ontario
Securities Commission in late autumn and expects to be in
operation by late 2014.  Shares of TMX dropped 2.3 percent when Royal Bank announced
Aequitas on June 25, falling to the lowest close since the
company began trading in September after completion of the Maple
Group acquisition. The shares rose 1.2 percent to C$45.20 in
Toronto yesterday.  “We are a strong domestic and international competitor,”
said Tom Kloet, Chief Executive Officer with TMX, in a
conference call this morning. “We’ve faced new competition for
a long time now. It’s a fact of life. We’re prepared to compete
effectively. Our focus will be on providing leading technology
and innovative products, and competitive pricing.”  Commodity Crunch  Thomas Caldwell , Chief Executive Officer with Caldwell
Securities Ltd., said Kloet will respond to any threats of
competition.  “If Aequitas comes up with something that will take
business away from them, make no mistake, Tom will act,”
Caldwell said on the phone from  Vancouver . The Toronto-based
firm manages about C$1 billion, including shares of TMX. “The
Toronto Stock Exchange still has the high ground on this, and
they will come up with something. This is not necessarily a race
to the bottom on fees.”  Raw-materials producers in the S&P/TSX have slumped 31
percent so far in 2013,  worst  among 10 industries. The price of
gold has plunged 22 percent and is poised for the first annual
decline since 2000 as investors gain confidence in the U.S.
economic recovery.  China Slows  An economic slowdown in  China , the world’s largest consumer
of raw materials, has caused a  bear market  in commodities from
copper to silver. Gross domestic product in China will probably
expand 7.5 percent in 2013 and 2014, compared with 7.8 percent
growth in 2012 and 10.4 percent in 2010, and further decline to
7.2 percent in 2015, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Resource stocks, including gold miners and oil producers,
make up about 37 percent of the  index , compared with about 13
percent for the  S&P 500 .  “Volumes are down remarkably for everyone, with the market
flattish there are not a lot of initial public offerings or
financings,” said  Irwin Michael ,  fund manager  with ABC Funds in
Toronto. His firm manages C$800 million. He does not own TMX.
“We believe the economy is slowly getting better, and there’s
opportunity in the marketplace, but there’s a lot of
reticence.”  U.S. Climbs  U.S. markets have climbed this year amid a recovering
economy and stimulative monthly bond purchases of $85 billion by
the U.S. Federal Reserve. Volume across the U.S. exchanges has
fallen 5.8 percent in the same period, Bloomberg data show.  “The U.S. market overall is up, which will help, and
you’ve seen decent trading volumes as well as earnings growth
for these players,” said  Chris Allen , an analyst with New York-based Evercore Partners Inc. “Then there’s perception of future
activity moving forward, particularly names with interest rate
sensitivity or growth products like the volatility index VIX at
CBOE.”  TMX is trading at a 8 percent discount relative to its
five-year average price-earnings ratio, compared with a 15
percent premium for its peers, estimated Phil Hardie, Toronto-based analyst with Scotia Capital Inc., in a July 17 note.  TMX has been a thinly traded stock since its acquisition by
the Maple Group in September, with  average  daily trading volume
of 56,430 shares. This compares with an average daily volume of
408,506 shares in the two years prior.  Financing Activity  “The steeper discount likely reflects a relatively more
constructive outlook for U.S. and European markets, while the
resource-oriented Canadian markets are likely to remain more
subdued,” Hardie said.  Shubha Khan, an analyst with National Bank Financial,
lowered his  rating  for TMX to underperform, the equivalent of a
sell, in a note to clients on July 18.  Khan, who estimated second-quarter profit of 69 cents, down
from an earlier forecast of 84 cents, also lowered his 2013
outlook for earnings to C$2.93 from C$3.15.  “Several factors are weighing on TMX Group’s earnings
growth, including the likely entry of a rival Canadian exchange
in late 2014, lackluster trading activity in all asset classes,
weak equity financing volumes and steep market share losses for
the BOX,” Khan said, referring to TMX’s Boston Options
Exchange. “Financing activity will remain relatively weak for
the balance of the year.”  Global Player  Sang Lee, managing partner and co-founder of Boston-based
Aite Group LLC, said TMX is still working through issues and
finding cost savings related to its integration of businesses
including Alpha Trading Systems last year, and the stock has the
potential to improve.  “As things get sorted out and the market outlook becomes a
bit more clear, even in a low-trading environment their overall
performance will be a lot better,” Lee said. “They need to
hold onto their market share domestically on the equity side,
and that is the hard part.”  For TMX to grow, the company will likely need to expand
into other markets in the U.S. or overseas, either through
acquisitions of smaller U.S. equity firms or by becoming a
takeover target by a larger global player.  “LSE would have been interesting,” Lee said, referring to
a failed bid by the London Stock Exchange to acquire TMX in
2011.  ABC Funds’ Michael is skeptical either Aequitas or TMX will
find much success given the current market conditions.  “You can have more competition for trading, but the
problem is we’re all doing less trading,” Michael said.
“That’s more competition for less business and it’s a
challenging situation for everyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  