-- Xi Calls for Boosting China’s Navy as Army Marks Anniversary
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-01T09:39:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/xi-calls-for-boosting-china-s-navy-as-military-marks-anniversary.html
President Xi Jinping called for  China 
to bolster its maritime forces while using peaceful means to
settle disagreements, as the country seeks to balance its push
for greater influence in Asia against its territorial claims.  To be able to deal with a variety of “complex
situations,” China must improve its ability to safeguard its
maritime rights, Xi said during a study session before the 86th
anniversary today of the founding of the People’s Liberation
Army, according to the official Xinhua News Agency.  China will stick to the path of peaceful development yet
“in no way will the country abandon its legitimate rights and
interests, nor will it give up its core national interests,” Xi
said.  China sent ships from its new integrated Coast Guard to
islands disputed with  Japan  in the East China Sea last month, as
Vietnam said a Chinese vessel chased two fishing boats near the
Paracel Islands on July 7, the third reported clash between the
two countries this year. China’s neighbors have voiced concern
about maritime tensions and the country’s role in the region
more broadly, with the  Philippines  boosting military ties with
the U.S. and Japan and seeking United Nations arbitration on its
territorial dispute with China.  Common Interests  China wants to focus on common interests with other nations
in the South China Sea to prevent disputes turning into
conflicts, according to Jian Zhang, a senior lecturer in the
International and Political Studies Program at the University of
New South Wales in Canberra. Holding a Politburo meeting on
maritime issues shows its importance to China’s economic and
strategic development, Zhang said by phone.  “They will definitely take a more assertive approach to
territorial disputes but on the other hand, they also want to
find a way to minimize the disruptive impact on China’s overall
relationship with other countries,” he said.  The South China Sea holds undiscovered natural gas and is
an important sea lane for imports of oil from the Persian Gulf
that pass through the Strait of Malacca. China bought more than
50 percent of its oil from the Middle East last year, customs
data show.  China will follow the principle of putting aside disputes
and engaging in joint exploration on the precondition that
“sovereignty belongs to China,” Xi said at the session, using
a phrase uttered by former leader Deng Xiaoping in the 1980s,
according to Xinhua. China will also pursue “converging
interests” with other countries in oceanic development, Xi
said.  Oil Reserves  Vietnam  and the Philippines have rejected China’s maritime
claims as a basis for joint development of oil and gas reserves
in areas south of the Gulf of Tonkin. In May, Vietnam demanded
compensation after a Chinese ship rammed a fishing boat off its
coast.  China’s 235,000-man navy may compare to the U.S. and  Russia 
in terms of the number of people and ships, yet there is a gap
of a generation or even several generations in terms of weaponry
and practical experience, Yang Yi, a rear admiral who has served
in the navy for more than 40 years, wrote in the state-owned
Global Times newspaper  today .  Conflicting Claims  China dismisses rival claims to the Spratly Islands from
 Taiwan , Vietnam,  Malaysia , the Philippines and Brunei. Further
north, Japan’s purchase last year of some of the Senkaku
islands, known as Diaoyu in China, led to Chinese protests and
roiled trade ties between Asia’s two biggest economies.  China has agreed to meet in September with the 10-member
Association of Southeast Asian Nations to develop rules aimed at
avoiding conflict in the South China Sea.  Japan’s security environment is becoming more severe, the
country’s Defense Ministry said in a midterm progress report
July 26, citing China’s “insufficiently transparent” military
expansion and the increase in its naval activities as one of the
reasons. Japan should bolster its fledging marine force and
consider developing a first-strike capability, the report said.  China will boost  defense spending  10.7 percent this year to
740.6 billion  yuan  ($121 billion), the Ministry of Finance said
in March. China has the second-biggest military budget in the
world after the U.S., which spent nearly six times more on
defense than China last year.  Even though China’s gross domestic product might surpass
that of the U.S. in the next 10 or so years, China should not
get into an arms race with the U.S. Navy, Yang said. China
should reach one third the strength of the U.S. naval force,
surpass Japan’s maritime defense force and come close to that of
Russia, he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  