-- Yahoo’s Mayer to Rebuild Research Group With 50 PhD Hires
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r a d   S t o n e
-- 2013-08-01T20:46:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/yahoo-s-mayer-to-rebuild-research-lab-with-50-phd-hires-in-2013.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s Marissa Mayer is
boosting the company’s research unit, which was downsized under
her predecessor, as the chief executive officer bets on emerging
technologies from big data to artificial intelligence.  Yahoo Labs has hired 30 researchers with PhDs in 2013 and
plans to add another 20 by year-end, Mayer said in an interview
at the company’s Sunnyvale, California headquarters last week.
The group is led by Chief Scientist Ron Brachman, a former
scientist at the U.S. agency that helped invent the Internet.  In addition to trying to revive Yahoo through acquisitions
and a focus on mobile, Mayer is investing in new projects after
four straight years of reduced spending on research and
development. Yahoo Labs, set up in 2005 as an incubator for
academic-style research and bold experimentation, suffered cuts
last year during the brief tenure of former CEO Scott Thompson,
leading to the departure of group founder and leader Prabhakar Raghavan to  Google Inc. (GOOG)   “The lab is still here -- it’s been reduced in size,”
Mayer said. The company is investing “heavily to build it back
up,” she said  Job openings listed on Yahoo’s website include a research
scientist specializing in mobile, a senior principal scientist
in personalization and a research scientist in pricing and
marketplaces.  Brachman, who helped build Yahoo’s research group when he
joined the company in 2005, previously spent three years at the
U.S. government’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
(Darpa), which helped create the Internet in the 1960s. Before
that, he led research on artificial intelligence at AT&T Inc.’s
Labs.  R&D Spending  Some of Yahoo Labs’ focus areas are in mobile, content
personalization and predictive analytics. Recent projects
include a search engine that asks users for more context about
their queries and an analysis of political opinions drawn from
messages posted to Twitter Inc.  Yahoo  spent  $885.82 million last year on product
development, which includes R&D, a 27 percent decline from 2008.
As a percentage of sales, Yahoo budgeted 18 percent to product
development last year, higher than Google’s 14 percent spent on
R&D and lower than  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s 27 percent.  Talent Search  The recruiting boost reflects Mayer’s broader effort to
attract top Silicon Valley talent. She has spent more than $1.2
billion on a startup takeover spree that has netted Tumblr Inc.
founder David Karp and Nick D’Aloisio, the whiz-kid teenager who
founded news reading app Summly. Two former Yahoo executives,
Jeff Bonforte and Amit Kumar, rejoined the company after Mayer
purchased their respective startups, Xobni Corp. and Palaran
Inc., last month.  The CEO has also worked to put engineers back at the center
of the largest U.S. Web portal. Yahoo’s technology council, a
governing body of eight leaders that includes co-founder David Filo and Chief Architect Amotz Maimon, is critical in the
approval of new products.  “If I don’t sign off and say it’s excellent from a product
standpoint, and if David Filo or Amotz don’t sign off and say
it’s excellent from tech-council standpoint, it doesn’t
happen,” Mayer said.  Yahoo fell less than 1 percent to $27.96 at the close in
New York, leaving the stock up 75 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brad Stone in San Francisco at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  