-- Yahoo to Move San Francisco Offices to Chronicle Building
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-08-01T23:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/yahoo-to-take-space-at-san-francisco-chronicle-building.html
Yahoo Inc. (YHOO)  said it will take space at
Hearst Corp.’s  San Francisco  Chronicle building in the city’s
South of Market neighborhood, putting it closer to an area of
rapid growth that’s home to technology companies.  Yahoo, operator of the biggest U.S. Web portal, will move
its San Francisco workers from a financial district high-rise to
an undisclosed amount of space at the property, according to a
 post  today on its Tumblr website. The Sunnyvale, California-based company plans to increase hiring in the city, said
Jacqueline Reses, Yahoo’s chief development officer.  “We’re designing a cool, fun and beautiful space to
inspire collaboration and innovation,” Reses said.  The move will give Yahoo a Mission Street address that is
between the Central Market redevelopment area, which has lured
technology companies including Twitter Inc., and the southern
part of the traditional financial district, where projects such
as new towers by  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  and Kilroy Realty Corp.
are under way. The Central Market area is also home to the
Warfield, Orpheum and Golden Gate theaters that hold live shows.  The three-level Chronicle building at 901 Mission St. is
home to the city’s largest circulating daily newspaper, which
has roots dating to 1865. The building used to be occupied by
two floors of newspaper employees before the publication was
reduced in size and staff because of plunging advertising
revenue, largely because of competition from the Internet.  Square Move  Parts of the first, second and third floors have been
converted to offices and meeting space for technology companies
including Square Inc., the mobile-payment service started by
Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey. Square is moving to larger
quarters at 1455 Market St., near San Francisco’s  City Hall  and
opera house, in a former Bank of America Corp. data center owned
by Hudson Pacific Properties Inc., a Los Angeles-based real
estate investment trust.  The Yahoo deal is for five years and 70,000 square feet
(6,500 square meters), said a person with knowledge of the
agreement who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. Asking rents in the area averaged $44 a square foot
in the second quarter, according to CBRE Group Inc.  Yahoo’s current lease at 475 Sansome St. was signed in 2010
at a rate of $32 a square foot, and expires in the third quarter
of next year, said a person familiar with that agreement who
also asked not to be identified because the lease details aren’t
public.  Sara Gorman, a Yahoo spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the company’s lease terms.  Jeffrey Johnson , the Chronicle
newspaper’s publisher, and Brennan Zerbe, a spokesman for Hearst
based in San Francisco, didn’t return calls seeking comment on
the space being taken by Yahoo.  Times Building  This isn’t Yahoo’s first move into a property known for its
ties to old media. The company, led by Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer , in May announced plans to lease four floors in
the former  New York  Times building in  Manhattan .  “We love the symbolism of moving into the Chronicle
building, as it personifies the digital revolution in how people
around the world consume media,” Reses said.  Rent growth in San Francisco has slowed amid decelerating
leasing by technology companies that fueled three years of
record occupancy, according to a Cornish & Carey Commercial
Newmark Knight Frank report. Asking rates in the city rose 1.2
percent to an average of $54.59 a square foot at the end of
June, the smallest quarterly increase since 2010, the brokerage
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  