-- Yankees’ Rodriguez Begins Second Rehab Stint as Suspension Looms
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/yankees-rodriguez-plays-in-simulated-game-as-suspension-looms.html
New York  Yankees third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  begins his second minor-league injury rehabilitation
assignment tonight while facing a drug suspension as he tries to
return to the major leagues.  Rodriguez, 38, who is fifth on the Major League Baseball
career list with 647 home runs, is being investigated by
baseball for his ties to the now-shuttered Biogenesis of America
LLC clinic in  Coral Gables ,  Florida .  Rodriguez played in a simulated game yesterday at the
Yankees’ spring training base in Tampa, and the team said in an
e-mailed news release that Rodriguez would play rehab games
tonight and tomorrow with the Trenton Thunder.  The three-time American League Most Valuable Player hasn’t
played for the Yankees this season while recovering from January
hip surgery. An earlier rehab assignment was cut short when he
experienced tightness in his thigh.  Rodriguez stopped his car to speak with a group of writers
as he left the Yankees’ complex yesterday, then drove away
without commenting when he was surrounded by camera crews.  The  Associated Press  reported last night that pressure is
building to impose penalties in the Biogenesis case by Aug. 5 so
players can return for the postseason.  MLB officials plan to issue two announcements no later than
Aug. 5 -- one listing players who have accepted suspensions and
the other naming those who have been banned and could still
challenge that discipline before an arbitrator, AP said, quoting
an unidentified person familiar with the process.  Rodriguez is one of 14 players expected to be suspended for
their ties to Biogenesis, AP said. While Rodriguez faces a
longer ban, most of the players could get 50-game suspensions as
first-time offenders under baseball’s drug rules -- and teams
would have about 50 games left in the regular season starting
next week.  Ryan Braun , the National League’s Most Valuable Player in
2011, was suspended without pay on July 22 for the final 65
games of the season for unspecified drug violations. The
Milwaukee Brewers outfielder has acknowledged ties to Biogenesis
founder Tony Bosch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  