-- Yes Votes on Immigration Revamp Haven’t Hurt Republicans
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-08-01T22:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/yes-votes-on-immigration-revamp-haven-t-hurt-republicans.html
A month after voting for an
immigration bill that many  House Republicans  see as political
poison, three Senate Republicans are heading into 2014 re-election campaigns with few signs of damage -- so far.  Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina,  Susan Collins  of
 Maine  and  Lamar Alexander  of  Tennessee  voted June 27 with
Democrats and 11 Republicans for a broad immigration measure
that would create a path to citizenship for undocumented
immigrants, authorize new visas for guest workers and beef up
U.S. border security.  Their experience may inform House Republicans concerned
that supporting a new immigration policy will give ammunition to
Tea Party-fueled primary challengers, says  Jennifer Duffy , a
Senate analyst at the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in
 Washington .  “These Republicans are starting to fear their own
shadow,” Duffy said. “If Republicans could actually do it
right and have enough border security in there, it might be
fine.”  While it’s early in the campaign season, immigration could
become a flash point as lawmakers leave Washington for a five-week recess set to begin tomorrow. That worries those fighting
for changes in U.S. immigration law because it makes it harder
to advance legislation through the House.  Tea Party  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  has
already drawn a  Tea Party  challenge from Louisville businessman
Matt Bevin, with activists irate in part over his inability to
block the Senate’s immigration bill, which passed 68 to 32. Tea
Party members in South Carolina and Tennessee are still shopping
for a strong candidate, and Lee Bright, a South Carolina state
senator, may soon announce his candidacy. Nancy Mace, the first
female graduate of The Citadel, plans to  announce  her primary
run against Graham on Saturday, Goose Creek Patch reported
today.  “There are people gearing up to challenge them,” said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Washington-based Federation for
American Immigration Reform, which opposes the Senate bill.
“This is a very clear warning it’s something the constituents
are not going to be pleased with.”  Senators are amassing financial backing to defend their
seats. Graham has raised $5.6 million and Alexander has brought
in $3.6 million for the 2014 campaign, according to the
Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan
group that analyzes campaign contributions.  Challengers to incumbents in the Republican-led House, by
contrast, can succeed with far less money, and districts have
been redrawn in ways that encourage intra-party challenges.  Lawmakers ‘Afraid’  “Many of these Republican members of Congress are telling
people ‘I’m afraid of being primaried,’” Senator  John McCain ,
an  Arizona  Republican who has long backed revising the law, said
at a Bloomberg Government luncheon July 29. “A lot of these
members would like to see a way through this.”  In Tennessee, anti-tax Tea Party activists see more
pressing grievances with Alexander. The senator voted 62 percent
of the time with President  Barack Obama , including support for a
bipartisan budget deal last December that included a tax
increase and stopgap bills to keep the government funded,
according to Congressional Quarterly.  Ben Cunningham, Nashville Tea Party president, says the
main issue motivating allies in Tennessee is “the growth and
size and burden and intrusiveness of the federal government.”  Candidate Search  Last October, local Tea Party activists met with national
groups including FreedomWorks that could provide funding for a
primary challenge to Alexander. “There are a number of outside
groups that would very much like to help if we can get a viable
candidate,” Cunningham said. Still, there are “no real
alternatives at this point,” he said, while mentioning Knox
County Mayor Tim Burchett as one possibility.  Every member of the congressional delegation and all the
former state Republican chairmen have endorsed Alexander, he
said. “He’s going to be tough to beat,” he said. “He’s got
all the establishment money, all the lobbyists’ money.”  Phil Roe, a Republican congressman from Tennessee, rejects
McCain’s view that Tea Party concerns are hindering legislation.  “I certainly don’t feel threatened by the Tea Party,”
Roe, whose district voted 73 percent for Republican  Mitt Romney 
over Obama last year, said in an interview. “You got to be
comfortable in your overalls. If you’re positive and comfortable
in your position, you should be fine.”  South Carolina  In South Carolina, Graham’s role in the immigration debate
was a liability in 2008, said David Woodard, a political science
professor at  Clemson University . In 2014, he said, it’s unlikely
to pose much of a threat.  In addition to Graham’s efforts to repair fences with
voters, the electorate’s attitudes on immigration have changed
“dramatically” in South Carolina from 2010 to now, said
Woodard, who conducts state- and district-level polling.  “He’s pretty safe,” said Woodard, a consultant who’s
advised Graham and former Republican Senator  Jim DeMint .  “The re-election of Barack Obama jarred” Republican
voters in South Carolina, Woodard said. Obama won 71 percent of
the national Hispanic vote last year. “They’ve realized you
can’t take that position on immigration and survive.”  Tea Party groups want a challenger to Graham, said Debbie
Jones, a board member for Charleston 912, a group that touts
constitutional government. Even so, she said she isn’t sure any
of the potential challengers, including Bright, is “strong
enough to take down Graham.”  Lawmaker’s Chits  Graham’s post-vote experience should give solace to fellow
Republicans in the state such as Representative Trey Gowdy, who
was elected with strong Tea Party backing, Woodard said.  “They could take a vote on the immigration bill without
fear of losing,” he said. “Somebody like Trey Gowdy now has
enough chits with the electorate he would be forgiven.”  Gowdy said in a Bloomberg Television interview last month
that the current immigration system is “broken” and expressed
optimism that the House would pass a plan.  Representative Mick Mulvaney, a  South Carolina  Republican,
agreed that immigration is no longer a “hot button” issue in
the state. “There’s a general sense that you can’t continue
like we are right now,” he said. Even so, “that’s a far cry
from supporting the Senate bill.”  Gowdy won his 2012 election by 31 percentage points with no
primary opposition. Most of his Republican colleagues in the
state also ran unopposed, including Jeff Duncan and Mulvaney.  Maine’s Focus  For Collins, whose state has strong Democratic leanings,
supporting the immigration measure “isn’t going to cost her one
iota,” said Mark Brewer, associate professor of political
science at the University of Maine.  The Tea Party in Maine is more focused on the size of
government, taxation, constitutional issues and even same-sex
marriage, said Brewer. “I suppose there’s a small wing or
sliver within the Tea Party movement for whom immigration is the
rub,” he said, “but it’s a real small part.”  The  Rothenberg Political Report , a nonpartisan Washington
newsletter, rates Alexander and Graham as “safe” in their re-election bids and Collins as “Republican favored.”  Some Republicans are preparing to support lawmakers willing
to back new immigration laws.  Charlie Spies, a former adviser to Romney, who said during
his presidential campaign that immigrants in the U.S. illegally
should “self-deport,” co-founded a super-political action
committee called Republicans for Immigration Reform.  The group ran ads in support of Graham when he came under
attack from anti- immigration  groups before the Senate’s vote. It
is joining unions and business coalitions planning to pressure
more than 100 House Republicans during the recess.  Immigration Polling  “When Republicans are attacked for supporting immigration
reform, we’re going to be there to provide support for them,”
Spies said. He said his group’s polling shows as many as 70
percent of Republican primary voters are more likely to vote for
a Republican who supports the Senate bill when words like
“amnesty” aren’t used to describe it.  Still, the issue could bedevil Republican incumbents if the
party’s leaders in the House accept a path to citizenship during
negotiations with the Senate over final legislation, said  Nathan Gonzales , deputy editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report in Washington.  “That could change the landscape,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  