-- Zimbabwe’s Tsvangirai Won’t Accept Election Results
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-08-01T22:07:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-01/zimbabwe-s-tsvangirai-won-t-accept-election-results.html
President Robert Mugabe’s party took
a lead in early results for Zimbabwe’s parliament after a
general election that Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai described
as a “sham.”  The electoral commission said late yesterday that Mugabe’s
Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front won 52 of the
210 elected seats in parliament to 10 for Tsvangirai’s Movement
for Democratic Change. No presidential election results were
released.  Tsvangirai, 61, alleged widespread rigging in the July 28
vote and said his Movement for Democratic Change regarded the
elections as “null and void.”  Saviour Kasukuwere , a Zanu-PF
politburo member, called the vote free and fair and said the
results “are smelling very good” for his party.  Mugabe, 89, who’s ruled the southern African nation since
independence from the U.K. in 1980, could remain in office until
the age of 94 if he’s declared winner. Tsvangirai said thousands
of people were turned away from polling stations because they
weren’t on the electoral roll, voters were bussed to cast
ballots outside their home areas and the election process was
controlled by the security forces.  “It’s pretty clear there was mass disenfranchisement,
especially for people in the urban areas,” Piers Pigou, a
researcher at the  International Crisis Group , said yesterday by
phone from Johannesburg. “Zanu-PF was very well organized and
they resuscitated their patronage networks with great success.”  The  Zimbabwe  Election Support Network, a local monitoring
group that fielded 7,000 observers, called the vote “seriously
compromised” because of a “systematic effort to
disenfranchise” as many as 1 million urban voters.  Voters’ Roll  The MDC also complained that the electoral commission
didn’t give it access to the voters’ roll.  “The critical test is whether voting tabulation is done in
a transparent manner,” U.S. State Department deputy spokesman
Marie Harf said yesterday of the election in Zimbabwe.  The rejection of the vote by Tsvangirai followed a campaign
largely free of the violence that marred the last Mugabe-Tsvangirai contest in 2008.  That year Tsvangirai led the first round of the election
before he pulled out of a run-off saying about 200 of his
supporters had been killed. The MDC beat Zanu-PF in the
parliamentary ballot. The 15-nation Southern African Development
Community negotiated a power-sharing agreement in 2009, leaving
left Mugabe as president and Tsvangirai as prime minister.  Kasukuwere, who’s the minister for indigenization, as
Mugabe’s program to increase the holdings of black Zimbabweans
in the economy is known, called the election “a resounding
stamp of approval for our policies” during a telephone
interview yesterday.  Mining Companies  Mugabe and ZANU-PF have forced mining companies such as
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) 
to cede a majority share of their local assets to black
Zimbabweans or the government. The southern African nation has
the world’s second-biggest platinum and chrome reserves as well
as deposits of diamonds, gold and coal. Tsvangirai has promised
to repeal the measure.  “If it turns out that Zanu-PF takes it, the country will
continue to stumble along as it has over the past 12 months,”
Christie Viljoen, an economist at NKC Independent Economists in
Paarl, South Africa, said by phone. “People are still
interested but not committing money because of the whole
indigenization process. The economy isn’t going to improve.”  Early unofficial results showed ZANU-PF winning in former
MDC strongholds such as Mbare, a township in Harare.  Vote ‘Stolen’  “Mugabe knows what is right and what is wrong,” Durai
Nekati, a 35-year-old who sells spare parts for cars in Mbare,
said as he saw ZANU-PF pull ahead in the vote count at his
polling station in the Harare township where the MDC prevailed
in 2008. “I’m very happy that my party has won the battle.”  The electoral commission said on July 13 that it would
announce results of the presidential vote by Aug. 5. The process
took about a month in 2008.  “My first time to vote and it has been stolen from me,”
said Twotone Sarudzai, an 18-year-old a sweet potato and
firewood seller in Harare’s Strathaven suburb. “No sane person
would ever believe Zanu-PF could win, let alone get any seat in
Harare. This is so rotten they should be able to smell it as far
as Cairo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Harare at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare  at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  