-- ‘Big Short’ Author Lewis Asks Judge to Dismiss Libel Suit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-08-01T22:01:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/-big-short-author-lewis-asks-judge-to-dismiss-libel-suit.html
Lawyers for  Michael Lewis , the author
of “ Liar’s Poker ” and “Moneyball,” asked a judge to dismiss
a lawsuit by a bond manager who claimed Lewis’s book about
subprime mortgage investing, “The Big Short,” defamed him.  U.S. District Judge George Daniels heard arguments in
Manhattan today on Lewis’s motion to dismiss the libel suit by
Wing Chau and his company, Harding Advisory LLC, without a
trial. Daniels said he will rule “sometime after Labor Day.”  “There’s not an iota of evidence Michael Lewis thought
anything he was writing was false,” Celia Barenholtz, a lawyer
for Lewis, told the judge. She said Chan was a “limited purpose
public figure” and hadn’t proved that Lewis’s comments showed
“actual malice,” a legal standard for libel.  Chau’s Morristown, New Jersey-based Harding Advisory
manages collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, which are
often backed by pools of mortgage-backed securities. Chau sued
Lewis in 2011, claiming that “The Big Short” made “false and
defamatory statements about him” and damaged his reputation in
the financial industry.  “They should be held accountable,” Steven Molo, a lawyer
for Chau, said of Lewis and the other defendants. “There should
be a  jury trial .”  Molo told the judge that Chau was a “private person,” not
a public figure. “Being a prominent manager of CDOs is not
enough. He did not inject himself into a public debate.” He
argued that Lewis’s book “paints Mr. Chau as the worst of the
worst” CDO managers.  ‘Sleepy’ Companies  Daniels repeatedly questioned Molo about statements from
the book that are alleged to be libelous, including Lewis’s
comments that Chau had worked for “sleepy” insurance companies
for much of his career before managing CDOs and that CDO
managers didn’t work hard.  “Most of your argument is based on the implications of
certain statements, not on the actual statements,” the judge
told Molo. “There’s no proof you can offer to a jury whether an
insurance company is ‘sleepy.’ That is hyperbole. That is
opinion.”  Chau also sued Lewis’s publisher, New York-based  W.W.
Norton & Co. , and a hedge fund manager,  Steven Eisman , who was a
principal source of information for Lewis’s book.  The book tells of a group of investors who made fortunes by
shorting, or betting against, the residential subprime mortgage
market before it collapsed in 2007. Eisman, who managed
FrontPoint Partners LLC, was one of those investors.  Harding Investors  Chau’s firm managed about $20 billion worth of CDOs in
2007, making it the fourth largest in that category, according
to court papers. Investors in Harding’s CDOs included UBS AG and
Deutsche Bank AG, according to court filings. CDO sales
collapsed in 2007 along with the subprime-mortgage market.  The book describes a dinner conversation in Las Vegas in
2007 between Chau and Eisman, after which Eisman increased his
bets against CDOs. Chau claims Eisman “fabricated the
statements” attributed to him.  “He had no reason to lie,” David Schulz, a lawyer for
Eisman, said of his client. He argued that the things Eisman
told Lewis about the  Las Vegas  meeting were in fact true, such
as Chau wanting to increase his CDO business to $50 billion and
not having any equity in the CDOs he managed.  Schulz told the judge that Chau was indeed a public figure.
“He chose to go into a highly controversial business, knowing
he might be the subject of attention. He chose to become a major
player in it.”  ‘Eventually Defaulted’  Lewis, who wasn’t in court, said in a written declaration
that he sent several messages to Chau seeking an interview for
the book and never received a response.  “I did not have any reason to doubt my sources, and
believe that they were reliable, and the book was accurate,”
Lewis said in the declaration. “Many of the CDOs under Chau’s
management eventually defaulted, and his investors had lost
literally billions of dollars.”  The book was published in March 2010. It spent more than 28
weeks on the  New York  Times nonfiction bestseller list and has
sold more than 1 million copies, according to court records.  “If I had any concerns about the accuracy of Lewis’s work,
I would not have allowed Norton to publish it,” Starling Lawrence, who was Lewis’s editor at Norton, said in a
declaration.  Lewis, who is a columnist for Bloomberg View, published his
first book, “Liar’s Poker,” in 1989 after working in bond
sales at  Salomon Brothers . It describes the bond trading culture
at the investment firm.  Chau’s father fled Mao Zedong’s  China  in 1953, settled with
his family in  Rhode Island  and ran a restaurant, according to
court papers. Chau worked as an analyst for Prudential
Securities Inc., among other jobs, before forming Harding in
2006 to manage CDOs.  The case is Chau v. Lewis, 11-01333, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  