-- LabCorp Climbs on Report Company May Be a Buyout Target
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-08-01T14:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/labcorp-climbs-on-report-company-may-be-a-buyout-target-1-.html
Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings ,
which provides medical testing services, rose the most in almost
three years as investors bet the company may be the target of a
private equity buyout.  LabCorp gained 4.8 percent to $88.11 at 9:56 a.m.  New York 
time. The shares climbed as much as 5.2 percent to $88.50, the
biggest intraday increase since September 2009, after Debtwire
reported the Burlington, North Carolina-based company may be
bought. LabCorp said today in a statement it has “no knowledge
of any such plans” and is not in talks on a deal.  Bank of America Corp. is heading efforts to raise capital
for the buyout, according to the report from Debtwire, which
didn’t identify the source of the information. LabCorp may go
for $100 a share, a 19 percent premium over yesterday’s closing
share price, said Citigroup Inc. analyst Gary Taylor in a note
yesterday. Quest Diagnostics Inc. also could be targeted by
private equity, Taylor said.  “We continue to believe that an LBO of either LabCorp or
Quest is financially plausible,” Taylor said.  LabCorp offers testing services for doctors, hospitals and
pharmaceutical companies. A spokesman at Bank of America
declined to comment, while a LabCorp spokesman didn’t return
calls seeking additional comment.  Market Value  LabCorp had a market value of  $8.1 billion  based on
yesterday’s closing price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Private equity buyers may need to put up $3 billion to $4
billion of equity capital for the purchase, according to the
report. Among firms that have the wherewithal to make a bid for
LabCorp are TPG Capital and Bain Capital Partners, according to
the report which did not say the two firms are considering
making a bid. Other potential acquirers include  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  and KKR & Co. LP. Officials at the funds couldn’t immediately
be reached to comment.  Private equity firms have been the most-active acquirers of
laboratory, medical testing, and research services companies in
the past five years, accounting for almost $6 billion of the $19
billion in takeovers in the sector, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Carlyle Group LP and Hellman & Friedman’s $3.4 billion
takeover of Pharmaceutical Product Development Inc. last year
was the largest takeover in the sector, the data show.  Quest, based in Madison,  New Jersey , rose less than 1
percent to $58.92.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece at   spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  