-- Abercrombie & Fitch Tumbles After Cutting Annual Forecast
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-02T20:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/abercrombie-fitch-tumbles-after-cutting-full-year-forecast-1-.html
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) , the teen
retailer with more than 1,000 stores, plunged to a three-year
low after cutting its annual forecast yesterday, citing an
anticipated drop in same-store sales in the second half of 2012.  The  New Albany , Ohio-based company fell 15 percent to
$29.06 at the close in  New York , the lowest since July 31, 2009.
With today’s drop, the biggest since November, the shares have
declined 41 percent this year.  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , Abercrombie’s
smaller rival, plummeted 33 percent, the most in almost a
decade, after reporting preliminary second-quarter results that
were lower than previously forecast.  Abercrombie, which got 20 percent of sales from  Europe  in
the year ended Jan. 28, has lost revenue as the region is roiled
by a sovereign-debt crisis and amid tepid consumer sentiment at
home. Full-year earnings per share will be $2.50 to $2.75,
compared to a previous projection of $3.50 to $3.75, the company
said yesterday in a statement. Analysts had predicted an average
of $3.36, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We believe weakness is more than just the economy, and
can no longer justify a ‘free pass’ on continued execution
errors,” Erika Maschmeyer, an analyst with Robert W. Baird &
Co. in  Chicago , wrote in a note yesterday, cutting her
 recommendation  on the stock to neutral from outperform. The
retailer’s merchandise isn’t resonating with customers and the
brand is pressured by value-oriented competitors, she wrote.  Abercrombie is “cannibalizing” business at its namesake
stores with its less expensive Hollister Co. brand,  Jennifer Davis , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  ‘Cannibalizing’ Business  Abercrombie & Fitch, with 294 stores at the end of January,
is “rooted in East Coast traditions and Ivy League heritage,”
while Hollister, a more beach-friendly brand that represents the
“fantasy of  Southern California ” had about 570 locations,
according to the company’s annual report.  Abercrombie needs to do a better job at differentiating the
two brands beyond a moose logo at its namesake stores and a
seagull at Hollister, and has to bring more fashion newness to
stores, said Davis, who doesn’t have a rating on the retailer.  Second-quarter  revenue  rose 4 percent to $951.4 million,
trailing analysts’ predictions of $1 billion, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Comparable store sales fell 5 percent in
the U.S. and 26 percent internationally, and are expected to
drop 10 percent in the second half of the year, the company
said.  Aeropostale  Abercrombie posted its first  decline  in same-store sales in
more than two years in the three months ended April 28.  The company is paring back its international expansion
plans and now expects to open 30 Hollister stores outside of the
U.S. in fiscal 2012, down from about 40, according to
yesterday’s statement. It’s also halting commitments to new
flagship stores outside of its planned Shanghai location.  Aeropostale reported preliminary second-quarter profit that
was break-even per share, down from earlier guidance of as much
as 5 cents, citing reduced traffic in its stores. That compared
to an average analyst estimate of 6 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  While overall sales rose 4 percent to $485.3 million,
comparable sales were flat and same-store sales, excluding e-
commerce, dropped 1 percent, the New York-based company said
today in a statement. Analysts had predicted $497.2 million.  “We are clearly disappointed that our second quarter
results fell below our initial expectations,” Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Johnson said in the statement. “While we
delivered a more cohesive fashion offering and continued to
improve our sales per transactions, our overall store traffic
was weaker than anticipated.”  ‘Clearly Disappointed’  The stock dropped 33 percent to $13.08 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since October 2002. The shares erased
their gain for the year, with a 14 percent loss through today.  Abercrombie’s report yesterday came within an hour of
American Eagle’s preliminary second-quarter profit report, where
it cited stronger-than-expected sales.  American Eagle fell 2.2 percent to $19.89. The company,
which operates more than 1,000 stores in  North America , has
 gained  30 percent this year through today.  Second-quarter profit per share probably will be as much as
21 cents a share, more than an earlier forecast of 15 cents, the
Pittsburgh-based company said yesterday in a statement. Revenue
jumped 11 percent to $740 million from $669 million a year
earlier. Analysts had estimated sales of $715 million, according
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  