-- Abu Dhabi’s Aabar to Invest in Oman’s Al Izz Islamic Bank
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-08-01T05:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/abu-dhabi-s-aabar-to-invest-in-oman-s-al-izz-islamic-bank.html
Aabar Investments PJSC, an Abu Dhabi
government-controlled company with stakes in  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
Daimler AG, will be the cornerstone investor in Al Izz Islamic
Bank as Oman seeks to tap demand for Shariah-complaint products.  Al Izz is under formation and getting ready for an initial
public offering, the bank said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. Oman approved the creation of its first two Islamic
banks last year, Al Izz in October and  Bank Nizwa (BKNZ)  in May. Aabar,
Huriah Company LLC and Tasameem Real Estate Company LLC are
promoters of Al Izz, according to the statement.  The shares of Bank Nizwa jumped 13 percent when they began
trading on Oman’s stock exchange on June 10. The bank will start
operations in the third quarter, according to its website.  Prior to Bank Nizwa and Al Izz, Oman was the only country
in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council without dedicated
Islamic banks. Bank assets that comply with Shariah’s ban on
paying and receiving interest may account for a 10th of the
industry’s total within 12 months of starting services, Hilal Al
Barwani, vice president of banking supervision at the  Central
Bank  of Oman said in January.  The move into Shariah-compliant finance will give banks in
the country, home to almost three million people, the chance to
tap growth in the global  Islamic finance  industry. Shariah
financing is expanding as much as 16 percent a year and the
industry may be valued at $1.5 trillion by the end of 2012, Raj
Mohamed, managing director at Singapore-based consulting firm
Five Pillars Pte, said Jan. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  