-- Macro Hedge Funds Lose Touch as Bacon Returns $2 Billion
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-08-01T23:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/macro-hedge-funds-lose-touch-as-bacon-returns-2-billion.html
Louis Bacon ’s decision to return $2
billion to investors highlights the difficulties the biggest
macro hedge funds are having this year as government
intervention and declining trading volumes limit managers’
ability to make large bets.  Bacon told clients in a letter yesterday he’s giving back
about 25 percent of the money in his main hedge fund after
returning just 1.6 percent this year through July.  Ray Dalio ,
who runs Bridgewater Associates LP, lost 2 percent in his $54
billion macro fund through July 20, according to investors.  Alan Howard , who runs Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, lost 1.3
percent in his Master Fund in the same period.  Investors had high hopes for macro funds because they
managed to weather the 2008 financial crisis while other
strategies tumbled. They poured $4.2 billion into the funds in
the first half of this year, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc., or about a fifth of all deposits into the
industry, figuring there was money to be made in markets
dominated by macroeconomic themes. That’s proven too much as new
regulations prohibiting banks from trading for their own account
reduced liquidity and government action made timing trades
harder.  “Ongoing systemic shocks are resulting in market behavior
that is consistently inconsistent,” said Brad Balter, head of
Boston-based Balter Capital Management LLC, which invests client
money in hedge funds. “That causes traders to put on smaller
positions, making it harder for the largest managers to
profit.”  Bridgewater’s Returns  Macro funds  trade in global equity, bond, currency and
commodities markets. They lost an average of 1.3 percent in the
first six months of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compared with a gain of 6 percent by the MSCI
ACWI Index and 2.8 percent for the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Broad Market Index.  Until this year, the bigger funds were able to produce top
returns. Bridgewater, based in Westport,  Connecticut ,  climbed
25 percent last year, and in 2010 it jumped 45 percent.  Brevan Howard, which manages $26 billion in its Master
Fund, returned about 12 percent last year. This year, the losses
have been primarily in global interest rate bets, according to a
monthly shareholder report for its publicly traded entity.  Caxton Associates LP, run by Andrew Law, lost 2.8 percent
through July 17, investors said.  Paul Jones ’s Tudor BVI Fund
climbed 3.3 percent through July 20 and Greg Coffey, who manages
an emerging-market macro fund at Bacon’s Moore Capital Capital
Management LLC, lost 5 percent this year through July 31,
clients said. The investors asked not to be named because the
funds are private.  Officials at the funds declined to comment.  ‘Investment Desert’  Bacon, 56, said he is returning money because there are
fewer opportunities and less liquidity in global markets. His
main fund oversees $8 billion and the firm manages $15 billion.  In  currency markets , Bacon wrote, government intervention
has caused the percentage difference between the strongest and
weakest of the Group of 10 currencies to be the narrowest since
the fall of  Bretton Woods , the system of fixed currencies that
ended in the early 1970s.  Banks have cut back their proprietary-trading desks over
the past year in preparation for the Dodd-Frank provision that
limits banks’ ability to make bets with their own money. That is
making it more difficult to trade large positions, Bacon said.  Trading Volumes  Trading volume in shares globally fell 18 percent in the
first half of 2012 compared with the same period in 2011,
according to the World Federation of Exchanges.  “The bulk of rallies occur at turning points on low
trading volume. Subsequent momentum and trends are much less
rewarding,” Bacon wrote. Markets are moving in tandem and
“idiosyncratic opportunities, particularly in liquid markets
where volume can be exploited, are becoming oases in an
investment desert.”  One trade that went awry for many managers at the end of
June was a bet against the euro. The trade was making money
until June 29, when the euro surged as much as 2 percent against
the dollar in one day, the biggest gain of the year.  ‘Tail Risk’  The jump took place after European Union leaders, meeting
in Brussels, said they would drop the condition that emergency
loans to Spanish banks give creditor governments preferred
status. At the time, investors said the euro gained because the
agreement exceeded the market’s very low expectations going into
the summit.  “Markets have become accustomed to euro-zone summits where
the de facto best outcome is action that cuts off imminent tail
risk, providing a brief short-covering rally that belies a
concrete and important resolution,” Bacon wrote in the letter.
“This action is then sufficient for the market to temporarily
put the dysfunctional euro zone to one side to focus on more
positive developments elsewhere.”  The unexpected moves have been harder for larger managers
to navigate because they can’t put on or unwind positions as
quickly as smaller players.  “The market environment has changed and it’s been even
more volatile than we expected,” said Franck Dargent, deputy
chief executive officer of Paris-based Amundi Alternative
Investments, which invests about $12 billion in hedge funds.
“To capture the short-term cycles, you have to be able to
rotate the portfolio quickly.”  Fortress Gains  Some smaller macro funds have been able to perform well
this year.  Fortress (FIG)  Macro Fund, run by Michael Novogratz and
Adam Levinson, climbed 6 percent through the end of July,
according to investors, who asked not to be named because the
fund is private.  Gordon Runte, a Fortress spokesman, declined to comment.  The managers of the $3 billion fund made money being short
the euro because they tend to sell their positions once they’ve
made 1 or 2 percent, the investors said, avoiding the market
gyrations that have hurt other managers. The fund also made
money trading the  Japanese yen , when it weakened at the
beginning of the year and when it strengthened more recently,
and on a bet that  Brazil  would lower short-term  interest rates .  Fortress uses stops and hedges to ensure that it will not
lose more than 3 percent of net asset value for its larger
trades, and not more than 75 basis points on its shorter-term
tactical trades. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Less Conviction  While investors pulled about $3.5 billion from macro funds
in the second quarter, some say they are staying with the
strategy, convinced that they are in the best position to
exploit global imbalances in the longer term.  “Fundamental conditions are not driving the markets right
now, so in the short-term it’s challenging,” said  John Bailey ,
chief executive officer at Spruce Private Investors in  Stamford ,
Connecticut, which advises clients on hedge fund and other
alternative investments.  That means that macro funds have to have lower conviction
about their trades and reduce the size of their positions, he
said. Giving back money, like Bacon did, may be one way to lift
returns in this environment.  “I can count on one hand the managers who have given money
back,” said Brad Alford, head of Atlanta-based Alpha Capital
Management LLC, who is an investor with Moore. “He’s giving up
at least $60 million in fees annually to try to do right by his
investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  