-- ADM, Refiners Lose Bid to Dismiss Suit Over Corn Syrup
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-01T03:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/adm-refiners-lose-bid-to-dismiss-suit-over-corn-syrup.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  and three
other corn refiners lost a bid to dismiss a sugar-producers’
lawsuit alleging they misled consumers with advertising claiming
high-fructose corn syrup is natural and the same as sugar.  U.S. District Judge Consuelo B. Marshall in  Los Angeles 
ruled yesterday the sugar producers provided enough facts to
support their claims and for the lawsuit to proceed. The judge
dismissed the suit against Roquette America Inc.  “Plaintiffs do not allege any individual, wrongful conduct
against Roquette,” Marshall wrote. “Plaintiffs do not allege
sufficient facts to state a claim against Roquette.”  A group of sugar growers and refiners last year sued ADM,
Roquette, Cargill Inc., Corn Products International,  Tate & Lyle (TATE) 
Ingredients Americas and their trade association, claiming that
an advertising campaign that promotes high-fructose corn syrup
as “natural” and “nutritionally the same as table sugar” is
false and misleading.  The sugar producers, in an amended complaint filed in
November, said the corn refiners initiated the advertising
campaign in 2008 in response to the “growing vilification” of
high-fructose corn syrup, which is used as a sweetener in soft
drinks and has been linked to an increase in obesity in the
U.S., and a “resulting drop in sales.”  The sugar producers say corn sugar is a distinct sweetener
made from corn starch, while high-fructose corn syrup is a man-
made substance created by transforming some of the glucose in
corn syrup into fructose that doesn’t naturally occur in the
plant.  Sugar Land , Texas-based Imperial Sugar Co. and seven other
companies and two trade groups seek triple damages under U.S.
antitrust law and a court order to block the corn refiners from
making the claims.  The case is Western Sugar v. Archer-Daniels-Midland,
11-3473, U.S. District Court, Central District of  California 
(Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  