-- Madoff Trustee Sues New York to Stop Merkin Settlement
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/madoff-trustee-sues-new-york-to-stop-merkin-settlement.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
estate seeks to stop New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman
from completing a $410 million settlement with a former Madoff
investor that the trustee said might leave little for customers
of the convicted Ponzi scheme mastermind.  Schneiderman in June agreed to settle a state lawsuit
against the investor, J.  Ezra Merkin , for $410 million. The
agreement provides $405 million to compensate investors and $5
million for the state. In the suit, filed in 2009 by
Schneiderman’s predecessor,  Andrew Cuomo , the state claimed
Merkin and his funds secretly steered assets to Madoff and
concealed Madoff’s role, harming investors.  “Merkin’s money is not limitless, and with the prospect of
over $400 million depleted through the settlement, the trustee
is concerned that little or nothing will be left for BLMIS
customers,”  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Madoff’s
brokerage, said yesterday in a bankruptcy court filing in
 Manhattan .  Asking the federal judge in Manhattan to impose a
preliminary injunction against Schneiderman, using bankruptcy
law, he said, “If other  attorneys general  around the country
could simply walk into state courts and secure settlements as
the NYAG did, the BLMIS estate would be decimated, with
residents of various states favored.”  Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, or BLMIS, is
the defunct Madoff firm.  Without Merit  “We believe this effort by Mr. Picard to prevent the
attorney general from distributing $410 million to investors who
were victimized by Mr. Merkin is inappropriate and without legal
merit and we will take all necessary steps to oppose it,” said
Jennifer Givner, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, in an e-mail.  According to Picard, $200 million of Merkin’s settlement
money is already sitting in an escrow account with BNY Mellon
NA, awaiting completion of the deal with Schneiderman. The judge
should stop Merkin from paying out any more, because of the
“imminent danger” that his assets will be “dissipated,”
Picard said.  The trustee’s own lawsuit against Merkin and his Gabriel
and Ariel funds demanded $500 million that he alleged was
fraudulently taken out of the Madoff brokerage.  Merkin’s funds “expect to receive substantial
distributions from the Madoff bankruptcy estate rather than owe
money to it,” said Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Merkin. He was
“disappointed” by Picard’s effort “to interfere with the
settlement,” he said. The receiver liquidating Merkin’s funds,
Bart Schwartz, said it was a fair settlement.  Picard Argument  Picard has said that under bankruptcy law he has sole right
as trustee to sue former Madoff investors who allegedly knew of
the fraud, using the proceeds to pay customers whose claims he
has authorized. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  has stopped
most of the rival suits by private individuals. Schneiderman is
only the second government official whom Picard has gone to
court to stop.  In January, the trustee sued California Attorney General
 Kamala Harris , alleging her $270 million lawsuit against a
former Madoff investor’s estate interfered with the collection
of assets needed to help compensate Madoff victims. The
combatants portrayed their fight in court filings as a clash
between federal bankruptcy law, which describes a trustee’s
powers in fraud cases, and state law, governing a state’s top
law enforcer.  Picard accused Harris of trying to benefit local investors
at the expense of the con man’s other customers. Last month,
Lifland said the two sides will use mediation to try to settle
the dispute.  In his latest request to Lifland, Picard said that under
bankruptcy law and the rules for liquidating a brokerage,
“every victim should be treated equally.”  ‘Grievously Damaged’  He accused Schneiderman of “seeking pecuniary relief for a
select subgroup of indirect investors, in a fraud that has
grievously damaged victims throughout this country and around
the world.”  “Put simply, the State of  New York  should not be permitted
to wreak havoc on that long standing federal mandate by using
New York State law to give its citizens and perhaps others in a
select group a jump start over all of the victims of this
heinous fraud,” he said.  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence after pleading guilty
to a fraud that wiped out $17 billion of customers’ principal.
Picard has raised around $9 billion for customers, mostly from
settlements, although some of it is still tied up in court
challenges.  The case is Picard v. Schneiderman, 12-01778,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  