-- Africa’s First Olympic Fencing Medal Comes From Egyptian Student
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-01T02:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/africa-s-first-olympic-fencing-medal-comes-from-egyptian-student.html
Alaaeldin Abouelkassem, an
engineering student who says his friends back home in  Egypt  make
fun of him for being a fencer, won Africa’s first Olympic medal
in the sport.  The 21-year-old eliminated world champion Andrea Cassara of
 Italy  in the men’s foil yesterday before losing the gold-medal
match 15-13 to Lei Sheng of China.  “There was no stress for me,” Abouelkassem told reporters
at  London ’s ExCel Arena. “I’m from Africa and nobody thought I
could win.”  His silver medal is an African first in a sport that has
been contested in the Olympics since 1896, and for decades was
dominated by European nations including Italy and  Russia .  The 6-foot-2 (1.88-meter) Abouelkassem beat  Germany ’s four-
time world fencing champion Peter Joppich 15-10 and downed
Cassara by the same score on the way to the final.  The Egyptian needed treatment for an arm injury while
trailing 4-2 against Lei before rallying to lead 13-11. Lei
eventually won the match to take  China ’s third gold medal in
fencing since 1984.  Abouelkassem, who moved to Alexandria from his father’s
native Algeria at age 4, said he was invited to take up fencing
while at school. He joined a fencing club in the Egyptian city
in which there were no adult fencers, he told reporters.  “My friends still make fun of me,” he said.  Previous Best  He became African foil champion this year, and was fifth at
last year’s world championships. The previous best for African
fencers at the Olympics was fourth place for Egypt’s foil team
at the 1952 Games.  Abouelkassem, who has a Polish coach, said he is the only
Egyptian fencer who gets a government grant that pays for him to
train abroad, although he prefers to stay in Alexandria near his
friends and family.  He said his first thoughts after winning were for his
father, who died in a car accident three months ago and had
hoped to see him win an Olympic medal.  “I still can’t believe it,” Abouelkassem said. “I hope
not just my country but  Africa  is proud.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff at the ExCel Arena in London at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  