-- Agency Mortgage-Bond Spreads Little Changed as Fed Holds Pat
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-01T21:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/agency-mortgage-bond-spreads-little-changed-as-fed-holds-pat.html
Yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities were little changed relative to government
notes after the  Federal Reserve  didn’t announce new stimulus
such as additional buying of the bonds.  The difference between yields on Fannie Mae’s current-
coupon, 30-year fixed-rate  mortgage  bonds and 10-year Treasuries
widened 0.01 percentage point to about 0.79 percentage point as
of 5 p.m. in New York, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The spread has fallen from a 2012 high of 1.07 percentage points
on June 1, partly on speculation that the central bank will
expand its purchases to bolster the economy.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  held off on stepping up record
stimulus even as  consumer spending  flagged, economic growth
slowed and unemployment persisted at 8.2 percent. Current
actions include purchases of $260 billion of government-backed
mortgage bonds under a reinvestment program begun in October.  The Federal Open Market Committee “will closely monitor
incoming information on economic and financial developments and
will provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a
stronger economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor
market conditions in a context of price stability,” it said
today in a statement at the conclusion of a two-day meeting.  Two-thirds of investors surveyed last week by JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are “overweight” mortgage securities, or holding
more than found in benchmark bond indexes. Almost 80 percent
expect the Fed to buy more of the debt, with 57 percent
forecasting an announcement at or before its September meeting,
according to a July 27 report by the bank’s analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  