-- Talisman Energy Rises on Montney LNG Development Options
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2012-08-01T21:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/talisman-energy-rises-on-montney-lng-development-options.html
Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  rose the most in
more than three years after Chief Executive Officer John Manzoni
said the company is in discussions about converting its Montney
output to liquefied natural gas.  Talisman  gained  7.3 percent to C$13.31 at the close in
Toronto, the biggest increase since March 2009. The company has
been “in a number of discussions around LNG” which is the
“more likely” process for its Montney production than
converting the gas to liquids, Manzoni said on an earnings
conference call today.  The Montney Basin, one of  Canada ’s largest proven shale-gas
reserves, holds an estimated 49 trillion cubic feet of gas near
the nation’s Pacific Coast, where companies including Royal
Dutch Shell Plc and Apache Corp. are considering building LNG
export terminals to ship the fuel to  Asia .  Talisman, based in Calgary, has 144,000 net acres in
British Columbia’s Montney shale, according to the company’s
website. Petroliam Nasional Bhd last week raised its C$5.16
billion ($5.13 billion) bid for Progress Energy Resources Corp.,
which holds 820,000 acres in the Montney, after a third party
made an offer.  LNG is “kind of the topic of the day, that’s what would
move the needle,” said Pawel Rajszel, an analyst at Veritas
Investment Research Corp. in Toronto who rates the company a buy
and doesn’t own the stock.  Talisman sold a 50 percent stake in two of its Montney
projects last year to Sasol Ltd. in two separate deals for a
total of C$2.1 billion in cash and drilling costs. The company
said in June it won’t go forward with a study for a proposed
Sasol gas-to-liquids facility.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  