-- Allot’s Discount Widens on Transaction Delays: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-01T07:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/allot-s-discount-widens-on-transaction-delays-israel-overnight.html
Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  fell in  New
York  to trade at the biggest discount to its  Tel Aviv  shares in
three weeks on concern delays in securing contracts and an
acquisition announced yesterday will erode earnings.  The Israeli developer of technology used to manage traffic
on networks lost 0.4 percent to $24.58 yesterday, trading at a
$1.27 discount to the shares in Tel Aviv. Allot tumbled 12
percent last month, the biggest retreat since September. The Tel
Aviv shares dropped 4.7 percent to 98.20 shekels, or $24.64,
today. The  Bloomberg Israel-U.S. equity index  of the biggest
Israeli companies traded in New York gained 0.2 percent,
extending its July advance to 3.3 percent.  Mellanox Technologies
Ltd. (MLNX)  slumped for the first time in a week.  Chief Executive Officer Rami Hadar told analysts yesterday
that Allot is taking longer to complete transactions after the
company reported second-quarter sales that beat analysts’
estimates. The Hod Hasharon, Israel-based technology developer
also announced the acquisition of Oversi Networks Ltd. for $16
million in cash, its second takeover in the last three months.  “Some investors are not comfortable with an acquisition
that is not immediately accretive and also with order activity
potentially getting delayed because of overall slowdown,”  Jay Srivatsa , the managing director of equity research at Chardan
Capital Markets LLC, said by phone from New York yesterday.
“People hear the earnings call and wonder how much more upside
there is.”  Allot was the second-best performing stock on the  Bloomberg
Israel-U.S. equity index  this year, gaining 62 percent before
reporting earnings yesterday. It trades at 40.4 times estimated
earnings, compared with the average multiple of 15.9 for peers
on the  Nasdaq Composite Index. (CCMP)   ‘Still Positive’  Allot said second-quarter  sales  jumped 43 percent to $26.4
million, beating the $25 million mean estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The company reported adjusted earnings
per share of 15 cents, more than the 14.3-cent mean estimate of
nine analysts.  “I am still positive, as they had a good quarter overall
and have a healthy pipeline of products,” Catharine Trebnick,
an analyst at Northland Securities Inc. who raised her rating on
the shares to outperform, said by phone from  Minneapolis 
yesterday. “The reason the stock may have been down is deals
are taking longer and they had a second acquisition.”  Pricing negotiations are causing a setback in new
contracts, Hadar said on the call yesterday. “Maybe service
providers are a little bit more cautious and anxious to optimize
capex spending,” he said.  Mergers and Acquisition  The company said it will buy Petach Tikva, Israel-based
Oversi Networks, a content delivery technology company, for $16
million in cash. Allot may boost its payment for the acquisition
by as much as $5 million depending on the company’s financial
performance in 2012.  The deal follows a May merger with Ortiva Wireless Inc.,
which offers mobile video solutions.  La Jolla , California-based
Ortiva will contribute as much as $5 million in sales in the
second half of 2012, Allot said in a May 1 statement.  “You have to question why a company does an acquisition
like this,” Srivatsa said. Why would you “buy another company
when the first one is just being absorbed,” he said.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  No Forecasts  Mellanox Technologies Ltd., the Israeli maker of technology
used to transfer and store data, declined for the first time in
a week, falling 1.6 percent to $104.86. Its Tel Aviv shares
retreated 2.2 percent to 419.50 shekels, or $105.24, today.  Mellanox Chief Financial Officer  Michael Gray  said that the
company cannot give forecasts for more than one quarter because
of limited visibility into customer orders, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday.  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL) , Israel’s largest mobile phone
provider, surged 5.8 percent to $5.81, the most in three weeks.
Its Tel Aviv shares increased 5.6 percent to 23.62 shekels, or
the equivalent of $5.93, today. Shares have tumbled 63 percent
this year in Israel.  Average revenue per user “will continue to decline,” in
the second half of the year for cellular companies, Gilad Alper
and Liat Glazer, analysts at  Ramat Gan , Israel-based Excellence
Nessuah Investment House Ltd., wrote in an e-mailed report dated
July 30. “There’s the temptation to start re-investing in these
battered names.”  Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  gained 4.6 percent last
month, the biggest climb since October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  