-- Ally Posts Second-Quarter Loss on ResCap Bankruptcy Case
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-08-01T15:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/ally-financial-posts-loss-on-costs-of-rescap-unit-s-bankruptcy.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the U.S.-
controlled lender whose mortgage subsidiary went bankrupt,
posted a second-quarter loss on costs tied to the court filing.  The loss of $898 million compares with profit of $113
million  a year earlier , Ally said today in a statement. The core
pretax loss was $753 million, Ally said. The Detroit-based
company doesn’t have publicly traded shares.  Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  is searching for
ways to repay U.S. bailouts exceeding $17 billion that left the
Treasury Department with a 74 percent stake. He’s selling
foreign operations to focus on auto lending in the U.S., where
the firm ranked No. 1 last year, and Ally Bank, the online unit
known for its ads that satirize the ethics of rival bankers.  “Our objective in life is pretty straightforward,”
Carpenter said today during a conference call with analysts.
“It’s to continue building the auto business, to continue to
build the bank, and it’s to get the U.S. government completely
out of their shareowner position.”  ResCap remains in business while it reorganizes under
Chapter 11 court protection, and has said it expects to leave
bankruptcy by the end of this year. The subsidiary was removed
from Ally’s financial statements, the company said today.
Without the costs and other losses tied to the unit, Ally said
it would have earned $533 million in core pretax profit, aided
by growth in automotive services and direct banking.  Auto Finance  Pretax income in North American auto finance was $631
million, 43 percent more than the first quarter and 13 percent
better than a year earlier. Retail deposits at Ally Bank
expanded by $1.1 billion to $30.4 billion during the quarter as
customer accounts increased about 4 percent from the first three
months of this year and 27 percent from 2011’s second quarter.  Ally, known as GMAC when it was part of General Motors
Corp., led financing of U.S. consumer  auto sales  for 2011 with
more than $40 billion in contracts for new or used cars and
trucks, or about 1.5 million vehicles, according to the lender.  The firm’s remaining mortgage operations, excluding ResCap,
posted $110 million in pretax income, double the previous
quarter and compared with a $25 million loss a year earlier.  When asked by an analyst today about what Ally will look
like in two to three years, Carpenter said private owners, an
initial public offering, and a merger or takeover were all
possibilities.  Subprime Legacy  Defaults by borrowers on subprime mortgages issued before
the housing market’s collapse pushed the Residential Capital
unit to seek court protection from its creditors in May. The
slide into bankruptcy derailed Carpenter’s plan for an IPO of
Ally to help repay taxpayers.  Ally said the quarter included a $1.2 billion charge tied
to ResCap’s bankruptcy. The parent company has contributed $750
million to cover soured loans at the bankrupt mortgage unit to
insulate itself from legal claims and “avoid the noise,”
Carpenter has said.  In addition to the cost of defaults, U.S. lenders have been
plagued by demands for refunds from investors who bought the
loans and then found defects such as false data about borrowers
and the properties, plus costs tied to faulty foreclosures. Such
claims have cost the five biggest U.S. home lenders more than
$72 billion in payments and legal fees since the start of 2007,
and analysts have speculated that ResCap’s creditors will pursue
Ally for payment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  