-- Halozyme Plummets After U.S. Regulators Reject Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-08-02T20:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/halozyme-plummets-after-u-s-regulators-reject-drug.html
Halozyme Therapeutics Inc. (HALO)  fell the
most in its eight-year history after an immune deficiency
treatment it developed with  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  was
rejected by U.S. regulators who also halted a separate clinical
trial involving Halozyme’s part of the combination therapy.  Halozyme  dropped  50 percent to close at $4.30 in New York,
the biggest single-day decrease since its began trading publicly
on March 15, 2004.  The drug, called HyQ, combines immune globulin made by
Baxter with Halozyme’s product, a recombinant human
hyaluronidase. The Food and Drug Administration requested
additional pre-clinical data for the product in its rejection
letter, the companies said yesterday in a statement.  Halozyme “can directly address the questions raised by,”
the FDA, Gregory Frost, president and chief executive officer,
of the company, said in the statement. The primary concern is
the product’s potential effect on reproduction, development and
fertility, according to the statement.  Baxter, based in Deerfield,  Illinois , fell 1.2 percent to
$57.95.  The trial stopped by the agency combined the product made
by San Diego-based Halozyme with  ViroPharma Inc. (VPHM) ’s Cinryze
because of safety concerns, Exton, Pennsylvania-based ViroPharma
said in a statement. Halozyme also must provide the FDA results
from added pre-clinical tests before the trials can resume.  ViroPharma is preparing to begin a trial that will evaluate
the safety and efficacy of two different doses of Cinryze as a
standalone therapy, the company said. Cinryze treats hereditary
angioedema, which is a disease that causes severe swelling in
the limbs, face, intestinal tract and airway.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  