-- Amazon Splits With Peers in Pushing Online Sales Taxes
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-01T20:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/amazon-splits-with-peers-in-pushing-online-sales-taxes.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and brick-and-mortar
stores urged U.S. senators to pass legislation to let states
collect sales taxes from online retailers based elsewhere, as
other Internet companies said they oppose the measure.  Federal legislation would create “an even-handed national
framework for sales tax collection,”  Paul Misener , vice
president for global public policy at Amazon, the largest U.S.
online retailer, told the Senate Commerce Committee.  The legislation would let states impose new and complex tax
burdens for companies that would have to comply with 9,600
jurisdictions, Steve DelBianco, executive director of  NetChoice ,
a group backed by  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
said in written testimony for a hearing today.  “Amazon and big-box chains would benefit if Congress
allows states to impose new tax-collection burdens on their
smaller online-only competitors,” DelBianco said.  Amazon has been making tax agreements with states where it
plans to expand its warehouses and shipping centers. Under a
1992 Supreme Court ruling, Web retailers only need to remit
sales taxes to states where they have a physical presence.  Last year, the company said it would spend $500 million on
facilities and add 10,000 full-time jobs in  California  by
December 2015, ending a fight against a state law that taxes
online sales. It will start remitting the levies in September if
Congress doesn’t act, according to a statement from Governor
 Jerry Brown , a Democrat.  Closing Loophole  The Senate is considering a bill, S. 1832, introduced by
Michael Enzi, a Wyoming Republican. Enzi told lawmakers the
measure would close a loophole and benefit local businesses that
have to collect sales taxes while online retailers don’t,
according to the Congressional Record.  Enzi submitted letters of support from the National
Conference of State Legislatures, the National Association of
Counties and the U.S. Conference of Mayors.  “This bill doesn’t raise taxes,” Enzi said at today’s
hearing. “It collects what’s owed by the purchasing
individual.”  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, said he
opposes the measure.  “Let’s be clear about what this bill does: It mandates
that online companies with no physical presence in the state
collect sales taxes for any state that demands it,” DeMint said
at today’s hearing. “This is a mandate on business.”  “Are they going to have to fill out a sales form and send
it to every state?” DeMint said.  Seattle-based Amazon collects levies on sales to Washington
state residents, as well as on transactions with customers in
Texas, Kansas, Kentucky, New York and North Dakota, according to
the company.  Pressing Congress  States have pressed Congress to act for years without
results, and for a decade Amazon has backed changes in federal
law that would ease Web sales-tax collection.  “Congress should authorize the states to require out-of-
state sellers to collect the sales tax already owed,” Misener,
the Amazon executive, said in today’s testimony. Technology can
ease the burden of tax collection for small sellers, Misener
said.  A House bill received a hearing July 24 at which Judiciary
Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, said the
Constitution doesn’t allow one state to tax other states’
retailers. As a result, “online retailers, who maintain a very
limited physical presence and use common carriers to fill
orders, enjoy a competitive advantage over traditional
retailers,” he said.  Tax Policies  Smith said a bill, H.R. 3179, sponsored by Arkansas
Republican Steve Womack, would replace the physical-presence
rule with a requirement that state and local governments
simplify their tax policies if they want to collect sales taxes
from out-of-state retailers.  Online-only companies can achieve as much as a 10 percent
price advantage over brick-and-mortar retailers by not
collecting state sales taxes, the Retail Industry Leaders
Association said in a letter of support to Enzi that the
lawmaker submitted to Congress.  The trade group, based in Arlington, Virginia, says it
represents retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Target
Corp. (TGT)  and  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)   The National Retail Federation, with board members
including executives from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Saks Inc. (SKS) , in a
submission to the Commerce Committee today said Congress should
pass Enzi’s bill.  “All that we want is a level playing field,”  David French , senior vice president for the Washington-based group,
said in an interview. “It’s only certain Internet sellers that
don’t collect sales taxes.”  Washington-based NetChoice says Amazon is trying to
suppress competition from smaller online merchants by requiring
them to comply with separate tax requirements in the 45 states
that have sales and use levies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  