-- Amyris Falls After Earnings Miss, Delay of Total Venture
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-01T20:04:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/amyris-falls-after-earnings-miss-delay-of-total-joint-venture.html
Amyris Inc. (AMRS) ,  the biotechnology
company 21 percent owned by  Total SA (FP) , fell the most in more than
two months after reporting a second-quarter loss that surpassed
analysts’ estimates.  Amyris fell 14 percent to $3.33 at the close in  New York ,
the most since May 9. The company has lost 71 percent of its
market value this year.  The company is still completing its first commercial plant,
at a Brazil site owned by Paraiso Bioenergia SA, and a planned
joint-venture with Total may be delayed, prompting concerns
about profitability, Ben Kallo, an analyst with Robert W. Baird
& Co. in San Francisco, said today in a note.  The company expects to begin full production at Paraiso
next year, and once it has been in operation for six months it
will resume construction, which has been on hold, at another
Brazil site, at a sugar mill owned by  Sao Martinho SA (SMTO3) , Chief
Executive Officer John Melo said on a conference call yesterday.  “With Paraiso not producing until 2013, and Sao Martinho
not expected to run until 2015, we think it will be very
challenging” for the company to “achieve profitability in the
next few years,” Kallo said. He expects “the stock to remain
under pressure” until the company arranges additional
financing.  Amyris temporarily stopped production at two of its three
third-party manufacturing partners in the quarter to cut costs,
Melo said.  The company, based in Emeryville,  California , posted a net
loss of $46.8 million, or 81 cents a share, it said in a
statement yesterday after the close of regular trading. Analysts
has expected a loss of 77 cents, the average of seven estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company uses genetically modified microorganisms to
convert plant-sugars into farnesene, a hydrocarbon that can be
processed into fuels or specialty chemicals.  Joint Venture  Amyris said yesterday that Total agreed to provide as much
as $82 million over three years to support development of
renewable diesel and jet fuels, and the companies may form a
joint venture at the end of that period. Amyris originally
announced plans in November for the venture, which it said would
begin operations at the beginning of 2012.  While the agreement will help Amyris fund operations “in
the near term, it also implies the JV is now multiple years
away,” Kallo said.  Amyris expects to receive funding through a similar
partnership with an industrial chemical company by the end of
the year, Melo said on the call, without naming the potential
backer.  Cash Burn  “What you should expect from us through the end of the
year is additional funding, successful commissioning of Paraiso,
a steady increase in renewable product sales from inventory on
hand and a continued reduction in our cash burn,” he said.  Amyris produced 810,000 liters (214,000 gallons) of
farnesene during the quarter, bringing its production this year
to 1.7 million liters and 2.5 million liters over the past 12
months, Melo said.  Amyris is currently focusing on sales of high-value
products derived from farnesene, such as “niche diesel” in
Brazil and squalane, a cosmetic ingredient, Melo said. It plans
to introduce new farnesene-derived products in the future
including liquid rubber for tires and fragrance oil for
perfumes, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  