-- Manchester City Lines Up $55 Million Higuain Bid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-01T06:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/manchester-city-lines-up-55-million-higuain-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  $55 Million Move  Premier League champion  Manchester City  is considering a 35
million-pound ($55 million) bid for Real  Madrid ’s Argentine
striker Gonzalo Higuain, the  Daily Mirror reported .  City executive Brian Marwood is backing a move for Higuain,
who has also been a target for Chelsea and Tottenham, as an
alternative to Arsenal’s  Robin van Persie , the Mirror reported.  Reality Check  Juventus Director General Giuseppe Marotta hinted that
signing van Persie may be out of the Italian champion’s reach
even after offering Arsenal 20 million pounds for the Dutchman,
the  Daily Express reported .  “It’s necessary to always have dreams and ambitions, but
at the same time you also have to contend with the reality of
everyday facts,” the newspaper cited Marotta as saying.  Fee Up Front  Real Madrid may pull its bid to sign Luka Modric because
Tottenham Hotspur wants most of the transfer fee for the
Croatian midfielder up front, the  Sun reported .  Real wants to initially pay 30 million pounds of the 36
million-pound fee with the remainder over five years, though
Spurs Chairman  Daniel Levy  is insisting on most of the sum in
one cash payment and the rest in no more than 12 months, the Sun
added.  Latest Offer  Tottenham rejected Real’s latest offer of 38 million pounds
for Modric as the transfer saga threatens to drag into the start
of the new season, the  Daily Mail reported .  The offer constitutes an initial 30 million pounds plus 8
million pounds spread across the length of Modric’s contract,
the Mail added. The player has agreed personal terms on a five-
year deal with the Spanish champion, the newspaper said.  Carroll Carrot  Liverpool striker Andy Carroll will be offered a raise to
100,000 pounds a week to change his mind and join West Ham
United, the  Daily Mirror reported .  West Ham is putting together the biggest financial package
in the club’s history to sign the England forward, who has made
it clear that he doesn’t favor a move to the London club, the
Mirror said. Carroll earns 80,000 pounds a week at Liverpool,
the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  