-- Andalusia Challenges Spain Debt Caps Meant to Deepen Budget Cuts
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-08-01T13:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/andalusia-challenges-spain-debt-caps-meant-to-deepen-budget-cuts.html
The third-largest contributor to
Spain’s economy, Andalusia, will challenge in court the debt
ceilings introduced by Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to force the
regions to deepen  budget  cuts.  “The debt limits transform our deficit target into a
surplus obligation,” the southern region’s president, Jose Antonio Grinan, told a news conference in Sevilla today. “It is
impossible to generate a surplus in times of recession, short of
scrapping all public services including state-funded education
and health care.”  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro yesterday set debt limits
for each region, averaging a combined 15.1 percent of gross
domestic product this year, 16 percent in 2013, 15.9 percent in
2014 and 15.5 percent in 2015. That compares with a regional
debt-to-GDP ratio of 13.5 percent in the first quarter.  Rajoy is forcing the 17 semi-autonomous regions to carry
out the bulk of  Spain ’s 2012  budget-deficit  reduction as he
tries to avoid a second bailout. The country secured as much as
100 billion euros ($123 billion) in European loans in June to
shore up its banks amid surging borrowing costs. Regional
governments control more than a third of public spending,
including health care and education.  Rajoy’s seven-month-old government has bailed out the
regions four times this year, risking its own access to markets
by transfering funds and organizing as much as 41 billion euros
in bank loans.  Data yesterday showed the central-government deficit rose
to 4.04 percent of GDP in the first half, exceeding its full-
year target. The limit for all levels of Spanish administration
is 6.3 percent, down from a shortfall of 8.9 percent last year.  Borrowing Costs  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond fell 6 basis
points to 6.69 percent today at 3:30 p.m. in  Madrid  on
speculation the  European Central Bank  may intervene to lower
Spanish borrowing costs. The yield hit a euro-era high of 7.75
percent on July 25.  Grinan, in charge of the only Socialist region left in
Spain, said Andalusia will have to reduce debt by 2.74 billion
euros next year to comply with a ratio of 13.2 percent of GDP.
Its plan was to let debt climb to 15.1 percent of GDP from 10.6
percent in the first quarter.  “We are taking resources away from health care and
education to save the banks, that is intolerable,” Grinan said.  He said that regions with lighter debt burdens should not
be asked to make the same effort as others. Catalonia, the most
indebted region, should do more than cap its debt at 23.6
percent of GDP next year, he said.  Catalonia, the biggest regional economy, boycotted
yesterday’s meeting with Montoro, while two other regions also
ruled by regional parties, Asturias and the  Canary Islands ,
voted against the rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  