-- Anti-Putin Punk Group Call for Doctors at Trial in Moscow
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-08-01T10:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/anti-putin-punk-group-call-for-doctors-at-trial-in-moscow.html
Three members of a Russian all-female
punk group facing as much as seven years in jail for a protest
act against  Vladimir Putin  in Moscow’s Christ the Savior
cathedral called for medical help at their trial.  “Three ambulances were called to the court for our
defendants, as they felt unwell,” the young women’s lawyer,
Nikolai Polozov, said on his Twitter Inc. account today.  Maria Alekhina, 24, Ekaterina Samutsevich, 29, and Nadezhda
Tolokonnikova, 22, have complained about the conditions of the
trial that started this week, as they are woken at 5 a.m. and
return to jail after midnight, depriving them of sleep and any
prison meals, state news service RIA Novosti reported. They are
kept in a glass cage in the courtroom. The trial, in its third
day, resumed after doctors determined the defendants are well
enough for the proceedings, RIA cited Darya Lyakh, a spokeswoman
for Moscow’s  Khamovniki  District Court, as saying.  Amnesty International  has declared them prisoners of
conscience and music stars including Madonna, Peter Gabriel and
Sting have rallied to their defense. The three members of the
Pussy Riot band are on trial for hooliganism and inciting
religious hatred after they performed what they called a “punk
prayer” in front of the altar at the country’s main Christian
Orthodox place of worship in February, targeting Putin, who
extended his 12-year rule in presidential elections in March.  The defendants, who have been ordered to be held in pre-
trial detention until January, rejected criminal charges of
hooliganism at the start of their trial on July 30. They argued
that their case should be treated as an administrative
violation, while apologizing for upsetting religious
sensibilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  