-- U.S. Manufacturing Unexpectedly Shrinks for Second Month
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-01T20:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-unexpectedly-contracts-for-second-month.html
American  manufacturing  unexpectedly
contracted in July for a second month, reflecting a drop in
orders that threatens to undercut a mainstay of the recovery.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index was
49.8 last month, little changed from a three-year low of 49.7
reached in June, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a reading of
50.2, according to the  median  estimate, just above the 50 mark
that separates expansions and contractions.  Manufacturers from  China  to the euro area joined the U.S.
in showing signs of retrenching, indicating  Europe ’s debt crisis
and the looming U.S. government spending cuts and tax increases
that constitute the so-called fiscal cliff are taking a toll on
customers globally. Federal Reserve policy makers today
acknowledged that the economy has slowed and foreshadowed new
steps to boost the weakening expansion.  “We’ve seen slower growth in  emerging markets , the
recession in Europe -- all of that is still ever-present,” said
Sam Bullard, a senior economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “Firms are holding pat right now.”  Another report showed companies added more workers than
projected in July. Payrolls climbed by 163,000 after a 172,000
gain the prior month, Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer
Services said. The median estimate of 38 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an advance of 120,000.  Stocks erased earlier gains as the Fed’s announcement
disappointed investors anticipating a more definitive sign of
imminent easing. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3
percent to 1,375.32 at the close in  New York .  Treasury
securities  declined, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year
note up to 1.52 percent from 1.47 percent late yesterday.  Global Slowdown  U.K. manufacturing shrank in July the most in more than
three years as export orders slumped, according to data from
London-based Markit Economics. Euro-area  factories  contracted
for a 12th month in July, according to a separate report. A
gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation region fell to a 37-
month low of 44 from 45.1 in June.  China’s manufacturing teetered on the edge of contraction
in July and  South Korea ’s exports declined, other figures
showed.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.1 million  annual rate  in
July, unchanged from the prior month, industry figures showed
today. The pace also matched the average for the second quarter,
indicating little momentum as the industry heads for the best
year since 2007, before the last recession.  Economists’ Estimates  Estimates for the U.S. ISM index in the Bloomberg survey of
84 economists ranged from 48.5 to 52. Manufacturing accounts for
about 12 percent of the economy and has been a linchpin for the
expansion that began in June 2009.  The ISM’s  new orders  measure was little changed at 48 from
47.8 in June, the worst back-to-back readings since the economy
was in the recession. Three industries in the survey reported
growth in bookings, the fewest since February 2009. The group’s
export gauge dropped to the lowest level since April of that
year.  “It’s the new orders that is really something to watch at
this point,” Brad Holcomb, chairman of the ISM survey, said on
a conference call with reporters. “I would be very concerned
about production staying positive.”  The ISM’s production index was little changed at 51.3 after
51 in June, while a gauge of  employment  decreased to 52, the
lowest level since December 2009, from 56.6 in June.  Cummins Engines  Columbus, Indiana-based  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  this week posted a
second-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates. The
maker of diesel and natural gas engines forecast full-year
revenue of $18 billion, which would be little changed from 2011,
down from an earlier projection of a 10 percent increase.  “Continued weakness in some international markets,
particularly in Brazil and China, coupled with slowing orders in
U.S. truck, oil and gas, and power generation, have caused us to
lower our outlook,” Thomas Linebarger, chief executive officer,
said on a conference call with analysts.  General Motors Co. and Ford Motor Co. posted unexpected
declines in July auto sales compared to the same month last
year, industry figures also showed today.  Fed policy makers, who concluded a two-day meeting this
afternoon, said it will continue swapping $667 billion of short-
term debt with longer-term securities to lengthen the average
maturity of its holdings, an action dubbed Operation Twist. The
central bank will also continue reinvesting its portfolio of
maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed securities.  Fed Statement  “Economic activity decelerated somewhat over the first
half of this year,” the  Federal Open Market Committee  said.
“The committee will closely monitor incoming information on
economic and financial developments and will provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery
and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a
context of  price stability .”  A Labor Department report in two days may show employment
climbed by 100,000 last month after an 80,000 gain in June,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed. The
jobless rate is forecast to hold at 8.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  