-- U.S. Manufacturing Probably Stagnated as Spending Cooled
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-01T10:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-stagnated-as-spending-cooled.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
stagnated in July after contracting for the first time in three
years, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
50.2 last month from 49.7 in June, according to the  median 
estimate of 83 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Fifty
marks the dividing line between expansion and contraction.
 Construction spending  probably climbed in June for a third
month, other data may show.  Factories may temper production as companies curb spending
on concerns lawmakers will fail to act before automatic
government spending cuts and higher taxes go into effect next
year. Cutbacks in household purchases, Europe’s debt crisis and
slower global growth threaten to further restrain an industry
that’s been a source of strength for the economy.  “You can point to general uncertainty in the economy
that’s caused households to increase their savings and caused
businesses to be more cautious,” said Ellen Zentner, senior
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York .
“Businesses are reporting that their clients are waiting until
the last minute to place orders.”  While the economy has slowed for two straight quarters,
Federal Reserve policy makers concluding a two-day meeting today
will probably forgo announcing a third round of large-scale
asset purchases, waiting instead until September, according to
median estimates of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Fed Forecast  Eighty-eight percent said the  Federal Open Market Committee 
will refrain from starting new purchases, according to the July
25-27 survey of 58 economists. Forty-eight percent said policy
makers will announce the buying at its Sept. 12-13 meeting.  The Fed may take further action if the job market fails to
make “sustained progress” in bringing down an  unemployment
rate  stuck above 8 percent for 41 consecutive months, Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress last month.  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s factory figures are due at
10 a.m. New York time. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from 48.5 to 52.  At the same time, the Commerce Department in  Washington  may
report a 0.4 percent increase in June construction spending
after a 0.9 percent gain the prior month, according to the
Bloomberg survey  median .  U.K. manufacturing shrank last month by the most in more
than three years, another report today showed. An index of
factory output, based on a survey by  Markit Economics  and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  fell to 45.4 from a
revised 48.4 in June, London-based Markit said.  European Manufacturing  Euro-area  manufacturing  contracted for a 12th month in
July, according to a separate report today. A gauge of
manufacturing in the 17-nation region fell to a 37-month low of
44 from 45.1 in June.  In  China , a measure of manufacturing dropped in July to an
eight-month low. The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index unexpectedly
fell to 50.1 in July from 50.2 a month earlier, according to the
Beijing-based National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation
of Logistics and Purchasing.  Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the  U.S.
economy  and has been a linchpin for the expansion that began in
June 2009.  Regional reports last month indicated manufacturing was
sputtering. A measure of manufacturing around  Milwaukee ,
 Wisconsin , shrank in July for the first time in three years. A
gauge of Cincinnati, Ohio-area factories declined to the lowest
level since October 2009. Reports from factories in Dallas and
Richmond,  Virginia , also showed contraction.  Chicago Report  While the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s
business barometer grew at a faster pace last month, the report
showed slower production and employment growth.  “The underlying details were a touch on the soft side,”
said  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC  Capital Markets 
LLC in New York. “The bottom line remains that manufacturing is
still having a difficult time gathering steam.”  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Machinery Index (S15MACH) , which
includes Caterpillar Inc. and Deere & Co., has lagged behind the
broader market, rising 2.4 percent so far this year compared
with a 9.7 percent gain for the  S&P 500. (SPX)   Cummins Inc. (CMI)  yesterday advanced the most in almost six
months after the maker of diesel and natural gas engines posted
a second-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates. The
Columbus, Indiana-based company beat projections even as sales
declined 4.1 percent from a year earlier. It forecast full-year
revenue of $18 billion, which would be little changed from 2011.  Brazil, China  At the same time, “continued weakness in some
international markets, particularly in Brazil and China, coupled
with slowing orders in U.S. truck, oil and gas, and power
generation, have caused us to lower our outlook,” Thomas
Linebarger, chief executive officer, said on a conference call
with analysts.  U.S. consumers are cutting back just as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and looming U.S. tax-policy changes dent confidence.
Household consumption, which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, rose at a 1.5 percent rate from April through June,
down from a 2.4 percent gain in the prior quarter, according to
Commerce Department data.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  