-- Tanzania May Ask BG, Statoil to Unify LNG Project Development
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-08-01T12:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/tanzania-may-ask-bg-statoil-to-unify-lng-project-development.html
Tanzania, holder of the second-
largest natural-gas resources in East Africa after Mozambique,
may ask  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  to join forces to develop a
liquefied natural-gas export project.  State-owned Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp. plans to
hold talks with explorers and may get them to co-operate rather
than build several LNG plants. That would save costs, said
Kelvin Komba, principal petroleum geologist at TPDC.  “This will be cost effective, and it works for us, because
it is government that will pay for the plants through foregone
revenue in companies recovering costs,” he said in an interview
this week.  Statoil, which is teaming up with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , in
June said the Lavani discovery increased estimated resources to
about 9 trillion cubic feet of gas, enough “for a commercial
development.” BG and  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  are drilling the Papa-1
well, which is targeting 3.1 trillion cubic feet and could help
justify a two-train LNG plant, said Ophir’s Chief Executive
Officer Nick Cooper.  “The real scope for opportunity for a common project would
be with” BG, John Knight, an executive vice president on global
strategy at Statoil, said in June. “Between ourselves and BG
we’ve got a lot of experience in building both the onshore and
offshore and the marketing of LNG.”  Kim Blomley, a spokesman for BG, declined to comment on the
possibility of joint LNG development with other operators.  Proving Resources  “We are probably at a tipping point for two-train LNG, but
it’s too early technically to say,” Cooper said in June. The
partners need to complete the Mzia-1 well tests and Papa-1
drilling to access the resource potential, he said.  Shell, a member of joint ventures supplying 30 percent of
global LNG, is exploring for oil and gas off Tanzania with
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA. (PETR4)   “East Africa is an interesting province,” Shell CEO  Peter
Voser  said July 26. “It’s a big resource, needs obviously
skills.”  Tanzania is getting assistance from the  World Bank  on its
gas industry master plan development. The European Union is also
advising Tanzania on developing gas policy, which will outline
infrastructure investments, resource revenue management,
environmental protection and some other issues, Filiberto
Ceriani Sebregondi, the EU’s ambassador to Tanzania, said in
June.  The National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago Ltd. had
also proposed Tanzania help with the gas industry development.  To contact the reporter on this story: David Malingha Doya in
Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Paul
Richardson  at   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 