-- Apple v Samsung: Can Look and Feel Be Patented?
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/apple-v-samsung-can-look-and-feel-be-patented-.html
Get ready for “rubberbanding.”
That’s the way the screen on an iPad or iPhone seems to bounce
when you scroll to the bottom of a file -- and it’s among the
terms jurors must understand as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. face off in a patent trial this week.  Apple has become the most valuable company by creating
products that stand out for design and ease of use, stemming
from scores of smaller innovations, such as rubberbanding,
rather than epic underlying technology breakthroughs.  In the trial in federal court in San Jose,  California ,
Apple will try to prove to jurors that its brand of innovation
is not only effective in the marketplace, but also defensible in
a courtroom.  “Everyone has a sense that Apple does something
different,” said Cheryl Milone,  chief executive officer  at
Article One Partners, which makes software used to prove or
disprove intellectual property claims. “Whether those
differences can be protected in court is the question.”  As consumers move en masse from older, limited-feature
handsets to computer-like smartphones, the trial could have a
big impact on one of the largest, fastest-growing areas of
technology, said  Chris Jones , an  analyst  at Canalys. If Apple
were to win, Samsung could be forced to scale back features in
its handsets, making them less attractive to consumers.  A victory could also help Apple hobble another important
foe: Android, the operating system that Google Inc. gives away
to manufacturers and Samsung uses on key products. Google’s
approach threatens Apple’s pitch to consumers that its exclusive
offerings are different and better.  Engineering Patents  Courts historically have given greater protection to
engineering-based innovations that create an entirely new way of
accomplishing a task, said Milone, who practiced as a patent
attorney before founding Article One. If granted, these so-
called utility patents protect the inventor from copying for 20
years after the first filing.  Apple alleges that Samsung has infringed three such
patents. One is for rubberbanding, and another relates to how
users can double-tap a Web page or photo to zoom in.  What sets Apple’s case apart is the company’s focus on
protecting design patents, which relate to the look and feel of
its mobile products. The four in the  San Jose  trial cover such
things as the placement of the on-off button on the iPad and
iPhone and the devices’ flat, edge-to-edge glass fronts. One of
the patent documents consists of little more than nine drawings
of a rectangular tablet, with no dimensions.  Subjective Opinions  Design patents  carry  a term of 14 years and are often
harder to defend than engineering patents because cases often
hinge on more subjective opinions. Also, companies can often
make relatively easy cosmetic changes to their products to avoid
infringement.  In a countersuit being heard in the same case, Samsung
claims that Apple is infringing five patents, including two that
involve basic telecommunications technology that let mobile
phones talk to each other.  Apple’s patent portfolio shows the weight the company puts
on design-based innovations. While just 2.7 percent of patents
granted to technology companies are design patents, 13.4 percent
of Apple’s 5,452 patents fall into this category, according to
 MDB Capital Group LLC , which maintains a patent database. Of the
359 patents listing Apple’s late co-Founder  Steve Jobs  as an
inventor, 86 percent are for design.  “Apple patents the things that they think make Apple
special,” said Bob Borchers, a venture capitalist who used to
work at Apple. “They focus on the consumer’s experience.”  Microsoft Prevails  The company’s previous efforts to win protection for such
advances has been mixed. In 1992, Apple lost a copyright-
infringement suit aimed at preventing  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  from using
graphical features of the Macintosh in Windows. The setback
opened the market to Windows machines from companies such as
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   When Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007, Jobs said his
company filed for 200 patents to protect the invention. Apple
has been aggressive in asserting those, and has won bans on
sales of versions of Samsung’s Galaxy tablet in  Australia  and
the European Union. In the current trial, U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh granted an injunction preventing sale of the tablet in
the U.S.  Apple is setting a high price for its patents in court.
It’s asking for $2.5 billion, or as much as $7.5 billion if
jurors believe punitive damages are warranted.  Even $2.5 billion works out to about $31 for each device
sold by Samsung. Apple ascribes $24 of that $31 to Samsung’s
misuse of its design patents. In its countersuit, Samsung is
asking Apple to pay $14 for each infringing device.  Apple’s Challenge  As complicated as the case may be, Apple will try to
convince jurors of one essential idea: Its Korean rival is a
copycat. Samsung will contend that none of Apple’s design
flourishes are totally novel, and that offering patent
protection to the rectangular shape and flat front surface of
its products would unfairly limit competition.  “Samsung is on trial because it made a deliberate decision
to copy Apple’s iPhone and iPad,” Apple said in the opening
line of its key pretrial filing with the court. “Try as it
might,” Apple said, “Samsung cannot deflect attention from its
own copying by the patents it has asserted against Apple.”  In its filing, Samsung answered that a lot of competing
products appear similar.  “In this lawsuit,” the company said, “Apple seeks to
stifle legitimate competition and limit consumer choice to
maintain its historically exorbitant profits.”  Hard Defense  Apple may have an advantage in that Koh is a former
intellectual property lawyer who has been willing to consider
the company’s argument. She granted the preliminary injunction
on Samsung’s tablet, and hasn’t referred to a recent ruling by
 Richard Posner , the federal judge who in June dismissed a suit
between Apple and Google’s Motorola Mobility because neither
could prove that it had been damaged economically.  To prevail in San Jose, Apple will need to persuade jurors
-- and that won’t be easy, even in a case being heard just a few
miles from its headquarters, said Kevin Rivette,  managing
partner  at 3LP Advisors LLC and a former vice president of
intellectual-property strategy for International Business
Machines Corp.  “Design patents are supposed to be hard to defend,”
Rivette said. “If you could stop everyone by patenting a
rectangular phone, then Motorola could have done it years ago
and none of this ever would have happened.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  