-- Marilyn Monroe’s Death Remains Mysterious: Interview
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/marilyn-monroe-s-death-remains-mysterious-interview.html
Did a “hot shot” kill  Marilyn Monroe  during the night of Aug. 4, 1962?  Her last hours have animated conspiracy theorists for 50
years.  The many peculiar aspects to her death -- officially a
“probable suicide” -- include a strange bruise on her lower
back, the number of sleeping pills (more than 50) she supposedly
ingested without a handy water glass and the disappearance of
her phone records.  J.I. Baker’s “The Empty Glass” is a fast-paced, smart and
noirish novel narrated by the deputy coroner who becomes
entrapped in a web of deceit involving doctors, the White House
and the Mafia.  We spoke over lunch at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Hoelterhoff: So was the suicide verdict widely accepted?  Baker: Yes, but the whisperings started almost immediately.
For instance, three days after the death, a  New York  Daily News
columnist named Florabel Muir noted that Monroe’s phone records
had gone missing, apparently at the behest of some powerful
people, and that this was highly unusual in the case of a so-
called suicide.  Missing Glass  Hoelterhoff: Your title points to the puzzling absence of a
glass by her bedside. How could she chew so many pills?  Baker: Not only that but a) a glass mysteriously later
showed up in the room and b) according to the handyman, the
water had been turned off in her bungalow because of
renovations.  Some experts say that the high level of drugs found in her
bloodstream would be absolutely impossible to attain by
swallowing pills, as there were massive amounts of poison
involved -- only part of which would have killed her before it
was all absorbed.  The fact that it WAS absorbed points to a very rapid
process, which could be explained by injection, a “hot shot”
in police slang.  Hoelterhoff: But the coroner said he didn’t see any needle
puncture. Of course, it’s not exactly clear when she died. What
do you think happened?  Baker: I don’t necessarily think she was murdered, but it
seems absolutely clear that a cover-up of something was
engineered -- for instance, her relationship with JFK and his
brother Bobby.  Hoelterhoff: What’s a possible scenario?  First Lady  Baker: She’s an unstable personality. JFK has an affair
with her, and she gets weird and clingy. He wants to dump her,
so he does what he almost always does when he has a problem: He
gives it to Bobby.  Bobby goes out to L.A. to intervene, but then -- perhaps --
begins his own affair. When he also becomes overwhelmed by her
persistent fantasies and aggressive instability, he splits up
with her, too.  Well, Marilyn wasn’t going to be screwed over by these
guys. Did she threaten to call a press conference? Show the
world what she knew about the Kennedys? It’s just a scenario,
but not an impossible one.  Hoelterhoff: In your novel, Bobby blathers on about the Bay
of Pigs and poisoning Castro to impress Marilyn, who prefers his
brother.  Did she really think JFK might install her in the White
House?  Baker: Marilyn knew what she was doing, and she could turn
“Marilyn” on and off like a light, but in some cases I think
she lost sight of where the fantasies ended and reality began.  Let’s also remember that she came from a family with a
history of mental illness. Her mother was a paranoid
schizophrenic.  So is it possible that she somehow convinced herself that
JFK might leave Jackie for her? Yes. JFK, too, might have said
almost anything to win her, and as we know he was a
preternaturally charming man.  Diaries, Tapes  Hoelterhoff: There’s a diary in your novel. Is it certain
she kept one?  Baker: It’s not certain, though several people claim to
have seen it. And a man named Lionel Grandison, who had the
deputy coroner position that I gave to my protagonist (though
there’s no similarity between the two), claims the diary was
found in the Monroe home but later disappeared from the Los
Angeles County Coroner’s office.  Hoelterhoff: Are the tapes your invention?  Baker: It’s all circumstantial, unfortunately, but the
notorious Hollywood PI Fred Otash claimed that he was hired to
bug actor Peter Lawford’s Santa Monica beach house and Marilyn
Monroe’s Brentwood hacienda.  He (and others) claimed the resulting tapes included the
sound of Marilyn having sex with the Kennedys (though not
together, of course).  Hoelterhoff: A lot of folks are taping each other in your
book.  Baker: The really intriguing and scary thing is the
possibility that a tape exists of Monroe’s death. A number of
people claim to have heard it, and they all tell basically the
same story -- of Bobby Kennedy and Peter Lawford arguing with
Marilyn about something they had come to find.  Well, what was that? The diary? The very bug that was
taping them? Again, there’s no hard and fast evidence of this
tape -- but there’s enough circumstantial evidence to make you
wonder.  For more on the book’s background, go to
 http://emptyglassnovel.com . To buy it in  North America , click
 here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  art  and  music  reviews.  To contact the writer of this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 