-- Arizona Law Criminalizing Some Abortions Blocked for Now
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/arizona-law-criminalizing-some-abortions-blocked-for-now.html
An  Arizona  law that makes it a crime
for doctors to perform abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy was
blocked from taking effect today by the U.S. Court of Appeals in
 San Francisco  while a lower-court order is appealed.  The appeals court ruled on a so-called emergency request to
halt the law from three doctors who lost a lawsuit alleging the
rule was preempted by the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe v. Wade
decision. A federal judge in Phoenix upheld the statute July 30,
ruling that Arizona showed credible evidence that an unborn
child may feel pain during such procedures.  Signed by Governor Jan Brewer in April, the law makes it a
misdemeanor, punishable by as long as six months in jail, to
perform an abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy except in a
medical emergencies to prevent death or “irreversible
impairment of a major bodily function.”  The “court’s decision to grant an injunction is
disappointing but not entirely unexpected,” Matthew Benson, a
spokesman for Brewer, said yesterday in an e-mail. “The court
has not yet ruled on the merits of this case and, when it does,
Governor Brewer is confident it will uphold this law.”  The appeals court didn’t give a reason for its decision.  The statute is the most extreme abortion restriction in the
nation, said the  American Civil Liberties Union , which is
representing the doctors.  The physicians claim no fetus is viable at 20 weeks, and
that under Roe v. Wade and other cases, women have the right to
terminate pregnancies before viability.  ‘Dangerous Ban’  “We are relieved that the court blocked this dangerous ban
and that women in Arizona will continue to be able to get safe,
appropriate medical care,” Alexa Kolbi-Molinas, an ACLU lawyer,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Abortion is a serious, personal
decision that should be made by a woman, her family and her
doctor -- not by politicians.”  The injunction issued yesterday will remain in effect while
the court considers the doctors’ appeal of the lower-court
decision, a process that’s likely to take several months, said
Nancy Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive Rights,
in an e-mail.  The case is Isaacson v. Horne, 12-16670,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  