-- Arkema Seeks Profit Near 1 Billion-Euro Mark After Beating Goal
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-08-01T07:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/arkema-seeks-profit-near-1-billion-euro-mark-after-beating-goal.html
Arkema SA (AKE) , which exited an
unprofitable vinyls operation this year, said it aims to push
annual earnings close to the 1 billion-euro ($1.2 billion) mark
as it focuses on higher-margin specialty materials.  The French company forecast a “very solid year” and will
give priority to “internal dynamics,” it said in a release
today, without giving details. Analysts had predicted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 965
million euros for 2012, according to the average of 17
estimates. The shares jumped as much as 6.6 percent in Paris.  The disposal of the low-margin vinyls business highlights
Chief Executive Officer Thierry Le Henaff’s attempt to focus the
company on coatings and other technology-driven markets where
there’s less pressure from commodity chemical makers in  Asia  and
the  Middle East . The transaction, completed in July, has also
spurred speculation that Colombes-based Arkema will become a
takeover target as its shares still trade at below the average
for its peer group, according to Bloomberg data.  “The beat was all in industrial chemicals, we believe
largely due to a better performance in the coatings ingredients
chain,” Amy Walker, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a
note.  Shares of Arkema traded 6.4 percent higher at 63.67 euros
as of 9:02 a.m. Prior to the open, the stock traded at 8.3 times
on a price to earnings basis, compared with an average 14.6
times for western European commodity chemical makers.  Second-quarter Ebitda of 306 million euros, beat the 277
million-euro estimate of JPMorgan. Revenue surged 15 percent to
1.72 billion euros, also ahead of analysts’ predictions,
bolstered by the euro’s drop against the dollar and
acquisitions. Ebitda for the first half totaled 559 million
euros, 8.4 percent lower than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  