-- Hartford Posts $101 Million Loss on Cost Tied to Allianz
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-08-01T21:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/hartford-reports-101-million-loss-on-cost-tied-to-allianz-deal.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG) , the insurer that counts billionaire hedge-fund manager
 John Paulson  as its largest investor, posted a second-quarter
loss on the cost of retiring investments made by  Allianz SE. (ALV)   The net loss of $101 million, or 26 cents a share, compares
with profit of $33 million, or 5 cents, a year earlier,
according to a statement today from Hartford, which is based in
the Connecticut city of the same name. Chief Executive Officer
 Liam McGee  struck a deal in April to pay about $2.4 billion to
buy back debt and warrants that were issued to Allianz.  McGee is counting on profit from property and casualty
policies as the insurer shrinks life operations. He reached a
deal in April to sell an annuities-distribution business and an
agreement yesterday for American International Group Inc. to buy
Woodbury Financial Services.  “Selling Woodbury is a favorable sign that Hartford is
making progress on its divestiture plans,”  Meyer Shields , an
analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a note today.
“Individual life and retirement plans will probably be more
difficult to get done,” and those deals may be necessary to
push the stock above $20 a share, he wrote.  Book Value  Hartford climbed 14 cents to $16.46 at 4:58 p.m. in
extended trading in New York. The company has gained less than 1
percent this year compared with the 1.5 percent advance in the
24-company KBW Insurance Index. Results were released after the
close of regular trading.  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$45.59 from $43.25 on March 31. Earnings excluding one-time
items such as the Allianz-related cost climbed to $119 million
from $14 million a year earlier.  Hartford lost half of one cent for every dollar it
collected in premiums in its commercial property-casualty
business, compared with a loss of 6.2 cents a year earlier.
Catastrophe costs declined from the second quarter of last year
when tornadoes struck U.S. states including Missouri and
Alabama.  Premium revenue declined 4.1 percent to $3.4 billion. McGee
said customer retention levels were “acceptable” as the
company raised rates for renewing clients by 7 percent in the
standard commercial business.  Allianz Investment  McGee’s predecessor,  Ramani Ayer , turned to Allianz,
 Germany ’s largest insurer for capital in 2008, agreeing to pay
10 percent on $1.75 billion of debt as  capital markets  froze.
Hartford said this year it could replace the securities with
less expensive debt.  Hartford needs to reach about $24.70 to recoup Paulson’s
investment, filings to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and data compiled by Bloomberg in February show.
Results were released after the close of regular trading.  Paulson, who  controls  about 8.5 percent of Hartford, has
said the company should be split to free its property-casualty
business from  life insurance  and the risk associated with
annuity liabilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  