-- Dollar Rises, Treasuries Fall as Stocks Erase Gain on Fed
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-01T20:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/asian-stocks-oil-decline-ahead-of-fed-decision-aussie-retreats.html
The dollar rose, U.S. stocks erased
 gains  and Treasuries slid as the  Federal Reserve  refrained from
announcing new efforts to stimulate the economy and investors
shifted focus to tomorrow’s meeting of European policy makers.  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, climbed 0.6 percent to 83.13 as the euro slid 0.6 percent
to $1.2225 at 4 p.m. New York time. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slipped 0.3 percent to 1,375.32 after gaining 0.4 percent
earlier. Ten-year Treasury yields  increased  five basis points to
1.52 percent. The S&P GSCI Index rose 0.3 percent as gasoline
and oil rallied, while silver and nickel led declines.  The central bank said economic growth had decelerated
“somewhat” over the first half of the year. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  said it will monitor conditions and provide
more monetary accommodation if needed to bolster the economy,
disappointing investors anticipating a definitive sign of
imminent monetary easing. Before the Fed’s announcement today,
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  was likely to wait until September to announce a third
round of large-scale asset purchases.  “The Fed is in a tough place,” said David Joy, the
Boston-based chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. His firm oversees about $650 billion. He spoke in a phone
interview. “The economic data is ambiguous enough to justify
doing something or doing nothing. They chose to wait and see.
That comes as a disappointment to some people.”  Dollar Rises  The U.S. dollar strengthened against 12 of 16 major peers,
rising the most against the South African rand and British
pound. The euro weakened against 12 of 16 counterparts tracked
by Bloomberg. U.S. 30-year bonds tumbled, sending yields up four
basis points to 2.59 percent.  ECB Chairman  Mario Draghi  is trying to win consensus across
governments and central banks for a plan to shore up the
region’s bond market that could be announced as soon as tomorrow
after he chairs the ECB’s Governing Council meeting. Last week,
Draghi signaled he is willing to take the ECB further than his
predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet , in building a firewall around
Spain and Italy. Earlier last month, he jettisoned Trichet’s
mantra that senior bondholders at crippled banks shouldn’t
suffer losses.  For the first time in more than two years, commodities,
equities, bonds and the dollar posted monthly gains, as the U.S.
drought sent corn prices to a record and Draghi’s pledge to
protect the euro buoyed stocks.  July’s Tally  Raw materials led the increase as the S&P GSCI Total
Return Index of 24 raw materials rose 6.4 percent in July, the
most since October. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
rallied at the end of the month for a 1.4 percent gain. The U.S.
 Dollar Index (DXY) , a measure against six currencies, added 1.3
percent. Bonds of all types returned 1.4 percent on average, the
most since December, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global
Broad Market Index shows.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rallied almost 10 percent in the first seven
months of the year amid speculation that weakening economic data
will cause policy makers in the U.S. and around the world to
take steps to safeguard the global economic recovery.  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted for a
second month in July, according to a report today, showing a
mainstay of the economy was struggling to improve as global
economies weakened. The Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index was at 49.8 last month, close to the three-year
low of 49.7 reached in June. A reading of fifty marks the
dividing line between expansion and contraction. Another report
showed construction spending in the U.S. increased in June to
the highest level in almost three years as the housing market
continued to stabilize.  Jobs Report  U.S. companies added 163,000 workers in July, according to
figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services.
That’s more than the 120,000 median of 38 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Government data on Aug. 3 is forecast to show
the nation added 100,000 jobs last month and the unemployment
rate lingered at 8.2 percent.  “I wasn’t expecting anything new from the Fed,”  John Carey , who helps oversee about $220 billion at Pioneer
Investments in Boston, said in a telephone interview. “It would
be premature to do something ahead of any European action and
the jobs report. They are watching closely, at some point they
may step in, but they need more information. We’ll wait for the
next chapter I guess.”  Dozens of U.S. stocks swung 10 percent or more without
accompanying news in the first minutes of trading, whipsawing
investors and spurring speculation that computers distorted
prices for the second time in two weeks.  Knight Issues  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  told some clients of its market-
making unit that a “technical issue” was affecting its systems
and advised them to route orders elsewhere until further notice.
Knight, which helps execute billions of dollars in equity
transactions every day, said the issue was confined to market
making and other operations were unaffected. Its stock plunged
33 percent, the most since 1998.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)   rose  more than 10 percent in the
minutes after the 9:30 a.m. open in New York. Manitowoc Co.
gained 14 percent,  Pandora Media Inc. (P)  climbed almost 11 percent
and Level 3 Communications Inc. plunged 15 percent before the
swings narrowed minutes later, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  NYSE Reviews  The NYSE said it was reviewing trades in 140 securities
between 9:30 a.m. and 10:15 a.m. New York time, according to a
statement on its website. Trades executed 30 percent or more
above their opening price will be broken, the exchange said.  Investors also watched corporate results.  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ,
the world’s second-biggest payments network, lost 2.2 percent
amid disappointing sales.  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  slumped 1.2 percent
as the door-to-door cosmetics seller reported a 70 percent
decline in earnings.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable
company, and  Allstate Corp. (ALL) , the biggest publicly traded U.S.
home and auto insurer, advanced more than 3.1 percent after
quarterly earnings beat projections.  About 72 percent of the S&P 500  companies  which reported
second-quarter earnings beat estimates, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed, even as 60 percent missed analysts’ sales
forecasts.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.5 percent. Trading of
companies in the gauge was 26 percent lower than the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Next Plc (NXT)  jumped 6.5 percent as the U.K. retailer increased
its annual profit forecast after reporting first-half sales that
rose more than analysts estimated. Arkema SA climbed 5.7 percent
as second-quarter earnings beat estimates.  Mediaset SpA (MS) , the
broadcaster controlled by former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio
Berlusconi , dropped 11 percent after profit declined 65 percent
amid lower advertising sales.  Bearish Options  Bearish options on European stocks have fallen to the
cheapest levels compared with bullish ones in 19 months as
traders bet that Draghi will deliver on his promise to save the
euro. The ECB will hold its next policy meeting tomorrow.  The yield on the German 10-year bund increased eight basis
points to 1.37 percent as the government sold 3.35 billion euros
($4.1 billion) of five-year notes at a yield of 0.31 percent.
The Spanish 10-year bond yield fell two basis points to 6.73
percent. Italy’s 10-year rate dropped 15 basis points.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  was little changed. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies listed in
Hong Kong advanced for a fourth day, adding 0.9 percent, in its
longest winning streak in six months. The FTSE/JSE Africa All
Share Index jumped 1.4 percent in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  