-- Asia Bond Risk Rises as Sales Pause for Central Bank Meetings
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-01T04:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
The cost of insuring Asian corporate
and sovereign bonds from non-payment rose ahead of policy
decisions by the  Federal Reserve  and  European Central Bank ,
prompting issuance to stall.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Export-Import
Bank of  India  and Korea Finance Corp. led dollar offerings,
selling $1.75 billion of debt yesterday as yields on Asian  debt 
fell to a 20-month low of 4.34 percent, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes. Companies are now waiting to see whether
the Fed and ECB take further steps to bolster growth in the U.S.
and Europe when they meet today and tomorrow.  The global slowdown is weighing on Asian growth, with
Chinese manufacturing expanding less than expected in July,
government data showed today. “The external environment remains
grim,” the official Xinhua News Agency said yesterday, citing a
meeting of the Communist Party’s Politburo. South Korea’s
exports slid 8.8 percent in July from a year earlier, the
steepest decline since September 2009, the country’s Ministry of
Knowledge said today, and Australian manufacturing fell to a
three-year low, a survey showed.  “Market sentiment is slightly softer after China’s
manufacturing data and there’s also significant uncertainty
surrounding the key central bank meetings,” Krishna Hegde, head
of Asia credit research at Barclays Plc said in a phone
interview from  Singapore . “If the headlines aren’t negative
then issuance will resume. There’s a pipeline of issuers from
across the region looking to tap the market.”  Fed, ECB  The Fed is more likely to wait until September to offer a
third round of large-scale asset purchases, according to median
estimates of 58 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The ECB
will discuss buying  government bonds  on the primary market, two
central bank officials said on July 27. Rate cuts and long-term
loans to banks will also be considered, they said.  China’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index fell to 50.1 in July
from 50.2 in June, the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
in a statement today. The reading was the weakest in eight
months and compares with a 50.5 median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  advanced 1 basis point to 160 basis
points as of 8:55 a.m. in Hong Kong, Deutsche Bank AG prices
show. The gauge fell 11 basis points last month and has ranged
between 132.5 basis points and 210 basis points this year,
according to data provider CMA.  Bond Sales  Korea Finance sold $500 million of 2.25 percent bonds due
2017 yesterday, attracting more than three- and a half times
more orders than the amount of notes available, according to a
person familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified
because the details are private.  India’s Exim Bank sold its first dollar bonds in more than
a year, raising $500 million from a sale of five-year debt while
ANZ offered $750 million of ten-year subordinated securities,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index increased 3 basis points
to 170 as of 10:59 a.m. in Sydney,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  prices
show. The measure dropped 19 basis points in July, its biggest
monthly decline since January, according to CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The Markit iTraxx Japan index rose
2 basis points to 184 basis points as of 9:49 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
Citigroup Inc. prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . An increase signals declining perceptions of
creditworthiness. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities if a borrower fails to
meet its debt agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  