-- MasterCard Falls as Quarterly Revenue Misses Estimates
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-08-01T21:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/mastercard-profit-beats-estimates-amid-debit-market-share-gains.html
MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest
payments network, fell in  New York  trading after posting
quarterly revenue that missed analysts’ estimates as currencies
in some overseas markets slid against the  U.S. dollar .  MasterCard declined 2.1 percent to close at $427.20 after
reporting today that second-quarter revenue increased by 9
percent to $1.82 billion, less than the $1.88 billion estimated
by 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales growth is likely to
be slower for the rest of the year amid global economic
uncertainty, the firm said on a conference call.  MasterCard is among global corporations whose earnings have
been hit by currency fluctuations against the dollar. Chief
Executive Officer  Ajay Banga , 52, is pushing the Purchase, New
York-based company into  emerging markets  and gets about 60
percent of revenue from outside the U.S., more than larger rival
 Visa Inc. (V) ’s 45 percent.  “We’re really well positioned to navigate through the
economic challenges by really focusing on what we can influence
and control,” Chief Financial Officer Martina Hund-Mejean said
in a phone interview. “We can’t control currency swings.”  Adjusted net income excluding some legal costs rose 17
percent to $713 million, or $5.65 a share, from $608 million, or
$4.76, a year earlier, the firm said in a statement. That beat
by seven cents the  average estimate  of 33 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Net income including a $13 million legal cost was
$5.55 a share.  Euro, Real  The firm’s revenue was hit by a decline in the euro and the
Brazilian real, Hund-Mejean said. MasterCard processes about
one-third of its transactions in  Europe , which is struggling
with recession and a sovereign-debt crisis. The euro slid 5.3
percent against the dollar during the quarter, while the real
declined 10 percent.  “The rule of thumb for MasterCard is a one-penny move in
the dollar to euro  exchange rate  has an annualized impact to
their revenue of about $11 million to $13 million,”  Jason Kupferberg , an analyst with  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  in New York,
said in an interview. “That’s the issue that they’re facing.”  The company continued to benefit from the consumer shift to
electronic payments from cash and checks. Worldwide spending on
MasterCard- and Maestro-branded cards climbed 13 percent to $661
million, based on local currencies, compared with a year
earlier, the company said in the statement. Processed
transactions rose 29 percent to 8.5 billion.  Lower Growth  Maintaining that growth for the rest of 2012 will be
difficult given the “global economic uncertainty,” Hund-Mejean
said. “Before considering the impacts of currency, we expect
net net revenue growth in the second half of the year to be
somewhat lower,” she said on the conference call.  MasterCard increased rebates and incentives, which
encourage banks to use its products, by 24 percent to $661
million from a year earlier. This exceeded the estimates of
analysts including Barclays Plc’s Darrin Peller and Tien-tsin Huang of JPMorgan Chase & Co., who predicted a 15 percent gain.  “We would expect this morning’s miss to drive weakness in
shares of MA in trading today, as investors likely have new
questions/concerns around an elevated level of rebates and
incentives going forward,” Peller wrote in a note to clients
today, referring to MasterCard’s stock ticker.  Lawsuit Settlement  Total operating expenses, including legal costs, rose 8
percent to $846 million for the quarter, the firm said.
MasterCard and Visa and some of the biggest U.S. banks agreed
last month to settle a price-fixing case brought by retailers,
who accused the firms of rigging credit-card fees.  MasterCard said the settlement will cost it $790 million.
Visa, the world’s biggest payments network, said its share of
the settlement was about $4.4 billion. MasterCard took a $13
million after-tax charge in the second quarter after recording a
$770 million expense in its fourth quarter.  MasterCard’s share of worldwide purchase transactions on
both credit and debit cards expanded by almost half of a
percentage point last year to 25.57 percent, while Visa’s share,
including those purchases processed by Visa Europe Ltd., fell
1.1 percentage points to 64.67 percent, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter based in Carpinteria,  California .  MasterCard has  climbed  15 percent this year, compared with
a 13 percent gain for the 71-company  Standard & Poor’s 500
Information Technology Index. (S5INFT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  