-- AstraZeneca Combination Improves Breast Cancer Survival in Study
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-01T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/astrazeneca-combination-improves-breast-cancer-survival-in-study.html
A combination of two  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) 
drugs helped post-menopausal women with late-stage hormone-
related  breast cancer  live longer and without the disease
progressing compared with those taking just one of the drugs, a
new study found.  The trial followed 694 patients who took either the
combination of anastrozole and fulvestrant, also known by the
brand names Arimidex and Faslodex respectively, or anastrozole
alone. Their cancers were either estrogen-receptor positive or
progesterone-receptor positive or both and hadn’t previously
been treated with chemotherapy, immunotherapy or hormone therapy
to stop the spread of disease, according to the study published
in the Aug. 2 edition of the  New England Journal of Medicine .  Patients who took the combination therapy had a median of
15 months without the disease progressing, while the median for
those who took anastrozole alone was 13.5 months, the study
found. Those in the combination group also lived six months
longer than the control group, a benefit not seen in trials in
recent years,  Rita Mehta , lead investigator of the trial and an
associate professor of medicine at  University of California  in
 Irvine , said in an interview.  “Six months means a lot to a patient,” she said. “It
could be a graduation for a grandson or a new baby being born.”  New Standard  She is prescribing the combination for her patients and
said it should be the standard care in future.  Patients who hadn’t previously taken the hormone therapy
tamoxifen and were assigned to the combination group saw a
greater benefit than those who had, though the difference wasn’t
statistically significant, the study found.  Both groups had mild to moderate side effects such as joint
pain and hot flashes, and the rate was higher in the combination
group though not statistically significant, the authors said.  The study was designed and conducted by Southwest Oncology
Group and funded by the  National Cancer Institute . AstraZeneca
provided drugs for the trial at no cost.  Arimidex and Faslodex generated $756 million and $546
million in sales for AstraZeneca last year respectively. The
company will evaluate the data and has not made a decision about
pursuing a label change for Faslodex to be used in combination
with Arimidex for this group of patients, said  Sarah Lindgreen ,
a spokeswoman for AstraZeneca. Arimidex faces generic
competition while Faslodex has been on the market in the U.S.
since 2002.  AstraZeneca conducted a similar study three years ago with
fewer patients and saw no statistical benefit between the two
groups, according to the report. Most of the patients in that
trial had been treated previously with hormone therapy.  Faslodex is being  tested  in late-stage clinical trials as a
first-line treatment for advanced hormone-related breast cancer.
If successful, the company plans to file for approval in the
U.S. and  Europe  in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  