-- Atlanta Voters Defeat $8.5 Billion Tax for Transportation
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-08-01T05:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/atlanta-voters-defeat-8-5-billion-tax-for-transportation.html
Voters in Atlanta and its suburbs,
among the most traffic-congested areas in the U.S., defeated a
proposal for a 1 percent sales tax to raise $8.5 billion for
roads and public transportation.  The levy was failing 63 percent to 37 percent, with 99
percent of precincts counted yesterday in the 10-county region,
according to the  Associated Press .  The vote was a loss for business and political leaders who
said improvements were needed to attract  jobs  and reduce
commuting delays. Opponents included Tea Party activists, who
advocate less  government spending , civil rights leaders from the
NAACP and environmentalists from the  Sierra Club .  “This is a win for the people,” said Debbie Dooley,
founder of the Atlanta Tea Party. “We thought it would be
closer than it was. This was about a lack of trust of elected
officials.”  Roads and mass transit haven’t kept pace with the  region ’s
needs, supporters of the referendum said. Average drive times
are the 11th longest in the nation, according to a study last
year by the Texas Transportation Institute at  Texas A&M
University .  Georgia ’s per capita spending on transportation
averaged 48th in the country from 2003 to 2009, according to the
Atlanta Regional Commission, a planning agency, citing U.S.
Transportation Department and U.S. Census data.  The Atlanta area ranked seventh among metropolitan regions
in numeric  population growth  in the year ending July 1, 2011,
according to Census estimates.  Existing Taxes  The 1 percent levy would have been added to county taxes of
2 percent to 3 percent and a 4 percent state sales tax. The tax
would have ended after a decade, or when its revenue goals had
been met, whichever came first. The tax would have generated an
estimated $8.5 billion over 10 years,  adjusted for inflation ,
according to supporters.  The National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People opposed the measure because the two counties that include
Atlanta have paid a 1 percent sales tax for 40 years to support
bus and rail service in the region, while the suburban counties
haven’t, said  John Evans , president of the DeKalb County
chapter.  A needed rail line to predominantly black neighborhoods
wasn’t included in the list of projects to be funded by the tax,
while a line to a largely white suburb was, Evans said.  The Sierra Club said the project list included too many
roads and not enough mass transit, according to Colleen Kiernan,
director of the group’s Georgia chapter.  Party Lines  Democratic Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed praised supporters of
the tax for coming together across party and jurisdictional
lines, said his spokesman, Reese McCranie.  “He said he recognized that some people have a distrust of
government, and that people need to realize that the government
is just a collection of us,” McCranie said. “The politics of
cooperation is the way we move forward as a region.”  The tax would have been dedicated to 157 mass-transit and
road projects designated by political leaders from the counties
considering the increase.  The money would have paid for a new rail line to the
Atlanta suburb where the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention has its headquarters, and improvements to a congested
highway interchange north of the city.  Supporters of the measure included Republican Georgia
Governor Nathan Deal, Atlanta-based companies such as  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  Home
Depot Inc. (HD)   Failing to reduce traffic congestion hurts efforts to
attract businesses, said Paul Bowers, president and chief
executive officer of Georgia Power, an Atlanta-based subsidiary
of  Southern Co. (NSC)  Georgia Power donated to the campaign for the
tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  