-- Aussie Advances After Retail Sales, Trade Balance Data
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-02T06:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/aussie-halts-biggest-drop-in-a-week-before-retail-report.html
Australia’s dollar rose after reports
today showed improvement in retail sales and trade, boosting
prospects the  Reserve Bank  will leave borrowing costs unchanged
at a meeting next week.  Gains in the so-called Aussie and its New Zealand
counterpart were tempered on speculation any measures from
European Central Bank policy makers meeting today won’t be
enough to resolve the region’s debt crisis. The Federal Reserve
yesterday refrained from new action to stimulate the world’s
largest economy. The so-called kiwi strengthened after whole-
milk powder prices climbed for the first time in six weeks.  The Aussie “may pop on the back of today’s data,” said
Gavin Stacey, chief rate strategist at Barclays Plc in Sydney.
“Without the ECB, the Australian dollar could have had a more
decent pop. It’s more likely the ECB disappoints than delivers
on expectations.”  The Australian dollar advanced 0.2 percent to $1.0478 as of
4:31 p.m. in Sydney, after dropping 0.4 percent yesterday, the
most since July 23. The Aussie gained 0.2 percent to 82.19 yen.
New Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, added 0.2 percent to
80.88 U.S. cents. It rose 0.2 percent to 63.44 yen.  Retail  sales  in  Australia  climbed 1 percent in June after a
revised 0.8 percent advance in the previous month, the Bureau of
Statistics said today. The nation had a trade surplus of A$9
million ($9.4 million) in the same period, compared with
estimates for a A$375 million shortfall, a separate report
showed.  RBA Bets  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show a 79
percent chance RBA policy makers will keep the overnight cash-
rate target at 3.5 percent on Aug. 7. That’s up from the 38
percent odds seen on July 19.  ECB officials gathering today are expected to keep
 borrowing costs  at a record-low 0.75 percent, according to 51 of
55 economists in another Bloomberg poll, with the remainder
predicting a cut to 0.5 percent.  “There will be some segment of investors disappointed if
the ECB stops short of reactivating the Securities Markets
Program or giving an explicit signal that it intends to do so,”
 Todd Elmer , Singapore-based head of Group-of-10 currency
strategy for  Asia  excluding  Japan  at Citigroup Inc., said in
reference to the bank’s asset-purchase program.  ‘Major Negative’  “Disappointment from the ECB will be a major negative for
risk assets, including the Aussie,” he said.  At the conclusion of a two-day meeting yesterday, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said the  U.S. economy 
“decelerated somewhat” in the first half of 2012 and it will
“provide additional accommodation as needed.”  The Aussie has advanced 4.7 percent in the past three
months, the best performance after the yen among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The kiwi gained 2.9 percent in the same
period.  New Zealand ’s dollar rose after milk powder prices for
October delivery increased 4.5 percent, according to a trade-
weighted index on Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.’s
GlobalDairyTrade website. Auckland-based Fonterra accounts for
about 40 percent of the global trade in dairy products.  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield climbed three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.15 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, rose two basis points to 2.82 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  