-- Australia House Prices Unexpectedly Rise After RBA Rate Cuts
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-01T02:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/australian-house-prices-unexpectedly-rise-after-rba-lowers-rates.html
Australian  house prices  unexpectedly
rose in the three months through June, ending five straight
quarters of declines, as lower  interest rates  lured buyers.  An index measuring the weighted average of prices for
established houses in eight major cities advanced 0.5 percent
last quarter from the previous three months, the  Australian
Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney today. The  median estimate 
of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was a 0.5 percent
fall. House and apartment prices in the cities rose 0.6 percent
in July from the prior month, when they rose 1 percent, the RP
Data-Rismark home value index, also released today, showed.  The data reflect 1.25 percentage points of rate cuts by the
 Reserve Bank  of  Australia  since November as inflation slowed.
Governor  Glenn Stevens  has indicated that the reductions in the
benchmark to 3.5 percent are designed to help strengthen the
economy as Europe’s crisis worsens, and to help households pay
down debt, rather than stoke another boom in the housing market.  “Borrowing costs are now below average and it appears
that’s beginning to support demand,” said Janu Chan, Sydney-
based economist at St. George Bank Ltd., which predicted the 0.5
percent gain. “There has been a pickup in the number of first-
home buyers, and that’s important in a recovery for housing
because that adds liquidity to the market.”  Sydney, Darwin  Prices rose 1.4 percent in Sydney, 0.6 percent in Perth and
5.1 percent in Darwin in the second quarter from the first three
months of the year, and declined 0.4 percent in  Melbourne  and
1.3 percent in Canberra, the statistics bureau report showed.
They dropped 2.1 percent from a year earlier across the nation’s
biggest cities, it said.  The local dollar traded at $1.0481 at 12:12 p.m. in Sydney,
compared with $1.0468 before the report.  The increase comes after  house prices  fell a revised 0.1
percent in the first three months of 2012, from an initially
reported drop of 1.1 percent, according to statistics bureau
figures.  “The July result, when viewed together with the positive
June result, suggests housing markets may be starting to respond
to lower  mortgage rates ,” RP Data research director Tim Lawless
said in the report.  A private report on Australian sales of newly built homes
rose in June for a third-straight month.  New Homes  Sales increased 2.8 percent to 6,021 from May, when they
gained 0.7 percent, the Canberra-based Housing Industry
Association said on July 30, citing a survey of the nation’s
largest builders. Detached house sales rose 0.7 percent, while
apartments soared 15.7 percent, it said.  Stevens said in June his decisions to cut rates by 25 basis
points in November and December, 50 basis points in May and
another 25 in June were made easier by the board’s judgment that
there was a low risk of reigniting a boom in borrowing and  home
prices . The board paused last month at 3.5 percent.  “One thing we should not do, in my judgment, is try to
engineer a return to the boom,” he said in a June 8 speech in
Adelaide. “The intended effect of recent policy actions is
certainly not to pump up speculative demand for assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  