-- Avon Quarterly Profit Drops 70% Amid Lower Europe Demand
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-08-01T23:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/avon-quarterly-profit-drops-70-amid-lower-demand-in-europe.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the door-to-door
cosmetics seller that rebuffed a takeover offer from  Coty Inc. (COTY) 
this year, reported a 70 percent decline in second-quarter
profit amid a sales slump in Europe and  China .  Net income fell to $61.6 million, or 14 cents a share, from
$206.2 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. The shares dropped 1.2
percent to $15.30 at the close in  New York  and have declined 12
percent this year.  Today’s stock drop pushes Avon’s market capitalization to
about $6.61 billion, compared with Coty’s $10.7 billion offer in
May. Avon has posted three straight years of declining profit
and Chief Executive Officer Sherilyn McCoy, who took over in
April, said on a conference call today that she will cut costs,
re-evaluate the company’s markets and work to boost incentives
for top sales representatives.  “Avon’s second-quarter financial results are not good and
they reflect the complex challenges that Avon faces,” McCoy
said in the statement.  Revenue fell 9.3 percent to $2.59 billion. Analysts
projected $2.68 billion, the average of 11 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales declined 14 percent in Europe, Middle East and
 Africa  and a dropped 21 percent in China.  Excluding some items, profit in the quarter totaled 20
cents a share. Analysts projected 22 cents, the average of
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘New Management’  While better than the previous quarter, “problems are
numerous and we believe new management has a lot of work to do
to right the ship,”  Mark Astrachan , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. in New York, wrote in a note today. Increasing
competition “means the clock is ticking to improve performance,
particularly in Brazil and Russia,” said Astrachan, who
recommends holding the shares.  Avon also said today in a regulatory filing that it’s in
talks with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
 Department of Justice  to settle an investigation into possible
bribery in its overseas operations. Last year, the company said
it had fired four executives suspected of paying bribes to
officials in China. Avon and the government have been
investigating potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, which outlaws bribing foreign officials.  Sales Representatives  Gross margin narrowed to 62.8 percent from 64.4 percent a
year earlier amid higher product costs and a stronger dollar
that hurt the value of sales from abroad. Last year, 45 percent
of sales came from  Latin America  and 28 percent from Europe,
 Middle East  and Africa.  Avon saw declines in the number of active sales
representatives in several countries, including Brazil, Russia,
the U.S. and the U.K. The quarter included a pretax
restructuring charge of $38 million, or 6 cents a share.  The cost to protect Avon’s  debt  from default for five years
jumped to a record. Credit-default swaps on the company’s debt
climbed 80.6 basis points to 533.5 basis points at 4:30 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
 McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Coty, the maker of perfumes by  Beyonce Knowles  and  Heidi
Klum , withdrew its $24.75-a-share bid for Avon in May, citing
delays by Avon and unwillingness to engage in negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  