-- Bacon to Give Back $2 Billion Amid ‘Constrained’ Markets
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-08-01T14:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/bacon-to-give-back-2-billion-amid-constrained-markets.html
Louis Moore Bacon plans to give back
$2 billion, or 25 percent of his main hedge fund, to investors,
saying it may be too big for him to achieve past returns as
“liquidity and opportunities have become more constrained.”  Bacon, who seeks to exploit macroeconomic trends such as
changes in  interest rates  and currencies, returned a
“disappointing” 0.35 percent in the first half and a
“tolerable” 6 percent in the past year, according to letter
sent today to clients. He has gained more than 18 percent a
year since starting the Moore Global Investments fund in 1989.  “Unfortunately, as the amount and percentage of the assets
I manage have increased these last several years, the markets
have been trickier and less liquid,” Bacon, who is based in New
York, wrote in his eight-page letter. “The ‘risk on/risk off’
environment appears to be an abiding presence that has kept my
market engagement low.”  Bacon, 56, isn’t the only multibillion-dollar macro-fund
manager struggling to make money this year.  Ray Dalio ’s
Bridgewater Associates LP lost 2 percent in its $54 billion Pure
Alpha II fund this year through July 20, according to investors.
 Alan Howard , who runs Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, lost
1.3 percent in his $26 billion Master Fund in the same period,
clients said.  Bacon declined to comment beyond the letter.  Market Distortion  Macro funds trade in global equity, bond, currency and
commodities markets. They lost an average of 1.3 percent in the
first six months of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compared with a gain of 6 percent by the MSCI
ACWI Index and 2.79 percent for the Bank of America Merrill
Lynch Global Broad Market Index.  Bacon, who manages virtually all of the $8 billion macro
fund himself, up from 50 percent as recently as 2007, outlined
several reasons for the need to be more nimble and put on
smaller bets.  “Markets are increasingly distorted by central banks’
attempts to squeeze drops of growth from an over-indebted
private sector across much of the developed world,” through
such practices as bond purchases and super-low interest rates,
Bacon wrote.  The U.S. markets are hindered by “a caustic political
environment and an anti-business administration,” he said. U.S.
banks have retreated from making markets in many securities
because of the Dodd-Frank legislation, which limits them from
trading for their own accounts. Bacon added that “in some
Kafkaesque absurdity,” the rule is “named after the two high
protectors from regulatory oversight of perhaps the most
egregious of U.S. financial miscreants,  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac .”  Inept Regulators  The legislation is name after the former Connecticut
Senator  Christopher Dodd  and Massachusetts Representative  Barney
Frank .  As for the  euro zone , the “banking authorities have been a
special case in ineptitude” because they delayed demanding that
banks raise capital “until it is largely infeasible,” he
wrote. He called the euro zone “a potential disaster area of
catastrophic proportions.”  This environment has made markets much more difficult to
trade and reduced opportunities in debt, currency and credit
markets, he said.  “Disaster Economics, where assets are valued based on
their ability to withstand a lurking disaster as opposed to what
they may yield or earn, is now the prism through which investors
are pricing markets,” he wrote.  Low Rates  It’s been difficult to put on big trades in debt markets in
the European periphery, including the Italian  bond market , the
third largest in the world, he wrote.  Interest rates are at historically low levels, with short-
term government notes in the U.K.,  France  and  Japan , yielding
virtually nothing, and those in  Germany ,  Switzerland  and the
Netherlands have negative yields.  There are also fewer opportunities in  currency trading ,
another mainstay of macro investing. The Swiss franc, once a
top-five trading currency, for example, is now capped to the
euro, thus limiting the amount it can move, he said.  Trading in individual corporate credits has also been
“decimated” he said. “I shudder to think of the stress that
is going to occur during the new credit liquidation cycle,” now
that banks won’t be there to make a market, he wrote.  Previous Returns  Bacon’s Moore Capital Management LLC oversees a combined
$15 billion in all its six funds. The manager previously
returned about $2 billion over the life of the macro fund, he
said in the letter. Every time he gave money back, performance
improved.  Assets fell from $9 billion at the start of 2000 to $5.1
billion as of the beginning of December, after investors pulled
$2 billion following losses and Bacon returned $400 million.
That month, Bacon made 11 percent, ensuring that the fund posted
a positive return for the year. At the time, Bacon said the
smaller asset base “gave us a more flexible trading attitude.”  In 1999, Bacon returned $1 billion, after which the funds
gained almost 20 percent in two months.  In 1994, the firm’s assets shrank by 70 percent after a 14
percent loss, client redemptions and the return of some capital.
In the subsequent five years, the funds returned 280 percent.  Other funds have also returned capital in recent years.  In 2011, London-based Brevan Howard returned $2 billion to
investors in its biggest fund after it told clients it would
limit the fund’s size to about $25 billion to ensure it
continued to produce top returns.  Capping Clients  Paul Tudor Jones  has limited investments in his $9 billion
Tudor BVI Global fund since 2010, and recently opened a
multimanager macro fund to give some of the most experienced
portfolio managers at this Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm the
ability to manage more money.  Moore will cap each client’s investment in the fund to 5
percent. The fund has already told some investors they will be
redeemed in full as part of this capital return.  Investors wanting to keep their money with Moore can invest
in the $4 billion Moore Macro Managers fund, which is run by 14
portfolio managers. That fund, which has limited new
investments, has outperformed Bacon’s fund over the last five
years, with a cumulative return of 37 percent, or 6.5 percent a
year, on average, compared with 28.6 percent, or 5.2 percent,
for Bacon’s fund. Through July, Bacon has returned 1.6 percent
this year and the Macro Managers fund has climbed 1.8 percent.  Bacon said that fund doesn’t face the same capacity
constraints as each manager trades a smaller amount of money and
some trade in a broader number of markets.  There have been, and will continue to be, ample
opportunities, Bacon said “but I want to determine whether it
is asset size that has precluded me from better capitalizing on
those opportunities we have found,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  