-- Baht Little Changed Near Four-Week High Before Policy Decisions
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-01T08:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/baht-falls-on-speculation-importers-stepping-up-dollar-buying.html
Thailand ’s baht was little changed as
the market waited to see if the  Federal Reserve  and the  European
Central Bank  will take measures to spur their economies.
 Government bonds  advanced.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of shares snapped a four-day
advance before policy decisions from the Fed today and the ECB
tomorrow. A central bank report yesterday showed Thai  imports 
increased 5 percent in June from a year earlier, while  exports 
dropped 4.3 percent. The baht touched a four-week high of 31.45
yesterday as foreign funds bought $88 million more local shares
in the first two days of the week, exchange data show.  “You don’t expect to see a major one-way move before those
big decisions,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan
Center for Economic Research in Tokyo. “We can expect importer
demand with the baht hovering around the recent high, while
there’s some fund inflows into stocks amid speculation the ECB
will come up with something.”  The baht traded at 31.48 per dollar as of 3:23 p.m. in
Bangkok, compared with 31.49 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was little
changed at 4.51 percent.  The Fed is not expected to announce a third round of large-
scale asset purchases today, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The jobless rate in the euro
area reached 11.2 percent in June, matching May’s record high,
according to official data yesterday.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 fell two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.17 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 