-- Bain Capital Agrees to Purchase Stake in Genpact for $1 Billion
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-08-01T22:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/bain-capital-agrees-to-purchase-stake-in-genpact-for-1-billion.html
Bain Capital  Partners LLC agreed to
buy a stake in outsourcing company  Genpact Ltd. (G)  from General
Atlantic LLC and  Oak Hill  Capital Partners LP for $1 billion.  Bain, a private-equity firm, is buying about 30 percent of
Genpact’s stock outstanding for $14.76 a share, according to a
statement. The transaction is expected to close this year after
a special dividend of $2.24 a share to all shareholders,
including General Atlantic and Oak Hill.  “Bain Capital has a long-term perspective, which is
critical to building value, particularly in a company like
ours,” Chief Executive Officer N.V. “Tiger” Tyagarajan said
in the statement. “We look forward to working with Bain Capital
as we continue to make enterprises around the world run better
by continuously improving their business processes.”  Genpact began operations in 1997 as an India-based
computer-services unit of  General Electric Co. (GE)  that assisted the
U.S. company’s finance division. The Bermuda-based company still
gets a quarter of revenue from GE, Tyagarajan said last month.  Oak Hill and General Atlantic acquired 60 percent of the
company, formerly known as GE Capital International Services,
for $500 million in 2004.  When the deal closes, Bain will name four people to
Genpact’s board, replacing the Oak Hill and General Atlantic
directors. The selling shareholders will still own about 10
percent of Genpact’s shares outstanding after the transaction.
Bain, a Boston-based firm that manages almost  $65 billion , has
agreed not to sell any Genpact shares for two and a half years,
according to the statement.  CEO, Chairman  Tyagarajan will remain CEO, and  Robert Scott , a former
Morgan Stanley executive, will stay on as chairman.  Genpact, which handles technology services and other
business tasks, operates from 18 countries, according to the
statement. The company has more than 3,000 employees in the
U.S., representing about 5 percent of  its total  as of the end of
2011.  Genpact, which held its initial public offering in 2007,
 declined  1.6 percent to $17.15 at the close in  New York . The
stock has advanced 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  