-- Banca Transilvania Profit Jumps 47% on Romanian Loan Growth
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-08-01T07:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/banca-transilvania-profit-jumps-47-on-romanian-loan-growth-1-.html
Banca Transilvania SA (TLV) ,  Romania ’s
second-biggest publicly traded bank, said its first-half profit
jumped 47 percent as lending increased.  Net income climbed to 179.6 million lei ($48 million) from
122.1 million lei a year earlier, the Cluj-Napoca, Romania-based
bank said  in a regulatory statement  today. Operating income rose
12 percent to 772 million lei as revenue from financial
operations as well as fees and commissions gained.  “Despite the volatile and difficult economic environment,
both on domestic and European markets, the bank performed well
throughout the first half,” Banca Transilvania Chairman Horia Ciorcila said in the statement. “We shall continue to focus on
consolidating our market position and boosting efficiency.”  Banca Transilvania, one of six Romanian banks controlled by
domestic investors, has been boosting lending in the past year
to increase its share in the market dominated by foreign banks.  Greek and other international banks will “fight tooth and
nail” to maintain their position in the east European country
in the face of possible regroupings, banking association chief
Radu Ghetea said on June 20. While some banks are reluctant to
expand in Romania, others including Banca Transilvania and CEC
Bank SA have been able to increase their market share, Ghetea
said.  Banca Transilvania’s net assets grew 12 percent to 29
billion lei from 25.8 billion lei at the end of 2011, the lender
said. Non-performing loans, boosted by a second recession in the
country, amounted to 10.5 percent of the bank’s total loan
portfolio, according to the statement.  Net bad-loan provisions rose 15 percent to 179 million lei
in the first half from a year ago, the bank said. Banca
Comerciala Romana SA and  BRD-Groupe Societe Generale SA (BRD) ,
Romania’s two biggest banks, reported second-quarter losses last
month on loan provisioning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  