-- BHP Says Reviewing Costs, Major Project Timing as Prices Fall
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-08-01T01:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/bhp-says-reviewing-costs-major-project-timing-as-prices-fall.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said it’s studying spending cutbacks
across its operations and reviewing its development pipeline of
major projects as commodity prices fall.  “Against a backdrop of increasing costs and falling
 commodity prices , we continue to focus on reducing our
overheads, operating costs and non-essential expenditure,” the
Melbourne-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.
“This includes reviewing our overhead costs and the sequencing
of our major projects.”  Miners are reassessing spending plans as commodity prices
drop, amid concern of slowing growth in Europe and  China , the
biggest metals consumer. Rio Tinto Group, the third-biggest
mining company, said in June it had begun a review that may lead
to job cuts and staff relocations in  Australia  to cut costs.  “Iron ore projects in execution will continue as
planned,” BHP said in the statement. Chief Executive Officer
Marius Kloppers today will open the company’s new 3,000-person
office in Perth, the capital of  Western Australia , Fiona Martin,
a BHP spokeswoman said by phone. The state is home to the
company’s main iron ore mines.  BHP won’t meet its five-year $80 billion spending target
for building new mines and expanding operations as it combats
higher costs and lower prices, Chairman Jac Nasser said in May.  The company’s board is due this year to decide on approving
the Olympic Dam copper-uranium-gold mine expansion in  South
Australia , an iron-ore port expansion in Western Australia and a
potash project in  Canada . The three projects may cost a combined
$68 billion to build, according to a May 23 estimate from
Deutsche Bank AG. The bank estimated Olympic Dam alone will cost
$33 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  