-- Billionaire Sy Plans $1.5 Billion Mall Expansion: Southeast Asia
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2012-08-02T14:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/billionaire-sy-plans-1-5-billion-mall-expansion-southeast-asia.html
Philippine billionaire  Henry Sy ’s
shopping mall developer is planning to spend 63 billion pesos
($1.5 billion) in the next three years to add as many as 18
shopping malls at home and in China as  consumer spending  rise.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH) , the biggest Philippine retail
developer, plans to build four to five malls a year in the
Southeast Asian nation. It’s also targeting a shopping center in
China every year, said Hans Sy, the Manila-based company’s
president and the billionaire’s son.  The expansion will help sustain profit growth, the company
said, forecasting a 16 percent increase in earnings this year
after a 15 percent gain in 2011. SM Prime shares rose 1.2
percent to 14.06 pesos at the close in Manila, the highest since
March 19. The gain pushed the stock 32 percent higher this year,
beating the  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) ’s 21 percent gain,
the most among  Asia ’s 12 biggest stock markets.  “I am quite positive that we can accelerate our earnings
growth,” Hans Sy, 56, said in an interview on July 31 in
Manila. “There are still plenty of opportunities in the
 Philippines  and in China. We believe consumer spending in both
countries are sustainable and will continue to grow.”  New malls in China will also extend its revenue base beyond
the 108 million population in the Philippines to the world’s
fastest-growing major economy. Sales in its home market made up
more than 90 percent of revenue last year, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  SM Prime may face the risk of declining funds sent home by
Filipinos working abroad, while a “sharp” economic slowdown in
 China  may make it longer for the company’s expansion to bear
fruit, according to Astro del Castillo, managing director at
First Grade Finance Inc.  Expansion Risks  “SM Prime has its own set of risks,” del Castillo said.
“The stock is deemed a safe haven because SM Prime’s management
is conservative and the Philippines has a resilient consumer
market.”  Remittances from more than 9 million Filipinos overseas
account for about a 10th of the $225 billion Philippine  economy ,
with citizens abroad sending home a record  $20 billion  in 2011.
The value of those inflows, which helped fund property
purchases, may be eroded as the Philippine peso strengthened 4.8
percent this year, the most among Asia’s most-actively traded
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Philippines ranked 130th of 142 countries in the  World
Economic Forum ’s latest survey on the cost to business of
terrorism; and 112th in terms of crime and violence -- the worst
in  Southeast Asia .  Slowing Growth  The expansion in China also comes as the Chinese economy
shows sign of easing. The nation’s manufacturing teetered on the
edge of contraction in July, signaling a rebound in economic
growth has yet to take hold. That hasn’t stopped other
developers from seeking retail property ventures in the country.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast Asia’s biggest property company,
said in a July 29 statement its retail unit is building its
first shopping center in Qingdao, adding to Singapore-based
developer’s 58 malls in China, of which 15 are under
development.  “We want to still acquire more shopping mall projects,”
Chief Executive Officer Liew Mun Leong said in an interview in
 Singapore  yesterday. “That will be a large part of our
appetite.”  In China, SM Prime’s president said he will focus on less-
affluent or second-tier cities such as Zibo. It plans to open a
mall in Chongqing by year-end, its fifth in China. Last year, it
added a mall each in the Philippines and China.  Provincial Malls  The new Philippine malls will be located in areas outside
Metro  Manila , which includes the capital and 16 neighboring
towns and cities, said Hans Sy, who’s the fourth of the
billionaire’s six children. The company plans to open five malls
in the country this year, adding to its network of 41 shopping
centers.  “SM Prime’s future growth in the Philippines will come
from its expansion in provincial areas,” said Alex Pomento,
strategist at the Manila unit of Macquarie Group Ltd. “Its
venture in China is slowly building up and looks very
promising.”  SM Prime said it will fund the expansion with a mix of cash
from operations and  debt . The company opened its first
Philippine shopping mall in 1985, helping Henry Sy expand a
retail venture that is now composed of the nation’s largest
supermarket and department store operator.  The elder Sy, 87, is worth $11 billion, making him the
wealthiest man in the Philippines and the 73rd-richest in the
world, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  