-- BlackRock Expands Top Management to Boost Active Returns
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-08-01T21:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/blackrock-expands-top-management-to-boost-active-returns.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , seeking to reverse
withdrawals from active funds and boost assets as its
acquisition spree ends, is expanding top leadership and shaking
up its investment unit in the most sweeping overhaul since it
became the world’s largest asset manager.  BlackRock is adding eight executives to its global
executive committee, led by Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, bringing the total to 21, according to an internal memo
sent today to employees, a copy of which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. The portfolio-management group headed by Rich Kushel will be replaced by five new investment units, and Kushel
will become deputy chief operating officer, working under
President  Robert Kapito  and COO Charles Hallac.  Fink, who co-founded New York-based BlackRock more than two
decades ago, is moving more fund-management executives into top
leadership roles as he seeks to expand by attracting assets
rather than making transformational deals. Since the December
2009 purchase of  Barclays Global Investors , which vaulted
BlackRock to the top rank by assets, investors have pulled about
$70 billion from active stock and bond funds, not including
merger-related redemptions, and the shares have trailed peers.  “Every day we hear that our clients are facing
unprecedented challenges: volatility, low yields and
underfunding,” Fink wrote in the memo. “The firm’s senior
leadership is confident that our new organizational structure
will allow us to navigate this radically new world more
effectively” for investors and shareholders, he wrote.  Biggest Manager  The BGI acquisition helped give BlackRock its current $3.56
trillion in assets and made it the biggest manager to combine
active and passive strategies, adding exchange-traded funds to
active stock and bond funds, real estate and  hedge funds .
Separately, the firm added clients such as governments in the
U.S.,  Greece  and Ireland to its BlackRock Solutions advisory
business, which helps analyze hard-to-value investments.  At the same time, BlackRock has struggled to leverage its
size into client deposits, as equity performance lagged behind
rivals and bond returns rebounded only recently from the 2008
credit crisis. That left smaller rivals Pacific Investment
Management Co. and DoubleLine Capital LP, led by top-performing
fund managers  Bill Gross  and  Jeffrey Gundlach , to attract most
of the new money flowing into active bond funds.  BlackRock’s active bond funds were hurt by the 2008
financial crisis and its aftermath. Performance has since
rebounded, with 71 percent of BlackRock’s active taxable bond
assets beating rivals over a one-year period, and 81 percent
outperforming over the past three years.  ‘Not Hitting’  On the active equity side, performance is “still not
hitting as well as we need to,” Fink said last month on a
conference call with investors and analysts. About 56 percent of
stock-fund assets have trailed peers over the past year.
Investors have pulled a combined $9.9 billion from BlackRock’s
active stock and bond funds this year through June 30.  While BlackRock drew $23.5 billion into its iShares ETFs,
Vanguard Group Inc.’s low-cost ETFs have increased their market
share this year. BlackRock’s U.S. market share in the ETF
business fell 1.4 percentage points to about 41 percent,
compared with an increase of 1.7 percentage points for Vanguard
to 18 percent, according to a report by State Street Global
Advisors.  BlackRock’s fixed-income ETF deposits account for more than
50 percent of industrywide flows this year, Mark Lake, a
spokesman for the company, said July 18. The firm has gathered
$190 billion into its index products since the beginning of
2010.  Shares Trail  BlackRock’s shares fell 0.4 percent to close at $169.62 in
 New York . The shares are down 4.8 percent this year.  BlackRock’s stock has declined 25 percent since the
Barclays deal was completed on Dec. 1, 2009,  compared  with the
1.4 percent drop in the 20-member index of asset managers and
custody banks. The shares have surged 12-fold since the firm
went public in October 1999 at $14 a share.  As the firm has grown, co-founders including Ralph
Schlosstein and Susan Wagner have either left or retired from an
active role. With just half of the eight co-founders in an
active management role, Fink is also grooming the next
generation of leaders and hiring top executives such as Philipp
Hildebrand, the former head of the Swiss central bank.  ‘Full Potential’  Fink himself, in private conversations with other Wall
Street executives, hasn’t ruled out that he would be interested
in the position of  Treasury Secretary , should President  Barack
Obama  get re-elected, a person familiar with the matter said
last month. Fink hasn’t said publicly whether he would be
interested in a government role if nominated. He told a senior
member of his management team that he has the best job in the
world at BlackRock.  In the memo today, Fink signaled to employees that he is
planning to be around the firm.  “I look forward to working with all of you in the years to
come to realize the full potential of this reorganization,”
Fink wrote.  Wagner, who led BlackRock’s growth by overseeing purchases
including the fund units of Merrill Lynch & Co. and Barclays
Plc, retired in June and said she will join the company’s board
in October. BlackRock the same month replaced  Robert Doll  as
chief investment strategist for equities. The company has also
restructured its fixed-income investment team.  Revamping Investments  BlackRock today said it’s creating five investment groups
to replace the portfolio-management group, which was responsible
for overseeing investment products. Alpha strategies, led by
Quintin Price, BlackRock’s London-based global chief investment
officer of fundamental equities, will include actively managed
fixed income and equities. Amy Schioldager, who currently heads
the equity indexing business, will lead beta strategies, which
includes passive products such as ETFs.  Multiasset strategies, which generate returns for investors
through  asset allocation , will be managed by Ken Kroner, head of
the global market strategies group. The alternative-strategies
unit will be overseen by Matt Botein and includes the real
estate and private-equity businesses. Richie Prager will lead
trading and liquidity strategies, which includes cash and
securities lending.  Price, Schioldager and Kroner will join the global
executive committee, as will Rob Goldstein, head of BlackRock
Solutions and the institutional group, Hildebrand, who will join
the firm in October, and Barbara Novick, one of the co-founders
and head of government relations.  Separate Units  Instead of a single global client group, BlackRock will
have two client-oriented units that will be responsible for
distributing products to investors. The first one will be made
up of BlackRock Solutions, the unit that advises financial
institutions and governments on hard-to-value assets, and the
institutional group. It will be managed by Goldstein. The second
will include sales of iShares, BlackRock’s ETF business, and
retail funds. That will be led by Robert Fairbairn, currently
the head of BlackRock’s global client group.  With its range of assets, BlackRock has increasingly been
pointing to its role as a provider of investment “solutions.”  The reorganization will help the firm provide products to
investors in what they call the “new world” characterized by
slower growth, higher volatility and macroeconomic uncertainty,
BlackRock said in the memo.  ‘New World’  Investors “want a trusted and versatile adviser -- someone
who can solve the complex problems that have reshaped investing
in the new world, including the need to ensure pension funds
will meet their obligations, that individuals will not outlive
their retirement savings and that foundations and endowments are
able to sustain their missions for the long term,” BlackRock
said in the memo.  BlackRock is part of a small group of money managers trying
to provide products such as asset allocation, alternative funds
such as hedge funds, risk management and passive funds in
additional to traditional investing, wrote  Eric Berg , an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets , in a July 24 research report.  “In the future it won’t be enough for a money manager to
be a stock picker only or a firm that only avoids major losses
in the  bond market ,” Berg and his colleagues wrote. “We
believe BlackRock is further along than any of its competitors
in developing this concept of solutions-oriented  money
management .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  