-- Blackstone-Owned Shipper’s Bid for Loan Guarantee Denied
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   B e r n a r d   K o h n
-- 2012-08-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/blackstone-owned-shipper-s-bid-for-loan-guarantee-denied.html
A U.S. agency rejected American
Petroleum Tankers Parent LLC’s application for $340 million in
taxpayer-backed loan guarantees, expressing concern about
whether the money-losing company could repay the debts.  The amount the tanker owner sought also would have drained
remaining money in the loan-guarantee program, known as Title
XI, without providing economic benefit to U.S. shipyards,
Maritime Administration chief David Matsuda said in a  letter  to
Robert Kurz, American Petroleum’s chief executive officer.  “Even if Marad approved the loan guarantee, such that APT
benefited from a lower  interest rate , APT would have difficulty
repaying its loan,” Matsuda said in the letter yesterday,
calling the proposal “economically unsound.”  The denial comes two weeks after American Petroleum, owned
by affiliates of  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Cerberus Capital
Management, sued the U.S. government, alleging its application
was being delayed because of fallout from the bankruptcy of
Solyndra LLC. The solar-panel maker had received a $535 million
loan guarantee from the Department of Energy.  American Petroleum alleged that the department refused to
act because of its ownership by affiliates of private-equity
funds. In the lawsuit, the company asked a judge to direct the
U.S. Department of Transportation, which includes the maritime
agency, to either grant or deny the loan application.  Matsuda in his letter opened the door to reconsidering the
application, saying the agency didn’t have time to review an
amended filing submitted on July 30. The agency by law had to
rule by Aug. 31, two years after the original application was
filed.  “We’re studying the decision and analyzing our options,”
 Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone Group,
said in an interview.  Domestic Shipyards  Before Solyndra’s bankruptcy, the Maritime Administration
had been criticized by U.S. lawmakers from both political
parties for delays in evaluating applications under Title XI,
which is intended to bolster domestic shipyards by backing
financing for vessel purchases. U.S. taxpayers cover 87.5
percent of the amount of the loans guaranteed.  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG)  in February withdrew an
application for a $241.8 million loan guarantee to help pay for
two tankers built at U.S. shipyards after Bloomberg News
reported that OSG ships were calling at Iran’s largest oil
terminal and House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  asked the
Transportation Department to reject the application.  Navy Contracts  American Petroleum Tankers, based in Plymouth Meeting,
Pennsylvania, charters ships to  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Marathon
Oil Corp. (MRO)  and the U.S. Navy. Its naval contracts, which
accounted for 49 percent of the company’s revenue in 2011, are
at risk because of possible military budget cuts, Matsuda said
in his letter, which was  posted  on the agency’s website.  The company reported losses of $42.4 million in 2010, $35.6
million in 2011 and $11 million in the first quarter of 2012,
according to documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  The court case is American Petroleum Tankers Parent LLC v.
U.S., 12-cv-01165, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn in  Washington  at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  