-- BMW Profit Declines as Competition Offsets Sales Gains
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-08-01T14:25:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/bmw-quarterly-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-x3-suv-demand.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, reported its first drop in
quarterly operating profit in almost three years on increased
spending on new models and pricing pressure.  Second-quarter earnings before interest and taxes declined
19 percent to 2.27 billion euros ($2.79 billion), the Munich-
based company said in a statement today. Operating profit last
fell in the third quarter of 2009.  BMW forecast an automotive profit margin for the full year
that’s below the level from the first half and warned that the
 European debt crisis  could cause “the global economic climate
to cloud over further.” Second-quarter earnings were burdened
by higher personnel costs, increased spending on development and
“intense market competition,” the company said.  Management appears “very cautious for the second half,”
said  Marc-Rene Tonn , an analyst with M.M. Warburg in Hamburg.
“This indicates that the margins that we have seen over the
past quarters are probably the upper end of what is achievable.
Growth is still there but not at the same  price levels .”  BMW  fell  as much as 5 percent to 57.72 euros and was 3.7
percent lower at 4:21 p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has climbed
13 percent this year, valuing the company at 37.4 billion euros.  Luxury-car makers are starting to feel the slowdown of the
European market that has prompted  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , the
region’s second-biggest manufacturer of mass-market autos, to
announce plans to cut a total 14,000 jobs to stem losses.  Economic Picture  Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-largest maker of  luxury
vehicles , last week reported a 13 percent decline in second-
quarter operating profit.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  , Europe’s largest
carmaker and the owner of the Audi brand, reported on July 26
slowing earnings growth as the impact of the sovereign debt
crisis weighed on demand in its home region.  “The global economic conditions might deteriorate in the
face of the euro crisis and high government debt,” BMW Chief
Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said today on a conference
call with journalists. The carmaker “has a flexible production
network and, as a premium manufacturer, is focused on
maintaining profitable growth.”  Reithofer said he expects “further growth momentum” in
the second half as the company rolls out revamped versions of
the flagship 7-Series sedan and X1 small SUV, as well as wagon
and stretched versions of the next-generation 3-Series.  Profit Drop  BMW’s second-quarter  net income  dropped 28 percent to 1.28
billion euros. Comparisons are distorted by a one-time gain last
year of 464 million euros for adjusting credit risks. Revenue
climbed 7.3 percent to 19.2 billion euros.  “We had a significant one-time effect in the last year
with residual-value provisions that we had to free,” Chief
Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on the call. “This
has nothing to do with our operational levels.”  Germany ’s luxury-car makers have thus far largely avoided
the sales plunge in the European auto market thanks to demand
for their vehicles in  China  and the U.S. BMW’s sales were
boosted by a 38 percent jump in first-half deliveries of the X3
sport-utility vehicle. Deliveries of the 1-Series compact, which
was revamped late last year, increased 21 percent.  BMW’s car prices are 1 percent to 1.5 percent below year-
ago levels, Eichiner said on a call with analysts. The company
doesn’t expect a further decline, with  Europe  stable and
possible increases elsewhere, the CFO said. “We need our new
products to maintain pricing,” he said.  ‘Tough Pricing’  “Tough pricing” has continued in the shrinking southern
European auto markets, and the company has had to raise
incentives to stabilize the dealer network, Eichiner said.  The manufacturer stuck to its goal of increasing pretax
profit this year from 2011’s 7.38 billion euros and delivering
more than last year’s 1.67 million vehicles, with sales records
at its BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce brands.  Second-quarter Ebit at BMW’s carmaking division declined 16
percent to 2.02 billion euros. Its margin of 11.6 percent of
sales matched Audi, which plans eventually to surpass BMW in
deliveries. Both companies beat the 8.6 percent margin at
Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz.  BMW reiterated its goal to generate an auto-division margin
at the “upper end” of its 8 percent to 10 percent target range
for the full year, as long as the global economy “does not take
a turn for the worse.”  Luxury Lead  The manufacturer held its  sales lead  in the luxury segment
with first-half deliveries rising 8.3 percent to 747,064 cars
and SUVs. Audi’s sales in the period jumped 12 percent to
733,237 deliveries, while Mercedes-Benz’s gained 6.9 percent to
652,924 vehicles.  BMW is extending its global reach by expanding capacity in
the U.S. and China and discussing satellite production for its
Mini brand with Nedcar in the Netherlands. Plans for a new plant
in  Brazil  are on hold as negotiations with the local government
on tariff regulations are ongoing. BMW will need production
capacity for an extra 400,000 vehicles to reach its goal of 2
million deliveries by 2016, Reithofer told analysts.  The German company has teamed up with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to
cooperate on hybrid powertrains and the development of fuel
cells to power vehicles, tapping into the Japanese
manufacturer’s experience with the Prius model.  The automakers have also agreed to collaborate on  sports
cars  and lightweight materials. BMW has a separate joint venture
with Wiesbaden, Germany-based  SGL Carbon SE (SGL)  to make carbon
fibers for use in lighter car bodies. BMW’s electric-powered i3
city car, scheduled to reach the showrooms late next year, will
be the first compact model featuring a complete body made of
carbon-fiber reinforced plastic.  BMW also cooperates with Paris-based Peugeot, which
provides engines for the German company’s Mini brand. After
2016, modular engine technology, which uses the same components
over several sizes to save costs, will offer BMW “the
opportunity to use our own engines,” Reithofer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  