-- BOE Holds QE as King Assesses Expanded Toolkit
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-02T12:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/boe-seen-maintaining-qe-as-king-assesses-expanded-crisis-toolkit.html
The Bank of England maintained its
current bond-buying program as policy makers wait to assess the
outlook for the latest stimulus and their new lending program to
end the recession.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by  Mervyn King  held the quantitative-easing target at 375 billion pounds
($585 billion) today, as forecast by all but one of 40
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. It also held the key rate
at a record-low 0.5 percent. Today’s decision was made with new
economic projections that will be published next week.  The bank started its Funding for Lending program yesterday,
designed to boost the flow of credit by rewarding lenders with
cheap funds, a month after it expanded bond purchases to battle
a double-dip recession. The Federal Reserve yesterday moved a
step closer to pumping more stimulus into the world’s largest
economy and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may
announce today a plan to tackle the debt crisis that’s hurting
global growth.  “We’re looking for a cut in growth forecasts as there are
few signs anywhere of a recovery,” said Victoria Clarke, an
economist at Investec Securities in  London . “The FLS will be
important in shaping decisions on the amount of more QE to come,
but the bank will, in light of the weak economic backdrop, back
more asset purchases.”  Clarke sees the  Bank of England  expanding QE by 50 billion
pounds in November, as do economists at Morgan Stanley and
Barclays Plc.  Draghi Pledge  The pound advanced against the dollar after the decision.
It traded at $1.5570 as of 12:46 p.m. in London, up 0.2 percent
on the day. Gilts stayed higher, with the 10-year yield down 2
basis points at 1.49 percent.  In the euro area, investors will be looking to Draghi to
make good on his promise to do “whatever it takes” to protect
the single currency, which has been widely interpreted as a
signal that the institution will intervene in bond markets.  The ECB kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a record-low
0.75 percent today and Draghi holds a press conference at 2:30
p.m in  Frankfurt .  The U.S. Federal Reserve said late yesterday it will ease
policy further if necessary. The  Federal Open Market Committee 
“will provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a
stronger economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor
market conditions in a context of  price stability ,” it said
after a meeting in  Washington . “Economic activity decelerated
somewhat over the first half of this year.”  U.K. Recession  The Bank of England’s decision came a week after data
showed the economy shrank 0.7 percent in the three months
through June, a third straight quarterly contraction. The
recession is the U.K.’s first double dip since the 1970s.  Factory output  shrank the most in more than three years in
July, according to a Markit Economics report yesterday. While a
survey today showed construction unexpectedly expanded in July,
Markit said the recovery in building is likely to be modest. A
services gauge due to be published tomorrow probably rose to
51.6 in July from 51.3 in June, according to a survey of 29
economists in a Bloomberg poll.  In the U.S., data today are expected to show first-time
claims for  unemployment benefits  rose to 370,000 in the week
ended July 28, according to the median estimate of 46 economists
polled. Producer prices in the euro area fell 0.5 percent in
June from the previous month, while the  annual rate  of inflation
slowed to 1.8 percent.  Elsewhere, Australian retail sales rose 1 percent in June,
matching the biggest advance since April 2011, fueled by A$2
billion ($2.1 billion) in government carbon rebates and benefit
checks paid out since May and  interest rate  cuts.  BOE Rate  The Bank of England’s key rate has been at a record low
since March 2009, and policy makers said last month they may
review the merits of another cut once they assess the impact of
the FLS. Today’s announcement was forecast by all 53 economists
in a  Bloomberg survey . Minutes of the decision will be published
on Aug. 15.  The meeting was the last for  Adam Posen , who pushed for
more QE for a year before the MPC finally restarted bond
purchases in October 2011. He will be replaced by  Ian McCafferty 
from the  Confederation of British Industry  next month.  In addition to the euro-area crisis, the U.K. central bank
has been battling the impact on the economy of the government’s
fiscal squeeze. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has
pledged to maintain his planned cuts, which he says have
protected the country’s top credit rating. The yield on the 10-
year gilt fell to a record low of 1.407 percent on July 23.  U.K. Outlook Cut  The central bank will publish its new projections on Aug.
8, when King will also hold a press conference. In May, it
forecast average annual growth of about 1.2 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2012 and 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter of
2013. It predicted inflation at 2.9 percent and 1.7 percent.
 Consumer-price growth  slowed to 2.4 percent in June.  Morgan Stanley cut its U.K. outlook yesterday and now sees
the economy shrinking 0.5 percent this year. Economists Melanie Baker and Jonathan Ashworth also forecast that the Bank of
England will cut its key rate in November and expand QE by 50
billion pounds that month.  November is seen as the most likely month for any further
expansion of stimulus as the 50 billion pounds of QE announced
in July will be completed that month. By then, the MPC will also
have had time to assess the initial impact of the FLS, which
allows banks to borrow treasury bills from the central bank to
fund lending to companies and households.  While today’s decision “isn’t a surprise, there is a
question mark as to whether current policy settings are
appropriate,” said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas
in London. “It is probably not the sort of environment where
policy makers want to be doing too little and so Governor King
will have to emphasize the likelihood of further easing at next
week’s press conference.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  