-- Bonds.com Said in Talks With Western Asset, Janus for Trades
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-08-01T19:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/bonds-com-said-in-talks-with-western-asset-janus-for-trading.html
Western Asset  Management Co. and
 Janus Capital Group Inc. (JNS)  are in preliminary discussions with
Bonds.com Group Inc. to use the electronic trading service as
they seek alternatives to dealers with shrinking inventories.  The interest comes after New York-based Bonds.com appointed
former Jefferies Group Inc. fixed-income co-head Thomas Thees as
its chief executive officer in June. The asset managers, which
oversee a combined $599 billion, haven’t made a decision to use
the company’s trading system, according to three people familiar
with the matter.  Investors from  Fidelity Investments  to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are
searching for ways to lower costs and speed up the brokering of
debt trades after the biggest dealers cut company-debt holdings
by 84 percent since 2007, according to Federal Reserve data.
While the size of the U.S. corporate bond market expanded 40
percent in the past three years, average daily  trading  volumes
dropped about 1 percent, data from Bank of America Merrill Lynch
and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority show.  “Buying things on the Internet is so efficient, it would
be nice if you could do the same thing with bonds,” said  Ashish Shah , the head of global credit investments at AllianceBernstein
LP, which oversees $407 billion. He declined to comment about
Bonds.com. “We definitely intend on being active in electronic
execution. We expect to use multiple models to lower our
clients’ costs.”  Boston Meeting  John Ryan, Bonds.com’s chief financial officer, declined to
comment, as did  Mary Athridge , a spokeswoman for Western Asset
and Robin Beery for Janus.  Executives at Fidelity and State Street Corp. arranged a
meeting in May with representatives of  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
pushing the dealers to develop a multi-bank electronic-trading
system for bonds, according to people who attended the Boston
event who asked not to be named because they weren’t authorized
to speak publicly.  While in its early stages, the group plans to continue
meeting to manage the evolution of bond trading in the next 12
to 18 months, the people said. Representatives of the asset
managers and banks involved in the May meeting declined to
comment.  BlackRock, Goldman  BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, has said it
plans to introduce bond trading among its thousands of clients
using its own system. Goldman Sachs has begun a similar internal
trading system for its customers, called GSessions.  MarketAxess
Holdings Inc. (MKTX) , the owner of an electronic bond and derivative
trading system, said July 24 it planned to take additional steps
to enable bank customers to trade debt among themselves. The
company has traditionally focused on dealer-to-client trades.  Bonds.com , founded in 2005, is an electronic marketplace
where investors can buy and sell U.S. corporate securities and
emerging-market debt in so-called odd lots, or trades of fewer
than 100 bonds. It has lost money for  12 straight quarters  and
traded at  5 cents a share  yesterday, down from a split-adjusted
high of $39.29 in 2005.  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s broker-dealer in the U.S., which uses a version of
 Bonds.com (BDCG) ’s software, was the source of about 13 percent of the
company’s revenue last year, according to regulatory filings.  Dealer Banks  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with Bonds.com and MarketAxess to provide electronic
trading systems for fixed-income markets.  Investors for decades have relied on dealer banks to hold
corporate bonds in order to have them available for sale at any
given time. Banks were compensated for committing their capital
to the debt inventory by charging their customers wide spreads
in the difference to buy and sell the bonds.  A shift to electronic bond-trading systems such as the one
owned by MarketAxess can reduce those costs by as much as 5
times, according to research by Terrence Hendershott, an
associate professor at the  University of California  at
Berkeley’s Haas School of Business, and Ananth Madhavan, the
global head of trading research at BlackRock.  A study of comparable trades from January 2010 to April
2011 that were executed on MarketAxess’s electronic system
versus others reported to Finra’s Trace bond-price reporting
system showed a cost of 6.09 basis points on MarketAxess and
30.43 basis points in over-the-counter transactions reported on
Trace, Hendershott and Madhavan wrote in a Jan. 13  paper .  Cheaper Trades  Trades under $100,000 cost 14.05 basis points on
MarketAxess compared with 48.6 basis points when done on the
phone, while $1 million to $5 million trades were 6.22 basis
points on MarketAxess versus 7.43 basis points as reported on
Trace.  GFI Group Inc. (GFIG) , the financial data and technology company
that owns an electronic bond-trading system, started hosting
sessions for brokering U.S. corporate debt this year.  Michael Gooch, GFI’s chief executive officer, joined the
board of directors of Bonds.com in January. He said money
managers are looking “out of necessity” at any way possible to
buy and sell the debt they want to hold in their portfolios.  “They need to get their business done,” he said. “If
they can’t rely on the banks they need to find the other side of
the trade.”  Bonds.com received investments totaling $16.6 million last
year from Michel Daher, chairman of Daher Bonds Investment Co.,
Mida Holdings,  Oak Investment Partners  and GFINet Inc., the
company said in December.  “This is a unique time,” Gooch said. “The banks are not
committing as much capital and are downsizing their books and
looking to be intermediaries or agents, and not market makers.”
Large asset managers such as BlackRock and Pacific Investment
Management Co. will need to take on larger roles in offering
bonds to buy and sell to others in the market in the future,
Gooch said.  “That’s where this business is going,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 