-- Brazil’s June Industrial Output Sends Swap Rates Plunging
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-08-01T14:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/brazil-s-june-industrial-output-sends-swap-rates-plunging-2-.html
Brazil ’s  industrial output  rebounded
in June at a pace slower than economists had forecast after
three straight months of declines, casting doubt on the strength
of a recovery in the world’s largest emerging market after  China 
and pushing swap rates down.  Industrial production rose 0.2 percent in June, the
national statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro .
Economists had  expected  output to increase 0.8 percent from the
previous month, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 41 analysts. Output fell 5.5 percent from a year ago.  “We’re going to have to wait for new numbers to truly
consolidate a scenario of industry recovery,”  Luciano Rostagno ,
the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in an
interview by telephone from Sao Paulo. “We can’t yet say that,
because growth was very weak after three months of falling.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has cut taxes on
manufactured goods, pressured commercial banks to lend more, and
reduced the benchmark  interest rate  to a record low to boost
flagging growth in Latin America’s biggest economy. The
government has also sought to weaken the real, which has
declined 9.2 percent this year, boosting prospects for exporters
and helping shield domestic producers from cheap imports.  Weaker than expected industrial production figures
indicated the central bank may have more leeway for additional
cuts to its benchmark Selic rate in August. Swap rates on the
contract maturing in January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo
today, fell 9 basis points to 7.76 percent at 10:36 a.m. local
time. Brazil’s central bank has reduced the Selic rate 450 basis
points since August to 8 percent.  The real strengthened for the first time in four days,
rising 0.57 percent to 2.0441 per  U.S. dollar .  Government Stimulus  Output in June rose in 12 of 27 sectors, led by a 3 percent
jump in vehicle production, 12.5 percent surge in transportation
equipment and 8.6 percent jump in production of pharmaceuticals.
Capital goods production, a barometer of investment, climbed 1.4
percent, reversing a 1.8 percent decline in May.  Car sales, a mainstay Brazilian industry, jumped 16 percent
in June from the year before after falling on a yearly basis for
four straight months. In May, the government reduced taxes on
the purchase of vehicles and other manufactured goods in a bid
to avoid dismissals.  The  tax cut  is scheduled to expire on Aug. 31, and the
government has no plans to extend it, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday. So far, manufacturers have been living
up to their pledge to avoid firing workers, anticipating a
pickup in economic growth in the remainder of the year, he said.  Car Sales  July car sales will set a record for the month, Luiz Moan,
institutional affairs director for the Brazilian unit of  General
Motors Co. (GM) , said yesterday to reporters in Brasilia.  Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves, chief economist at Banco
Fator SA, said in an interview that demand for new vehicles may
be approaching its limits regardless of the tax breaks.  “It could be necessary to have another round of real
income growth in order to increase sales,” Goncalves said by
phone from  Sao Paulo .  June industrial production growth was not the product of
government stimulus, nor does it signal a greater rebound, said
Daniel Snowden, an  emerging markets  analyst at Informa Global
Markets.  “I don’t really think it’s going to be indicative of a
wider trend, maybe more of a leveling off,” Snowden said by
phone from  London . “We might bump along the bottom near zero
for a few months before things finally begin to pick up in the
final quarter of the year.”  Brazil’s economy  expanded  at an annualized rate of 0.8
percent in the first quarter, half the pace of the U.S., and
economists surveyed by the bank forecast growth of 1.9 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  