-- Brazil’s Arabica Coffee Harvest Seen Ending One Month Later
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-01T11:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/brazil-s-arabica-coffee-harvest-seen-ending-one-month-later.html
Harvesting of arabica coffee in
 Brazil , the world’s largest producer, will end a month later
this year after rainfall delayed the start of the crop,
according to Cepea, a University of  Sao Paulo  research group.  Above-average rainfall in growing regions in June delayed
the start of the 2012-13 harvest and reduced the quality of
beans. Dry weather in the past 10 days has helped accelerate
pickings, Marco Antonio dos Santos, an agronomist at Sao Paulo-
based weather forecaster Somar Meteorologia, said in a report e-
mailed yesterday. More dry weather is forecast through Aug. 12,
according to the report.  “Players surveyed by Cepea expect fieldwork to continue
until September, at least, delaying about a month in relation to
the 2011 season,” Margarete Boteon, an analyst at the
researcher, said in a report yesterday. “From now on, players
expect the harvesting to step up because of the drier weather.”  About 48 percent of the 2012-13 crop under way in the South
American country has been picked in  Minas Gerais , the biggest
arabica growing state, dos Santos said. In second-ranking Sao
Paulo, 55 percent of the harvest has been completed. Some 30
percent of the beans from the current season have fallen off the
trees because of rainfall, he said.  “A significant volume of coffee beans has dropped down and
lost quality because of the rains,” Cepea’s Boteon said.
“These beans are usually collected at the end of fieldwork, as
a means to reduce harvesting costs.”  Coffee supplies available for sale are set to increase in
the “short term” as the harvest advances, she said. Local
prices for arabica beans dropped 1.7 percent to 411.08 reais
($201.51) a 60-kilogram (132-pound) bag in the week ended July
30, Cepea data showed. Arabica coffee futures traded on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York  slid 3.6 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  