-- London Overtakes New York as Brent Oil Beats WTI
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-08-01T23:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/brent-beats-wti-oil-trading-as-ice-eclipses-nymex.html
For the first time,  London  is
overtaking  New York  as the global hub for trading oil futures.  More contracts in  North Sea  Brent crude changed hands in
June than at any time on record, data from the ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange show. It was the first full quarter and third
consecutive month in which Brent trading on London’s ICE
surpassed West Texas Intermediate oil on  CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  The trend underlines London’s resilience as a financial
center in the face of Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and
supports Brent’s status as the benchmark grade for pricing more
than half of the world’s oil. While North Sea output has fallen
almost 50 percent in the past decade, a glut of landlocked North
American crude has reduced WTI’s reliability as a gauge of
global oil demand.  “When you look at Brent, you’re looking at the
geopolitical situation in the  Middle East  and North Africa,”
said Martin Arnold, a senior research analyst at ETF Securities
Ltd., which listed the world’s first exchange-traded commodity
product for oil in 2005. “It responds with a greater magnitude
to those global issues” than the U.S. grade, which reflects
“domestic factors rather than global developments,” he said in
a telephone interview from London on July 27.  Volume Surge  The average daily volume for ICE Brent futures rose 17
percent in June to a record 716,752 contracts, an increase that
helped Intercontinental Exchange Inc. to report an 18 percent
gain in second-quarter net income yesterday. Trading in WTI,
Nymex’s flagship contract, climbed 6 percent in June to 599,674
lots, with CME Group reporting a 17 percent decline in profit
for the same quarter.  “Since April of this year ICE Brent volumes have for the
first time consistently exceeded CME WTI and by a big
distance,” said David Hufton, managing director of PVM Oil
Associates Ltd., a London-based crude and fuels broker that
handles futures and over-the-counter contracts for more than 100
million barrels a day.  As Europe’s banking capital, London has been hurt as the
region’s debt crisis has deepened, with jobs in the city’s
financial districts forecast by the Centre for Economics &
Business Research Ltd. to drop to a 16-year low this year. Its
reputation was further tarnished last month when  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,
the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, was fined a record 290 million
pounds ($456 million) for rigging interbank lending rates,
leading to the resignation of Chief Executive Office  Robert Diamond  and calls for tougher regulation of derivatives markets.  Funds Adjust  Traders in  Asia , the fastest-growing energy market, track
North Sea crude because it’s a closer match to the value of
exports from the Middle East. That’s prompting exchange-traded
funds and commodity indexes used by investors such as pension
funds to allocate Brent a bigger share in their mix of holdings,
according to Andrey Kryuchenkov, an analyst at VTB Capital, the
investment-banking unit of  Russia ’s second-biggest lender.  “Big funds are readjusting their allocations in favor of
Brent,” Kryuchenkov said in a July 27 interview from London.
“People are piling up cash into Brent driven by expectations
for Asian demand and geopolitics in Iran and Libya because it is
more globally relevant.”  Standard & Poor’s  has increased Brent’s weighting in its
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials for the past four years, raising
it to 17.35 percent this year from 13.68 percent in 2009. It cut
the proportion of WTI to 30.25 percent from 39.75 percent over
the same period. The Dow Jones-UBS Commodity Index included
Brent for the first time this year.  Index Weightings  “The index weights have increased for Brent and decreased
for WTI, reflecting the hedging demand growth for Brent,” Jodie Gunzberg, the New York-based head of commodity indices at S&P
Dow Jones Indices, said in a July 31 e-mail.  While Brent has remained easily accessible to traders, the
U.S. production boom has combined with a lack of outbound
pipelines from Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for WTI
futures, to create an inventory glut that’s widened the price
difference between the two grades. WTI traded at an average
discount of $15.68 to Brent since the start of 2011, compared
with 76 cents in 2010.  “Because Brent is seaborne, it can reach any market in the
world by ship, reinforcing its global relevance and thus,
trading activity in ICE Brent futures and options,” David Peniket, president and chief operating office of ICE Futures
Europe in London, said in a July 31 e-mailed response to
questions.  Open Interest  Open interest, the number of contracts that have not been
closed, also signal Brent’s growing status. Open positions in
Brent have risen for five years and grew 35 percent from
December to June, versus WTI’s 9 percent gain over the same
period. Open interest in U.S. futures was 1.45 million contracts
in June, exceeding Brent by 271,431 lots.  By some measures, the U.S. benchmark is still the world’s
biggest, taking into account the array of WTI futures contracts
traded on both the Nymex and ICE exchanges. In options, WTI’s
volumes were more than four times those of ICE Brent in June.  “Nymex WTI offers the deepest liquidity, largest open
interest, and tightest bid-ask spread of any crude oil benchmark
in the world,” Gary Morsches, managing director of energy
products for CME Group in New York, said in an e-mailed response
to questions July 31.  Seaway Saga  A reversal of the Seaway pipeline by  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  allowed more oil to be pumped
out of Cushing to the Gulf Coast on May 19. The 500-mile (805-
kilometer), 30-inch line will initially be able to deliver
150,000 barrels a day, rising to more than 400,000 in the first
quarter of 2013, the companies said in a June 18 statement.  “With the reversal of the Seaway pipeline, and the
exploding growth of transportation of oil over rail, Nymex WTI
is now flowing from Cushing to the refiners along the U.S. Gulf
Coast, re-establishing the correlation between WTI and
waterborne crudes,” the CME said.  For all Brent’s accessibility, maintenance at North Sea oil
fields and pipelines can curb supplies. Work this summer may
push prices for the earliest-delivery futures higher in this
September and October, according to  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of Petromatrix GmbH, a researcher in Zug,  Switzerland .  North Sea Declines  Combined oil production from the U.K. and  Norway  was 3.1
million barrels a day in 2011, 47 percent less than 10 years
earlier, according to statistical data compiled by BP Plc.  Shipments of Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk grades
which make up the North Sea benchmark known as BFOE, will be
774,194 barrels a day this month, the fewest in five years and
49 percent less than the record high of 1.53 million barrels a
day in October 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent’s appeal to investors has also risen because of the
premium, or backwardation, of near-term futures relative to
later supplies. That gives traders a profit as they roll over
their front-month holdings before expiry into later contracts.
Brent was in backwardation for all but two weeks this year and
for most of 2011.  WTI futures typically traded in the reverse structure, or
contango, since 2008, which results in a loss as investors sell
front-month futures and buy deferred contracts.  “The greater tendency of Brent to go into backwardation
facilitates long-only positions which tend to be the ones the
 hedge funds  go for,”  David Wech , head of research at JBC Energy
GMBH, a consultant based in Vienna, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Rolling-over in a contango market is simply
costly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  