-- U.S. Women Relay Swimmers Win 2nd Gold on Day of Olympic Records
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-02T00:40:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/britain-wins-first-olympic-gold-asia-badminton-players-expelled.html
Missy Franklin, Dana Vollmer and
Allison Schmitt won their second gold medals as the U.S. set an
Olympic record while defeating  Australia  by almost 1.5 seconds
yesterday in the 800-meter freestyle relay.  Schmitt, 22, already has four medals in  London  and Teri
McKeever, head coach of the U.S. women’s swim team, said success
has become contagious.  “Once good things start happening, you get on the
bandwagon,” she said in an interview outside the Aquatics
Centre. “It’s an expectation to advance to the final, to try to
get on the stand. And it’s really been fun.”  Two world records were set at the pool on a day whose
headlines were dominated by the disqualification of eight
badminton players who deliberately performed poorly in matches.  Daniel Gyurta, 23, of  Hungary  won the men’s 200-meter
breaststroke in 2 minutes, 7.28 seconds to break the world
record. American Rebecca Soni, 25, set a world mark of 2:20.00
in the semifinals of the women’s 200-meter breaststroke.  Eighteen gold medals will be awarded today, including the
women’s 200 breaststroke in which Soni will be seeking her
second consecutive Olympic title.  After five full days of competition,  China  continues to
lead the standings with 17 golds among its 30 medals. The U.S.
is second with 29 medals, 12 of them gold. The Olympics opened
July 27 and run through Aug. 12.  Relay Record  The U.S. women won the 800-meter freestyle relay in 7:42.92,
while Australia took silver in 7:44.41. France got the bronze in
7:47.49.  It was the first relay gold medal for American women since
they won the same event at the 2004 Athens Games. Vollmer, 24,
also was on that relay squad eight years ago.  “We all held hands as we walked to the venue together,”
Vollmer said of yesterday’s race, in which 17-year-old high
school senior Franklin swam the opening leg. The fourth member
of the winning squad yesterday was 20-year-old Shannon Vreeland.  Also at the pool yesterday, American Nathan Adrian won the
men’s 100-meter freestyle gold by a hundredth of a second and
Jiao Liuyang of China took the women’s 200-meter butterfly.  Chinese divers continue to dominate, having won all four
events so far. Tour de France winner Bradley Wiggins, 32, took
the men’s cycling time trial yesterday to become the most
decorated British Olympian with seven medals.  Win, Retire  Kristin Armstrong, 38, of the U.S. successfully defended
her title in the women’s cycling time trial, then announced her
retirement -- again. She had retired at the end of the 2009
season to start a family, then decided to return to cycling to
seek another Olympic title.  “No matter what athlete you are, you’re only as good as
your last performance,” she said in a news conference.  Japan ’s Kohei Uchimura, 23, won the men’s individual
gymnastics gold medal over  Germany ’s Marcel Nguyen, with Danell
Leyva of the U.S. in third place. In fencing, Ruben Limardo
Gascon gave  Venezuela  its first medal by winning the men’s
individual epee fencing and  South Korea ’s Kim Jiyeon won the
women’s individual sabre.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Aquatics Centre at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ; or
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  