-- Burberry Drops Lawsuit Against Humphrey Bogart Heirs
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-01T18:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/burberry-drops-lawsuit-against-humphrey-bogart-heirs.html
Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s
largest luxury-goods company, dropped a U.S. lawsuit against
 Humphrey Bogart ’s heirs defending its display of the late
actor’s image in its advertising.  Burberry in May asked a federal court in Manhattan to
declare that its use of Bogart’s name and photo didn’t infringe
Bogart LLC’s trademark and publicity rights. London-based
Burberry uses an image from the film “Casablanca” of Bogart
wearing one of its trench coats.  Burberry said it used the image, licensed from photo
provider Corbis, to show the historical influence of the brand,
not to sell merchandise. Under the dismissal, the case can’t be
refilled.  Bogart LLC, mostly owned by Bogart’s children, responded to
the company’s lawsuit, also in May, by filing a trademark-
infringement suit in state court in  California .  Bogart LLC claimed that Burberry “designed, manufactured,
and sold numerous apparel and accessory products” as well as
created marketing materials making use of its intellectual
property.  Burberry’s use of the actor’s photo gave the public the
false impression that Bogart endorsed the company’s coats, the
heirs argued.  Money Damages  Bogart LLC sought money damages, including punitive
damages, and an injunction to keep Burberry from using Bogart’s
name or image. They estimated one claim alone would be for at
least $1 million, while giving no estimate of the total damages
they would seek.  The state lawsuit alleged misappropriation of publicity
rights, trademark infringement, unjust enrichment and other
damages outside a formal contract.  Evan Glassman, a lawyer for Burberry, and Paul Stevens, a
lawyer for Bogart LLC, didn’t immediately respond to voice-mail
messages seeking comment on the dismissal.  The federal case is Burberry Ltd. v. Bogart LLC, 12-3491,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).
The state case is Bogart LLC v. Burberry Group, BC483967,
Superior Court of California, County of  Los Angeles .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  