-- Canada Looks to Europe as G8’s Best Economy Buys Bargains
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-08-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/canada-looks-to-europe-as-g8-s-best-economy-buys-bargains.html
Canadian companies are daring to go
where others are pulling back -- Europe.  Corporations and pension funds from the fastest-growing
nation in the Group of Seven are on a European buying spree,
boosting spending on deals in the region by 58 percent in the
year’s first half, even as U.S. and Chinese buyers slash
spending on takeovers there. Europe’s low valuations, the robust
Canadian dollar and cheap capital are luring Canadian companies
such as  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  and  Alimentation
Couche-Tard Inc. (ATD/B)   “Canadian companies are basically punching above their
weight in the European market,” said Julian Brown, head of
corporate finance for  Canada  at PricewaterhouseCoopers Ltd. in
Toronto. The advisory firm is working with at least five
Canadian companies on planned acquisitions in Europe, he said.  The newfound trans-Atlantic emphasis underscores a shift in
Canada’s outward focus from the U.S. to other foreign markets.
America’s economic recovery has made its assets more expensive,
and cash-rich Canadian buyers are looking for new places to
deploy resources. Trade is at stake too, as Prime Minister
 Stephen Harper  negotiates a free-trade pact with the European
Union that could be more extensive than the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  among Canada, the U.S. and Mexico.  Valuations and Currency  In Europe, “there will be opportunities that will come
along that will be similar to those in the U.S.” during the
recent recession, said Bruce Flatt, chief executive officer of
Brookfield Asset Management, a Toronto-based manager of about
$150 billion in assets including real-estate and infrastructure.
“Part of it is valuations that are more interesting, and part
of it is the currency.”  In June, Brookfield’s office property arm made its first
U.K. deal in two years, spending 518 million pounds ($811
million) on a group of buildings in London’s City financial
district. More deals are likely, said Flatt, as the company
looks for targets in the infrastructure sector in continental
Europe while building its presence in London real estate.  With $15.1 billion in deals in the first half, Canada was
the second-biggest acquirer in Europe after the U.S., whose deal
volume there fell by more than 50 percent to $54 billion.
Canada’s economy is about one-tenth the size of its southern
neighbor’s.  Chinese companies cut European takeovers by a third in the
same period, to $4.5 billion. Overall European acquisitions by
foreign buyers fell 38 percent as Greece, Italy and Spain
dragged down the continent’s economy.  Gamut of Industries  Canada’s European acquisitions this year have run the gamut
of industries -- from Couche-Tard’s $3.5 billion deal for
service stations operated by Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  to  CGI Group
Inc (GIB/A) ’s $3.1 billion acquisition of U.K. computer-services
provider Logica Plc.  Couche-Tard may next bid for German gas stations being sold
by Exxon-Mobil Corp., analysts at firms including  Barclays
Capital  and  CIBC World Markets  have said. Couche-Tard, a Laval,
Quebec-based operator of  convenience stores , wants to “take a
good shot at growth opportunities” in Europe, Chief Executive
Officer Alain Bouchard said last month.  Canada’s big pension funds, which typically manage most of
their assets in-house and participate directly in buyouts, will
also be key players. The funds are likely to be among bidders
for  Total SA (FP) ’s TIGF gas-transport network, which the French  oil
company  is seeking to sell for about 2.5 billion euros,
according to people familiar with the situation.  London Expansion  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , which manages about $117
billion, is expanding its seven-person London team and seeking
European deals, recently agreeing to buy Norwegian apparel group
Helly Hansen from private-equity owners for an undisclosed
price. Last month the fund, Canada’s third-largest, announced a
73 million pound bid for Goals Soccer Centres, which runs U.K.
sports fields.  Economic troubles mean opportunities to buy companies that
“can’t access other pools of capital today because of what’s
taking place in Europe,” said Jane Rowe, the head of Teachers’
private-equity arm.  Canada’s economy has grown at an annual rate of 0.9 percent
since 2008, buoyed by robust prices for commodities like oil and
potash. In the same period, the 17-country Eurozone economy has
shrunk by 0.2 percent annually.  Canadian companies are meanwhile getting more bang for
their buck after the Canadian dollar in July touched its
strongest level versus the euro since the common currency’s
establishment in 1999, reaching about C$1.23.  Cheap Financing  They also have access to relatively cheap and abundant
financing. Canadian corporations with investment-grade ratings
saw their borrowing costs fall last month to just under 3
percent, the lowest since at least 1992 and less than the 3.06
percent for their U.S. counterparts. The country’s banks, which
avoided the riskiest lending and didn’t require major bail-outs 
during the global financial crisis, are rated the world’s safest 
by the  World Economic Forum .  Reflecting the easier money, the average Canadian deal in
Europe this year was worth more than $460 million, up from $318
million in the same period in 2011. Five have been larger than
$1 billion, compared with two last year.  “We’ve never seen a more global focus by Canadian
companies,” said Steve Mayer, a Toronto-based managing director
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “For a company that wants to
transform itself to be a global player, they need to have a
presence in Europe.”  Beyond the U.S.  Canada has taken advantage of its relative strength before.
Its companies bought aggressively in the U.S. following the 2008
collapse of  Lehman Brothers  and subsequent recession, spending
more than $58 billion in 2010 on American acquisitions, the most
since at least 2000 except for 2007, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Yet Canada is increasingly looking beyond the U.S. market,
which receives about three-quarters of Canadian exports. The
free-trade deal with the European Union, planned for completion
this year, would eliminate tariffs, harmonize regulations and
open up public-sector contracting.  Harper has also designated as a national priority stronger
Asian links for Canada’s oil and gas industry, including a new
export pipeline to the Pacific coast. Last month’s $15.1 billion
takeover offer for Calgary-based energy producer  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  by
China’s state-backed  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  was the most dramatic example
yet of closer ties.  Deals Flow Eastward  Canadian companies are finding themselves prey to some
European buyers looking to expand, too. In March,  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , the world’s largest commodities trader,
agreed to buy  Viterra Inc. (VT) , Canada’s biggest grain handler, for
$6.1 billion, giving the Swiss company its first major foothold
in the North American grain market.  The flow of deals, however, is largely eastwards. European
acquirers’ deals in Canada in the first half of the year totaled
$12 billion, about 20 percent less than those in the other
direction. Canada’s economy is less than 10 percent the size of
Europe’s.  “I wouldn’t be surprised to see more deals in Europe” as
well-endowed pension funds and strong Canadian banks encourage
acquisitions, said Paul Simpson, global head of business
services at Rothschild, who advised British engineering firm WSP
Group on its takeover by Montreal’s  Genivar Inc. (GNV)  in June.
“Canada Inc. is supporting the expansion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  