-- Canadian Dollar Weakens as Fed Refrains From Further Stimulus
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-08-01T21:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/canadian-dollar-erases-gains-as-fed-refrains-from-stimulus.html
Canada’s dollar fell against its U.S.
counterpart after the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to provide
additional support for the economy disappointed investors
anticipating a more definitive sign of further monetary easing.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  reiterated in a statement
it will keep  interest rates  exceptionally low at least through
late 2014 and will provide additional accommodation as needed.
Investors had speculated the central bank might signal a third
round of asset purchases under quantitative easing.  “The  U.S. dollar  has reacted in a meaningful way and it’s
a dollar bid,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview. “Certain doves were expecting a little
more accommodation.”  Canada’s currency fell 0.3 percent to C$1.0055 per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It earlier rose to almost the
strongest since May 15, the last time the currency traded on a
one-for-one basis with the greenback. One Canadian dollar buys
99.45 cents.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index swung to a 0.3 percent
decline after adding 0.4 percent.  “Owning the U.S. dollar here is a good risk-reward trade
with the event risk,” Blake Jespersen, managing director of
foreign exchange in Toronto at Bank of Montreal, wrote in an e-
mail before the Fed’s policy statement, referring to the
European Central Bank meeting tomorrow and the U.S. nonfarm
payrolls report Aug. 3.  Growth Falters  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  held off on stepping up record
stimulus even as  consumer spending  flagged, economic growth
slowed and unemployment persisted at 8.2 percent.  Canada’s currency has appreciated 2.5 percent this year
against nine major counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes on speculation policy makers will
extend measures to stimulate economic growth as evidence mounts
the global recovery is stalling. Only the fellow resource-linked
dollars of Australia, up 3.5 percent, and  New Zealand  up 5.2
percent, have done better in 2012.  Gains in commodity currencies have occurred amid a 10
percent drop this year in crude oil, Canada’s largest export,
and a 2 percent drop in the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of 19  commodities .  Canadian government  bonds  fell for the first time in three
days, sending the benchmark 10-year yield up three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.71 percent. The price of the 2.75
percent securities due in June 2022 dropped 31 cents to
C$109.40.  Concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis is hampering economic
growth in China and the U.S., the world’s two largest economies,
has stoked demand for those assets investors perceive as safer.
Government bond yields reached 1.34 percent on June 1, the
lowest since at least 1989, according to the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch Canadian Governments Index, which tracks 36 bonds
with an average maturity of 8.74 years and about C$361 billion
outstanding. Yields ended yesterday at 1.49 percent.  Canada sold C$3.3 billion ($3.3 billion) of two-year bonds
today in Ottawa. The 1 percent bonds maturing in November 2014
fetched an average yield of 1.147 percent.  The coverage ratio, the amount bid relative to the amount
on offer, was 2.55 times. That compares with an average yield of
1.114 percent and a coverage ratio of 2.41 times at the previous
two-year auction on June 20.  Bond Auction  The Canadian dollar and the euro pared gains earlier today
after Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said the ECB shouldn’t
exceed its mandate. Tomorrow’s interest-rate decision is the
first since President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever it
takes to defend the single currency.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
asset purchases from 2008 to 2011 in a bid to spur growth, and
it has said its benchmark interest rate will stay at
“exceptionally low levels” at least through late 2014.  Twenty-six percent of economists surveyed before today’s
statement expected the central bank to extend its pledge to hold
its main interest rate near zero beyond the current horizon of
late 2014, while 88 percent said the bank will refrain from
starting new purchases at today’s meeting.  “The markets have gotten ahead of themselves in thinking
the Fed can do or will do more today,” said  Shaun Osborne ,
chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit, in a telephone interview before the Fed’s
statement. “We’re a little bit negative in the sense of the
implications for markets because we really don’t think the Fed
or the ECB can or will do much to satisfy the kind of
expectations that are built up regarding these meetings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  