-- Career Education Slides on $100 Million Quarterly Loss
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/career-education-slides-on-100-million-quarterly-loss.html
Career Education Corp. (CECO) , a for-profit
college chain with more than 90 campuses, fell as much as 18
percent in extended trading after reporting a second-quarter
loss and disclosing a regulatory investigation.  The company said it had a net loss of $100.2 million, or
$1.52 a share, compared with net income of $55.4 million, or 73
cents, a year earlier, according to a statement yesterday.
Career Education, in a regulatory  filing , also said that the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is conducting an inquiry
of its job-placement rates.  The U.S.  Justice Department  and state attorneys general
have been investigating the marketing practices of for-profit
colleges.  Tom Harkin , the Iowa Democrat who heads the U.S.
Senate education committee, issued a report this week critical
of the industry’s academic outcomes and student recruitment and
called for more regulation.  “We are facing the same stiff headwinds as others in
private-sector higher education,” Steven H. Lesnik, Career
Education’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“Withering public criticism, combined with a game-changing
regulatory environment aimed at reducing the role of private-
sector educational institutions, is effectively constraining
growth.”  Career Education, based in Schaumburg Illinois, slid as low
as $3.84 after the close of regular trading yesterday. The
shares have fallen 41 percent this year.  The second-quarter results included an $85.6 million non-
cash writedown for reducing the value of its health education
and art and design programs, the company said.  Its loss per share excluding the writedown was 18 cents,
according to the statement. Analysts on average had estimated a
break-even result, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Accrediting agencies and  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman are also investigating the company’s job-placement 
claims, Career Education has previously said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at   lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 