-- McDermott, Davis Polk, Kirkland, Weil: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-01T17:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/mcdermott-davis-polk-kirkland-weil-business-of-law.html
McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced
today the 44th and 45th lateral partner hires of the year, as it
expands its life sciences practice.  Judy Mohr, in Silicon Valley, and Richard B. Smith, in
 Boston , were hired along with one associate and a team of
professionals. Yesterday, the firm announced it hired former
U.S. Attorney Marcos D. Jiménez. The firm’s hiring spree is
particularly notable compared to its 2011 numbers -- 18 lateral
partners all year.  “I think there’s a flight to stability and excellence,”
said Peter John Sacripanti, co-chair of the firm, in an
interview. “The instability that was generated by the collapse
of Dewey makes a platform like ours very, very attractive to
lateral candidates.” He credited the appeal of the firm in part
to the fact that, “We don’t carry any debt. We’re completely
self-financed. We’re not the only firm that does that, I’m sure,
but it’s a pretty attractive alternative to firms that laden
themselves with a debt.”  McDermott’s growth hasn’t been in one practice area,
geographic location or accomplished through mergers or poaching
from another firm.  “We’ve been building on our strengths and expanding our
geographic and substantive footprint,” Jeffrey E. Stone,
McDermott’s other co-chair, said in an interview about the
strategy behind the growth. “We’re not just looking to hire. We
want players who will fit with existing strengths.”  Among the sources for the new partners, the firm hired six
from bankrupt  law firm  Dewey & LeBouef LLP, four of whom opened
a new Frankfurt office for the firm in May, its third in
 Germany . Five of the firm’s new hires came from Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, while four jumped from Greenberg
Traurig LLP and four moved from Latham & Watkins LLP, the firm
said. The others were spread out across 11 firms, government
agencies or companies.  In terms of areas of practice, the firm had the greatest
partner growth in corporate and tax lawyers. The Dewey Frankfurt
hires included corporate finance and securities partners, led by
Philipp von Ilberg.  One of today’s new hires, Smith, is a life science
dealmaker who joins the corporate advisory practice group from
Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP, the firm said.  In June, the firm hired Cym Lowell,  Mark Martin , John T.
Woodruff and five others to lead a seven-person tax transfer
pricing team in  Texas . The team focuses on designing and
defending the allocation of income and expenses in cross-border
transactions. Martin became the head of McDermott’s transfer
pricing practice.  “That team fits very nicely with the tax portfolio,”
Stone said, pointing to it as an example of the firm’s hiring
strategy. “They add further capacity to an already strong
group.”  IP has also been a growth area for McDermott. Mohr, the
firm’s other new partner, and her team, who were previously with
King & Spalding LLP, will focus on all aspects of domestic and
international patent procurement, patent portfolio strategic
counseling, and comprehensive  portfolio management  for emerging
and mature life sciences companies.  In March, IP litigation partner Fabio Marino brought a team
of three additional lawyers with him to the Silicon Valley
office, capping a six-lawyer increase in the office during that
month.  The firm has also added to its regulatory, private equity
and white collar and securities defense teams, among others.  Of the firm’s offices, Washington, with eight partner
hires, grew the most, while  New York  followed with six new
hires. Boston and Paris have each had five partners join. Nine
other offices saw additions, including Houston,  Chicago  and
London.  Litigator Jiménez, who will be based in New York and Miami,
was the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of  Florida  from
2002 to 2005. He was previously at Kasowitz, Benson, Torres &
Friedman LLP, the firm said. Among his recent, significant
matters, Jiménez won a deceptive trade practices trial where the
Florida Attorney General sought more than $20 million in damages
plus statutory penalties from his client, Alltel Communications,
a subsidiary of Verizon Communications Inc., the firm said.  Among the hires in the last few months, McDermott added
some other prominent names, including restructuring lawyer
Timothy W. Walsh, who was hired away from DLA Piper LLP, where
he was vice chairman of that firm’s restructuring practice
group. He’s now McDermott’s international head of the
restructuring and insolvency practice.  McDermott also hired Allan Van Fleet, the immediate past
chair of the ABA Section of Antitrust Law, who joined the firm’s
Houston office in May from Greenberg.  The firm is not done growing either, according to its
leaders. The firm will add its second new office of the year
when it opens in Seoul, probably in October. And it will
continue to hire laterals. “We have very targeted goals,
different goals for each of our markets,” Stone said.  In addition to its lateral partner hires, the firm has
hired 44 additional counsel and associates. With more than 1,000
lawyers at 17 offices world-wide, firm leaders say they have no
fear that the rapid growth will be a problem like it was at
Dewey.  “Our partnership is very transparent,” Sacripanti said.
For example, he noted, the firm’s leadership team, “Their
incomes are known to the entire equity partnership.”  Litigation  Samsung’s Lawyer Begs to Undo Ruling; Opening Arguments Made  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  again lost its bid to use evidence
a lawyer for the company described as “critical” to rebutting
Apple Inc.’s central allegations in a patent-infringement trial
in California.  Samsung was barred by U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San
Jose from presenting images of a smartphone that it claims to
have been developing in 2006, the year before Apple introduced
the iPhone. Samsung said in a filing that the images show
evidence that it was developing the next generation of mobile
phones with a “simple, rounded rectangular body” before
Apple’s January 2007 announcement of the iPhone.  Before jurors heard opening arguments in the trial
yesterday, John B. Quinn, a Samsung lawyer from Quinn Emanuel
Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, asked Koh to reconsider her July 30
decision barring the evidence.  Quinn, who said he had never begged in court in more than
30 years of practicing law, told Koh that he was “begging
now.”  Koh rejected the request for what she said was at least the
third time.  “We’ve done three reconsiderations on this and we have a
jury waiting,” Koh told Quinn. “You’ve made your record.”  “Don’t make me sanction you, please,” Koh said when Quinn
persisted with his argument. “I want you to sit down please.”  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement that Koh’s ruling
means “Samsung was not allowed to tell the jury the full story
and show the pre-iPhone design for that and other phones that
were in development at Samsung in 2006, before the iPhone.”  “The excluded evidence would have established beyond doubt
that Samsung did not copy the iPhone design,” the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said in the statement.  Samsung’s statement included attachments of the evidence
that Koh had excluded, prompting a demand from Koh for an
explanation of who drafted and issued the release. Koh told
lawyers representing Samsung that she wanted a statement from
Quinn explaining his role in issuing the statement.  Harold McElhinny, a lawyer for Apple at  Morrison & Foerster
LLP , told Koh the release was “on perception an intentional
attempt to pollute this jury” rising to “contempt of court.”  In Quinn’s response to a demand from Koh for an
explanation, the lawyer defended his role in issuing the
statement in a filing today with the court.  “Samsung’s brief statement and transmission of public
materials in response to press inquiries was not motivated by or
designed to influence jurors,” Quinn said in his declaration.  Apple and Samsung made initial pitches to a U.S. jury
yesterday in their global battle over smartphone patents, with
the iPhone maker alleging its designs were copied and the South
Korean company countering that Apple can’t claim a “monopoly on
a rectangle.”  Apple’s lawyer alleged in opening arguments that Samsung
infringed the touch-screen characteristics of the iPhone after
it was released in 2007. Samsung’s attorney downplayed the
significance of Apple’s iPhone innovations by saying other
companies had received patents for similarly minimalist designs.  “As we all know, it’s easier to copy than to innovate,”
McElhinny, Apple’s lawyer, told the jury.  The  jury trial  is the first in the U.S. in a battle being
waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone market
valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion. Apple and
Samsung are the world’s largest makers of the high-end handheld
devices that blend the functionality of a phone and a computer.  Each company is trying to convince jurors that its rival
infringed patents covering designs and technology for mobile
devices, with potential damages awards reaching billions of
dollars.  A Samsung attorney, Charles K. Verhoeven, said that while
the company was “inspired” by the iPhone, he said that’s a
natural part of business competition, just as each company
performs a detailed analysis whenever a rival product is
released.  “Being inspired by a good product and seeking to make even
better products is called competition,” Verhoeven said. “It’s
not copying and it’s not infringing. Everybody does it in the
commercial marketplace.”  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more, click here.  SEC Loses Lawsuit Against Ex-Citigroup Official Brian Stoker  The Securities and Exchange Commission lost a jury verdict
in its lawsuit against former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  official Brian
Stoker over a deal at the center of the bank’s proposed $285
million settlement with regulators over subprime residential
mortgage securities.  The jury reached its verdict yesterday in Manhattan federal
court. The SEC had accused Stoker, the former director of
Citigroup’s collateralized debt obligation structuring group, of
violating  securities law  in putting together the assets
underlying a $1 billion CDO.  Stoker’s lawyer John Keker, founding partner of Keker & Van
Nest LLP, made the closing arguments July 30 on his behalf.  The SEC claimed New York-based Citigroup structured and
sold the CDO without telling investors that it helped pick about
half the underlying assets and was betting they would decline in
value by taking a short position.  “This verdict should not deter the SEC from continuing to
investigate the financial industry, to review current
regulations, and modify existing regulations as necessary,” the
jury said in rendering its decision that Stoker wasn’t liable.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stoker, 11-cv-7388, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  News  U.S. Consumer Financial Agency Targets Lawyer in First Lawsuit  The year-old U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
brought its first lawsuit this month, accusing a California
lawyer of operating an illegal mortgage relief scheme.  The lawsuit, filed in federal court in  Los Angeles , alleges
that Chance Gordon used his law firm and affiliated companies to
falsely promise loan modifications in exchange for advance fees,
ranging from $2,500 to $4,000, according to a complaint unsealed
on July 23.  “Rather than helping homeowners modify their  mortgage
loans  or avoid foreclosure, defendants dupe distressed
homeowners into paying thousands of dollars based on false
promises and misrepresentations,” Kent Markus, the bureau’s
enforcement director, said in the filing.  The lawsuit alleges that since early 2010 Gordon, who is
based in Los Angeles, would entice potential clients with
advertisements and phone calls that claimed an affiliation with
government entities or programs.  After securing payments, he did “little or nothing” to
assist his clients and advised them to avoid interaction with
their lenders and to stop making mortgage payments, causing them
to enter foreclosure or lose their property, according to the
complaint.  U.S. District Judge Ronald Lew granted the agency’s request
that the assets of Gordon and other defendants remain
temporarily frozen.  On July 30, Gordon asked the judge to allow him access to
$25,000 to pay a lawyer to defend him in the case and another
$10,000 a month for living expenses. Lew hasn’t ruled on that
request.  Gary Kurtz, a lawyer for Gordon, didn’t immediately respond
to a telephone message seeking comment on the allegations.  The case is Consumer Financial Protection Bureau v.
Gordon, 12-cv-06147, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  How Wall Street Lawyer Turned Insider Trader Eluded FBI 17 Years  Every dawn in the early spring of 2011,  Matthew Kluger 
peered out his window, wondering when federal agents would knock
at his door. Kluger, a mergers-and-acquisitions lawyer, says he
worried that authorities were closing in on him as the source of
illegal tips in a three-man  insider-trading  ring that had eluded
detection for 17 years, Bloomberg News David Voreacos reports.  The knock came on April 6. U.S. agents handcuffed Kluger,
hustled him into a Dodge Intrepid, drove to the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  office in Manassas, Virginia, and laid out the
case against him. The evidence included tape recordings of
Kluger telling the man he tipped to get rid of a cellular phone
that could lead back to him -- and to do it carefully because
the authorities had dogs that can sniff out mobiles.  “I really would like to see this phone go bye-bye ASAP,”
Kluger said, adding: “Do you want this to be our undoing?”  Kluger’s account offers a unique view of insider trading by
a mid-level lawyer who moved from one powerful firm to another,
exploiting his access to partners and confidential documents. It
shows how difficult it is to police such activity when
conspirators take care to conceal their crimes and trade with
discipline. The trio’s downfall came only when one of them
changed the routine after almost two decades.  Their stealth masked Kluger’s ability to steal secrets from
some of the most prominent U.S. law firms, including Wilson
Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom LLP. The three men made $37 million in profit on deals
involving some of the largest technology companies, including
Oracle Corp., Adobe Systems Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co. and  Intel
Corp .  Kluger began confessing his crimes to federal authorities
the day of his arrest. He first detailed them to Bloomberg News
nine days later, after posting bail in Newark, New Jersey, when
he needed a ride back to a jail to pick up his heart medicine.
He offered additional details in interviews over the next year.  For more, click here.  Vale May Settle Brazil Royalties Dispute This Month, Torres Says  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore producer, may settle
a dispute with Brazil this month over unpaid royalties, the
company’s top lawyer said.  Vale probably will decide at an Aug. 23 board meeting in
Mozambique whether to pay or continue the dispute in court,
Clovis Torres, the company’s general counsel, said in an
interview yesterday. The company, which as recently as April 17
said that it estimated the claims at about 5.64 billion reais
($2.75 billion), is likely to pay less than 4 billion reais in a
settlement, he said, declining to elaborate.  “The decisions to be taken are to pay all, to pay
something or not to pay anything and continue the discussion in
court,” Torres said by telephone from Rio de Janeiro. “That
will be decided by the end of August.”  Brazil’s largest exporting company has been fighting
government tax claims as authorities from Australia to Chile
seek to boost revenue from growing China-led demand for metals
and minerals. Vale and Brazil’s Mineral Production Department,
or DNPM, set up in August a group to discuss the disputed
royalties, failing to meet an October deadline for an agreement.
In April, it was given another 60 days to reach a deal.  The Rio-based company said April 17 that it estimated the
royalty dispute at about 5.64 billion reais as of Dec. 31,
including possible fines and interest payments. The company may
end up paying 1.2 billion reais, Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
led by Ivano Westin said in a note to customers dated July 13.  Vale, which dedicated about 40 staff members to provide new
information to authorities and reduce the value of the claim, is
getting opinions from external lawyers for its board to weigh
the chances of success in court, Torres said.  Deals  Roper Agrees to Buy Software Maker Sunquest for $1.42 Billion  Roper Industries Inc. (ROP)  agreed to buy Sunquest Information
Systems Inc. for about $1.42 billion in cash to add software
used in health-care diagnostics.  Davis Polk  & Wardwell LLP is advising Roper Industries Inc.
while Kirkland & Ellis LLP represents Vista Equity Partners and
Sunquest Information Systems Inc.  The Davis Polk New York team includes partners Joseph Rinaldi, corporate; Kenneth J. Steinberg, credit; Kathleen L. Ferrell, tax; and Jean McLoughlin; benefits advice.  The Kirkland team includes San Francisco corporate partners
David Breach and Stuart Casillas.  The transaction includes $25 million in cash tax benefits,
and the acquisition of the Tucson, Arizona-based company will be
“immediately” cash accretive and add $140 million in earnings
before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization next year,
Roper Industries said July 30 in a statement.  Roper Industries, based in Sarasota, Florida, makes
engineering products for the water, energy, transportation and
medical industries.  For more, click here.  Fees  Lehman’s Bankruptcy Adviser Fees Pass $1.7 Billion Through June  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. paid advisers $16.4 million
in June, bringing total fees to more than $1.7 billion since the
former investment bank’s bankruptcy.  Its chief bankruptcy law firm, Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP,
made $6 million in June, bringing total fees from Lehman work to
$419 million.  As of June 30, Lehman had $8.2 billion in cash available
for use, according to a filing in  U.S. bankruptcy court  in
Manhattan.  Lehman failed because of too much debt and risky real
estate investments, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.  The bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  