-- Chairman Vanishes From Double-Defaulting Kazakh Bank
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-06T20:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/chairman-vanishes-from-double-defaulting-bank-as-kazakhs-pursue.html
In a Muslim cemetery on a hill above
Almaty, Kazakhstan’s largest city, a bronze bust of Erzhan Tatishev faces away from the headquarters of the bank he once
led. It’s a fitting final gesture for  BTA Bank JSC (BTAS) ’s first chief
executive officer, who died of a gunshot wound while hunting
wolves near the Kyrgyzstan border in 2004.  The bank, once the country’s largest, defaulted in 2009 on
more than $12 billion of  debt  held by investors, including
Credit Suisse Group AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Two former CEOs are in
hiding, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its September
issue. And Mukhtar Ablyazov, Tatishev’s successor, is facing
criminal charges in Kazakhstan and lawsuits filed by BTA in the
U.K. alleging he embezzled more than $5 billion -- claims he has
called fabricated.  Ablyazov, 49, the bank’s former chairman, fled to  London  in
2009. He dropped out of sight this year after a judge there
sentenced him to 22 months in prison for lying about his assets
and moving funds in violation of a court order. The Almaty-based
bank, taken over by  Kazakhstan ’s sovereign-wealth fund after
Ablyazov disappeared, claimed he siphoned money from the firm
using fake loans, backdated documents and offshore accounts.  Shell Companies  He left behind a 100-acre (40-hectare) estate in the
English countryside and a London mansion, each valued at about
20 million pounds ($31 million); a home in Almaty with an indoor
pool and a screening room; and 750 shell companies that
prosecutors say he used to invest in oil production, property
development and agriculture. The scandal and a second default
this year have undermined investor confidence in the largest
energy producer in Central Asia.  “This is a national issue because the sovereign-wealth
fund owns 80 percent of the bank,” says Raymond Zucaro, who
helps manage about $230 million of emerging-markets assets,
including BTA bonds acquired a year ago, for  Newport Beach ,
California-based SW Asset Management LLC. “It’s so annoying.
Kazakhstan has the ability to pay with all its natural
resources, so we are not going to take this lying down.”  The turmoil at BTA didn’t stop after the bank was taken
over by the government of President  Nursultan Nazarbayev , 72,
who has ruled the country, a former Soviet republic, for 22
years. BTA restructured its debt, only to fall behind again.  In January, CEO Marat Zairov quit for health reasons amid
accounts by former executives that he was assaulted by a
subordinate. That same month, the bank missed a payment to
bondholders, and it defaulted in April on $5.2 billion of
recovery notes.  ‘Dysfunctional Family’  “BTA is part of the family business in Kazakhstan, and
it’s a dysfunctional family,” says  Eric Kraus , a fixed-income
manager in Moscow who lost money after a Russian company linked
to Ablyazov defaulted. “It reminds me of  Russia  in the 1990s.”  Kazakhstan, which is four times the area of  Texas , has
about 3 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves and 1 percent
of its gas. It ranks 120th out of 183 nations in a list based on
Transparency International’s 2011  Corruption Perceptions Index ,
behind Mali and  Bolivia . Graft is pervasive in banking, with
every seventh borrower paying a bribe to secure a loan,
according to a February poll by Sange Research Center in Almaty.
BTA was ranked as the country’s fifth most corrupt among 23
commercial lenders.  The  economy  expanded by an average of 10 percent a year for
10 years, spurred by high oil and natural gas prices, before
slowing in 2009.  Kashagan Field  It was the promise of more oil -- the biggest discovery in
a generation, at Kashagan field in the  Caspian Sea  -- that
enabled BTA to borrow $15 billion, most of it in foreign
currency, to finance industrial and real-estate development,
including Eurasia Tower, a 75-story building under construction
in Moscow. Western investors, seeking to ride the next wave of
cash coming out of the region, loaded up on Kazakh bank shares
and bonds.  The Kashagan field, being developed by  Italy ’s Eni SpA,
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc, was supposed to
come online in 2004, producing 1.5 million barrels a day and
doubling Kazakhstan’s output. The target date came and went, as
did a second one in 2008. Oil company executives now expect that
Kashagan, whose development costs almost doubled to $46 billion
from initial estimates, will start pumping next year.  The delays, along with a global credit freeze and the
collapse of a Kazakh real-estate bubble, spelled trouble for BTA
-- and for Ablyazov. The former energy minister, a graduate of
Moscow Engineering Physics Institute, became chairman in 2005,
after Tatishev’s death, of the lender then known as Bank
TuranAlem.  Behind Bars  It was a remarkable change of fortune for a man who, four
years earlier, had helped found opposition party Democratic
Choice of Kazakhstan. Ablyazov was arrested in March 2002 while
serving as chairman of Almaty-based  Temirbank JSC (TEBN)  and sentenced
by a Kazakhstan court to six years in prison for embezzlement.
He spent a year behind bars, where he was allegedly tortured,
according to a May 2004 Amnesty International report, before
being pardoned by Nazarbayev in exchange for a pledge to stay
out of politics and a confession that his deeds had damaged the
country’s image. He moved to Moscow, only to return a year later
to start his new job.  The one-time prisoner had big plans for the bank, which had
been privatized after the forced merger of two bankrupt state-
owned institutions. He expanded into other former Soviet
republics such as Belarus and Ukraine; talked about becoming a
Pan-Eurasian lender with headquarters in Russia’s capital and a
listing in London; and started developing a community for
150,000 people in the Moscow suburb of Domodedovo, replete with
stadiums, schools, hospitals and a movie studio.  Ablyazov Flees  “There were plans to buy a  U.S. bank  to use as a platform
in  New York  and  Los Angeles  to attract immigrants from the
former USSR,” says George Iosifyan, a BTA board member from
2007 to 2009.  As long as  oil prices  remained high, as they did even after
credit markets began tightening in 2007, BTA was able to repay
maturing debt. But when prices sank by two-thirds in the three
months following the September 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., corporate balance sheets contracted, cash
evaporated and depositors fled.  So did Ablyazov. In February 2009, days after he left for
the U.K., Kazakhstan devalued the tenge by 21 percent, adding to
the burden of all banks that had borrowed in foreign currency,
especially BTA, the most indebted. That’s when the lender was
taken over by sovereign-wealth fund Samruk-Kazyna. In March of
that year, after BTA CEO Roman Solodchenko also vanished,
prosecutors began seizing Ablyazov’s assets and issued arrest
warrants for the two men.  BTA Default  BTA defaulted in April. Temirbank, which was acquired by
BTA after Ablyazov became chairman, followed in November, after
missing payments on $1.4 billion of debt.  “The banks, especially BTA, became a concentration of
swindlers and thieves,” President Nazarbayev said at the time.  Creditors agreed in a 2010 restructuring to accept 44 cents
on the dollar, splitting $1 billion in cash, new bonds, an 18.5
percent equity stake and recovery notes, which promised holders
50 percent of any gains from impaired assets, including awards
in lawsuits against Ablyazov. The debt holders took writedowns
of $6 billion, and the bank received $6 billion from the
government to bolster its equity capital.  $1 Billion Loan  BTA, now 81.5 percent owned by the state, filed civil suits
against Ablyazov and Solodchenko in the U.K., seeking to reclaim
assets. One of those cases was brought against firms that
borrowed $1 billion to buy oil equipment that was never
delivered. The loans were collateralized with an insurance
policy sold by London-Almaty Insurance Co., owned by BTA,
according to two people familiar with the transaction who asked
not to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Kazakh prosecutors, who have amassed more than 1,000
volumes of evidence against Ablyazov and his alleged
accomplices, have seized 20 houses, nine office buildings, three
airplanes, 106 cars and stakes in 22 companies, along with $20
million in cash. Sixty-one criminal investigations have been
opened against 92 businesses and 57 individuals, including 22 in
hiding or on wanted lists in Kazakhstan, the Prosecutor
General’s Office says.  In May, a court in Almaty convicted 21 people of embezzling
$2.1 billion from the bank. The case, subject to appeal,
resulted in 17 prison sentences.  Almaty Mansion  A mansion in Almaty where Ablyazov lived for two years and
that’s among the seized properties bears witness to his
lifestyle. The 2,230-square-meter (24,000-square-foot) house has
a dining room that seats 22, marble statuary and gilded mirrors.  Ablyazov and Solodchenko denied the allegations in 2009
interviews with Bloomberg News, saying the cases were filed
because Ablyazov mounted a political challenge to Nazarbayev.
Lawyers for Ablyazov said at his trial in London that fear of
Nazarbayev forced the former BTA chairman to use offshore firms.  Locksley Ryan, a spokesman for Ablyazov, denied last
September that BTA funds were used to sponsor the opposition
party and its newspaper, as an adviser to the president had
claimed. Ablyazov didn’t respond to requests for comment made
through Ryan.  “We did everything to steer the bank through the difficult
period,” Solodchenko, 46, said in a telephone interview in
March. “Had the government not interfered, BTA would be healthy
and the Kazakh banking sector would have less problems today.”  Astana Finance  Controls didn’t improve after the government takeover.
Saduakas Mameshtegi, CEO of Bank TuranAlem from 2005 to 2007,
returned to the bank’s management board in February 2009, only
to leave six months later.  Mameshtegi, 42, had been chairman of Astana Finance JSC, a
financial holding company in the nation’s capital. While on
BTA’s board, he helped arrange a 12 billion tenge ($80 million)
loan to an Astana Finance shareholder, accepting that firm’s
shares as collateral, according to three people familiar with
the transaction who asked not to be named because the deal was
private. Astana Finance defaulted in May 2009 on $2.2 billion of
debt, as did the shareholder.  The government agency that investigates economic crimes and
corruption said in a May 11, 2012, letter that it was looking
into embezzlement at Astana Finance. It said Mameshtegi wasn’t a
target of the probe. Mameshtegi, who received a commendation
from then-BTA CEO Anvar Saidenov when he stepped down, couldn’t
be located for comment.  ‘Kamikaze’ Mission  In August 2011, BTA named Zairov, 44, its new CEO,
replacing Saidenov, who became chairman. Zairov, a former BTA
banker who had been running Nurbank JSC, controlled until 2010
by Nazarbayev’s oldest daughter, Dariga, set out to boost the
morale of the firm’s 6,000 employees and more than 1.5 million
retail and corporate clients.  “They call me kamikaze,” Zairov said about his mission in
a November speech. “The rules of the game are announced today.
Don’t confuse your own pocket with the state-owned one. If I
find out you are thieves, I will personally ask for hard
punishment for you.”  Zairov’s comments followed an announcement in October that
prosecutors were investigating three BTA employees for “large-
scale embezzlement as part of an organized group.” In November,
he likened the bank to a house with a “leaking roof” whose
“walls are cracking a little bit and the facade is crumbling.”  By January, Zairov was gone. He resigned for what the bank
said were “health reasons.” Five BTA executives familiar with
the matter who asked not to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to speak say Zairov sustained injuries from a beating
by a subordinate at a party. Zairov’s mobile phone has been
switched off, and he couldn’t be located for comment. BTA
declined to comment about Zairov or Astana Finance.  ‘Absurd Travesty’  The second default, which followed Zairov’s departure, was
“an absurd travesty, a premeditated disregard for any kind of
investor interest,” says Gene Zolotarev, founder and chairman
of Maximus Capital SA, a Geneva-based wealth management company
whose clients hold what he describes as a “sizable position”
in BTA debt. “For the first default, they had the excuse of the
crisis and Ablyazov. This time, it’s just a cynical and blatant
middle finger to the investment community.”  Members of the BTA creditors’ steering committee, including
the  Asian Development Bank , BNP Paribas SA, Nomura Holdings
Inc., JPMorgan, and hedge fund D.E. Shaw & Co., face an uphill
battle. BTA is negotiating with creditors to restructure its
debt again and, as of mid-July, expected to reach an agreement
by September, according to a presentation published on the
bank’s website. Spokesmen for the creditors declined to comment.  ‘Terrible Legacy’  “In hindsight, it’s obvious they were building a pyramid,
and it has left Kazakhstan with a terrible legacy and
reputation,” says Jason Hurwitz, an analyst at Alfa Bank OJSC
in Moscow who previously worked at Almaty-based investment bank
Visor Capital JSC.  In the twin concrete-and-glass towers that dominate the
Almaty skyline and where BTA has its headquarters, Saidenov, 51,
is trying to rebuild confidence in the company. A portrait of
Nazarbayev hangs on one wall of his office. A brown-leather
spider sits atop a cabinet overlooking his desk, on which a
white-and-gold dragon roosts, a red ball on its tongue.  The second debt restructuring “will be just to every
interested party,” Saidenov wrote in an e-mail in May. The
bank, he said, is fighting corruption through “rigorous
compliance by management and its departments with the law.”  Restoring Confidence  Yelena Bakhmutova, a deputy CEO at Samruk-Kazyna, the
sovereign-wealth fund that controls BTA, says confidence can be
restored, even though the bank’s shares have fallen more than 99
percent since the first default.  “Investors are quite loyal to Kazakhstan,” she said in
May. “There is no need to link the BTA debt restructuring with
some global impact on Kazakhstan.”  That’s not how Kestutis Sasnauskas, managing director of
private equity at Stockholm-based investment firm East Capital
Explorer AB, sees it. His fund wrote off $100 million from its
purchase of a 3 percent stake in BTA in 2006.  “We have been very disappointed with the level of
corporate governance in Kazakhstan,” Sasnauskas says. “Based
on that experience, I don’t think we will be investing in their
banks again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  