-- Chavez Campaign Spending Boom Seen Spurring 31% Devaluation
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-08-01T21:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/chavez-spending-boom-seen-spurring-31-devaluation-post-election.html
Venezuela  will devalue the bolivar
for the third time in as many years after October elections to
help narrow a  budget deficit  swelled by President  Hugo Chavez ’s
spending binge, according to a survey of analysts.  The government will weaken the official rate 31 percent to
6.2 per dollar in the first quarter, generating more revenue in
local currency from each dollar of oil exports, according to the
median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Venezuela,
Latin America’s largest oil exporter, boosted spending 34
percent in the first half from a year earlier, and Bank of
America Corp. forecasts the deficit will almost double to 7.8
percent of gross domestic product by the end of 2012.  “The bolivar is the most overvalued currency in Latin
America,” said Juan Pablo Fuentes, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , who predicts the
bolivar will fall to 5.3 per dollar in the last quarter of this
year from the current 4.3. “They don’t care about competitive
exchange rates, but they do care about government revenue.”  The devaluation will contribute to a recession next year as
oil, which accounts for 95 percent of export revenue, falls and
limits government investment in housing, a pillar of Chavez’s
re-election campaign that helped drive 5.6 percent growth in the
first quarter, according to Bank of America’s  Francisco Rodriguez . Chavez, a 58-year-old former paratrooper, leads
challenger Henrique Capriles Radonski in most voter polls.  Officials at the central bank and  Finance Ministry , who
asked not to be identified in accordance with government policy,
declined to comment on the possibility of a devaluation after
the vote.  Currency Peg  The bolivar has weakened 63 percent since it was first
pegged to the dollar in 2003 following a two-month general
strike that drove the economy into recession and caused
Venezuelans to pull assets out of the country, draining reserves
by $1.2 billion to $11.3 billion. Over the past nine years,
 government spending  has been sustained by a tripling in crude
prices. Venezuelan  oil , which accounts for about half of
government revenue, may fall next year to an average $100 a
barrel from $105.75 this year, Rodriguez said in a June note.  Brent oil will average $111.90 a barrel in 2013, in line
with its $112.01 average so far this year, according to the
median estimate of 37 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Brent is a
benchmark for Venezuela’s export basket.  “The Venezuelan government has been undertaking a highly
expansionary fiscal policy while trying to maintain a strong
 exchange rate  to avoid the political cost of an adjustment
before October’s presidential election,” Alejandro Arreaza and
 Alejandro Grisanti , analysts at Barclays Plc, wrote in a July 24
report.  Post-Election Moves  Should Chavez win re-election, Venezuela’s situation would
be similar to 1988, when fiscal shortfalls forced President
Carlos Andres Perez to push through economic reforms following
an election that he won with a 12 percentage point margin, Bank
of America’s Rodriguez said. The next year, Perez implemented an
International Monetary Fund-sponsored plan to raise fuel and
transport prices while allowing the bolivar to float. The cost-
of-living increases ignited riots that left hundreds of people
dead, and became known as the “Caracazo.”  Chavez, who has had three operations related to an
undisclosed form of cancer in the past 14 months, will avoid the
kind of price increases that set off demonstrations by devaluing
the currency instead, Rodriguez said.  “With a single decree you can increase government revenue
by 30 to 40 percent, so there’s a huge temptation to do that,”
said Rodriguez, who predicts the bolivar will be devalued 43
percent to 7.5 per dollar. “What they associate with the
Caracazo is increases to gasoline prices and removing price
controls. That’s something they won’t do.”  Sitme Rate  Venezuela will also devalue the rate at the central bank’s
Sitme currency market by 18 percent to 6.5 per dollar, according
to the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Sitme is used by individuals and companies that can’t obtain
access to foreign currency through the Foreign Currency Board
known as Cadivi at the official rate.  People who aren’t able to access foreign currency through
either market pay as much as 9.32 per dollar in a black market,
according to  Lechuga Verde , a blog that tracks the rate.  Visa Inc., the world’s biggest payments network, expects
there to be a devaluation in Venezuela, Chief Financial Officer
Bryon Pollitt said on a July 25 conference call. Visa isn’t able
to hedge against a devaluation, he said.  Bond Returns  “The outlook for devaluation I would say is -- nothing’s a
certainty, but at some point, it looks like we’re heading to
that,” Pollitt said. “So is that a bit of a drag on our  Latin
America  business? Yes.”  Venezuelan dollar-denominated bonds have returned 19
percent this year as investors seek higher yielding assets amid
near-zero rates in the U.S. and  Europe  and on speculation that
Chavez’s battle with cancer may accelerate a change in
government. The notes have handed investors the best return in
emerging markets this year after  Ivory Coast , according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The yield on Venezuela’s 9.25 percent benchmark bonds due
in 2027 fell 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 11.56
percent at 4:30 p.m. in Caracas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 1.01 cent to 83.64 cents on the
dollar.  ‘Big Negative’  “A devaluation is a big negative for bondholders because
your debt-to-GDP ratio just doubled,” Alfredo Viegas, the
managing director for  emerging markets  at  Knight Capital  in
Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview. “But it’s
viewed as positive contextually because the economy becomes more
competitive in theory.”  Chavez had 47 percent support against 30 percent for
Capriles in the most recent poll conducted by Caracas-based
Hinterlaces, which surveyed 1,500 people from July 4 to July 14.
The survey had a margin of error of 2.7 percentage points.  “The status quo expectation in the market right now is
that he’ll make it through the election and that he’s going to
win,” Viegas said of Chavez.  Chavez, who has declared himself “totally free” of
illness after undergoing three operations related to cancer in
his pelvis, says that he will win re-election in a “knock out”
to extend his term in office through 2019.  Capriles, a 40-year-old former governor, says that as
president he would gradually undo currency controls while
inviting foreign investors to develop the world’s largest oil
reserves.  Opposition Plans  The winner of the Oct. 7 vote will be sworn in Jan. 10.  “If the opposition wins there would be a devaluation, but
it would come along with a change to the currency system that
would keep some controls while announcing a medium-term plan to
get rid of them,” Fuentes said.  Chavez said on July 11 that he began talks with Finance
Minister  Jorge Giordani  about the average exchange rate and oil
export basket price to be used in the drafting of the 2013
budget, without providing more details.  After leaving the official rate unchanged for five years,
Chavez devalued the currency in January 2010 and threatened
businesses with expropriation if they raised their prices. The
latest move, when Chavez eliminated a preferential exchange rate
offered to some importers, was announced in the midst of New
Year’s celebrations on Dec. 30, 2010.  “In Venezuelan history you never devalue before an
election, and when it’s extremely unpopular they announce it on
a Friday before a holiday weekend,” Bank of America’s Rodriguez
said. “You devalue when you believe you have enough political
capital to offset short-term costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  