-- Chicago Rebound Wins Wilpons 3-Year Reprieve: Mortgages
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-08-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/chicago-rebound-wins-wilpons-3-year-reprieve-mortgages.html
Chicago ’s commercial real estate
market is pulling out of a five-year slump, just in time to win
some investors who bought at the peak a reprieve on their debts.  Sterling American Property Inc., the real estate firm
controlled by  Fred Wilpon  and Saul Katz, owners of the  New York 
Mets baseball team, was given more time to pay the balance of a
$100 million mortgage on 200 W. Adams St. a Chicago  office tower 
they bought in 2006. Bondholders who controlled the debt agreed
to extend Sterling’s five-year loan for as long as another three
years, said Anthony Sferrazza, Sterling’s finance director.  “Values have escalated for investors and that has allowed
people to not only hold on, but probably be in the money when
they go to sell,” Paul Lundstedt, executive vice president in
Chicago for broker CBRE Group Inc., said in a telephone
interview.  The most visible sign of recovery will come this year as
construction begins on River Point, a $300 million, 45-story
office tower on the Chicago River at Lake Street. The city’s
biggest real estate project since 2007 comes after office
vacancies fell to 14.6 percent in the second quarter from the
15.9 percent peak at the beginning of 2010, according to data
compiled by CoStar Group Inc.’s Property and Portfolio Research.  Hines, a Houston-based property investor, and Ivanhoe
Cambridge, the Montreal-based real estate operation of Caisse de
Depot et Placement du Quebec,  Canada ’s biggest pension-fund
manager, are developing the office tower. River Point, with
900,000 square feet (84,000 square meters) of space, will be
Chicago’s biggest real estate project started in the past five
years, Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said in a statement announcing the
project in May. Construction is scheduled to start before the
end of 2012, with completion in 2016.  ‘Largely Leased’  “There’s no doubt in our mind that we’ll be largely leased
up prior to the completion of the project,” said Greg Van
Schaack, senior managing director at Hines in Chicago.  Sales volume for office properties in the city more than
doubled in the first half of the year to $1.4 billion from the
year earlier period, according to Real Capital Analytics Inc.,
while Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility said last week that it
will rent almost 600,000 square feet downtown.  “Downtown Chicago is in a good position in that Mayor
Emanuel has been aggressively recruiting firms to move
downtown,” Van Schaack said. “The city has attracted a vast
number of young college-educated graduates.”  Chicago Mending  Lenders and loan servicers are responding to evidence that
Chicago is a market on the mend.  Sterling and partner Lincoln Property Co. bought 200 W.
Adams St. in downtown Chicago for $113.8 million near the market
peak.  Sterling, based in Great Neck, New York, harbored ambitions
to invest more than $3 billion in U.S. real estate at that time.
Then the market turned on them.  When the venture acquired West Adams “it was a different
market altogether,” Sferrazza said in a telephone interview. As
the $100 million loan approached maturity, “it was going to be
difficult to refinance at best,” Sferrazza said, and the debt
was put into special servicing to work out a deal. Firms like
CWCapital Asset Management, which is the special servicer on the
debt, are companies that negotiate with landlords on behalf of
bondholders and decide whether to modify a loan or foreclose.  The loan was included in a $6.6 billion commercial
mortgage-backed bond issued in 2007 arranged by Citigroup Inc.
and Deutsche Bank AG. Having as many as three years extra on the
mortgage’s maturity opens options, including time for a sale,
said Sferrazza.  ‘Poster Child’  “This is your poster child for a deal that was done at the
peak of the market,” said Steve Kuritz, senior vice president
with Morningstar Inc.’s structured credit rating group in
Horsham,  Pennsylvania . “It’s not a bad asset. It’s not a bad
market. It’s just a matter of too much leverage.”  The delinquency rate for Chicago area office loans packaged
and sold in bonds stands at 7.3 percent. That’s worse than last
year’s rate of 5.1 percent, though better than the 10.7 percent
rate nationally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Trepp Inc.  The extension helps a group of investors beset by financial
stress. The Mets owners in March sold minority stakes in the
team for $240 million and used the sales to repay $65 million in
loans from  Major League Baseball  and Bank of America Corp. and
at least $100 million of debt.  Wilpon and Katz in March also agreed to pay $162 million to
settle a lawsuit from Irving Picard, the trustee liquidating
 Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm, who had alleged the Mets’ owners
blinded themselves to Madoff’s Ponzi scheme because it benefited
their businesses. As part of the agreement, Picard dropped that
allegation.  Holds Promise  Sterling’s principals think Chicago holds promise. The CMBS
delinquency rate is well below other office markets in the
country. The highest rate in July was in the Atlanta region,
whose rate of payments 30 days late or more was 36 percent,
followed by Phoenix at 28 percent.  Sales of office buildings in Chicago rose 23 percent to
$3.4 billion in 2011 from the prior year, the most since 2007,
according to data from Real Capital, a real estate sales data
provider.  Demand since the recession ended has centered on the newest
towers that are well-leased, as investors sought the safety of
the steady  cash flow  from stable tenants with good credit in so-
called Class A buildings. As fewer of the Class A buildings are
available, investors are now increasingly buying older buildings
with higher vacancy rates, properties known as Class B or C
towers. Many of the office buildings that have traded this year
downtown have been in that group, according to data from
Chicago-based broker MB Real Estate Services LLC.  SEB Acquires  John Hancock Real Estate, the U.S. unit of Manulife
Financial Corp.’s property arm, bought 150 N. Michigan Ave., a
41-story Class B building for $102 million, or $154 a square
foot, in April, downtown. The diamond-roofed tower overlooks
Millennium Park and has views of  Lake Michigan . The building,
built in 1984, was sold by SEB Investment GmbH, a real estate
fund manager based in  Germany , according to an April 30 Manulife
statement.  “Downtown, the activity continues to be very strong,”
Lundstedt said. “Because we had a flurry of higher quality
assets that traded in the past few years you’ve started to see
some of the class B assets being tested in the market.”  Capitalization Rates  Capitalization rates, a measure of returns for real estate
investors, are falling as values gain. Cap rates -- a property’s
net operating income divided by its purchase price -- dropped to
7.7 percent in Chicago for office buildings in the first
quarter, down from a high of 9 percent in the first quarter of
2010, according to Reis Inc., a New York-based data provider.
The cap rate for office buildings in  San Francisco  was 6.5
percent in the first quarter, Reis said. In  Manhattan , the
average was 5.3 percent this year through May, according to Real
Capital.  Chicago’s effective  rent , what a tenant pays after any
landlord discounts, was $21.21 per square foot in the first
quarter, up from $20.89 a year earlier, according to Reis.  In the West Loop part of downtown, which is closest to the
two commuter rail hubs, the vacancy rate was 14.8 percent in the
first quarter with rents of $33.49 per square foot, according to
broker Colliers International.  Rents Improving  “Rents are starting to improve,” said Glen Marker, a
senior market adviser with CoStar’s Property & Portfolio
Research in Chicago.  Effective rents in Chicago gained 1.5 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, while in San Francisco rents rose
6.7 percent over the same period, according to Reis.  The Chicago area’s employment numbers are improving even as
they lag behind other areas of the country and the nation as a
whole. Chicago’s  unemployment  rate was 8.5 percent in May, the
latest data available, compared with a June rate of 8.2  percent 
for the U.S.  “We have added jobs in the metropolitan area,” James Kutill, a vice president of Chicago-based Appraisal Research
Counselors, said in a telephone interview. “It hasn’t been a
boom, but we have added employment.”  Technology companies, such as GrubHub Inc., a closely held
online restaurant delivery service based in Chicago, have led
leasing expansions this year downtown, according to a Colliers
first-quarter market report.  Google Moves  Google’s Motorola Mobility said on July 26 it plans to move
the unit’s headquarters from suburban Libertyville,  Illinois , to
Vornado Realty Trust’s Merchandise Mart downtown and lease
almost 600,000 square feet on the top four floors and rooftop of
the building. The 4.2 million-square-foot Merchandise Mart,
completed in 1930, is the world’s largest commercial building,
according to its website.  “It’s a diversified economy,”  John Robertson , managing
director, head of global securities for Deutsche Bank AG’s RREEF
unit, said in a telephone interview. “You don’t have the risk
around a particular industry.”  Risks do remain in the market for  office space  amid
concerns over U.S. growth and the effects of the  European debt
crisis  on the global economy. The  Federal Reserve  reduced its
economic growth forecast on June 20 for the U.S. to 1.9 percent
to 2.4 percent for 2012, compared with its previous forecast of
2.4 percent to 2.9 percent.  “There’s a certain amount of trepidation,” Kutill said of
the Chicago market.  Zell Ownership  Sterling still likes its property in Chicago. The West
Adams tower is 88 percent occupied, led by the U.S. General
Services Administration, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It was appraised at $100 million in December, down
from $123.5 million in November 2006. It has about 677,000
square feet of space.  The building, once owned by billionaire investor  Sam Zell ’s
Equity Office Properties Trust, was purchased with a loan
originated by Royal Bank of Canada, according to a prospectus
for the CMBS issue. It was 90 percent occupied when Sterling
bought it.  The property is in the West Loop part of downtown, probably
the best sub-market in the city, said Kuritz of Morningstar’s
structured credit rating group. It’s about a block from a
Chicago Transit Authority train stop and is near the city’s two
commuter railroad stations.  Back in 2006 when the deal was done, “properties were hot
potatoes” and investors planned to hold onto buildings for a
limited time and sell quickly to a profit, Kuritz said.  For now, there are no such plans.  “We’re very comfortable with the asset,” said Sferrazza,
who led the negotiations with CWCapital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  