-- China’s Home Price Gain Signals ‘Turning Point,’ SouFun Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-01T07:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/china-home-prices-rise-in-market-turning-point-soufun-says.html
China ’s new  home prices  posted the
biggest gain in more than a year, signaling a  turning point  for
the nation’s property market, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the country’s biggest real estate website owner.  Home prices last month rose 0.3 percent from June to 8,717
 yuan  ($1,369) per square meter (10.76 square feet), SouFun said
in a statement today, based on its survey of 100 cities. That
was the second monthly gain and the biggest rise since June 2011.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China will “unswervingly”
implement property controls and prevent home prices from
rebounding, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday,
citing a government meeting held on July 26. Home prices had
been declining after the government placed restrictions on the
number of properties people could buy in about 40 cities and
raised down-payment requirements.  “It is very clear that China’s property market is coming
back,” said Vincent Mo, Chairman of SouFun, told Bloomberg
Television today. The back-to-back monthly gain “showed the
turning-point of China’s property prices,” he said.  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.3 percent at the close to the highest since July 25.  China sent eight teams to 16 provinces late last month to
check on the implementation of its property curbs, according to
a statement on the central government website last week. The
nationwide check is aimed at “firmly” restraining property
speculation and consolidating result of the curbs, it said.  Tight Policies  “It’s very difficult to expect the government’s policies
to ease while home prices keep rising,” said Jack Gong, a Hong
Kong-based property analyst at Jefferies Group Inc. “The
policies in general are still tight, but there’s a lot of
uncertainty in the fourth quarter.”  The central bank cut  interest rates  on July 5 for the
second time in a month to spur economic growth, which eased for
a sixth quarter in the three months to June 30.  China’s home sales rose the most this year in June,
increasing 41 percent from May to 531.3 billion yuan ($83
billion), according to the statistics bureau data.  The recovery in China’s real estate sector appears to have
already started, Standard Charted Plc economists led by Lan Shen
said in a report today.  “It will be a long, hard slog back to boom,” they said
after surveying 30 developers. “The majority of developers
expect central government policy to remain unchanged, but for
local governments to continue, quietly, doing their own thing.”  China’s eastern export city of Yiwu has lapsed home
purchase restrictions since the beginning of the year and new
policies to curb home buying has yet been introduced, China
Securities Journal reported today, citing unidentified people.  Home prices rose in 70 cities last month from June, the
most since July last year, according to SouFun’s statement.
Among the major cities, Chongqing in the western region led
gains with a 1.6 percent increase from June, while Beijing and
 Shanghai  both added 0.03 percent. China’s home prices will be
little changed for the rest of the year as the government isn’t
likely to tighten or ease its property curbs, according to
SouFun’s Mo.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  