-- China Manufacturing Teeters Close to Contraction
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-01T06:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/china-july-manufacturing-pmi-50-1-vs-economists-estimate-50-5.html
China ’s manufacturing teetered on the
edge of contraction in July and South Korea’s exports and
inflation declined, indicating that stimulus efforts have yet to
bear fruit.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index in China unexpectedly fell
to 50.1 in July, the weakest in eight months, from 50.2 in June,
a government report showed today. Fifty marks the dividing line
between expansion and contraction. South Korea’s  exports  slid by
more than double the amount forecast by analysts and inflation
moderated to a 12-year low.  The data increase odds China and South Korea will add to
 interest-rate  cuts in the coming months as a record-high  jobless
rate  in the euro area drags on global growth. Leaders of China’s
ruling Communist Party pledged yesterday to keep adjusting
policies to ensure stable growth while signs of a revival in the
housing market may improve chances of reversing the nation’s
slowdown.  “It’s almost certain that there will be more loosening,”
said Daniel Martin, Singapore-based Asia economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. “The whole region is going to see fairly
disappointing growth this year.” He sees at one more interest-
rate cut in China and at least one more this year by South Korea.  The reading today from the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing and
compares with the 50.5 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Three of 24 economists surveyed had forecast a decline in
the gauge from June. The report showed indexes of output and new
export orders were at the lowest levels since November, while a
new orders gauge showed a contraction for a third month and
employment declined. A reading on imports was the weakest since
February 2009.  Policy Support  “It is clear that the manufacturing sector is doing very
poorly and requires policy support,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong
Kong-based senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB, said in a research note today. The chance of an interest-
rate cut is “up to about a third now from a quarter
yesterday,” and a reduction in banks’ reserve requirements is
“fairly imminent,” he said.  A separate  purchasing managers’ index  released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  indicated that
manufacturing contracted at a slower pace in July. The gauge,
which covers more than 420 companies and is weighted more toward
smaller businesses, rose to 49.3 from 48.2 in June, after a
preliminary reading of 49.5 released last week.  Index Decline  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks, a regional benchmark,
fell 0.4 percent at 3:24 p.m. in  Tokyo , set for the first drop
in five days.  In South Korea, exports slid 8.8 percent in July from a
year earlier, the steepest decline since September 2009,
Ministry of Knowledge Economy data showed today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 15 economists was for a
3.7 percent drop. Consumer prices increased 1.5 percent,
Statistics Korea said.  Wang Tao , China economist at UBS AG in Hong Kong, said the
official PMI data are “not well seasonally adjusted” and that
accounting for those effects shows an increase in the gauge last
month, “suggesting that manufacturing activity is indeed
bottoming out.”  Gains in China’s currency against the  U.S. dollar  have
stalled as export growth slowed. The  yuan  has weakened about 1
percent this year.  The People’s Bank of China has lowered interest rates twice
starting June 8 and reduced the amount of cash banks must set
aside as reserves three times since cuts began in November.  Fine-Tuning  Premier  Wen Jiabao  reiterated China will put more emphasis
on stabilizing growth and intensify “fine-tuning” while
“unswervingly” implementing property controls and prevent  home
prices  from rebounding, the official Xinhua News Agency said in
a report yesterday. Downward pressure on the domestic economy is
relatively large and low global growth will persist for a
“fairly long period,” the report said, citing Wen.  China’s economy  grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter from
a year earlier, the least in three years. While Nomura Holdings
Inc. forecasts a recovery to 8.1 percent in the current quarter,
Song Guoqing, an academic adviser to the central bank, projects
a further decline to 7.4 percent.  Purchasing managers ’ index readings for July were released
across Asia today, with manufacturing contractions in South
Korea and  Taiwan  deepening, according to HSBC gauges compiled by
Markit Economics. A similar measure for Indonesia rose, while
the country’s June exports fell 16.4 percent from a year earlier,
compared with the median estimate for a decline of 7.9 percent.  Philippines Policy  The  Philippines  has fiscal and monetary space to support
the economy, officials said in  Manila  today. A favorable
inflation outlook gives the central bank more room for policy
action, if needed, as a protracted global slowdown and capital
flows pose risks, Governor Amando Tetangco said. Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas last week cut its benchmark interest rate to a
record low of 3.75 percent.  In Europe, PMI manufacturing readings are due for the U.K.,
 Italy ,  France , Germany and the euro area while a report today
showed U.K. home prices had their biggest annual drop in three
years in July.  U.S. Federal Reserve policy makers conclude their two-day
meeting today. While they refrained from introducing a third
round of asset purchases at their June session, Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  indicated last month that it’s an option. The  Institute
for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index probably rose to 50.2
in July, according to the median prediction in a Bloomberg
survey.  Signs of a pickup in China’s economy are mixed. While
June’s new local-currency loans were the highest since March,
industrial companies’ profits fell for a third month.  Turning Point  China’s new home prices posted the biggest gain in more
than a year, signaling a  turning point  for the nation’s property
market, according to a statement today from SouFun Holdings Ltd.,
the country’s biggest real estate website owner.  China Rongsheng Heavy Industries Group Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s largest private shipbuilder, said this week its first-
half profit probably fell “significantly” on a drop in prices
and orders. Japan’s Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-biggest
maker of construction equipment, yesterday warned of slower
Chinese demand. The company estimated industrywide sales in
China may fall as much as 30 percent this year after earlier
estimating growth of as much as 5 percent.  --Nerys Avery, Zhou Xin. With assistance from Ailing Tan and
Sharon Chen in Singapore, Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila and
Simon Lee in  Hong Kong . Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nerys Avery in Beijing at 
 Navery2@bloomberg.net ;
Zhou Xin in Beijing at   xzhou68@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  