-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in 3 Weeks on Government Growth Pledge
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-01T08:01:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/china-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-after-pmi-data.html
China ’s  stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index’s biggest gain in three weeks, as a government
pledge to ensure stable economic growth overshadowed
manufacturing data that missed analysts’ estimates.  Anhui Conch Cement Co. jumped 3.4 percent, leading gains
for cement producers, after the China Securities Journal said
the nation’s economic planners may allow local governments to
sell subway and railway bonds to support infrastructure
projects. China Vanke Co., the biggest developer, increased 1.1
percent after a report showed new home prices in the country
rose the most since June 2011.  A meeting of the Communist Party’s Politburo determined
that maintaining stable  growth  is still the top priority, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. A  purchasing
managers ’ index released today showed China’s manufacturing
industry grew at the slowest pace in eight months in July.  “Investors’ confidence may be boosted by the government’s
pledge for more measures,” said Zhang Yanbin, an analyst at
Zheshang Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “That should support the
market a little. The downward trend hasn’t stopped as economic
data is still weak.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rebounded from the lowest
level since March 2009, gaining 0.9 percent to 2,123.36 at the
close, the most since July 6. The index lost 5.5 percent in July
on concern slowing exports and property curbs are hurting
economic growth. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  advanced 1.1 percent to
2,358.65 today. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of
the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell 0.2 percent
in  New York  yesterday, taking its July slump to 4.9 percent.  Downward Pressure  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said downward pressure on the economy is
“relatively large” and pledged to use different monetary
policy tools to ensure stable growth in  money supply  and bank
credit, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday,
citing a speech on July 26. The government will “unswervingly”
implement property controls and prevent home prices from
rebounding, according to the report.  Anhui Conch advanced 3.4 percent to 14.94 yuan. Huaxin
Cement Co. surged 6.1 percent to 11.40 yuan. The National
Development and Reform Commission may allow local governments to
sell subway and railway bonds by private placement to support
construction of infrastructure projects, China Securities
Journal reported today.  Jiangxi Copper Co., (600362)  the nation’s biggest producer of the
metal, gained 1.7 percent to 20.38  yuan , the most in two weeks.
Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co. added 2.2 percent to 17.75
yuan. Southern Copper Corp.’s Financial Planning Manager Raul
Jacob said the country’s copper demand may expand as much as 7
percent this year, outpacing supply.  Manufacturing Outlook  China’s manufacturing teetered on the edge of contraction,
indicating that stimulus efforts have yet to bear fruit.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to 50.1 in July from
50.2 in June, the National Bureau of Statistics and China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing reported today. That
compares with the 50.5 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
economist survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion. A
separate PMI released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics rose to 49.3 from 48.2 in June, after a preliminary
reading of 49.5 released last week.  “It is clear that the manufacturing sector is doing very
poorly and requires policy support,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong
Kong-based senior economist and strategist at Credit Agricole
CIB, said in a research note today.  The chance of an interest-
rate cut is “up to about a third now from a quarter
yesterday,” and a reduction in banks’ reserve requirements is
“fairly imminent,” he said.  More Easing  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Radio from  London  yesterday
that he expects the People’s Bank of China to continue cutting
 interest rates  to shore up the economy. The central bank has
lowered borrowing costs twice since early June, reduced banks’
reserve requirements three times since November and sped
approvals for investment projects as economic growth weakened.  “The ongoing pace of economic growth is within
expectations, but the external environment remains grim and
poses difficulties and challenges,” Xinhua said yesterday,
citing a Politburo meeting. The Politburo reiterated that China
will pursue a “prudent”  monetary  policy and “proactive”
fiscal policy.  Buy Signal  A gauge of property shares in the Shanghai Composite
increased 0.3 percent. China Vanke increased 1.1 percent to 9.33
yuan and  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  gained 0.5 percent to 5.80 yuan.  Home prices  rose 0.3 percent from June to 8,717 yuan
($1,369) per square meter (10.76 square feet), SouFun Holdings
Ltd., the country’s biggest real estate website owner, said in a
statement today, based on a survey of 100 cities. That was the
second monthly gain and the biggest increase since June 2011.  Thirty-day  volatility  on the Shanghai index was at 14.7.
About 5.4 billion shares changed hands in the gauge yesterday,
29 percent lower than the average this year.  The Chinese stock market decline has been partially an
overreaction to the nation’s slowing economic growth and
expectations of lower corporate earnings, Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday, citing an unidentified official at the China
Securities Regulatory Commission. The CSRC is encouraging
companies to buy back shares, according to the report.  The Shanghai Composite’s 14-day  relative strength index ,
which measures how rapidly an index has risen or fallen in a
specified time period, dropped to 29.1 yesterday. Some analysts
see a reading of less than 30 as a signal to buy. The Shanghai
gauge is  valued  at 9.6 times estimated profit, compared with its
three-year average of 14.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show
The  Shanghai B-Share Stock Price Index (SHBSHR)  advanced 2.1 percent. An
11 percent tumble in the past five days dragged the gauge’s RSI
down to 16.9 yesterday.  Everbright Securities Co. dropped 5.5 percent to 12.71 yuan
after saying the first-half net income fell 26.6 percent from a
year earlier. The stock was the second-biggest drag on the
Shanghai Composite today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  