-- China Slowdown Forcing Discounting at Gome to McDonald’s
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2012-08-01T22:42:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/china-slowdown-forcing-discounting-at-gome-to-mcdonald-s.html
For years, China’s  increasing
affluence  fueled surging sales for consumer companies. That boom
is waning as slower spending translates into inventory
overloads, discounting and losses for some brands.  To lure increasingly price-sensitive shoppers, companies
from electronics retailers to footwear makers are being forced
to offer discounts that are hurting margins and driving down
earnings. Even  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant
chain, has introduced a value dinner starting from 15  yuan 
($2.40) and reported slower same-store sales growth.  China’s  second-largest  electronics retailer,  Gome
Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , in July forecast a first-
half loss even as its website offered discounts of as much as 50
percent.  I.T Ltd. (999) , a department store that sells  brands 
including Levi’s and Puma in  Greater China , cited discounting
for narrower gross profit margins in the year ended February.
Slower sales have left  Nike Inc. (NKE)  with too much inventory in
China, its second-largest market after the U.S.  The discounting and weaker sales reflect the escalating
pressure on local and global brands in  China , where two years of
economic growth of  more than  9 percent encouraged companies to
expand. International brands have relied on  Asia  to offset a
spending slump in the U.S. and  Europe .  “Maybe previously, a PRC consumer didn’t even need to ask
the price and just bought the product,” said Eugene Mak, an
analyst at Core Pacific-Yamaichi International  Hong Kong  Ltd.
“Now they’re more price sensitive.”  Economic Slowdown  Retail sales  grew 13.7 percent in June, the slowest pace
since February last year and near levels seen in early 2009 in
the months after the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankruptcy.  Gross domestic product  expanded  7.6 percent in the three
months ended June, in a sign the government is yet to get the
economy firing as quarterly growth cooled to the slowest pace in
three years.  Daphne International Holdings Ltd. (210) , which  sells  shoes under
its namesake brand and also has distribution rights for
international lines such as Aerosoles and Aldo in China, last
month said intense promotional efforts, together with rising
production costs, were pressuring the group’s gross margin.  “Domestic consumption demand is slowing in China,” said
Mak. “We do generally see an increase in promotions and
discounts in both China and Hong Kong this year. Partly, it’s
the inventory build-up, the other part is just slower demand.”  Retailers in expansion mode are getting hit as their
investments in new stores are taking longer to pay off amid
slowing  consumer spending .  Golden Eagle Retail Group Ltd. (3308)  said
earnings will be little changed in the first half of this year
because of a deceleration in sales and stores’ startup costs.  Profit Declines  Gerald Qu, 36, who works in a bank in Jiangxi, China, said
although his bonus could be cut, he has found it hard to rein in
spending across the board. “You can’t save on children’s”
shopping, he said. “I can only save on myself.” Cutting back
means buying fewer clothes for himself and traveling less, he
said.  Price wars have nicked results in the sportswear sector,
where companies went on an expansion spree after the Beijing
Olympics in 2008.  Li Ning  Co., the Beijing-based sportswear retailer founded
by the former Olympic gymnast of the same name, in July said
Chief Executive Officer Zhang Zhi Yong stepped down, three weeks
after it forecast a “substantial” profit decline.  “The sportswear industry in China has suffered from over-
expansion,” Executive Vice Chairman Kim Jin Goon said on a
conference call with reporters while discussing the CEO’s
departure. “Growth in supply exceeded the pace in demand,
leading to a short-term saturation.” Li Ning’s website carried
a banner advertising a 50 percent discount on all items around
the time of the CEO’s resignation.  Sophisticated Shoppers  Nike’s future orders for China grew 2 percent in constant
currency terms in the fiscal fourth quarter, a “significant”
slowdown from the previous period, Chief Financial Officer
Donald Blair said on a conference call in June.  The potential growth of Chinese shoppers’ spending power is
“still relatively very strong,” compared with developed
economies such as the U.S., Mak said.  Still, shoppers are getting choosier in picking brands,
adding to the pressure companies are facing in a slowing
economy. Amanda Du, 18, visiting Hong Kong from China’s
mainland, said she picks Nike for shoes even though she prefers
Adidas for sports apparel.  Gome Slump  Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike needs to improve its products
and merchandising to deal with a more discerning Chinese
consumer and “sharper” competition in the country,  Charlie Denson , president of the namesake brand, said in a June call
with analysts. The company remains “enthusiastic” about long-
term growth in China, Chief Financial Officer Blair said on the
same call.  Among electronics retailers, Beijing-based Gome plunged to
an  all-time low  in Hong Kong on July 25 after forecasting a loss
on lower sales and losses at its e-commerce unit. Gome’s
website, near the end of July, was offering online rebates of
about 200 yuan for each 1,000 yuan purchase, and discounts as
much as 50 percent on home and lifestyle products.  Larger rival  Suning Appliance Co. (002024)  said on July 13 that it
expects first-half net income to fall by as much as 30 percent
because of weaker sales and higher expenses.  Value for Money  BaWang International Group Holding Ltd. (1338) , a seller of
shampoos and conditioners, projected a loss for the six months
ended June because of a decrease in sales of household and
personal care products.  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s second-quarter same-
store sales growth in China slowed to 2.2 percent from 8.5
percent in the preceding three-month period.  In China, “consumers are reacting with greater caution as
the economy has slowed” and value lunches and the newly
introduced value dinner were driving sales, Chief Executive
Officer  Don Thompson  said on a July conference call.  In the “current operating environment,” all businesses
will increase “consumer-facing activities,” McDonald’s
spokeswoman Jessica Lee said via e-mail. “McDonald’s is
constantly finding ways to meet customer needs,” she said.  The fast-food chain in April introduced its first value
dinner in China, where it already had other value offerings for
lunch and breakfast. The evening meal offers an entree, drink
and fries starting from 15 yuan between 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. every
day. The Economist’s  Big Mac index  in July put the price of the
Big Mac alone in China at $2.45, or 15.60 yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anjali Cordeiro in Hong Kong at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  