-- Coach Drops as Kors Grabs Handbag Customers in Slowdown: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/coach-droops-as-kors-grabs-handbag-customers-in-slowdown-retail.html
Coach Inc. (COH)  Chief Executive Officer
Lew Frankfort has beaten Wall Street sales estimates in 85
percent of all quarters for the past five years, through good
times and bad.  Not yesterday, when Coach reported North American
comparable sales that missed analysts’  predictions  as well as
its own projection. Concerned about Coach’s ability to hold on
to its market share, investors pushed the  stock  down the most in
almost 11 years.  The largest U.S. maker of luxury leather goods is facing
rising competition from companies, such as  Michael Kors Holdings
Ltd. (KORS) , piling into the lucrative handbag category that Coach has
dominated for more than a decade. A slowdown in U.S.  consumer
spending  amid weak economic growth hasn’t helped. Analysts at
Piper Jaffray Cos. and Jefferies Group Inc. yesterday dropped
their recommendations that investors buy the shares.  “Coach needs to sustain the strength of their full-line
stores and reinstate consumer interest” in their outlet stores,
 Matt Arnold , a  Des Peres , Missouri-based analyst with Edward
Jones & Co., who recommends buying the shares, said in a
telephone interview. “That is not going to be easy in this
environment.”  Coach, based in  New York , helped invent mass luxury with
$299 handbags that are affordable for middle-income consumers.
As the U.S. market pioneer, the company reaped the rewards. For
the past 12 quarters,  revenue  has grown an average of 14
percent. Net income has risen 14 percent or more in each quarter
of Coach’s just-finished year.  Long-Term Growth  Frankfort, speaking to investors on a  conference call 
yesterday, reiterated his long-term goals for the company.  The Coach team is “very confident in our long-term growth
prospects and our ability to drive our business at a double-
digit pace,” Frankfort said.  Sales at North American stores open at least a year
advanced 1.7 percent in the quarter ended June 30, compared with
a gain of 10 percent a year earlier.  Jennifer Davis , an analyst
at Lazard Capital Markets, had projected an increase of 5
percent. Coach forecast growth of at least the same pace as the
previous quarter’s 6.7 percent gain.  Kors’s North American comparable sales soared 37 percent in
its most recent quarter.  Market share losses hurt Coach’s comparable sales, Michael Binetti, a UBS AG analyst, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Coach fell 19 percent to $49.33 at the close in New York
yesterday, for the biggest drop since Sept. 17, 2001. The
shares, down 19 percent this year, had almost tripled in value
from the beginning of 2009 to the end of 2011.  Handbag Sales  Frankfort’s ability to beat estimates quarter after quarter
through the recession and lackluster recovery was due in part to
the fact that handbags are one of the luxuries women are still
willing to buy. While consumers began spending less on jewelry
this year, prompting New York-based  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  to cut its
profit and sales forecasts in May, handbag sales marched on.  In recent years, women have switched their spending from
clothes to handbags, which last longer, can be worn more often
and don’t have to fit. In 2011, Americans spent $8.5 billion on
bags, according to Accessories magazine, an industry
publication. Handbag sales have been growing about 10 percent a
year, according to Coach. Compare that to the women’s apparel
market, which has been growing about 4 percent.  As a result, the fragmented fashion accessories category
has attracted growth-hungry bag makers -- rivals Coach didn’t
need to worry about before.  Kors Competition  One is Kors. With a 9.5 percent share, the Hong Kong-based
company has become a “significant threat” to Coach’s 35
percent share of the U.S. handbag market, Binetti wrote in a
July 23 report. If Kors meets its own current-year targets, it
can gain another 3 percentage points of share, creating
headwinds for Coach’s revenue and earnings per share, estimated
Binetti, who is based in New York and has a neutral rating on
the shares.  In addition to Kors, Coach is facing competition from Tory
Burch LLC,  Fifth & Pacific Cos. (FNP) ’  Kate Spade  and  Ralph Lauren
Corp. (RL)  At the same time, Americans have curbed discretionary
purchases amid slow economic growth that has made joblessness
stubborn. Consumer spending in the U.S. stagnated in June as
incomes increased. Household purchases, which account for about
70 percent of the economy, were unchanged in June after a 0.1
percent decrease the prior month, according to a Commerce
Department report yesterday.  Promotional Environment  Coach said “an increasingly promotional environment”
prompted slower-than-expected growth at its factory outlets,
which Frankfort said were “entirely responsible” for the sales
growth deceleration. The company said it re-instituted discount
coupons late in the quarter, which was helping.  Robust handbag demand will continue, Frankfort said. Still,
with rivals circling, Frankfort has been building alternate
sources of growth. Yesterday, he called out efforts to build up
non-handbag goods in the Legacy line, which was introduced last
month and recalls Coach’s original designs. He mentioned
outerwear, jewelry, watches and scarves.  He cited 60 percent sales growth in  China , and a doubling
of sales in men’s goods in the year that ended June 30.  As the shares sank, he sought to assure investors: “We’re
driven to win.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  