-- Cobalt, Solvay to Convert Brazil Sugar-Cane Waste Into Chemicals
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-01T11:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/cobalt-solvay-to-convert-brazil-sugar-cane-waste-into-chemicals.html
Cobalt Technologies Inc., a closely
held U.S. biotechnology company, will build a plant in  Brazil 
with a unit of  Solvay SA (SOLB)  to convert sugar-cane waste into
butanol.  The demonstration facility is expected to show that
Cobalt’s  biobutanol fermentation technology  may be installed at
existing cane mills as the company pursues sales to commercial
processing facilities in Brazil, the  Mountain View , California-
based company said in a statement today. It will jointly develop
and operate the plant with Rhodia SA, the specialty chemicals
maker that Solvay acquired last year.  The deal expands a partnership the companies announced in
October, when Cobalt said it may build multiple biorefineries
with Rhodia in  Latin America  after testing the company’s
technology in Brazil, Steven Shevick, chief financial officer of
Cobalt, said by e-mail. The demonstration plant won’t cost more
than $15 million, he said.  The company makes n-butanol, a four-carbon alcohol that’s
used in paints, adhesives, inks and other solvents and is a $5
billion a year market. N-butanol is traditionally made from
propylene, a petroleum product, and may be converted into other
chemicals that are used to manufacture products such as tires,
plastics and jet fuel, according to Cobalt.  The plant is expected to be completed by the third quarter
of 2013. Cobalt may begin working on a commercial-scale
biorefinery in 2014 with production beginning during the sugar
cane harvest of 2015.  Cobalt and Rhodia are installing the demonstration plant at
a mill owned by a “a top five sugar producer” that Shevick
wouldn’t name. The production system will be about 10 percent
the size of one for a commercial facility, he said.  Cobalt said it can produce n-butanol through fermentation
about 40 percent to 60 percent cheaper than traditional
processes based on petroleum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  