-- Coca-Cola Said to Explore Offer for F&N Beverage Division
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-08-02T07:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/coca-cola-said-to-explore-offer-for-f-n-beverage-division.html
Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s largest
soft-drinks maker, is exploring a bid for the beverage business
of  Singapore ’s  Fraser and Neave Ltd ., according to several
people with knowledge of the matter.  A bid for the F&N business held under F&N Foods Pte. and
Kuala Lumpur-listed  Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd. (FNH)  may pit Coca-
Cola against  Japan ’s  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , which is also
considering making an offer.  The operations would give Coca-Cola Chief Executive Officer
Muhtar Kent the biggest share of soft-drink sales in Malaysia
and Singapore, according to Euromonitor International data. The
unit, including F&N’s dairy and soft-drinks businesses, may be
worth as much as $3 billion, said two of the people, who asked
not to be named as the process is private.  “It’s a very dominant player in  Malaysia ,” said Lim Jit Soon, Singapore-based analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. “They
have a very strong brand in 100Plus, which is recognized around
the region,” Lim said, referring to F&N’s sports drink brand.  F&N also owns a real estate business with shopping centers,
serviced apartments and industrial property. Real estate
accounted for S$2.1 billion in sales last year, 34 percent of
the total, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Dairy business sales
were S$1.1 billion in 2011, while the soft drinks unit had S$759
million of revenue, the data show.  Coca-Cola hasn’t made a decision and is waiting to see what
other suitors do, said another person.  Trading Halted  F&N today requested a halt in trading of its shares pending
an announcement. Jennifer Yu, a spokeswoman for F&N, declined to
comment on Coca-Cola’s interest or the reasons for the trading
halt.  Kent Landers , a spokesman for Coca-Cola, said he couldn’t
comment on market speculation, and Kirin spokeswoman Nahoko Abe
also declined to comment.  Coca-Cola and Kirin are considering bids for F&N’s food and
drinks business after Heineken, the world’s third-biggest
brewer, last month offered as much as S$7.5 billion ($6 billion)
to takeover a brewer that is jointly run by the Dutch company
and F&N. F&N owns 40 percent of  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB) ,
while Heineken owns 42 percent. APB, which brews Tiger beer and
Heineken, was also halted today in Singapore.  “If you agree to sell Asia Pacific Breweries, it would
seem perfectly natural to sell other parts of the businesses
too,” said Jonathan Foster, Singapore-based director of Global
Special Situations at Religare Capital Markets Ltd. “There is a
bigger game other than APB being played out here.”  ThaiBev’s Interest  The Dutch brewer’s July 20 bid came two days after  Thai
Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , the brewer of Chang Thai Beer, struck a deal to
buy a 22 percent stake in F&N. At the same time, a company
affiliated with ThaiBev’s billionaire owner Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi purchased almost 9 percent of APB.  Thai Beverage said yesterday it’s seeking to increase its
stake in F&N. The company said July 31 it no longer needs to
hold a meeting with shareholders on its investment in F&N after
receiving a waiver from the  Singapore Exchange , speeding up the
transaction. Thai Beverage said it asked for the waiver after
the Heineken bid for APB so that its views would be “taken into
account” on the offer.  “Thai Beverage has no influence on its decision yet
because we don’t have a large stake and no seat on the board
yet,” Vichate Tantiwanich, senior vice president at Thai
Beverage, said by phone yesterday. The company is “looking for
an opportunity to increase our holding in Fraser & Neave” and
has “no intention to take over Fraser & Neave,” Vichate said.  Coca-Cola Partner?  For F&N’s beverages business, Coca-Cola is deciding whether
to find a partner to take F&N’s line of mixers and tonics, and
may drop its plans if it can’t find one, one of the people said.
The company had two banks reviewing the F&N assets, the people
said. While executives in  Asia  are interested, a final decision
to bid will be made at Coca-Cola’s headquarters in Atlanta, one
person said.  The soft-drinks unit also includes bottled water, juice
drinks, mixers and iced teas, according to its F&N’s  website .
F&N also produces pasteurized milk, yogurt, and juices through
its dairy business. Coca-Cola is more interested in the soft-
drinks operations than dairy, the people said.  The stakes in food and beverage businesses with operations
in Malaysia, Vietnam and  Thailand  have a market value of about
S$2.7 billion ($2.2 billion), according to estimates by Nomura’s
Lim.  F&N fell 0.4 percent to S$8.15 at the close of trading in
the city yesterday, giving it a market value of about S$11.6
billion. Fraser & Neave Holdings, 56 percent owned by F&N, rose
4.6 percent to a record high 20 ringgit, at 3:19 p.m. in  Kuala
Lumpur  today. At that price the company has a market value of
7.2 billion ringgit ($2.3 billion).  Coca Cola gained 0.3 percent to $81.01 in  New York  trading
yesterday, while Kirin, which already owns 15 percent of F&N,
ended trading unchanged today at 895 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  