-- Colombian Peso Strengthens on Oil Gain, Global Growth Optimism
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-08-01T15:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/colombian-peso-strengthens-on-oil-gain-global-growth-optimism.html
Colombia’s peso advanced as oil, the
nation’s biggest export, rose on speculation central banks this
week will take steps to support the global economic recovery.  The peso strengthened 0.2 percent to 1,788.25 per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:57 a.m. in Bogota. It has gained 8.4 percent this
year, the best performance among all currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “Oil is gaining and that helps the peso,” said  Camilo
Perez , the head analyst at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s second-
biggest bank.  Crude for September delivery advanced 0.8 percent on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange before a Federal Reserve policy
meeting ends today. The European Central Bank’s Governing
Council gathers tomorrow. Oil accounted for 49 percent of
Colombia’s sales abroad last year.  Speculation that Colombia’s central bank will increase its
daily dollar purchases to stem the peso’s rally is helping ease
gains in the local currency, according to Perez.  While central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe reiterated on
July 27 that the bank will buy a minimum of $20 million daily in
the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said that day that several board members wanted
increased dollar purchases.  “The risk of greater intervention remains,” said Perez.
He forecasts policy makers will wait until the Aug. 24 monetary
policy meeting to announce an increase to $40 million daily.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 6.64 percent, according to the central bank.  The yield has fallen 13 basis points since Banco de la
Republica unexpectedly cut  interest rates  a quarter percentage
point to 5 percent on July 27. The move surprised 24 of 35
economists surveyed by Bloomberg, who had predicted no change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 Bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  