-- Comcast Tops Profit Estimates After Cutting Its Video Losses
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-08-01T20:28:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/comcast-profit-tops-estimates-after-subscriber-losses-are-cut.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable
company, reported a better-than-estimated 32 percent increase in
second-quarter profit after signing up more phone and broadband
subscribers and losing fewer video customers.  Net income attributable to Comcast rose to $1.35 billion,
or 50 cents a share, from $1.02 Billion, or 37 cents, a year
earlier, the Philadelphia-based company said today in a
statement. The average profit estimate of 26 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was 48 cents. Sales rose 6.1 percent to $15.2
billion, in line with estimates from 23 analysts.  Comcast improved its video guide, boosted Internet speeds
and added phone features to fight competition from online video
companies, satellite-television providers and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s FiOS and  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse. The company
has curbed video losses for the seventh consecutive quarter on a
year-over-year basis.  “Cable distribution is a cash machine, and Comcast used
that cash to continue to buy back shares that we believe remain
attractively valued,”  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  New York , wrote in a note to clients.  The company repurchased $750 million of its own shares and
paid out $438 million in dividends in the quarter.  Comcast rose 3.1 percent to $33.55 at the close in New
York, the company’s biggest one-day gain since Feb. 15. The
shares have gained 42 percent this year.  Subscriber Data  Comcast lost 176,000 video subscribers, less than the
238,000 a year earlier and a smaller drop than the 184,000
average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It added
156,000 broadband customers and 158,000 phone customers.
Analysts had projected a gain of 153,000 Internet subscribers
and 133,000 phone customers.  Seventy-five percent of customers bought at least two
services from Comcast and about 40 percent purchased TV,
Internet and voice, the so-called triple play package, the
company said today on a conference call, after its report.  “We’re getting better products out there,”  Neil Smit ,
president and chief executive officer of Comcast cable, said on
the call. “We’re targeting our marketing better.”  Average total revenue per video customer rose 8 percent to
$148.57.  Time Warner Cable (TWC) , the second-largest U.S. cable
provider, reports earnings tomorrow.  Video Revenue  Revenue at  NBC Universal , a unit of Comcast, fell 0.8
percent to $5.5 billion as “Battleship” flopped at the box
office, leading to an $83 million operating cash-flow loss in
filmed entertainment. NBC Universal’s operating cash flow
declined 15 percent to $982 million from a year earlier as
sports and original programming costs increased. A content
licensing deal with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  that added to Comcast’s sales
in the second quarter last year also led to the decline.  Broadcast television revenue fell 9.1 percent to $1.54
billion as the network struggled to gain share against CBS
Corp.’s CBS and News Corp.’s Fox, which lead NBC in prime-time
ratings. Broadcast advertising sales fell 0.2 percent to $1.11
billion, while and cable network advertising revenue rose 4.1
percent to $924 million.  “Investors are focused on the magnitude of investments in
NBC content, in particular relative to corporate capital
allocation policies,”  Jason Armstrong , an analyst at Goldman
Sachs & Co. in New York, said in an interview. “The cable
business can be on fire, but NBC’s results aren’t as strong, and
the question is how much dilution will come from NBC.”  Olympics Ratings  NBC’s Olympics ratings “are way up versus forecast,” NBC
Universal CEO Steve Burke said on the conference call. NBC now
expects to be “right around” the break-even point to make
money on the London Games, which Burke said had been projected
to lose as much as $200 million.  The ratings for the Games are up 9 percent so far from the
Olympics in Beijing. NBC had projected ratings to be down 20
percent, Burke said.  NBC has been tape-delaying marquee events and airing them
on the  broadcast network  during prime-time hours to generate
higher advertising revenue. The decision has drawn broad
criticism that’s been aired on Twitter for not catering to
audiences that want to watch events live. Cable subscribers can
get access to live events online through NBC’s  website .  “For the first time we have a strategy that embraces
broadcast, cable and digital,” Burke said. “So we have a lot
of exposure all leading up to these great numbers in prime
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  