-- Comcast Sues FCC Over Tennis Channel Distribution Ruling
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-01T22:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/comcast-sues-fcc-over-tennis-channel-distribution-ruling.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  sued the Federal
Communications Commission to block a ruling mandating
distribution of the  Tennis Channel  on its cable systems that it
said may cost it hundreds of millions of dollars.  Comcast, in a lawsuit filed today in  Washington , asked a
federal appeals court to throw out the FCC ruling, which found
the cable operator improperly discriminated against the Tennis
Channel by making it available to subscribers who pay a higher
subscription rate.  The FCC required Comcast to distribute the Tennis Channel
to the same number of subscribers who don’t pay the additional
rate and receive two of its own sports channels. Comcast, the
largest U.S. cable company, called the ruling arbitrary and
unconstitutional and said it would be forced to make payments to
Tennis Channel for the programming.  “The order requires Comcast to increase substantially its
distribution of Tennis Channel, such that Tennis Channel will
reach an equal number of Comcast’s subscribers as two of
Comcast’s affiliated networks, Golf Channel and Versus,”
Comcast said in its complaint. Versus is now called the NBC
Sports Network.  The FCC also assessed $375,000 against Philadelphia-based
Comcast. The agency on July 24 gave Comcast 45 days to comply
with the distribution order.  Investors in the closely held Tennis Channel include Apollo
Partners, Bain Capital Ventures,  Battery Ventures , CCMP Capital
Advisors, Columbia Capital, DND Capital Partners LLC and former
players Andre Agassi and  Pete Sampras , according to the
channel’s website.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment on the
lawsuit filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of
Columbia . That court handles reviews of many federal regulatory
decisions.  ‘Accomplish Nothing’  Sena Fitzmaurice, a spokeswoman for Comcast, said the
filing speaks for itself and pointed to statements made by Kyle McSlarrow, the Washington president of Comcast/NBCUniversal,
when the FCC issued its ruling.  “The decision will accomplish nothing other than to drive
up programming costs and enrich a group of wealthy investors in
the Tennis Channel,” McSlarrow said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Comcast Cable Communications LLC v. Federal
Communications Commission, 12-01337,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for
the District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  