-- Commuting to 4.6% Unemployment From 13% Is New Canada Way
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/commuting-to-4-6-unemployment-from-13-is-new-canada-way.html
Kirk Penney has endured commutes of
eight-hour flights and one-hour refueling stops between his home
in Charlottetown,  Newfoundland , and  Canada’s booming  oil
industry out west for the past five years.  The 30-year-old electrician works 14 days in and seven out
at Alberta-based  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ’s Firebag oil-sands project
for contractor URS Corp., nearly tripling his pay to around
C$150,000 ($149,500). He stays in touch with morning phone calls
to his two young children and night calls to his wife.  “It provides a good lifestyle for my kids,” Penney said
around dawn in Toronto’s airport at a stopover on a midnight
flight from Fort McMurray,  Alberta . “That’s the only reason I’m
doing it. Living in Newfoundland is mostly hand-to-mouth.”  While Penney and his wife have talked about whether to move
to Alberta, they have chosen to stay in Newfoundland, on
 Canada ’s eastern coast. With two small kids, “we like the local
atmosphere,” he said. “Everybody knows everybody.”  Long-distance commuters such as Penney are filling the gap
in Canada’s labor market as western  companies  are desperate for
workers to develop the world’s largest  crude-oil reserves 
outside  Saudi Arabia  and  Venezuela . Meanwhile, seasonal laborers
in  struggling  forest and fishing towns in eastern provinces face
government cutbacks in jobless benefits they draw on in off-
seasons.  Federal rules starting this month may oblige frequent users
of employment insurance to take a job that pays 70 percent of
their past wages and in some cases to accept work that has a
one-hour commute or face a cutoff of benefits that pay a maximum
of C$485 a week.  Accelerate Exodus  Fisherman Michael McGeoghegan says the policies are another
blow to a region suffering from drops of as much as 50 percent
in the prices for some catches and will accelerate the exodus of
young workers.  “The weather makes it seasonal; it’s not seasonal because
we make it that way,” said McGeoghegan, president of the Prince
 Edward Island  Fisherman’s Association, who has for 34 years
hauled in lobster, scallops, crab, mackerel and herring. “We’re
Canadian citizens, too; we have a right to live in the eastern
part of Canada just like anybody else.”  The new requirements are needed to lower unemployment and
bridge regional disparities, said Peter Jarrett, head of the
Canada division for the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “The incentives just weren’t there for many people to do
something about their situation because they could survive on
pogey,” he said in an interview in Ottawa, using slang for
jobless payouts.  13 percent  Unemployment in Newfoundland was 13 percent in June, above
the 4.6 percent rate for Alberta and 7.7 percent for Ontario,
Canada’s most populous province. Alberta also paid the highest
weekly wage of any province in May at C$1,057, compared with
C$919 in Newfoundland and C$745 on Prince Edward Island, the
country’s lowest.  Even with this lopsided performance, Canada has recovered
lost output ahead of other Group of Seven nations after the 2008
global financial squeeze, according to Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s latest annual budget presented in March.  Companies such as  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) ,
both based in Calgary, are pulling workers west as production of
Canadian  crude oil  will more than double to 6.2 million barrels
a day by 2030, according to the Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers. That suggests the demand for workers will
increase, threatening to boost the cost of new pipelines and oil
wells.  Labor Costs  “My concern really more is down the road,”  Enbridge
President Al Monaco said after a June 18 speech in Toronto.
Liquefied natural-gas export projects in British Columbia, along
with the company’s plans to pipe Alberta oil-sands crude oil to
the Pacific Coast, “will certainly put a lot more pressure on
labor costs going forward.”  Canada’s forestry employment has fallen by 4.2 percent this
year to 38,700 while at mining and energy companies, the number
of positions has risen 2.7 percent to 218,000, according to
 Statistics Canada , the nation’s economic-data agency. In 2007,
forestry employment was 53,700, and mining and energy was
186,200.  A Newfoundland government  study  found that as many as
10,600 of its citizens had worked in Alberta in 2009 and 2010.
That exceeded the roughly 6,200 employed on fishing boats in
2010 in a province whose beginnings were rooted in catching cod.
Fishing and hunting jobs fell 35 percent in 2010 from 2000, the
study showed.  Fishing Decline  The population in Red Harbour has dropped to about 200 from
a peak of 350 on the fishing industry’s decline and “the
enticement” of high-paying Alberta jobs, including ones with
monthly commutes, according to the town’s  website .  “Their wives are staying here raising the family, and the
men are just coming home for like a week a month,” Deputy Mayor
Michelle Rowe said in a telephone interview.  She says her fisherman husband won’t benefit from the new
employment-insurance rules that require a one-hour drive to a
minimum-wage job.  “That’s eighty dollars he’s going to make, minus the money
to pay for a babysitter and extra drive; he’s not going to make
much money anyway.”  The rules merely give some clear definition to the existing
system, which already requires people to seek out appropriate
work while drawing government benefits, said Diane Finley, the
federal human-resources minister. The measures are geared to
reflect local labor-market conditions and the availability of
public transit or child-care costs, she said.  ‘Reasonable Distance’  “If there are jobs available for which they are qualified
within a reasonable distance, then yes, they should be able to
take them because they are still better off” with most
positions than they are on government assistance, she said.  Long-distance commuters such as Dave Adams don’t begrudge
their countrymen the benefits and say the government is wrong to
make changes.  “I don’t agree with what they are doing,” said Adams, a
48-year-old from Newfoundland who does scaffolding work for
 Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  and has made the Alberta trips
since 2007. “I don’t think they should be allowed to touch
unemployment.”  At the Toronto layover on a July 19 flight from Fort
McMurray to St. John’s, Newfoundland, dozens of men fill the
lounge, dressed in jeans, baseball caps from companies such as
Suncor and  Horizon North Logistics Inc. (HNL) , and summer jackets from
Newfoundland sports teams. Few bother to get coffee to keep
awake.  Delayed Flight  There is grumbling on the ground as the flight is delayed.
Finally onboard, one man falls asleep the moment his row fills
up. Over  Quebec , Air Canada staff announce that connecting
flights to Newfoundland communities such as Deer Lake and Gander
probably will be held for 14 of the passengers.  Once at  St. John’s , everyone leaves the airport within 30
minutes of landing, several parting with “See you in a week.”  The following morning, Tony Martin waits for a flight to
Fort McMurray to a warehouse job in his second rotation out
west. The 47-year-old was lured by the chance to double his pay
after working 23 years in the province’s public-health system.  “It’s a sacrifice but I’m in an ideal place; I am single
and my daughter is 18 years old,” Martin said, adding that
other people shouldn’t have to choose between losing jobless
benefits and working away from their families.  “What the government has done is very black and white, cut
and dry to a problem that isn’t,” he said. “You can’t buy
their childhood back.”  On Penney’s flight to see his wife and two kids, he manages
to get some sleep, helped by his practice of staying up for 24
hours before he leaves. After he lands, he still faces a two-
and-a-half hour drive.  The length of the commute “really gives you five days
home” instead of seven, Penney said. “You really can’t get
ready for it.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  