-- Construction Spending in U.S. Climbs to Almost Three-Year High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-08-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-climbs-to-almost-three-year-high.html
Construction  spending  in the U.S.
increased in June to the highest level in almost three years as
the housing market continued to stabilize.  The 0.4 percent gain, which matched the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, pushed the value of all
projects up to $842 billion at an annual rate, the most since
November 2009, Commerce Department figures showed today in
Washington. The advance in May was revised to 1.6 percent from an
initially reported 0.9 percent rise.  A sustained housing recovery is supporting the construction
sector even as public spending languished. Home builders such as
Standard Pacific Corp. are buoyed by a need for inventories and
improvement in lending standards for buyers.  “Starts and permits are up, supply is tight, there’s pent-
up demand out there, credit is slowly getting better,”  Gus Faucher , a senior economist at PNC Financial Services Group Inc.
in Pittsburgh, said before the report. “There’s definitely a
rebound on the residential side, there may be a rebound on the
commercial side.”  Estimates of the 47 economists  surveyed  ranged from an
increase of 1 percent to a decline of 0.2 percent.  Construction spending increased 9 percent in the 12 months
ended in June, before adjusting for seasonal variations.  Private construction spending increased 0.7 percent in June
from the prior month.  Homebuilding Climbs  Homebuilding outlays rose 1.3 percent, bringing its value to
$266 billion, the highest level since January 2009. The category
grew even as home improvement spending dropped 0.8 percent.
Private non-residential projects climbed 0.1 percent.  Spending on public construction was little changed in June
from the prior month as federal projects dropped by 1.6 percent.
Expenditures by state and local government agencies climbed 0.2
percent.  Housing demand has shown a choppy recovery. Demand for new
U.S. homes unexpectedly dropped 8.4 percent in June from a two-
year high the previous month, and those of existing homes
declined 5.4 percent to an eight-month low, figures showed last
month.  Housing starts climbed 6.9 percent to a 760,000 annual pace
in June, the fastest rate in almost four years, from a revised
711,000 rate in the prior month, according to Commerce Department
figures released on July 18.  “We have always maintained that the housing recovery would
likely be an uneven one,” Scott Stowell, Standard Pacific
president and chief executive officer, said on a July 27 earnings
call. “New housing starts and permits are up significantly from
last year, albeit at levels that are still well below normal.”  Record Low  Borrowing costs remain attractive. The average rate for a
30-year fixed mortgage dropped to 3.49 percent in the week ended
July 26, the lowest in Freddie Mac records dating to 1971. The
average 15-year rate dropped to 2.8 percent, also a record, from
2.83 percent, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company
said in a statement.  Construction funded by government agencies is likely to
continue to face headwinds. Communities and states across the
nation endure soaring costs for pensions and retiree health
benefits as sales and property-tax revenue have fallen from the
longest recession since the 1930s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  