-- Court Revives Raytheon Claims Ex-Workers Stole Secrets
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-01T22:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/court-revives-raytheon-claims-ex-workers-stole-secrets.html
U.S. defense contractor Raytheon Co.
won an appeals court ruling that revives claims  Flir Systems
Inc. (FLIR) ’s Indigo Systems unit lured away former workers to steal
 trade secrets  related to infrared cameras.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit today
said a lower court erred in dismissing the case. It said the
trial judge was wrong to rule that Raytheon should have known of
any supposed theft before 2004, so it was too late to file the
lawsuit in 2007.  “It was for the jury and not for the district court to
determine when Raytheon should have first discovered the facts
supporting its cause of action,” the three-judge panel  wrote .  Unless the Federal Circuit agrees to reconsider its
decision, the case will be sent back to a judge in Sherman,
 Texas .  The decision “allows Raytheon to continue to pursue its
claims for significant damages resulting from Flir theft of
trade secrets and misappropriation of intellectual property,”
Jon Kasle, a spokesman for Raytheon, said. Flir didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  Indigo, now known as Flir Commercial Systems, was founded
in 1996 by former Raytheon employees and had a consulting
contract with the Waltham, Massachusetts-based defense
contractor through 2000.  That year, Indigo was chosen over Raytheon for a contract
to provide infrared cameras to the U.S. military, the court
said. In 2003, it beat out Raytheon again, this time for a
subcontract from  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  to provide the cameras
for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.  Raytheon said it received assurances from Indigo that its
employees, including ones hired from Raytheon, weren’t using
Raytheon technology.  Camera Evidence  In 2004, Raytheon obtained an Indigo camera, disassembled
it and “found what it believed was evidence of patent
infringement and trade secret misappropriation,” according to
the ruling. The suit was filed in 2007, within the three-year
statute of limitations based on that discovery and the patent
claims have since settled.  Raytheon had suspicions in 2000 because of the number of
employees it lost to Indigo and the contract losses, the lower
court ruled. It should have acted then, the judge said.  The appeals court ruled that the judge should have
considered that Raytheon relied on pledges from Indigo that
Raytheon intellectual property wasn’t being used. The court
panel said the purchase of the Indigo camera was a normal
competitive gambit, not out of any particular suspicion.  ‘Constant Duty’  “The district court essentially concluded that from 2000
on, Raytheon was on permanent inquiry notice and therefore had a
constant duty to investigate all acts of competition by Indigo
for evidence of misappropriation,” the panel wrote.  Flir, a Wilsonville, Oregon-based maker of night-vision
cameras, bought Indigo in 2004.  The case is  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  v. Indigo Systems Corp., 2011-1245
and 2011-1246, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
The lower court case is Raytheon Co. v. Indigo Systems Corp.,
07cv109, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Sherman).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  