-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Fall as Fed Signals Stimulus Tool Readiness
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-01T19:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-as-fed-signals-stimulus-tool-readiness.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
declined after the  Federal Reserve  reiterated its willingness to
deliver more stimulus measures if economic conditions fail to
improve and said it would leave its benchmark funds rate near
zero at least through late 2014.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
2.8 basis points to a mid-price of 104.7 basis points at 3:32
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  held off on additional stimulus
measures, signaling the central bank will provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery,
as U.S. consumer spending stalled, manufacturing contracted and
economic growth lagged. Investors are concerned that a slowing
economy may pressure corporate balance sheets and undermine
companies’ ability to repay debt.  “They further accentuated the fact that they are in data
dependency mode. The theme is the same: ‘We’ll be watching and
if need be, we’ll be there to help,”’  Adrian Miller , director
of global markets strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New York,
said in a telephone interview.  Economists forecast before today’s policy statement that
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  would probably forgo announcing a
third round of large-scale asset purchases this week and is more
likely to wait until September to unveil plans to buy debt. The
Fed said today the economy had slowed and left unchanged its
statement that conditions would likely warrant holding its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero “at least through late
2014.”  Manufacturing Contracts  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted in July,
with the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rising
to 49.8, close to the three-year low of 49.7 reached in June.
Readings below 50 indicate contraction.  The swaps gauge typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  