-- Credit Suisse Names DeNunzio M&A Chairman, Succeeding Koch
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-08-01T15:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/credit-suisse-names-denunzio-m-a-chairman-succeeding-koch-1-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the fourth-
biggest adviser on takeovers last year, named David DeNunzio to
be chairman of its mergers and acquisitions group, designating
him one of the bank’s top dealmakers.  DeNunzio, 55, succeeds Steven Koch, who is departing to be
deputy mayor of Chicago, Zurich-based Credit Suisse said today
in an employee memo obtained by Bloomberg News. DeNunzio will
help handle relationships with important clients and work with
Scott Lindsay, the global head of the business.  DeNunzio, based in New York and previously a vice chairman
in the M&A group, counseled Goodrich Corp. this year on its
$16.5 billion sale to  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , and
Harleysville Group Inc. on its $840 million sale to Nationwide
Mutual Insurance Co.  He testified last year in Delaware Chancery Court on Air
Products & Chemicals Inc.’s $5.9 billion hostile takeover offer
for  Airgas Inc. (ARG)  After shareholders elected three Air Products
nominees to the Airgas board, the banker was brought in for a
fresh opinion.  He deemed the $70-a-share offer as too low, supporting the
conclusions of Airgas’s chief executive officer and the
company’s other bankers. Airgas fended off the offer, and by May
of this year the  shares  reached $92.49. They closed at $79.32
yesterday.  A graduate of  Princeton University  and Harvard Business
School, DeNunzio joined Credit Suisse predecessor First Boston
Corp. in 1989 after nine years at Kidder Peabody & Co.,
according to the memo. His leadership roles in the investment
bank included running the insurance group and the firm’s
private-equity arm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  