-- Crimes by Airport Screeners Aren’t Tolerated, TSA Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-08-01T16:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/crimes-by-airport-screeners-aren-t-tolerated-tsa-says.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  is policing itself and taking swift action in
response to accusations of stealing, bribery and other criminal
activity by employees, a top official told a House panel today.  Questions about how effectively the TSA is screening its
screeners have added to other embarrassments for the agency,
including purchases of equipment that didn’t work and checkpoint
confrontations involving children, senior citizens and members
of Congress.  An April arrest of TSA employees at Los Angeles
International Airport on drug trafficking charges marked the
third case this year involving allegations that agency staff
took bribes. Agents have also been accused of stealing iPads,
cash and jewelry from luggage.  “I’m not going to tolerate criminal conduct,” TSA Deputy
Administrator John Halinski said at a Homeland Security
subcommittee hearing in  Washington  today. “I give you my
word.”  Criminal incidents are rare among the agency’s 52,000-
employee workforce, Halinski told the Transportation Security
subcommittee. The agency is working to strengthen hiring
standards, training and management, and has established an
office to investigate and discipline employees when needed, he
said.  Subcommittee Chairman Mike Rogers, who has held a series of
hearings on the agency’s performance, said he was concerned that
the criminal reports are contributing to “TSA’s shattered
public image.”  The agency would be better off privatizing some of its
workforce, he said.  ‘Gargantuan Bureaucracy’  “They’re just too focused on trying to manage this
gargantuan bureaucracy,” Rogers, an Alabama Republican, told
reporters after the hearing. “This public lack of confidence is
a real problem for them, and it’s going to start manifesting
itself in the Congress if they don’t get it fixed.”  Fixing TSA’s image is a priority, Halinski said. Of 600
million passengers screened a year, fewer than 60,000 complain
of their treatment, he said.  “Overall, most travelers have a positive experience,”
Halinski said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  