-- Cruz Wins Texas Vote Moving Tea Partier Closer to Senate
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/cruz-runoff-win-moves-texas-tea-partier-closer-to-senate.html
Ted Cruz , a political newcomer in
Texas backed by Sarah Palin, defeated Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst in the Republican primary runoff to replace U.S.
Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison , who is retiring.  Cruz got 56 percent to Dewhurst’s 44 percent, with 85
percent of the vote counted yesterday, according to results on
the Secretary of State’s website. Cruz, a former Texas solicitor
general, overcame poor name recognition to rally  Tea Party 
groups and beat one of the state capital’s best-known leaders.  “We are witnessing a great awakening,” Cruz told
supporters at a victory rally in Houston. “Millions of Texans
and Americans are rising up to defend liberty and restore the
Constitution,” he said. “We are rising up to take our country
back.”  The victory may give Cruz, 41, a lock on becoming the
state’s first Latino U.S. senator. No Democrat has won a
statewide Texas vote since 1994. Palin, the former Alaska
governor and Republican vice presidential nominee in 2008, told
a rally near Houston last week that in Washington, Cruz would
help “rein in our out-of-control government.”  Cruz thanked his supporters for raising support for him
from 2 percent in voter polls when he began his campaign in
January 2011.  “They said I couldn’t do it,” he said. “But you could.
And you did.” He thanked “grassroots conservatives,”
Republican women and Tea Party groups for their help.  ‘Little Short’  Dewhurst, who pledged to “keep fighting,” told supporters
in Houston: “We came up a little short this evening.”  If President Barack Obama wins re-election, Cruz would be
“a real thorn in Obama’s side,” said  Mark Jones , the political
science department head at  Rice University  in Houston. “Cruz
will be a vocal opponent of the president’s policies. He is
extremely smart, very smooth. He’d be very comfortable speaking
on  Fox News , the Sunday morning talk shows.”  Should Republican Mitt Romney win the White House, “Cruz
would hold his feet to the fire and do everything possible to
hold conservatives to the most conservative principles,” Jones
said.  During a primary campaign in which few policy differences
emerged between the candidates, Cruz attacked Dewhurst as a
“conciliator” who would make deals with Democrats. “I’m a
fighter,” he said at a July 20 debate in Houston.  ‘Against Dewhurst’  “Ted Cruz has a nice story, but it’s more that I’m voting
against David Dewhurst,” Joe Mahoney, a retired business owner
from Athens, an East Texas city of about 13,000, said before
results were known. “He’s been a member of the go-along, get-
along part of the  Republican Party .”  “I think everyone has been trying to tell the Republican
establishment, and the Democratic establishment, that we’re not
happy with what they’re doing,” said Mahoney, an independent.  Hutchison and retiring Senate Republican  Olympia Snowe  of
Maine, along with Indiana’s  Richard Lugar , a Republican who lost
a May primary, have worked across the aisle to forge
compromises. Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican,
backed Cruz and said in May that bringing him into the chamber
would provide “conservative reinforcements” to efforts to
balance the federal budget and repeal Obama’s health-care
overhaul.  That message struck a chord with some voters.  “I’m a pretty liberal Republican,” said Jack Massey, a
Houston lawyer who voted for Cruz. “But I’m very concerned
about the budget, spending.”  DeMint Ally  DeMint, who the National Journal  ranks  as the Senate’s 10th
most conservative Republican, supported 2010 newcomers Marco Rubio of Florida, Kentucky’s Rand Paul, Pennsylvania’s  Pat Toomey  and Utah’s  Mike Lee  in winning contests against more
established members of their party. The Senate Conservatives
Fund, a political-action committee led by DeMint, says on its
website it invested almost $2 million to support Cruz.  DeMint’s PAC was joined by the Club for Growth, a
Washington-based group whose Action PAC poured about $5.6
million into helping Cruz. Outside groups backing the candidate
spent $8.36 million, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington.  The son of a Cuban immigrant father, who arrived in the
state capital of Austin in 1957, and an American mother who was
the first in her family to attend college, Cruz graduated from
 Princeton University  and  Harvard Law School . He was Texas’s top
appellate lawyer from 2003 to 2008. Governor  Rick Perry , a
Republican and the state’s longest-serving chief executive,
entered that office in 2000. He backed Dewhurst in the runoff.  Houston Lawyer  A resident of Houston, Cruz is a partner with Morgan Lewis
& Bockius LLP. Almost 38 percent of Texas residents are Hispanic
and most -- 75 percent in 2010 -- support Democrats, according
to Richard Murray, who teaches politics at the  University of
Houston . Rubio, a Florida Republican, is also a Cuban-American.  Dewhurst, 66, has led the Senate as lieutenant governor in
Austin since 2003. The position gives him control of the
legislative agenda in a chamber dominated by Republicans. He
loaned $19.2 million of his fortune to his campaign, and was
endorsed by  law enforcement , agricultural and business groups.
Outside organizations spent more than $5.7 million to aid him.  The win by Cruz sends a signal to “moderate Republicans”
nationwide, according to  Ross Baker , an expert on American
politics at  Rutgers University  in New Brunswick, New Jersey.  “Make sure your voting record passes muster with the Tea
Party, or you’re in big trouble,” Baker said of that message,
citing other primary victories by Republicans with positions
similar to those taken by Cruz.  Richard Mourdock , the Indiana
treasurer who beat six-term incumbent Lugar, was backed by
DeMint and the Club for Growth.  Perry Snub  In a rebuke to Perry, just 16 percent of voters in a Public
Policy Polling survey July 28-29 said they would be inclined to
support a candidate backed by the governor, who withdrew from
the Republican presidential primaries in January. Almost twice
as many, 31 percent, said they would side with someone endorsed
by Palin.  The runoff resulted after Dewhurst failed to win more than
half the votes in the May 29 primary, picking up 45 percent in a
field of nine candidates. Cruz finished second with 34 percent.  Cruz will contend for the Senate seat with former state
Representative Paul Sadler, a Democrat, in the Nov. 6 general
election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  