-- Czech Central Bank Signals May Cut Further After Pause
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-08-02T14:26:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/czech-central-bank-to-pause-with-easing-after-rate-cut-to-record.html
The Czech central bank kept interest
rates unchanged today, after reducing borrowing costs for the
first time in two years in June, and signaled it may continue
with monetary-policy easing as economic outlook worsens.  Policy makers held the  two-week  repurchase rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent, a quarter-point below the  European
Central Bank ’s main rate, in line with the forecasts of 19 of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey. One predicted a reduction to
0.25 percent. Four policy makers voted for stable rates, while
two sought a quarter-point reduction, Vice-Governor  Vladimir
Tomsik  told reporters in Prague today.  The Czech central bank cut borrowing costs on June 28, a
week before the ECB, to ease conditions in reaction to a
worsening economic outlook. The bank revised its gross domestic
product forecast for this year and cut the outlook for 2013,
expecting measures aimed at curbing the  budget deficit ,
including higher taxes, to further damp domestic demand. The
economy already contracted for two consecutive quarters.  “The new forecast is consistent with a decline in market
interest rates in the next several quarters, and their increase
in 2014,” Tomsik, one of four board members to back the June
cut, said. “Even as the bank saw balanced risks, it decided not
to lower rates, a step that would be in line with the forecast,
because the majority decided to wait-and-see.”  Bonds Rally  Czech bonds rallied after the central bank published the
vote result and presented the new forecast with the rate
outlook. Yield on the two-year government bond fell seven basis
points, or 0.07 percentage points, to a record low of 0.738
percent at 3:25 p.m. in  Prague .  Rate setters are assessing the impact of the government’s
tax increases on shop prices and the effects of the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis on the economy. Parliament on July 13
approved new measures, including an increase in the sales levy
and a new income tax for higher earners, to cut the fiscal gap
below the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP next year.  The bank changed its GDP forecast to a 0.9 percent
contraction in 2012, from a previously seen stagnation. It cut
the 2013 economic growth estimate to 0.8 percent, from 1.9
percent. The central bank forecasts headline inflation at 2.3
percent in both the third and fourth quarters of next year.  Inflation Deceleration  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect
taxes, will decelerate below the 2 percent target near the end
of this year or beginning of 2013, Tomsik said.  The bank forecasts private demand to continue falling and
negatively affecting the entire economic performance, with the
only positive contribution coming from exports. “The forecast
of a 1.5 percent decline in household consumption this year
would be one of the sharpest decline in private consumption in
the history of  Czech Republic ,” said Tomsik.  Central bank Governor Miroslav Singer, who secured a
majority of the seven policy makers for a reduction after being
outvoted in his attempt to cut rates in May, didn’t attend the
session today, the bank said.  Economic Recession  Economic output  fell 0.8 percent in the first quarter from
the final three months of 2011, the second contraction in as
many quarters, as households curbed spending in response to a
worsening economic outlook across  Europe . The economy relies on
demand for cars, auto parts and electronics goods from the EU,
the market for about 80 percent of Czech exports.  The  inflation  rate rose to 3.5 percent in June, from 3.2
percent in the previous month. The reading was 0.1 percentage
point lower than the central bank forecast. Inflation relevant
for monetary policy was at 2.2 percent.  Czech central bankers supporting the cut differ in their
assessment of inflation trends from policy makers in  Poland , the
EU’s largest post-communist economy. The Narodowy Bank Polski
was the only bloc member to increase  borrowing costs  this year
as inflation has exceeded its 2.5 percent target since October
2010.  Decisions on  interest rates  are influenced by koruna moves.
A stronger currency tames inflationary pressures while a weaker
one makes imports more expensive, which may stoke price growth.
The central bank expects the koruna to strengthen “very
moderately,” according to the new forecast.  “There is no recovery in the Czech economy,” Danske Bank
AS said in a report today. “Indeed, it looks more like the
Czech economy is falling deeper into recession, and
unfortunately neither the Czech government, nor the Czech
central bank has done much to improve the situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  