-- D.E. Master Blenders to Restate Results on Brazil Issues
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C e l e s t e   P e r r i
-- 2012-08-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/d-e-master-blenders-to-restate-results-on-brazil-issues.html
D.E Master Blenders 1753 (DE) , the
beverage business spun off from the former Sara Lee Corp., said
it will restate earnings because of accounting irregularities
and tax provisions at its Brazilian operations.  The adjustments will reduce shareholders equity by as much
as 95 million euros ($116.2 million) and its 2012 net result by
about 55 million euros, the Amsterdam-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The irregularities involve
uncollectible accounts receivable and incorrect recognition of
sales and make up less than half the total cut to stockholders’
equity, Michiel Quarles van Ufford, a company spokesman, said.  The maker of Pickwick tea and Senseo coffee, which trades
in Amsterdam after being spun off from Sara Lee in June,
discovered the accounting irregularities after the end of Sara
Lee’s fiscal year that month, as new management conducted an
investigation of the accounts, Quarles van Ufford said.  D.E Master Blenders said it will adjust financial
statements for fiscal years 2009 through 2011 and the first half
of fiscal 2012. Some items will also affect upcoming results
this year, according to the statement. The adjustments aren’t
expected to affect results for fiscal 2013, the company said.  Hillshire Brands Co. (HSH) , the grocery business that remained
after the spinoff, said D.E Master Blenders’ announcement will
affect its historical statements for fiscal years 2009 through
2011 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2012.  Investigation  The accounting irregularities should have minimal impact on
Hillshire because it mostly involves D.E Master Blenders’
business in Brazil, said  Tim Ramey , an analyst with D.A.
Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon .  D.E Master Blenders said it is conducting a “comprehensive
investigation” of the irregularities and will take
“appropriate actions” to enhance internal controls in Brazil.
The probe should be completed within a month, said Quarles van
Ufford. There’s no evidence yet that the issues appeared in
other parts of the company’s business, he added.  Hillshire fell 1.8 percent to $25.16. yesterday in  New
York . D.E Master Blenders rose 0.7 percent to 9.49 euros in
Amsterdam, giving the business a market value of 5.6 billion
euros. The company’s statement came after the close of Amsterdam
trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  