-- Defense Armageddon Prediction Clashes With Profits, Optimism
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-08-01T20:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/defense-armageddon-prediction-clashes-with-profits-optimism-2-.html
As the U.S.  defense  industry tries to
avert $500 billion in automatic cuts to national security
spending, one of its biggest hurdles may be its own recent
success.  The five biggest U.S. weapons makers, led by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , last week reported higher profit than analysts had
expected for the second quarter. Analysts estimate earnings of
four of the companies will rise next year.  The optimism contrasts with the “unemployment Armageddon”
that Marion Blakey, president of the Aerospace Industries
Association, has predicted will occur if the scheduled
reductions begin Jan. 2. The industry’s approach may backfire if
Congress and the public view the warnings as a bid to protect
their earnings, said Don Kettl, dean of the school of public
policy at the  University of Maryland .  “The risk is that they would move from an argument in
favor of national defense to an effort to try to save their
profits,” he said in an interview. “That’s a very thin line.”  Contractors entering the sequester debate risk raising
concerns among investors, said Chris Preble, a vice president at
the  Cato Institute  in  Washington , which advocates for limited
government.  “If you’re trying to reassure investors, then you don’t
want to be crying the sky is falling,” Preble said in a phone
interview. “There’s a real delicate balancing act there between
wanting to lobby hard to prevent cuts and sequestration, but to
also convey the stability of the company.”  F-35 Jets  National security and domestic programs face $1.2 trillion
in across-the-board reductions over a decade if Congress and the
White House don’t reach a deficit-reduction agreement.  Democrats are insisting that Republicans accept some tax
increases in exchange for altering the defense cuts. No proposal
to avoid the reductions has gained support.  The automatic cuts would force the Pentagon to reduce
purchases of weapons such as Lockheed’s F-35 jet and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Stryker combat vehicle, Deputy Defense
Secretary  Ashton Carter  said in written remarks for a House
Armed Services Committee hearing today.  Profit Outlooks  The Aerospace Industries Association, which represents
contractors such as  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  Boeing Co. (BA) , has
predicted the automatic cuts may cost 2.14 million U.S. jobs.
Robert Stevens, chairman and chief executive officer of
Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, said July 18 his company
would have to cut 10,000 positions if the reductions occur.  “Fundamentally, the nation does well when its defense
industry is financially healthy,” Wes Bush, chief executive
officer of  Falls Church , Virginia-based Northrop, said in an
interview after a July 30 rally in Arlington,  Virginia , against
the cuts.  The industry’s warnings may be at odds with the profit
outlooks of the biggest U.S. defense contractors.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict those manufacturers
will generate $12.93 billion in profits next year, 4.4 percent
more than estimated net income of $12.34 billion this year.  The top five weapons makers are Lockheed, Chicago-based
Boeing, Falls Church, Virginia-based General Dynamics, Waltham,
Massachusetts-based  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  and Northrop Grumman. Adjusted
earnings per share were estimated to rise next year for all of
the contractors except Northrop, according to the analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Sequester Threat  Investors aren’t punishing the largest contractors, even as
the threat of sequester looms. A  Bloomberg index  of the nine
biggest manufacturers of U.S. weapons systems rose 11 percent
this year through yesterday, beating the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, which gained 9.7 percent.  Lockheed’s most recent quarterly results reflect the
strength of its portfolio,  Chris Williams , a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  “Sequestration is another matter entirely,” Williams
said. With little insight into how it will be carried out,
“we’ve been unable to more precisely estimate the adverse
impacts,” he said.  Defense companies are starting to “stray into the area of
politics, and that comes with a completely different bucket of
risks,” said Robert Stallard, a London-based analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets .  ‘Doomsday Rhetoric’  Making public statements about sequestration may result in
politicians calling on defense companies to justify their
financial returns and their  executive compensation , Stallard
said in a phone interview.  “It is potentially a risk down the line that these
politicians come back with things that maybe the defense
industry is not prepared for,” he said.  Stallard said he believes Congress and the White House will
reach an agreement to delay the automatic cuts after the
November election.  “The only thing there seems to be agreement on in D.C. at
the moment is they don’t like the sequester,” he said.  Ben Freeman, national security investigator at the Project
on Government Oversight, a Washington-based group that tracks
 government spending , said it’s “hard to understand a lot of
this doomsday rhetoric” considering the profitability of the
defense industry.  “The contractor lobby is doing a brilliant job, frankly,
of framing this as an economic argument that if you cut defense
you’ll kill the economy,” he said in a phone interview.  Tax Cuts  The estimate of 2 million job losses tied to the sequester
doesn’t account for the economic impact of other potential uses
of defense spending such as tax cuts or greater investment in
education, Freeman said.  The figure comes from a George Mason University study by
 Stephen Fuller  that was funded by the Aerospace Industries
Association.  Fuller, director of the university’s Center for Regional
Analysis, defended his work as a “totally objective analysis.”
The industry group paid about $17,500 for the study, he said.  “I never allow the client to tell me what the answer needs
to be,” Fuller said in a phone interview. It doesn’t make sense
to consider other uses for the money that would be cut under
sequestration because none of it could be used for other
purposes, he said.  No ‘Panic Mode’  Not every company is taking so active a role opposing
sequestration.  Raytheon is “not in a panic mode,” Dave Wajsgras, the
contractor’s chief financial officer, said in a phone interview.
“I’m quite comfortable with how we’ll perform in the future.”  Some defense executives seem to be “uncomfortable” with
the “very visible” approach peers such as Lockheed have taken
in arguing against the automatic cuts, said  Gordon Adams , a
professor at American University in Washington who was an
official in the White House budget office during the Clinton
administration.  “There’s a political risk here for them of being
associated with the rhetoric,” he said. “It gets tough to
engage in the type of business they have to do if they’re known
to be publicly partisan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  