-- Dewey U.K. May Be Liquidated as German Arm Placed in Insolvency
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-08-01T13:26:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/dewey-u-k-may-be-liquidated-as-german-arm-placed-in-insolvency.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP’s U.K.
administrators proposed liquidating the defunct  law firm ’s
British assets last week a day after the German operations were
put in insolvency proceedings by a Frankfurt court.  The U.K. partnership, which includes the London and Paris
offices, should be moved into liquidation, administrators at BDO
LLP said in a July 27 regulatory filing. White & Case LLP
attorney Andreas Kleinschmidt was appointed preliminary
administrator July 26 in  Germany , according to the country’s
online insolvency registry.  Dewey’s U.S. partnership failed on May 28 after suffering a
loss of dozens of partners. It had drawn $75 million of a $100
million bank credit line when the loan came due on April 16,
according to people familiar with its finances. It is the
biggest law firm to file for bankruptcy, based on the number of
lawyers.  Kleinschmidt said he couldn’t comment on the German case as
he had only recently been appointed to the role. Kate Moffat, a
spokeswoman for BDO, declined to comment.  The BDO proposal filed at the U.K.’s  Companies House  said
U.K. unsecured creditors are owed 5.2 million pounds ($8.1
million). The amount includes a claim for around 3.8 million
pounds by HM Revenue & Customs for unpaid payroll and “other
taxes,” the administrators said.  “There will be insufficient assets to enable us to make
any distribution to unsecured creditors,” the administrators
said in the documents.  The firm, formed by combining Dewey Ballantine LLP and
LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & McRae LLP in 2007, had more than 1,300
attorneys in 12 countries. New York-based Dewey listed debt of
$245 million and assets of $193 million in its Chapter 11
filing.  The German insolvency case is AG Frankfurt, 810 EI 2/12 D.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  