-- Dollar Climbs Against Euro, Yen as Fed Refrains From Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-08-01T21:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/dollar-gains-versus-euro-yen-as-fed-refrains-from-more-stimulus.html
The dollar rose to the highest level
against the euro in almost a week after the  Federal Reserve 
refrained from taking further steps to stimulate the world’s
largest economy, which might have debased the U.S. currency.  The greenback gained versus the yen for the first time in
three days after the  Federal Open Market Committee  said in a
statement it will provide additional accommodation as needed
amid a slowing economy. Investors had speculated it might signal
a third round of asset purchases under quantitative easing.
 Australia ’s dollar dropped from a four-month high as risk
appetite ebbed and stocks fell.  “Anybody looking for even a mild outcome of monetary
policy easing was disappointed,”  Andrew Busch , a global
currency strategist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in  Chicago , said. “It
continues to be like an absurdist play where we’re all waiting
for the Fed to act on QE3 and it never arrives. Given the
current state of the economy, there shouldn’t be an expectation
the Fed is going to act on quantitative easing.”  The dollar climbed 0.7 percent to $1.2225 per euro at 5
p.m.  New York  time and touched $1.2218, the strongest since June
26. The greenback rose 0.4 percent to 78.44 yen after falling
earlier to 77.91 yen, the lowest since June 1, while the 17-
nation currency declined 0.2 percent to 95.89 yen.  The U.S. currency and the euro fell earlier against most
major counterparts before the Fed statement and a European
Central Bank meeting tomorrow amid mounting evidence that
economies around the world are slowing.  The  Dollar Index , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, declined 0.2 percent to 82.482 before gaining
0.6 percent to 83.124 after the Fed meeting.  Expecting More  “This dollar action shows that people were expecting a
little bit more than what the Fed gave them today,” Brian Kim,
a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s more data coming that could give the Fed
reason to act. This doesn’t necessarily take away from potential
action in the future.”  The pace of hiring in the U.S. in July probably failed to
reduce the nation’s 8.2 percent unemployment rate, economists
said before a Labor Department report due Aug. 3. The data
probably will show employers added 100,000 jobs last month,
according to the median forecast in a separate survey of
economists. Employers added an average of 226,000 a month from
January through March.  The U.S. currency was little changed over the past week
against nine developed-nation peers tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen fell 0.3 percent and the
euro lost 0.5 percent, while Sweden’s krona rallied 1.2 percent.  Aussie Drops  Australia’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to $1.0543, the
strongest level since March 27, before falling 0.4 percent to
$1.0461. South Africa’s rand dropped 1.1 percent to 8.3491 per
dollar. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent after
rising 0.4 percent earlier.  The pound slid against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts except the rand after a gauge of factory output,
based on a survey by  Markit Economics  and the  Chartered
Institute of Purchasing and Supply , fell to 45.4 from a revised
48.4 in June. It was the lowest in 38 months.  Sterling lost 0.9 percent to $1.5536 and weakened 0.3
percent to 78.69 pence per euro.  Purchasing managers’ indexes fell worldwide in July, with
factory gauges for France, Germany and Austria reaching their
lowest levels in more than three years.  Draghi Evidence  The weaker data gives ECB President  Mario Draghi  “all the
evidence he needs” to make a political push for non-standard
fiscal measures, Dan Dorrow, head of research in Stamford,
Connecticut, at Faros Trading LLC, wrote today in a client note.  Draghi said last week he was prepared to do “whatever it
takes to preserve the euro” amid the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  “The market will be a little cautious to go heavy-handed
long dollar into the ECB meeting, even though the risk is that
Draghi disappoints the market as well,” said  Alan Ruskin ,
global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche
Bank AG in New York. A long position is a wager that a currency
will strengthen.  The U.S. central bank said in its statement the economy
“decelerated somewhat over the first half of this year.”  Policy makers “will provide additional accommodation as
needed to promote a stronger economic recovery and sustained
improvement in labor market conditions in a context of  price
stability ,” it said in the statement after a two-day policy
meeting in  Washington . The Fed reiterated that it will keep
 interest rates  exceptionally low at least through late 2014.  Quantitative Easing  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of assets in two
rounds of quantitative easing between December 2008 and June
2011 to spur the economy. The Dollar Index slid 14 percent
during that period.  “Looking at the range of options available to the Fed,
logic dictated that the Federal Reserve that they weren’t going
make a big change to policy or language today,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
New York. “There were some holdouts that were hoping for action
and that’s why you go the reaction of stronger dollar and a
slight risk-off.  The U.S. central bank has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and is swapping $667
billion in short-term debt in its holdings for longer-term
securities through year-end to cap borrowing costs. Traders call
the program Operation Twist after a similar effort in the 1960s.  Fed policy makers at their June meeting expanded Operation
Twist from $400 billion. They lowered their outlook for
expansion and employment, saying they expected economic growth
to “remain moderate” over coming quarters before picking up
gradually.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  