-- Dollar Thrifty Urges Hertz Make Bid or End Pursuit
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-08-01T20:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/dollar-thrifty-urges-hertz-make-bid-or-end-pursuit.html
Dollar Thrifty  Automotive Group Inc.,
which has been the target of a takeover by  Hertz Global Holdings
Inc. (HTZ)  for more than two years, said today its suitor should make
a “compelling offer” or end the process.  Dollar Thrifty’s comments come after Hertz reaffirmed
yesterday it wants to proceed with an acquisition. Chief
Executive Officer Mark Frissora said on a conference call that
 Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz is continuing to try to sell
its Advantage unit to appease Federal Trade Commission antitrust
concerns. Hertz made its initial offer in April 2010.  “It is time for a compelling offer to be made or for this
process to come to a close so that the company can move forward
under its standalone plan without the constant distraction of
merger speculation,” Dollar Thrifty said in a statement in its
second-quarter earnings news release today.  Dollar Thrifty CEO  Scott Thompson  added in an e-mailed
statement that “while we believe that things should finally
come to a conclusion, we are still open to the very real
possibility of a win-win transaction with another larger rental
car company.”  Both Hertz and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  unsuccessfully tried
to acquire Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty, with Dollar
Thrifty shareholders rejecting a Hertz bid in September 2010.
Hertz renewed its pursuit with an offer in May 2011. In October,
Hertz said it withdrew an exchange offer because of market
conditions and Dollar Thrifty’s share-repurchase program.  Dollar Thrifty fell 3.8 percent to $71.61 at the close in
 New York . The shares have risen 1.9 percent this year after
gaining 49 percent in 2011. Hertz slid 1.7 percent to $11.07.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  