-- Double Swim Gold Medalist Ye, 16, Predicts Younger Champions
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-08-01T13:13:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/double-gold-medalist-ye-16-predicts-younger-champion-swimmers.html
Chinese swimmer Ye Shiwen became a
double Olympic gold medalist at 16. She’s predicting the stars
of the future could be even younger.  Ye, who’s become one of the most talked-about athletes of
 London  2012, shattered the Olympic record last night to add the
200-meter individual medley title to the 400-meter medley crown
she got on the first day of the meet by breaking the world
record.  Ye’s not the youngest winner in the pool. Two days ago,
 Lithuania ’s Ruta Meilutyte, a 15-year-old who trains in
Plymouth,  England , captured the 100-meter women’s breaststroke
title. Their successes make Missy Franklin, a 17-year-old U.S.
high school student who took the 100-meter backstroke gold, seem
like a relative veteran.  “It’s very possible,” Ye said at a news conference when
asked if her success could be emulated by other girls as young
as herself. “I believe there’ll be more and more people who are
as capable as me, if not even younger.”  Franklin, from  Colorado , has shunned the advances of
sponsors looking to unearth the next big U.S. swimming star
after record 15-time gold medalist Michael Phelps, 27, quits the
sport following the London Games. Franklin’s been seeking career
advice from Phelps, who became the most successful Olympian in
history last night when he anchored the winning U.S. 800-meter
relay team to secure a 19th career medal.  Young People  “It’s so great to have so many young people involved in
the sport, and it’s awesome to still have the veterans that are
here with us,” Franklin told reporters after taking gold on
July 30. “That’s how we’re learning. We’re getting all of our
knowledge from these amazing swimmers who’ve done this so many
times and they can help us be the best we can be.”  Ye broke the Olympic 200-meter medley record in 2 minutes,
07.57 seconds in a race she led from start to finish. Alicia
Coutts of  Australia  won the silver ahead of Caitlin Leverenz of
the U.S. Ye’s time made her the first woman to swim the event in
under 2:08 in a textile suit. Ariana Kukors of the U.S., who
finished fifth last night, set the 2:06.15 world record in 2009
while wearing a now-banned speed suit.  In the 400-meter medley on July 28, Ye swam her final 50-
meter freestyle leg in 28.93 seconds. That same night, U.S.
swimmer  Ryan Lochte  recorded a final leg of 29.10 while winning
gold in the men’s 400 medley. Lochte suggested Ye might have
beaten him had they raced together.  ‘She’s Fast’  “It is pretty impressive,” Lochte, 27, told reporters
this week. “She’s fast.”  Bookmakers made Ye virtually a betting lock for gold in the
200-meter medley.  William Hill Plc (WMH)  priced her at 1-66, meaning a
bet of $66 brought in $1 for her victory.  “We certainly don’t want to be ending up with liability
with what looks like an absolute certainty,” William Hill
spokesman Graham Sharpe said in an interview.  Even while earning two gold medals, Ye has faced nearly
constant questions in London about how her performance in the
400-meter medley improved by seven seconds since last year’s
World Championships, where she finished fifth.  The teenager lashed out yesterday at critics who’ve
suggested her times might not have been achieved through legal
means. She accused them of being biased, and said “absolutely
not” when a reporter asked if she had used banned drugs.  “In other countries, other swimmers have won multiple gold
medals, how come people will criticize me because I have
multiple medals?” Ye asked.  Passed Test  Ye passed a drug test after her 400 medley win.  “We would only comment if we had any adverse finding,”
International Olympic Committee spokesman  Mark Adams  told
reporters before Ye won the second gold. “I am not commenting,
so you can draw your own conclusions.”  Leverenz praised Ye’s achievements, saying it was for
sports authorities to root out cheats.  “I think it’s easy to point fingers, it’s easy to point
fingers at any of the other racers,” the American said while
sitting at a table next to the young Chinese swimmer.  Chinese Legacy  Any exceptional swim by a Chinese athlete is going to be
called into question because of the “history of systematic
doping by Chinese swimming in the 1990s,” said John Lohn, a
senior writer at Swimming World Magazine.  “It’s sad,” he said. “People didn’t question  Michael
Phelps  when he broke onto the scene and set his first world
record as a teenager. People are not questioning Missy Franklin.
Her country’s history is Ye Shiwen’s enemy.”  Ye said Phelps’s performances are something she hopes to
emulate.  “I used to believe he was my idol, he still is,” she
said, fingering the gold medal hanging from her neck. “He’s so
strong that he can have so many medals by himself. I hope one
day I can be like him, but I don’t know. I’ll try my best.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Aquatics Centre at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja at the Aquatics Centre at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  