-- DP World Container Volumes Increase 7.5% on Asia Pacific
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-08-01T08:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/dp-world-container-volumes-increase-7-5-on-asia-pacific-1-.html
     Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) -- DP World Ltd., the world’s third-
largest port operator, increased container volumes at its
terminals 7.5 percent in the first half, with its  Asia  Pacific
and Indian subcontinent operations driving growth.  DP World handled 28.2 million twenty-foot equivalent units
at its more than 60 terminals compared with 26.2 million TEUs a
year earlier,  the company said  today in a statement. Volume in
the Asia Pacific and Indian subcontinent regions rose the most 
in the period at 12 percent.  Global container volumes will probably grow 4.3 percent
this year, Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. said July 3. Because
of the weakness in  Europe ’s economy, the industry won’t have a
strong peak season in 2012 and operators will experience some
“rate erosion” in the summer, it  said .  “Traditionally we’ve seen a second half that is stronger
than the first half,” DP World Chief Financial Officer Yuvraj Narayan said on a conference call. “We are still uncomfortable
to say that will be repeated this year,” though the company
will “definitely end up with one-and-a-half times of what
Drewry says.”  Volumes in the Americas and  Australia  trailed behind Asia,
rising 6 percent to 3.3 million TEUs. Europe, the  Middle East 
and  Africa  increased 3.2 percent to 11.6 million boxes, with
weaker trade in Europe.  European Plans  “Europe continues to remain challenging,” Chairman Sultan
Ahmed Bin Sulayem said during the call. The company is more
resilient than operators that are more concentrated on Europe
and it won’t revise any expansion plans in the region, he said.  Policy makers in the 27-nation European Union are
considering measures to keep the monetary union intact as debt
troubles in nations including Greece, Italy and  Spain  threaten
the euro. The euro-area economy may shrink 0.4 percent this
year, according to the median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  DP World is working on 11 new developments and expansions
globally including in  France , the Netherlands,  Brazil  and  China ,
according to its  website . It is also developing the London
Gateway deep-sea port in the U.K., which will start operating in
the fourth quarter of 2013 and will have a capacity of 3.5
million TEUs a year.  Jebel Ali  “The global macroeconomic uncertainty seen in the first
quarter of the year has continued, and if anything, has
increased through the second quarter,” Group Chief Executive
Mohammed Sharaf said in the statement. “Despite this more
challenging environment, the majority of our global portfolio
continues to show resilience and we remain committed to
delivering an improved operational and financial performance
over 2011.”  The ports operator is also investing in an additional 1
million twenty-foot equivalent units of capacity at its Jebel
Ali port in Dubai this year and in a new 4 million TEU container
terminal scheduled to become operational in 2014, the company
said in March.  Shares of DP World traded on Nasdaq Dubai gained 0.5
percent to $10.20 at 12:29 p.m., bringing their advance this
year to 5.8 percent.  The company plans to announce  first-half results  Aug. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  