-- Draghi Pledge May Boost Investment in Europe Stocks
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-08-02T15:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/draghi-pledge-may-boost-investment-in-europe-stocks.html
The underperformance of European
stocks relative to their U.S. counterparts may be ending, even
as investors await the details of a plan for the  European
Central Bank  to join forces with governments to ease the euro
area’s debt crisis.  The Euro Stoxx 50 Index -- a benchmark of blue-chip shares
-- has risen 5.9 percent since July 25, the day before ECB
President  Mario Draghi  pledged that policy makers were “ready
to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.” The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has risen 2.2 percent in the same period. The
recent outperformance comes after the European index lagged
behind the S&P 500 by almost 80 percent between March 9, 2009,
when the U.S. index hit a 13-year low, and June 18, 2012.  The ECB’s governing council, which met today in  Frankfurt ,
kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.75
percent. Dragi, speaking after the meeting, signaled that the
central bank intends to work with governments to buy sovereign
bonds in sufficient quantities to remove all doubts about the
future of the euro, with details to be determined in coming
weeks.  The Euro Stoxx 50 fell 1.5 percent to 2,299.69, while the
 S&P 500  was down 0.2 percent to 1,372.77 as of 11:05 a.m. in  New
York , after Draghi failed to reassure investors seeking specific
steps the ECB will take to bolster the economy.  ‘Bold Move’  Pioneer Investment Management Inc., which oversees about
$185 billion in assets, “cautiously moved to a risk-on”
position in European equities about a month ago while remaining
underweight U.S. stocks as “most of the bad news” already may
be built into market prices, said Monica Defend, head of global
asset-allocation research in Milan. While this “appears to be a
bold move” in the current market, “we should not underestimate
the commitment of leading central banks” to provide support to
the financial system, she said in an interview before the ECB
meeting.  The rationale for this strategy is twofold: attractive
valuations for European stocks and “most importantly, we were
strongly convinced that the ECB would intervene” to solve the
region’s debt crisis, Defend said. The ECB flooded markets with
more than 1 trillion euros ($1.21 trillion) of cheap three-year
loans in December and February.  “Risk premia that are related to fears of the
reversibility of the euro are unacceptable, and they need to be
addressed in a fundamental manner,” Draghi said at a press
conference in Frankfurt. “The euro is irreversible.”  Upgraded Recommendation  After Draghi’s July 26 speech, London-based UBS AG
strategists Stephane Deo and Ramin Nakisa upgraded their
recommended allocation of Europe’s equities from “underweight”
to “neutral,” based on the prospect of a “structural shift”
in monetary policy, they wrote in a July 29 report.  European underperformance started to end by mid-June,
showing that investor sentiment was improving even before
Draghi’s comments last week, said Jim Stellakis, founder and
director of research at New York-based research company
Technical Alpha Inc.  That’s in part because European stocks are at “a cheap and
unloved starting point,” said  Graham Secker , head of European
equity strategy in  London  at Morgan Stanley. The Euro Stoxx 50
is trading at about 10.6 times its price-to-earnings ratio,
compared with 13 times for the S&P 500, according to data
provided by Defend. The historical average multiple is 15 for
European stocks and 15.6 for U.S. stocks, she said.  Strong Reaction  Since Europe’s market stopped lagging behind the U.S. in
June, followed by the strong price reaction to Draghi’s July 26
speech, now “betting against Europe is not attractive in the
short-term,” Stellakis said. If the Euro Stoxx 50 can outpace
the S&P 500 by about another 2 percent to 3 percent from current
levels, a nearly two-year trend of investors underweighting
European equities would be broken, he said.  A clear pattern of European outperformance could take
months to develop amid a lot of market volatility, “but looking
back, this could prove to be an important shift in investor
sentiment,” Stellakis said.  Given how much the stocks have underperformed since 2009,
even a “modest” change in prospects for “more aggressive”
ECB policy action can cause European shares to rally more than
U.S. counterparts, Secker said. “I certainly wouldn’t want to
be underweight  Europe  versus the U.S. right now.”  Underlying Risks  Even so, underlying risks in the euro area may support such
a recommendation on equities in  Spain ,  Italy ,  Greece  and
 Portugal , said Tom Elliott, a global strategist at JPMorgan
Asset Management in London.  While he’s neutral on “core Europe,” including  Germany 
and the Netherlands, the region’s equities will remain volatile
until there’s “wholehearted conviction” from Germany and
 France  to support politically an increase in fiscal support by
the ECB, he said.  There’s now a “risk of disappointment” if there’s no
substantive follow-through by the central bank, Elliott said.
What’s more, the ECB is perceived to be reacting to the region’s
fiscal crisis, rather than taking a proactive approach, which
engenders little confidence among investors, he said.  The S&P 500 fell 0.3 percent to 1,375.32 yesterday,
reversing earlier gains, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  held off on stepping up record stimulus at the central
bank’s policy meeting, disappointing investors anticipating a
more definitive sign of further monetary easing.  Though the “jury’s still out” on the ECB’s ability to
achieve a swift resolution, Draghi’s pledge may mark a move in
the right direction, said Morgan Stanley’s Secker.  “There’s more two-way risk for European equities now than
there’s been in some time,” Secker said. “Europe is not just a
one-way bet down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  