-- Draghi Risks Market Wrath as Pressure for ECB Action Grows
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-08-02T07:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/draghi-risks-market-wrath-as-pressure-for-ecb-intervention-grows.html
Whatever  Mario Draghi  does today,
economists say doing nothing is not an option.  Investors are looking for the European Central Bank
President to make good on his promise to do whatever is needed
to protect the euro, interpreted by most as a signal that the
ECB will intervene in bond markets. Should Draghi fail to
overcome the objections of Germany’s Bundesbank to such action,
the disappointment could spark a selloff. He holds a press
conference at 2:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  “If Draghi just comes out with a do-nothing, markets are
going to react extremely badly and the ECB will have a full-
blown crisis on their hands,” said  James Nixon , chief European
economist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “I can’t see what
form of words Draghi can come up with that would replace
concrete intervention.”  Investors and politicians are clamoring for ECB action to
quell  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, which is threatening to
cripple  Spain  and  Italy  and tear the 17-nation euro area apart.
While Draghi’s commitment in London last week to do what’s
needed fueled a global market rally, some economists cast doubt
on his ability to build the consensus needed to deliver a game
changer.  Euro Climbs  The euro advanced 0.3 percent to $1.2257 at 9:49 a.m. in
Frankfurt and the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) , Europe’s benchmark
equity index, rose 0.2 percent.  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt will keep the  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low 0.75 percent, according to 51 of
55 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Four predict a cut to
0.5 percent. The deposit rate will be left at zero, another
survey shows. The decision will be announced at 1:45 p.m.  The Federal Reserve yesterday pledged to take new policy
steps as needed to promote stronger economic growth and
employment. The  Bank of England  will today hold its key rate at
0.5 percent and maintain its bond-purchase target at 375 billion
pounds ($586 billion), surveys of economists show. That decision
is due at noon in London.  An estimate of future average overnight borrowing costs in
euros, the three-month Eonia OIS swap, dropped to a record low
of 5.4 basis points yesterday, Bloomberg data show, suggesting
traders have increased bets on the ECB cutting rates further.  ‘Believe Me’  The problem is that the central bank’s rates aren’t
influencing market borrowing costs as investors dump the
sovereign bonds of Spain and Italy amid concerns about their
credit-worthiness. While markets rallied on Draghi’s pledge to
act, Spain’s 10-year bond yield, at 6.73 percent yesterday, is
still 536 basis points above  Germany ’s.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” Draghi said in a speech
in London on July 26. “Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to
do whatever it takes to preserve the euro. And believe me, it
will be enough.”  Having fueled expectations to such an extent, “Draghi is
hardly likely to want to appear empty-handed,” said Christoph Balz, an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “But none of
the options are easy to implement. Perhaps Draghi will pull a
new rabbit out of the hat.”  In the past week, he has canvassed support among ECB
council members and politicians for a multi-pronged approach to
reduce soaring bond yields, two central bank officials with
knowledge of the discussions said on July 27.  Draghi’s Plan  Draghi proposes that Europe’s rescue fund buy  government
bonds  on the primary market, flanked by ECB purchases on the
secondary market to ensure transmission of its interest rates,
the officials said on condition of anonymity. Further ECB rate
cuts and long-term loans to banks are also up for discussion as
the euro economy slides toward recession, one of the officials
said.  While the leaders of Germany, France and Italy have
appeared to endorse Draghi’s plan, echoing his language in
saying they will do whatever is necessary to protect the euro,
significant hurdles remain.  For the rescue fund to buy sovereign debt, the government
in question must make a formal application, and any aid would
carry conditions. Spain has no intention of making such a
request, Treasury head Inigo Fernandez de Mesa said July 30.  ‘Awkward Position’  “Draghi therefore finds himself in an awkward position,”
said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-zone economist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “Either he will disappoint market expectations relative
to what was said last week or alternatively, the ECB will have
to fly solo and re-start the SMP.”  The ECB’s bond-buying instrument, the Securities Markets
Program, has been dormant since March.  The day after Draghi spoke in London, the Bundesbank
reiterated its opposition to ECB bond purchases, saying they
blur the line between fiscal and monetary policy. Draghi planned
to hold talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann this week
in an attempt to find common ground, the two central bank
officials said.  The ECB shouldn’t overstep its mandate, Weidmann said in a
June 29 interview posted on the Bundesbank’s website yesterday.
Weidmann will attend today’s ECB council meeting, a Bundesbank
spokesman said.  Disagreements ‘Damaging’  “A paper currency is only ever as good as the credibility
the public attaches to it, and if these disagreements spill out
like this it is damaging to the euro,” said  Julian Callow ,
chief international economist at  Barclays Capital  in London.  Another option is for the ECB to purchase bank and
corporate bonds to ease financing conditions, said Huw Pill,
chief European economist at Goldman Sachs International in
London. Pill expects the ECB to allow national central banks to
buy such assets at their own risk, which would “offer scope for
surgical interventions targeted to address the most impaired
elements of monetary policy transmission,” he said in a note to
clients on July 29.  Policy makers could also decide to offer banks another
batch of long-term loans, known as Longer Term Refinancing
Operations. Bond yields declined after the ECB flooded markets
with more than 1 trillion euros ($1.23 trillion) of cheap three-
year loans in December and February as banks in Spain and Italy
used the funds to purchase the debt of their governments.  Collateral Rules  “The ECB has been emphasizing that it has yet to evaluate
the full impact of the previous LTROs, making another one less
likely in the short term,” said Athanasios Vamvakidis, head
European currency strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
London. If it does opt for such a measure, the bank may have to
complement it with looser collateral requirements, he said,
adding that lowering haircuts on asset-backed securities could
free up as much as 100 billion euros of additional collateral.  Economists said one grand solution to the crisis is
unlikely to be announced today: giving Europe’s permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, a banking
license. That would allow the 500 billion-euro ESM to borrow
from the ECB, boosting its firepower.  “A banking license for the ESM or open-ended purchases of
government bonds would violate the ECB’s prohibition of deficit
financing,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa
International in London. “This is likely to be one of the most
important press conferences in the short history of the ECB. But
market expectations have gone well beyond realism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  