-- Drought Spreads Into Towns as Decatur-Area Grain Bins Empty
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/drought-spreads-into-towns-as-decatur-area-grain-bins-empty.html
In 25 years of managing the Heritage
Grain Cooperative in a small town outside Decatur,  Illinois ,
Jerry Rowe’s grain elevator never lost money.  Until now. As the corn and soybeans from last year’s
harvests disappear, replenishment from plants wilting in the
worst drought in half a century is unlikely for Rowe’s elevator.
At 215 feet, the Dalton City structure is the tallest in town,
as it is in many Midwest communities that feed the economy of
cities like Decatur, and ultimately, the world.  Rowe expects his bins will end up storing less than half
what he held in his record year of 2007 and about a third less
than last year. Farmers with fewer crops to sell buy fewer movie
tickets as well as  Deere & Co. (DE)  tractors. Less grain means less
need for truck drivers. Scarce rain means shallower waterways
and half-filled barges on the  Mississippi River . The farmers at
the heart of the crisis, many protected by crop insurance, may
not even be the hardest-hit, Rowe said.  “There will be funds available to keep them whole, or
near-whole,” he said. “I can’t get that kind of insurance. The
trucker can’t get that kind of insurance.”  Lost farm revenues will echo throughout the agricultural
economy that supports the whole region around Decatur, a central
Illinois town of 76,000 that’s headquarters to Archer Daniels
Midland Co., the world’s biggest crop processor.  Crop Ratings  Drought spreading throughout the Corn Belt becomes a more-
certain economic disaster with each passing week, as crops
wither in the relentless heat and the growing season wanes. The
In June, Decatur got about two-thirds of its normal rainfall,
according to the  National Weather Service .  About 24 percent of the nation’s corn was in good or
excellent condition as of July 29, the worst assessment for this
time of year since 1988. Only 5 percent of the corn in Illinois,
the biggest crop-grower after California and  Iowa , was in good
condition, and none was rated excellent.  As crops fail, agriculture-reliant cities such as Decatur,
which also counts London-based food-ingredients company  Tate &
Lyle PLC (TATE)  as a major employer, lose their ability to rely on the
farm economy to bring in revenue, said Craig Coil, president of
the  Economic Development Corp.  of Decatur and Macon County.  “This is an agribusiness area,” Coil said in a telephone
interview. About 15 percent of the town’s workforce is directly
employed in farm-related industries, the biggest single sector.
Farmers, who experienced record profits last year, have buoyed
the town even as its population has declined, Coil said.  ADM Earnings  ADM, the world’s largest corn processor, yesterday reported
fiscal fourth-quarter profit below analysts’ estimates as its
business from producing corn-based ethanol swung to a loss after
the drought increased costs of the grain.  The company, which employs more than 4,200 people in the
area after laying off about 175 workers earlier this year, is
“monitoring the drought and its implications,” Jackie
Anderson, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  In Decatur, the city council earlier this week voted to
rezone 105 acres to build a rail container yard to help boost
ADM’s global exports from the town.  Employment at Tate & Lyle, which has about 650 workers,
won’t be affected by the drought, spokeswoman Pashen Black said
in an e-mail.  At McLeod Express LLC, a 350-rig Decatur-based trucking
fleet that does a quarter of its business with ADM, freight
rates and revenue probably will drop as smaller operators that
rely on grain go after other hauls, likely forcing some firms
out of business, said company founder Mark McLeod.  Canceled Accounts  “Farm accounts have been canceling like crazy, and those
guys are vulnerable as hell,” said McLeod. “The farm side for
us has been a boom through the downturn, and we’re just not
going to have that this year.”  Some of the drought’s impact will take months and years to
play out, said Roger Oliver, president and chief executive
officer of Van Horn Inc., which sells fertilizer, seeds and
herbicides from  Monsanto Co. (MON) ,  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  and Dupont Co.
Supplies may be tight for several months as barge traffic slows
deliveries, and purchases may suffer after he is forced to raise
prices, he said.  The full economic impact on the broader retail and service
sectors won’t be felt until next year, Coil said. “The harvest
numbers in the fall will dictate what our major players in the
industry will have to absorb. Then, there will be a lag effect
where the severity spreads. How much depends on whether it
rains.”  Farmer Finances  Farmer finances are strong enough to withstand this year,
and “farmers will plant next year like they’re expecting a
 bumper crop ,” said Jim Steck, president of Sloan Implement Co.,
the state’s largest  John Deere  dealer, who said he hasn’t seen a
drop in business yet.  “Come back in three years, and if this continues, then
we’re talking about something entirely different,” he said.  Still, Jim Reed, who farms 1,200 acres of mostly corn and
soybeans a half-hour east of Decatur and goes to the city for
entertainment, said the sight of crops dying in his fields can’t
help but make him more cautious with his budget.  “People have just stopped spending,” he said. “In a
normal year we’d be going to more movies, shopping more. My wife
would like to buy some new furniture, and I had my eye on a new
planter.”  “We’ll go to McDonald’s instead of Texas Roadhouse,
because in the back of your mind you’re saying, we shouldn’t be
extravagant,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  