-- Drought Is Added to Fedorov’s Tasks as Russia Joins WTO
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-08-02T16:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/drought-is-added-to-fedorov-s-tasks-as-russia-joins-wto.html
Nikolai Fedorov learned as a boy
selling radishes in a street market in the former  Soviet Union 
that when rivals showed up he had to cut prices. Now as  Russia ’s
agriculture minister he has to instill competition in the
nation’s 17.8 million farmers while weaning them off subsidies.  Russia will join the Geneva-based  World Trade Organization 
this month after almost two decades of negotiations. Appointed
minister in May after 16 years as president of the Republic of
Chuvashia, Fedorov, 54, needs to reduce annual state payments to
agricultural producers to no more than $4.4 billion by 2018,
from an initial limit of $9 billion, under the terms of the WTO
accession, and spur private investment.  At stake is Russia’s ambition to become a bigger power in
world grain exports, where it is currently fourth, according to
the International Grains Council. While WTO membership will ease
trade barriers on Russian goods from the U.S. to Europe, farmers
are contending with a drought across the main growing areas that
may reduce overseas sales by 51 percent this marketing year, the
IGC estimates.  “Fedorov is inheriting a lucrative, but underdeveloped
sector,” said Jenia Ustinova, an analyst at the  Eurasia Group ,
a policy research company based in  New York . “He spent his
career in the government, and is undoubtedly a skilled
bureaucrat, but it remains to be seen whether he can guide the
industry that is not his technical area of expertise during a
particularly challenging time.”  Socialist Republics  The minister needs to increase productivity while cutting
subsidies. Wheat and barley yields have trailed the world
average for the past 50 years in Russia and its predecessor, the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, USDA data show. The country
will slip to eighth among grain exporters in the 2012-13 season,
the London-based IGC estimates.  Russian farmers reaped an average 2.26 metric tons of wheat
per hectare (2.47 acres) last year, compared with 2.94 tons in
the U.S. and 5.36 tons in the 27-nation EU, according to the
USDA. It harvested 24.1 tons of sugar beets per hectare in 2010,
compared with 66.9 tons in the EU, 61.9 tons in the U.S. and a
world average of 48.9 tons, according to the  United Nations ’
Food & Agriculture Organization in  Rome .  Yelena Skrynnik, Fedorov’s predecessor, said in 2009 that
Russia may ship as much as 50 million tons of grain by 2025,
from 21.8 million tons at the time. Exports sank to 4.4 million
tons the following year as drought decimated crops, prompting a
year-long ban on overseas sales to contain domestic prices. More
dry weather this growing season probably will cut exports to
13.2 million tons from 27.2 million tons, the IGC estimates.  Wolves Hazard  Fedorov was born in 1958 in what was then the village of
Chyodino. It is now part of the town of Novocheboksarsk in
Chuvashia, about 400 miles east of Moscow. His school breaks in
winter lasted for weeks because there were no roads or bridges
to get through flooded ravines or snow, and wolves hunting for
food made it too dangerous.  A grandson of kulaks, or wealthy farmers, who lost property
to the Communists in 1929, Fedorov got up at 4 a.m. to cut weeds
from about a half hectare of vegetables and other crops, helping
his parents meet the quotas required on a collective farm.  “Classmates were playing soccer, volleyball and I had to
toil at the vegetable garden,” Fedorov, a father of two
children, said at a meeting with journalists in May. He did
learn karate, something he still practices to relax.  Vegetable Plot  His family’s vegetable plot was usually the first in the
area to produce radishes and cucumbers each year and the young
Fedorov was sent off to sell them in the market. He set his
prices a kopek, or a 100th of a ruble (3 cents), lower than
competitors.  “A queue was building to my table at once, but nobody was
taking one kopek of change back,” he said. “Already in those
days, in the market, I captured the market economy.”  Fedorov took over as agriculture minister on May 21, after
four terms as president of Chuvashia from 1994. He was Russia’s
Justice Minister from 1990 to 1993. As head of the local
government he brought natural gas to every home, boosted help to
farmers and one in three families was given loans to develop
private businesses.  His predecessor at the agriculture ministry had asked for
2.5 trillion rubles ($77.4 billion) from the  federal budget  to
spend on agriculture over the next years. Fedorov got 2.3
trillion rubles last month, of which 770 billion rubles will
come from regional budgets.  Seeds, Livestock  The money will be spent in areas including agricultural
machinery, seeds and livestock breeding. The government said in
July it expects grain production to rise to 115 million tons by
2020, from 94.2 million last year, providing 30 million tons for
export. That compares with Skrynnik’s forecast in January for
shipments of 40 million tons. Dmitry Bobkov, a spokesman for
Fedorov, said the minister wouldn’t be available for interview.  Being part of the WTO means Russia can only ban grain
shipments when there is a threat to national food supplies. That
gives it less scope for curbing exports as it did in 2010, when
the country endured its worst drought in a half century, INTL
FCStone Inc. said in a report July 18. Russia’s domestic prices
are the highest in five years, in part because dry weather from
the U.S. to  Europe  to  Australia  drove wheat traded in  Chicago , a
global benchmark, up 34 percent to $8.7375 a bushel this year.  There is drought in Russia’s Southern, Volga and Siberian
districts, which together generated 62 percent of the country’s
grain last year, state statistics data show.  Import Tariffs  Joining the WTO means Russia will start lowering import
tariffs from Sept. 1. Global sales to the country of everything
from milk to sugar to pigs may increase by about 3 percent to
$36 billion within a year, according to the Grain Union in
Moscow, which represents the nation’s biggest producers and
traders.  The anticipated gain in cargo arrivals will cost the  dairy
industry  29 billion rubles a year in lost sales, poultry farmers
22 billion rubles, and beef producers 17 billion rubles,
according to the  Russian Union of Industrialists and
Entrepreneurs , which represents more than 120 regional alliances
and industry associations.  More than 100 trade restrictions on Russian goods probably
will be lifted worldwide, covering everything from metals and
chemicals to agriculture, said  Maxim Medvedkov , head of the
department negotiating trade issues at the  Economy Ministry .  Agriculture, forestry and hunting generated $58.2 billion
last year, or about 3.4 percent of Russia’s gross domestic
product, state statistics show.  Bigger Role  Russia has sought a bigger role in agricultural markets for
several years. Then-president Dmitry Medvedev created state
trader United Grain Co. in 2009 and it was set the target of
controlling 16 million tons of Russia’s projected 38 million
tons of grain exports by 2015. The government sold 50 percent
minus one share of United Grain to Summa Group, the country’s
largest port operator, for about $183 million this year and will
use the money to increase port and silo capacities.  Fedorov’s experience as a boy cutting radish prices in
response to competition may be a useful lesson for Russian
farmers. After joining the WTO, the import duty on pigs will
drop to 5 percent from 40 percent and pork duties will be
scrapped up to a certain quota limit.  The effects within Russia are unlikely to be evenly spread.
Small, privately-owned farms account for more than 30 percent of
the national hog herd of almost 19 million, according to state
statistics data. They consume at least twice as much domestic
feed grain per head than the industrial producers, according to
Grain Union President Arkady Zlochevsky.  “It’s necessary for the country to become competitive,”
Fedorov said in May. “It’s not a matter of investments but a
matter of creating competition between people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  