-- Drought, Heat Shows Climate Change is Real, Democrats Say
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-08-01T20:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/drought-heat-shows-climate-change-is-real-democrats-say.html
Wildfires in the U.S. West, heat in
the East and drought across most of the nation show the climate
is changing, Democrats said today as they sought to revive an
issue the Obama administration and Republicans had dropped.  “The whole world is debating global warming,” Senator
 Bernie Sanders , a Vermont independent who often votes with
Democrats, said at a hearing on  climate change . “We can’t run
away from the issue. We need to put it front and center.”  Cutting  carbon emissions  from human activity such as
burning coal to generate electricity or driving gas-guzzling
sports-utility vehicles was among contested issues in Congress.
President  Barack Obama  unsuccessfully pushed a cap on carbon-
dioxide emissions, thought to be a leading cause of  climate
change, early in his administration.  A “cap-and-trade” bill to cut carbon-dioxide emissions
passed the House in 2009, when Democrats were in control. It
died in the Senate amid opposition from Republicans, and
Democrats in industrial states, who said energy costs would
increase as fossil fuels were replaced by more expensive solar
and wind power. Obama has stopped pushing climate legislation,
citing a lack of political support.  “The global-warming movement has completely collapsed,”
said Senator  James Inhofe , an Oklahoma Republican who once
called climate change a “hoax.” Cap-and-trade legislation is
“dead and gone,” he said.  2009 Debate  Democrats sought to highlight the issue at a Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee today, the first hearing
on climate change in two years.  Later, Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat and a
main author of climate-change legislation, in a floor speech
urged colleagues to address climate change, which he says has
become an “unusable word” in American politics.  “The procrastination continues” as the scientific
evidence mounts that humans are causing the planet to warm,
Kerry said.  The committee hearing was reminiscent of 2009 when
supporters of climate legislation sought to build a public
record of support as skeptical colleagues blocked action citing
the costs to the economy.  Democrats listed weather events to support the case for
climate change, including a record streak of days with
temperatures that exceeded 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees
Celsius) in the nation’s capital, recent wildfires in Colorado,
and the devastating 2011 drought in Texas and a disaster tied to
dry weather this year that extends to half the U.S.  Clear Line  Christopher Field, a biology and environmental earth-
science professor at  Stanford University , said a clear link
exists between climate change and the increase in extreme
weather events.  Evidence that human activity is causing the planet to warm
is unequivocal, said James McCarthy, a professor of biological
oceanography at  Harvard University .  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to increasing the Earth’s temperature, which threatens
to cause extreme weather, drought and coastal flooding,
according to the U.S. Global Change Research Program.  Republicans said the science isn’t settled, and Democratic
plans to cut carbon emissions would hurt the economy.  “A forest fire is no proof of global warming,” said
Senator  Jeff Sessions , an  Alabama  Republican. “Give me a
break.”  John Christy, a professor in the Department of Atmospheric
Science at the  University of Alabama  in Huntsville, said of
recent weather disasters, “This is what Mother Nature looks
like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  