-- DuPont Knew Using Monsanto Technology Wrong, Jury Is Told
-- B y   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n ,   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-01T20:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/dupont-knew-using-monsanto-technology-wrong-jury-is-told.html
DuPont Co. (DD)  wants to invalidate
 Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s patent on Roundup Ready soybeans only after it
made $6.2 billion from the technology and then was caught adding
it to its own seeds without permission, an attorney for the
world’s biggest seed company told a jury.  “This is a simple case,” Monsanto’s lawyer George C. Lombardi said today in his closing arguments in the trial in St.
Louis, which started July 9. “What’s really going on is taking
something that doesn’t belong to you and using it for your
benefit when you knew it was wrong.”  The trial revolves around Monsanto’s patent for making
Roundup Ready crops, a technology at the heart of its
$13.7 billion in  annual revenue . Farmers have embraced the
technology because it allows them to kill weeds with Roundup
herbicide while leaving crops unscathed.  The companies are the two biggest in the $34 billion
commercial seed market, which includes $13.3 billion of
genetically modified seeds.  Monsanto argued at the trial that DuPont had no right to
make hundreds of lines of soybeans combining the Roundup Ready
trait with a similar DuPont technology known as GAT. The
infringement is worth $1 billion, the St. Louis-based company
claims.  “They didn’t think the patent was invalid while they were
making $6.2 billion off of it between 2002 and 2011,” Lombardi
said. “Now they come and say it is invalid.”  Government Deceived  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , says Monsanto
deceived the government to obtain the patent, rendering it
unenforceable. Defense lawyer Leora Ben-Ami will deliver her
client’s summation later today.  The Roundup Ready trait is engineered into more than
95 percent of soybeans, largely through licensing agreements,
generating $22 billion in revenue in the past eight years for
Monsanto and the more than 200 seed companies that license the
technology, Lombardi, a partner in Chicago-based Winston &
Strawn LLP, told the jury July 10 in opening statements.  Monsanto filed suit in 2009.  The case is Monsanto Co. v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09-cv-686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Missouri 
(St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Whittington in  St. Louis  federal court
at   joethewhitt@sbcglobal.net ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston
at   jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 