-- The One-Two Punch to Put Europe Back on Its Feet
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-01T22:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/the-one-two-punch-to-put-europe-back-on-its-feet-view.html
A year ago,  Europe ’s sovereign debt
problem reached the crisis stage. Since then, troubled
governments have had to pay interest rates on bonds that have
pushed them to the brink of insolvency.  European banks, holding much of that debt, are woefully
undercapitalized. The  European Central Bank  practically gave
away $1.2 trillion to banks to prod them to lend again, which
they mostly haven’t. Greece defaulted on its debt, forcing
bondholders to accept heavy losses; it also had to beg for a
second bailout, destroying an already weak economy in the
process. Heads of state toppled in  France , Greece, Italy,
 Portugal  and  Spain . Spain sought a rescue package; Italy might
yet need one.  None of the steps taken by European officials have been big
or bold enough to convince the markets that the crisis is
contained. Meanwhile, Europe is crumbling. On Tuesday,
unemployment hit its highest level ever at 11.2 percent, or
nearly 18 million people, in the 17-nation euro area.
Joblessness among those younger than 25 in the currency bloc is
22.4 percent.  Economic activity has ground to a halt. Euro-area banks
report declines in corporate demand for loans. Savings and
investment are fleeing  Greece , Italy and Spain, where they are
most needed, for the safer confines of Germany, where three-year
notes pay below-zero rates.  Desultory Scene  This is the desultory scene facing the ECB’s governing
council as it meets Thursday. A credible course correction is
desperately needed. Various market analysts think the central
bank will restart a moderate government bond-buying program that
has been inactive for four months. The ECB had purchased about
210 billion euros ($258 billion) of sovereign debt on the
secondary market, but resuming that program alone isn’t what we
mean by big and bold.  What’s needed is a one-two punch, in which the ECB
continues its bond buying, supplemented with purchases by the
European Union’s temporary bailout fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, and its permanent successor, the European
Stability Mechanism. The twin actions would help make borrowing
affordable again for  Italy  and Spain. This would also solve a
structural flaw in the euro area’s design: The ECB can’t
intervene in primary bond markets, where governments finance
themselves by selling bonds to banks and investment firms, and
where borrowing costs are determined. The EU’s bailout funds,
however, can step in -- they can buy government debt in the
primary market and impose conditions on the countries that
borrow.  The rescue funds are limited only by the size of their
firepower, now about 500 billion euros ($615 billion). Access to
ECB money could change that. All the central bank would have to
do is grant the permanent rescue fund, the ESM, a banking
license that allows it to borrow from the ECB, as other banks
do.  This offers another side benefit. Acting together, the
rescue funds and the ECB would make it possible for the central
bank to better transmit monetary policy to corporations and
consumers. The benchmark  interest rate  is a very low 0.75
percent, yet that cheap money isn’t seeping down to borrowers in
Greece, Italy and Spain, where it would do the most good.  Previous ECB bond purchases were ineffective because they
were “sterilized” -- that is, the ECB withdrew cash from the
 money supply  in equal amounts to the bond purchases to keep
inflation at bay. The need to sterilize purchases prevented the
ECB from acting at times and limited its effectiveness when it
did. The rescue funds can bypass this restriction.  High Expectations  In a highly publicized speech July 26 in  London , ECB
President  Mario Draghi  raised expectations by declaring that the
central bank was “ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the
euro.” His words may have been foolhardy, even if they did
trigger a crowd-pleasing global market rally. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  quickly
signaled their support for Draghi, though it’s unclear exactly
what he meant or what the French and German leaders were
supporting.  Draghi added a big caveat by saying “within our mandate,”
exposing a debate within the central bank over its powers. Some
members, including the Bundesbank, the largest shareholder,
oppose ECB bond buying, arguing that it amounts to government
financing (contradicting euro-area law) and encourages
recklessness.  But they are wrong. Giving the rescue fund a banking
license would act like a rocket booster on the ECB. The fund
could impose strict conditions on borrowers, including that
Greece, Italy and Spain meet previously agreed milestones for
fiscal and structural reforms, to assuage Germany’s moral hazard
concerns.  We hope Draghi, in jetting around Europe to discuss his
next move, is building support for more bond buying and granting
the ESM a banking license. So long as elected leaders don’t
neuter it with unnecessary delays and face-saving qualifiers,
this would constitute the kind of big and bold plan the euro
area needs.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on success for  female Saudi
Olympians ;  Susan Antilla  on Wall Street’s  efforts to stymie new
regulations ;  Caroline Baum  on  monetary policy  getting off track;
 Michael Kinsley  on  Romney’s zero tolerance  for the unsuccessful;
 Peter Orszag  on ways to keep lowering  health-care costs ; Handel
Reynolds on the shaky foundation of the  mammogram economy .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 