-- Mediclinic Climbs on Debt Refinancing Plans: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-08-01T15:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/mediclinic-climbs-on-debt-refinancing-plans-johannesburg-mover.html
Mediclinic International Ltd. (MDC) , South
Africa’s second-largest hospital group, rose the most in more
than 2 1/2 years on plans to refinance 28 billion rand ($3.4
billion) of debt facilities to benefit from record-low rates.  The stock climbed 6.9 percent, the biggest gain since
November 2009, to 42.80 rand at the close in Johannesburg, the
highest on record.  Mediclinic also plans to raise 5 billion rand in a fully
underwritten stock offer to existing shareholders, the
Stellenbosch, South Africa-based company said in a statement
today. It will refinance 2.9 billion Swiss francs ($3 billion)
in debt at its Swiss Hirslanden unit and 3.6 billion rand in
South African borrowings with cheaper debt and equity finance.  “We are taking advantage of the very attractive prices in
the market and this gives us the flexibility to take advantage
of opportunities in  South Africa , Switzerland and the  United
Arab Emirates ,” Chief Executive Officer Danie Meintjes said in
a conference call today.  Yields on dollar-denominated  corporate bonds  have dropped
95 basis points this year and reached a record low 5.21 percent
yesterday, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s CEMBI indexes show. South
African corporate bond sales have risen 52 percent this year to
62.7 billion rand, more than twice the 24 percent gain for
 emerging markets  globally, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Mediclinic is making use of the good rate environment,”
Mathew Menezes, an analyst at Avior Research Ltd. in
Johannesburg said. “This shows there is liquidity out there.”  The average cost of new debt raised in  Switzerland  will be
2.5 percent, compared with the current 5.6 percent, resulting in
a 550 million-rand annual saving, Mediclinic said. South African
debt at 10 percent “compares favorably” with the 10.3 percent
it currently pays, the company said in the statement. The more
favorable borrowing rates would have boosted so-called
normalized earnings per share adjusted for one-time items by 14
percent in the year through March, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  