-- Egypt Shares Advance Most in the World as Cabinet Unveiled
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-08-01T12:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/egypt-shares-advance-most-in-the-world-before-cabinet-unveiled.html
Egyptian stocks advanced the most in
the world as Prime Minister-Designate Hisham Qandil started
unveiling the lineup of his cabinet, marking another step in the
transition to democracy after last year’s uprising.  Orascom Construction  Industries,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly
traded company, surged to the highest level in more than two
months.  Ezz Steel (ESRS) , the largest steel producer, gained the most
since July 5. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  climbed 1.5 percent,
the most among 94 global markets tracked by Bloomberg, to
4,935.59 at the close in Cairo. The measure has jumped 36
percent this year. International investors were net buyers of
shares today, according to data on the bourse’s website.  “The cabinet announcement is one step closer to a more
stable Egypt,” said Ashraf Akhnoukh, Cairo-based senior manager
for  Middle East  and North Africa markets at Commercial
International Brokerage Co.  Foreign investment tumbled in the most populous Arab
country after last year’s uprising that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak , with the transition marred by violence and a power
struggle between Islamists and the military, which ruled until
the election of President Mohamed Mursi last month.  Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed will retain his job,
state-run television reported, while Osama Saleh was appointed
Investment Minister. Qandil, who was named as premier last
month, said Jul 28 he would officially announce the cabinet Aug.
2.  About 193 million shares were traded today, compared with a
daily 12-month average of 93 million shares,  data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Orascom Construction rose 3.2 percent to 269.93
pounds, the highest since May 24. Ezz Steel gained 2.3 percent
to 7.55 pounds. The company is in talks with authorities over
new licenses for reduced direct iron.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  