-- Eloqua Offers 50% Discount to Software-as-Service Peers in IPO
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/eloqua-offers-50-discount-to-software-as-service-peers-in-ipo.html
Eloqua Inc. (ELOQ) , whose software helps
companies including American Express Co. target new clients, is
seeking a valuation about half that of peers in its initial
public offering as it vies for investors in a crowded field.  The cloud-based software maker plans to raise as much as
$92 million in a sale today. The midpoint of the $9.50 to $11.50
price range values Eloqua at about 4 times sales in the year
through June, compared with an average multiple of 8.1 for 14
competitors, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eloqua is going public after  ExactTarget Inc. (ET) ,  Bazaarvoice
Inc. (BV)  and ServiceNow Inc. completed IPOs in the past six months.
Its late-comer status may have prompted the company to offer a
discount to lure investors with myriad opportunities in the
software-as-a-service industry, according to Brian Barish,
president of Denver-based Cambiar Investors LLC.  “There are plenty of options that are already established,
and that’s the obvious disadvantage to new entrants,” Barish,
who helps oversee about $7 billion, said in an interview. “To
entice people, you do need a bit of a discount.”  Eloqua’s subscription software helps companies target their
marketing to reach the right audience, measure the effectiveness
of marketing campaigns and prioritize sales leads based on
probability to close. The  products  range in price from $2,000 a
month for 4-10 users to $6,400 a month for 250 users.  Dynamic Space  Revenue at Vienna, Virginia-based Eloqua jumped 40 percent
last year to $71.3 million. In the second quarter of 2012, sales
rose 39 percent to $23.2 million from a year earlier. The
company has more than 1,100 customers, including  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE) , American Express and Dell Inc.  Eloqua is poised to benefit as companies spend more money
trying to convert leads into customers, said Chris Fletcher, an
analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based research firm Gartner
Inc. who covers business-software makers.  “You’re getting better and better insight about the
quality of the new business opportunity stream coming into your
company,” said Fletcher. “You can use the analytic tools to
get some idea or make a prediction on the revenue in coming
quarters.”  Clients will also probably gravitate from traditional
software to  software as a service , a market that Gartner expects
will increase to $22.1 billion in 2015 from $12.3 billion last
year. Using this model allows companies to save money because
they access programs via the cloud instead of storing them on
their own servers.  Joe Chernov, a spokesman for Eloqua, declined to comment.  Marketing Costs  While revenue rises, Eloqua is spending more to fend off
competition. Sales and marketing costs increased 28 percent in
the first six months of 2012 to $17.52 million. That, along with
a litigation settlement, led to a $5.5 million net loss in the
first half of the year, compared with a net loss of $3.5 million
a year earlier.  Eloqua said on July 20 that it plans to sell 8 million
shares on behalf of itself and existing shareholders, equivalent
to a 25 percent stake.  Recent IPOs from companies that provide software as a
service indicate that there’s investor demand for the stocks.
ServiceNow, whose software helps companies manage human
resources and financial information, has surged 50 percent since
its IPO on June 28.  Demandware Inc. (DWRE) , an e-commerce software provider, has
gained 54 percent since its offering in March, and marketing-
software provider Bazaarvoice Inc. has climbed 29 percent since
its IPO the previous month. Closely held Marketo Inc., which
Eloqua names as a competitor in its prospectus, has said it will
look to go public after the  U.S. presidential election  in
November.  Eloqua’s biggest investors are JMI Equity, Bay Partners and
Bessemer Ventures, which will own a combined 62 percent of the
company’s outstanding stock after the offering, according to the
prospectus. None of them are planning to sell in the IPO.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG are leading the
offering. The stock will be listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol ELOQ.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  