-- Emirates Says Qantas Codeshare Deal Likely in 6 Months
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-08-01T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/emirates-says-qantas-codeshare-deal-likely-in-6-months.html
Emirates said it may reach a
codeshare agreement with  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  within six months
as the Australian carrier seeks a partner to help revive
unprofitable international operations.  “We’ve been engaging with them for some time,” Emirates
Chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum told reporters in
Dubai yesterday. “The objective is to eventually see Qantas fly
through Dubai.” The two sides aren’t discussing a revenue-
sharing accord, he said.  A tie-up may boost Qantas’s overseas business as the
carrier would be able to access Emirates’ network of flights
from Dubai, widening the range of one-stop services it can offer
on Australia- Europe  routes. Emirates would gain access to an
Australian sales network run by the country’s largest carrier.  Virgin Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH) , the country’s No. 2
carrier, has formed a similar partnership with part-owner Etihad
Airways PJSC that lets it sell one-stop tickets to Europe
via  Abu Dhabi , Dubai’s neighboring emirate. Qantas only offers
one-stop trips to five European cities, via Singapore or  Hong
Kong , according to a route map on its  website . It doesn’t fly
to Dubai.  Qantas has forecast that  losses  on international routes
probably doubled to A$450 million ($473 million) in the year
ended June because of higher fuel costs and market-share losses.
The airline also predicted its first net loss since listing.
Qantas is scheduled to report earnings on Aug. 23.  Emirates operates 70 flights a week to Australia and plans
to increase frequencies on routes including Adelaide and Perth.
The carrier flies 176 aircraft, including the largest fleet of
Airbus A380s, to 124 destinations, it said July 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  