-- Emmis Says It Will Delay Shareholder Vote Until Judge Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   H o w a r d   S m u l e v i t z
-- 2012-08-01T21:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/emmis-says-it-will-delay-shareholder-vote-until-judge-rules-1-.html
Emmis Communications Corp. (EMMS)  told a
U.S. judge it will delay a scheduled Aug. 14 shareholder vote
that could wipe out $34 million in unpaid preferred stockholder
dividends until after she rules on a bid to block the balloting.  Corre Opportunities Fund LP and other preferred
stockholders asked U.S. District Judge Sarah Evans Barker in
Indianapolis for an order blocking the vote, arguing that Emmis
board members and Chairman Jeffrey Smulyan failed to comply with
state and federal disclosure laws.  Barker today ended a two-day hearing with a suggestion that
both parties think of a way to compensate the stockholders for
their losses while allowing the radio station owner and operator
to move ahead with a plan to reduce debt and stabilize its
financial condition. She said she’d rule by Aug. 31.  “The board will convene Aug. 14 and adjourn,” corporation
Secretary J. Scott Enright told Barker, taking action only to
set a meeting for after the U.S. Labor Day holiday on Sept. 3.  With a market capitalization of about $85 million, Emmis
has more than 41 million shares of stock outstanding, 2.8
million of which are preferred shares whose holders are
currently entitled to automatic dividends.  Those dividends, worth 6.25 percent of the preferred
shares’ $50 liquidation value, or $3.125, haven’t been paid
since October 2008, the investors said in a court filing.
Including those unpaid dividends, each preferred share is worth
$62.12 according to a June 29 proxy statement and meeting
notice.  Dividend Elimination  Other proposals on the Aug. 14 ballot included elimination
of future preferred dividends unless declared and with that, the
abolition of preferred stockholders’ ability to elect two
members to the Indianapolis-based company’s board as long as
there are arrears.  All of this, Corre alleged in court papers, is a prelude to
Smulyan’s plan to take the ninth-biggest U.S. radio station
operator private.  “Our contention all along has just been leave us alone,”
John Barrett, managing partner of New York-based Corre Partners
Management LLC, which controls the plaintiff fund, said in a
phone interview last week.  Barrett testified yesterday as did Smulyan, who denied any
intent to privatize the company following failed attempts to do
so in 2006 and 2010.  ‘Worn Out’  “I’m worn out from two years ago,” the chairman and chief
executive officer said. “I just don’t want to do it. I can’t
foresee a situation in which that would change.”  Smulyan owns almost 60 percent of Emmis’s common stock and
controls votes for almost 67 percent of the preferred shares,
meaning the votes will probably go in his favor, according to
the proxy statement.  “Let’s say all requirements were satisfied,” Barker said
of the dispute over whether the company properly disclosed its
intent. She said there is no doubt “that Mr. Barrett and his
group were victimized” when they failed to sell their shares to
Emmis and Smulyan.  “They were left holding an empty bag,” she said.  While Emmis attorney Richard Kempf today told the judge the
company would be harmed by being unable to improve its financial
condition, investor lawyer Wayne Turner asked her to prevent the
company from taking any action until after a trial on his
clients’ claims.  The case is Corre Opportunity Fund LP v. Emmis
Communications Corp., 12-cv-00491, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  Indiana  (Indianapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Smulevitz in Indianapolis federal court
at  shsmulevitz@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  