-- Eni Cuts Refining, Boost Gas Sales as Recession Hurts Demand
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-08-01T15:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/eni-cuts-refining-boost-gas-sales-as-recession-hurts-demand-1-.html
Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s biggest energy
producer, will reduce refining volumes and battle to preserve
its market share of natural-gas sales as demand weakens.  The company today reported a 2 percent gain in second-
quarter adjusted profit to 1.46 billion euros ($1.8 billion),
helped by a recovery in Libyan output. It also booked a 1.1
billion-euro charge on gas and refinery assets.  In Europe, “gas demand is projected to fall sharply as a
consequence of the economic slowdown as well as a big drop in
thermoelectric consumption,” Rome-based Eni said in a
statement. “Refining margins are anticipated to remain at
unprofitable levels.”  Gas demand in Europe will be hurt by high prices, slower
economic growth and expansion in renewable sources of energy
through 2017, the  International Energy Agency  forecast in June.
Refining was depressed by shrinking price differentials and weak
fuel demand.  “Although the European refining environment improved in
the second quarter, Eni continued to be impacted by a low
differential between light and heavy crudes and weak fuel
demand,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., wrote in an e-mailed report.  Eni, the largest oil producer in  Africa , has restored
operations in  Libya  following last year’s civil war. That helped
to offset lost production in the  North Sea  and Nigeria, it said.
Output is expected to grow about 10 percent this year from 2011,
the company said.  Refining Loss  The 1.1 billion-euro charge helped to reduce net income by
82 percent to 227 million euros. Eni’s refining and marketing
division reported an adjusted operating loss of 144 million
euros in the quarter.  Adjusted earnings missed the 1.5 billion-euro average
estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Second-quarter
output increased 11 percent to 1.65 million barrels of oil
equivalent a day, while natural gas sales fell 4 percent to 20.2
billion cubic meters, Eni said.  Separately, Eni today announced a “new giant” gas
discovery in the eastern part of Area 4 off the coast of
 Mozambique . The find at Mamba North East 2 increased the area’s
resource potential to 70 trillion cubic feet of gas in place,
Eni said. That’s enough to meet Italy’s supply needs for almost
30 years.  ‘Promising Areas’  During the second quarter, Eni said it bought exploration
interests “in promising areas” in Vietnam, Kenya and
Indonesia, according to today’s statement.  The company’s stock, up 5 percent this year, may gain from
its sale of shares in Italian gas distributor  Snam SpA (SRG) , ordered
by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  to boost competition and reduce
consumer prices.  The Italian company is also reducing its stake in  Galp
Energia SGPS SA (GALP) , Portugal’s largest oil producer, and in July
completed the disposal of 5 percent to Amorim Energia BV, a
holding company controlled by Portuguese investor Americo
Amorim. Eni now holds about 28 percent of Galp.  The sale of the Galp and Snam stakes will enable the
company to reduce debt by about 20 billion euros by the end of
the year, Chief Executive Officer  Paolo Scaroni  told investors.  Eni, which today declared an interim dividend of 54 euro
cents, will “redefine” its payout policy next year, Scaroni
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  