-- Henkel Profit Beats Estimates on Emerging-Market Growth
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-08-01T07:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/henkel-profit-beats-estimates-on-emerging-market-growth.html
Henkel AG, the German maker of
Loctite glues and Persil detergent, reported second-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as demand increased in
 emerging markets , offsetting weakness in western Europe.  Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes rose to 609
million euros ($749 million) from 514 million euros a year
earlier, the Dusseldorf-based company said in a statement today.
Profit exceeded the 592.2 million-euro average estimate of 11
analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect that the very volatile environment with
uncertainties in our markets will persist,” Chief Executive
Officer Kasper Rorsted said in the statement. “The effects of
the debt and financial crises in a number of countries will
continue to be a challenge.”  German companies are tapping growth in emerging markets as
the sovereign-debt crisis curbs demand in the euro area. A
report on July 30 showed economic confidence in the region fell
more than economists forecast to the lowest in almost three
years in July. Henkel is seeking to boost the proportion of
revenue from developing markets to 45 percent this year from 43
percent currently.  Henkel preferred shares fell as much as 1.8 percent to
57.46 euros and were trading down 1.7 percent at 9:24 a.m. in
 Frankfurt . Henkel stock has gained 29 percent this year, the
best performance on Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  and beating
gains of 6.7 percent for London- and Rotterdam-based  Unilever (UNA) 
and 22 percent at Hamburg-based  Beiersdorf AG. (BEI)   Sales Rise  Sales rose 6.4 percent from a year earlier to 4.21 billion
euros, boosted by a 9.3 percent increase in eastern Europe, the
 Middle East ,  Africa ,  Latin America  and  Asia . On a so-called
organic basis, which excludes the effects of acquisitions,
disposals or currency shifts, revenue increased 4 percent,
propelled by an 8.1 percent jump in emerging markets.  Organic sales rose 4.5 percent in the Asia-Pacific region
and 3.8 percent in  North America . Revenue on that basis fell 0.1
percent in western Europe, the only region posting a decline.  The company doesn’t expect a recovery in the second half in
western Europe, Rorsted said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. The CEO said he’s not “overall concerned” about
slowing economic growth in China.  Net Income  Net income  jumped 9.6 percent to 401 million euros, Henkel
said. That beat the 388.6 million-euro average of five
estimates. Adjusted Ebit as a proportion of sales increased to
14.5 percent from 13 percent. Net debt was cut to 1.27 billion
euros as of June 30 from 1.96 billion euros a year earlier.  Adhesives-division revenue  gained 3.6 percent on an organic
basis to 2.1 billion euros, led by growth in emerging markets,
Henkel said. Organic sales rose 5.1 percent at the laundry and
home-care unit and 2.8 percent in cosmetics and toiletries.  The company reiterated that the Ebit margin in 2012,
adjusted for one-time items and reorganization costs, will rise
to 14 percent of sales from 13 percent last year. Henkel is
forecasting revenue growth at continuing operations of 3 percent
to 5 percent in 2012. The company now expects an increase in
adjusted earnings per preferred share of 15 percent.  This year “should be an even better year than 2011 and we
also see the potential for strong sales and, especially, margin
growth beyond 2012,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein in  New York , said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“We do not believe this strong potential operating performance
is fully reflected in Henkel’s stock at present.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  