-- Lenovo Forges Ties With EMC to Increase Storage Revenue
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-01T20:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/lenovo-forges-agreement-with-emc-to-boost-storage-server-sales.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest personal-computer maker, agreed to ally with  EMC
Corp. (EMC)  to help boost sales of storage equipment and servers that
run corporate networks.  As part of the deal, Lenovo will resell machines made by
EMC, the biggest maker of  storage devices , Peter Hortensius,
head of Lenovo’s product group, said in an interview. The sales
will start in  China  then move abroad, he said.  The agreements, announced in Beijing today, help Hopkinton,
Massachusetts-based EMC widen its foothold in China, the world’s
second-largest economy. Lenovo gets to expand in products
besides personal computers and add sales outside  Asia .  “We’ve been looking for an opportunity to grow our server
business outside of China as well as get into more commercial
products than just our PCs,” Hortensius said by phone today.
“EMC has some interests that are very complementary to ours.”  The companies are also forming a joint venture that will
help them sell storage equipment to small and mid-sized
businesses. Beijing-based Lenovo will own 51 percent of the
venture after contributing an undisclosed cash sum. EMC,
chipping in assets and resources of the Iomega storage business,
will own the remainder.  Server Capability  The reseller agreement focuses on network storage, and it
replaces a partnership EMC had with  Dell Inc. (DELL)   “We think Lenovo will copy Dell’s success in the server
business, so this is positive in the long term,” said Christine Wang, a Taipei-based analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets. “This is
good for both sides. Lenovo will gain sever capability and
expand its server business in China. EMC will expand storage
business in China as its current channel in China is weak.”  EMC’s shares fell 0.3 percent to $26.14 at the close in  New
York  today. The shares have gained 21 percent this year. Lenovo
 climbed  6.9 percent, the largest advance since Jan. 19, to
HK$5.75 at the close in Hong Kong trading.  The earlier partnership was terminated last year after Dell
became a rival by entering the storage market, said Joel Schwartz, EMC’s senior vice president for global new business
development. The company is looking to China as a source of
growth this year amid ebbing demand in regions such as  Europe ,
David Goulden, EMC president and chief operating officer, said
in an interview last week.  China Growth  “People say ‘Well, China is slowing,’ but China’s GDP will
still grow at a healthy rate this year, albeit perhaps not as
healthy as people expected last year,” Goulden said. While EMC
doesn’t break out revenue from China, Goulden said the country
is probably EMC’s biggest in the Asia-Pacific region.  EMC and Lenovo will also work together on servers to be
sold by Lenovo and eventually embedded in EMC storage equipment.  The partnership will not be material to either company’s
earnings in the current fiscal year, the two said in a
statement.  “EMC is building out its China operations, and is
partnering with Lenovo in order to leverage its significant
client base,” said Jean-Louis Lafayeedney, an analyst at JI
Asia in  Hong Kong . “The fit is good. China will be the test-bed
for the partnership before taking it overseas.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  