-- Tepco Widens Net Loss Forecast on Reduced Power Tariff Increase
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-08-01T07:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/tepco-widens-net-loss-forecast-on-reduced-power-tariff-increase.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the
operator of the wrecked Fukushima plant that gave up control to
the government, widened its annual net loss forecast after the
state ordered it to scale back an electricity rate increase.  The company known as Tepco expects a net loss of 160
billion yen ($2 billion) in the year ending March 2013, compared
with a 100 billion yen loss estimate in May, it said today in a
statement. Tepco posted a net loss of 288.4 billion yen for the
quarter ended June 30 compared with a loss of 572 billion yen a
year earlier, it said.  Seven Japanese nuclear utilities, including Kansai Electric
Power Co., reported a combined quarterly loss of 268 billion yen
as the shutdown of atomic stations after the Fukushima disaster
caused by the quake and tsunami last year increased fuel costs
to operate oil- and gas-fired plants. Tepco, which serves about
30 million customers in the Tokyo metropolitan area, trimmed a
rate increase after the government’s order, hindering a goal to
return to profit in the year ending March 2014.  “Tepco may seek raising electricity rates again early next
year if it sees no sign that its Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear
plant can be restarted as planned,” Hirofumi Kawachi, an energy
analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., said by phone before
the earnings announcement. The utility may have to request a 10
percent rate increase for companies and households to cover fuel
costs, Kawachi said.  Tepco  shares  have plunged 94 percent since the Fukushima
disaster on March 11, 2011. The stock fell 2.3 percent to 128
yen today on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average declined 0.6 percent.  Fuel Costs  The Japanese government provided 1 trillion yen to the
utility yesterday in return for more than 50 percent of its
 voting rights , effectively nationalizing Tepco, after the
Fukushima disaster left the company on the brink of bankruptcy.
The utility posted a loss of 781.6 billion yen in the last
fiscal year.  Fossil fuel costs for Tepco surged as its nuclear plants
that were idled before and after the Fukushima disaster remained
shut. Trimming the rate increase may lower revenue by about 84
billion yen, the utility said.  The  company  plans to gradually restart its Kashiwazaki
Kariwa nuclear plant, the world’s biggest, after April 2013,
according to the utility’s turnaround plan released in May.
Tepco estimates that restarting one Kashiwazaki Kariwa reactor
will cut its annual costs by about 78 billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  