-- Euro Advances Against Dollar, Yen as ECB Meet
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-08-02T11:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/euro-remains-lower-before-ecb-meets-to-discuss-crisis.html
The euro rose against the dollar and
the yen, snapping a drop from yesterday, as European Central
Bank policy makers meet for the first time since President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever is needed to protect the currency.  The pound dropped for a third day against the euro as the
Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee kept its bond-buying
program and interest rates unchanged. The U.S. currency fell
versus 13 of its 16 major counterparts even after the Federal
Reserve yesterday refrained from expanding monetary easing.
Sweden’s krona and Norway’s krone strengthened.  “Many investors are expecting something” after Draghi’s
comments last week, said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at
 UBS AG (UBSN)  in London. “There is scope for disappointment if he says
something similar to last week today but does not follow up on
it. Expectations are maybe too high.”  The euro advanced 0.4 percent to $1.2273 at 12:03 p.m.
 London  time after dropping 0.6 percent yesterday. The 17-nation
currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 96.02 yen. The dollar
weakened 0.3 percent to 78.23 yen.  ECB officials meeting in  Frankfurt  will keep the  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low 0.75 percent, according to 51 of
55 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Four predict a cut to
0.5 percent. The deposit rate will be left at zero, a separate
Bloomberg survey shows.  Draghi will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in
Frankfurt to explain the central bank’s decision. Any new
measures will also be announced then.  High Expectations  “A lot of people are expecting the ECB to announce some
sort of ‘shock-and-awe’ policy today,” said Peter Dragicevich,
a Sydney-based foreign-exchange economist at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia. (CBA)  “If the ECB were to disappoint, we expect the
euro to fall.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery
and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a
context of  price stability ,” U.S. policy makers said yesterday
in a statement at the end of a two-day meeting. Investors had
speculated the central bank may signal a third round of asset
purchases or so-called quantitative easing.  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in
two rounds of asset purchases from 2008 to 2011 in a bid to spur
growth through lower borrowing costs, and it has said its
benchmark  interest rate  will stay at “exceptionally low
levels” at least through late 2014.  U.S. Hiring  The pace of hiring in the U.S. in July will fail to cut the
 unemployment rate  from 8.2 percent, economists said before a
Labor Department report tomorrow. The data will show employers
added 100,000 jobs last month, according to the median forecast
in an economist survey. Employers added an average of 226,000 a
month from January through March.  “The FOMC changed the statement fractionally, to downgrade
the economic outlook and insert the code-word for policy action
at the next meeting,” Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based currency
strategist at  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , wrote in a note to
clients. “If we see more reports that are soft, then if the
last two QE cycles are an example, then the dollar can move
lower into the meeting and rally afterwards.”  The pound fell against most of its major peers as the  Bank
of England  announced its decision. The Monetary Policy Committee
maintained its bond-buying program at 375 billion pounds and
left interest rates at a record-low 0.5 percent, in line with
the median forecasts in Bloomberg News surveys.  Sterling weakened 0.2 percent to 78.88 pence per euro after
dropping to 79.07 pence, the lowest level since July 13.  The euro has depreciated 4.5 percent in the past six
months, the worst performance of 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
gained 0.2 percent and the dollar strengthened 3.1 percent.  The Swedish krona rose 0.5 percent to 6.7689 per dollar,
while Norway’s krone climbed 0.3 percent to 6.0249.  -- With assistance from Hiroko Komiya, Monami Yui and Mariko
Ishikawa in Tokyo and Kristine Aquino in  Singapore . Editors:
Mark McCord, Nicholas Reynolds  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  