-- Europe’s Richest Woman Sells Island for $60 Million
-- B y   D e v o n   P e n d l e t o n
-- 2012-08-01T15:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/europe-s-richest-woman-sells-island-for-60-million.html
Liliane Bettencourt , Europe’s richest
woman, sold her private island in the Seychelles to a marine
conservation organization for $60 million.  The  L’Oreal SA (OR)  heiress, 89, bought the 0.6-square mile
(150-hectare) D’Arros Island and several smaller islands in
1998. The buyer, Geneva-based Save Our Seas Foundation, plans to
turn the islands into a nature reserve. Jean-Christophe Chiquet, 
a spokesman for the Bettencourt family, confirmed the sale.   “Previously, D’Arros did not enjoy any protection. Anybody
could have gone there and done what they wanted,” Rolph Payet,
the Seychelles’ environment and energy minister, said at a press
conference in the island nation yesterday. “Now, with protected 
status under the Nature Conservancy Act, there will be 
enforcement and monitoring.”  Save Our Seas is a privately funded non-profit organization
that supports marine life research, education and conservation
projects. Christoph Lamps, a spokesman for the foundation,
declined to identify the individual who founded Save Our Seas,
only saying that he “is not Swiss.”  Bettencourt is worth $23.3 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . She is the second-richest person
in France, behind  Bernard Arnault , who controls  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest luxury-goods
company.  There are multiple investigations in progress related to
Bettencourt. Authorities searched the home and Paris office of
former French President Nicolas Sarkozy on July 3, as part of an
investigation into claims that cash from Bettencourt illegally
funded his 2007 election campaign. Judges in Bordeaux are
looking into claims the billionaire, now a court-ordered ward of
her family, was manipulated by members of her entourage into
giving away cash, art, real estate and other property.  The Seychelles, a collection of more than 100 islands, lie 
about 1,000 miles off the coast of Kenya in the  Indian Ocean .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devon Pendleton in New York at 
 dpendleton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  