-- European Stocks Gain Amid Speculation of Central Bank Aid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-08-01T15:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/european-stock-index-futures-drop-on-asian-economic-data.html
European stocks  rose for the fourth
time in five days as speculation central banks will take further
steps to support the economic recovery outweighed the biggest
contraction in U.K. manufacturing for three years.  Next Plc (NXT)  jumped 6.5 percent as the retailer increased its
annual profit forecast after reporting first-half sales that
rose more than analysts estimated.  Arkema SA (AKE)  climbed 5.7 percent
as second-quarter earnings beat projections.  Mediaset SpA (MS) 
dropped 11 percent after profit declined 65 percent amid lower
advertising sales.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  gained 0.5 percent to 262.57 at
the close of trading. The benchmark measure has rallied 12
percent from this year’s low on June 4 as German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  and French President  Francois Hollande  last week
joined European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  in promising
to do everything to protect the euro.  “Markets are clearly being driven by the expectation of
further central-bank intervention,” said Peter Garnry, an
equity strategist at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “Everyone is
expecting Draghi to launch another round of secondary-market
purchases to get yields on Spanish and Italian bonds lower.”  Benchmark indexes rose in seven of the 17 western European
markets open today. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  gained 1.4 percent while
Germany’s DAX slipped 0.3 percent. Markets in Switzerland were
closed for a holiday.  The number of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600 companies
was 26 percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.K. Economy  A gauge of U.K.  factory output , based on a survey by  Markit
Economics  and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply,
fell to 45.4 last month from a revised 48.4 in June, Markit said
today. That’s the lowest in 38 months. The median forecast of 30
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was 48.4. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index in China unexpectedly fell
to 50.1 in July, the weakest in eight months, from 50.2 in June,
a government report showed today. Fifty marks the dividing line
between expansion and contraction. South Korea’s exports slid by
more than double the amount forecast by analysts.  In the U.S., the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 manufacturing index  rose to 49.8 last month from 49.7 in June.
The median estimate of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was
for a reading of 50.2.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Reserve  will conclude a two-day policy meeting
after the close of European trading today. The U.S. central bank
has carried out two rounds of so-called quantitative easing
since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008, buying
$2.3 trillion in bonds to boost the economy.  Bearish options on European stocks have fallen to the
cheapest levels compared with bullish ones in 19 months as
traders bet that Draghi will deliver on his promise to save the
euro. The ECB will hold its next policy meeting tomorrow.  “During the next two days, market attention will be firmly
focused on the world’s central banks,” said Jonathan Sudaria, a
trader at Capital Spreads in London. “The recent run of bad
economic data around the globe and the turmoil in  Europe  has had
traders instinctively looking to central banks for salvation
with their hands out for some more monetary stimulus.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said the ECB shouldn’t
exceed its mandate. The ECB’s independence “requires it to
respect and not overstep its own mandate,” Weidmann said in an
interview with former central bank chief Helmut Schlesinger that
was conducted on June 29 and published on the Bundesbank’s
website today. “We are the largest and most important central
bank in the Eurosystem and we have a greater say than many other
central banks.”  Next, Arkema  Next jumped 6.5 percent to 3,427 pence. The U.K.’s second-
largest clothing retailer increased its annual profit forecast
after first-half sales rose more than analysts estimated, driven
by a surge in online and catalog sales.  Arkema climbed 5.7 percent to 63.25 euros after the French
chemicals company reported second-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization of 306 million
euros ($377 million), beating analyst estimates of 272.6 million
euros.  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  added 3.6 percent to 1,517.5 pence,
the largest advance since June 6, after the U.K. bank that gets
most of its revenue from Asia posted an 11 percent increase in
first-half profit.  Rightmove Rises  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  gained 10 percent to 1,645 pence as the
U.K.’s biggest residential property website posted a 28 percent
increase in underlying operating profit.  Mediaset slumped 11 percent to 1.27 euros, the largest
decline in almost three months. The broadcaster controlled by
former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said second-
quarter net income fell to 32.7 million euros from 94.4 million
euros a year earlier. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
estimated profit of 31.9 million euros.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  slid 2.9 percent to 58.99
euros. The world’s biggest maker of luxury cars reported a 19
percent drop in second-quarter profit amid increased spending on
new models and “intense” pricing competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  