-- U.K. Manufacturing Slump Deepens as Export Orders Fall
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-01T10:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/euro-area-manufacturing-output-contracted-12th-month-in-july-1-.html
U.K. manufacturing  shrank the most in
more than three years in July as export orders slumped,
indicating the economy’s recession continued to deepen at the
start of the third quarter.  A factory-output gauge fell to 45.4 from a revised 48.4 in
June, London-based Markit Economics said today. The reading was
weaker than any of the 30 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey.
The decline was led by weaker demand in the euro area, where a
separate index showed  manufacturing  shrank for a 12th month.  British manufacturers are struggling as the sovereign debt
crisis deepens in  Europe , the U.K.’s biggest trading partner,
and global growth cools. The  Bank of England , which expanded
stimulus last month, will probably keep its  bond-purchase target 
unchanged tomorrow as policy makers assess their Funding for
Lending plan aimed at stoking the flow of credit and reviving
growth.  “There is a lot of ground to recover,” said  Ross Walker ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .
“Alongside distinctly underwhelming anecdotal evidence from
consumer-facing parts of the economy, this bodes ill for hopes
of a rebound in third-quarter gross domestic product.”  Economists had forecast a reading of 48.4 for the factory
index, based on the median estimate. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  Pound Weakens  The pound weakened after the report, which adds to concerns
about Britain’s economy after it shrank 0.7 percent in the
second quarter. Sterling traded at $1.5647 as of 10:54 a.m. in
London, down 0.2 percent from yesterday. It was at 78.68 per
euro, 0.3 percent lower on the day.  Part of the U.K. weakness in July may reflect a delayed
effect of an extra public holiday in June, according to Nomura
International Plc. Still, it said it’s “clear that the
underlying level of growth remains very weak.”  In the 17-nation euro region, the  manufacturing gauge  fell
to a 37-month low of 44 last month from 45.1 in June. The gauges
for  Germany  and France -- the bloc’s biggest economies --reached
37- and 38-month lows, respectively.  European manufacturers are feeling the impact of the debt
crisis and tougher austerity measures that have undermined
export and consumer demand. Euro-area  economic confidence  dipped
in July and German unemployment rose for a fourth straight
month, according to reports this week.  Recovery Delayed  In Germany, production dropped for a fourth month in July,
with output and new orders declining at the sharpest rates since
April 2009, Markit said in a  separate report . Ireland’s central
bank said yesterday that the euro-area economy probably shrank
in the second quarter after stalling in the previous three
months.  “The widespread deterioration in sentiment and the high
levels of uncertainty threaten to further delay the gradual
recovery forecast for the second half of this year,” the
Dublin-based bank said.  The economic gloom extends to  Asia , where  China ’s
manufacturing teetered on the edge of contraction in July. The
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index in China unexpectedly fell to 50.1 in
July, the weakest in eight months, from 50.2 in June, a
government report showed today.  A separate purchasing managers’ index by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit indicated that manufacturing contracted at a slower
pace in July. The gauge, which covers more than 420 companies
and is weighted more toward smaller businesses, rose to 49.3
from 48.2, after a preliminary reading of 49.5 last week.  U.S. Output  In the U.S.,  manufacturing  probably stagnated in July after
contracting for the first time in three years the previous
month, economists said before a report later today. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to 50.2
from 49.7, according to the  median  estimate in a survey.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global growth
forecast to 3.9 percent from 4.1 percent last month, citing
Europe’s fiscal crisis and slowing activity in  emerging markets .
It also predicted the  euro-area economy  to shrink 0.3 percent
this year before expanding 0.7 percent in 2013.  With economies around the globe cooling, central bankers
are under pressure to add fresh stimulus measures. Policy makers
from the  Federal Reserve , the  European Central Bank  and the Bank
of  England  all meet this week.  ‘Whatever It Takes’  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said last week that policy
makers will “do whatever it takes” to preserve the euro,
signaling they may intervene in bond markets again. The central
bank, which cut borrowing costs to a record last month, will
hold its next rate meeting tomorrow.  As European governments from  Spain  to Ireland seek ways to
plug their budget gaps, companies may continue to cut jobs.
 Euro-area unemployment  may reach 12 percent next year from a
current rate of 11.2 percent, according to IHS Global Insight.  ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe AG, Germany’s biggest steelmaker,
said on July 26 that it would introduce shortened shifts for
workers from August due to “ongoing weak orders,” at least
until the end of the year.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest
engineering company, said the same day that reaching its full-
year targets had become more difficult after fiscal third-
quarter earnings and sales fell short of analysts’ estimates.  The euro-area had a “poor start to the third quarter and
the weak new orders component suggests no signs of an imminent
turnaround,” said Stella Wang, an economist at Nomura in
London. “Absent a quick response from the policy makers, output
is likely to fall at a worrying rate, especially for the major
economies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  