-- Ex-Morgan Stanley Analyst Forms Firm to Buy Rental Homes
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-08-01T21:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/ex-morgan-stanley-analyst-forms-firm-to-buy-rental-homes.html
Oliver Chang, the former head of
housing strategy at Morgan Stanley, said his new company aims to
spend as much as $1 billion in the next two years buying rental
homes, targeting low-cost houses that need major renovations.  “We’re looking for homes that are undervalued and need
repairs,” Chang, who left Morgan Stanley in May, said in a
telephone interview. “There’s not as much competition to buy
those houses, so the price is lower.”  Chang, who as a Morgan Stanley strategist wrote about a
U.S. “rentership society” created by the rise in foreclosures,
is following firms such as  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Colony Capital
LLC ,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Starwood Capital Group LLC in buying
discounted single-family homes to convert to rentals. Private-
equity companies have announced or been said to plan spending
more than $8 billion on rental houses, which have historically
been owned by small local investors.  A private equity firm committed an initial $300 million to
Chang’s company, Sylvan Road Capital LLC, according to a
statement today. That’s enough to buy about 3,000 houses, said
Chang, who declined to name his investor. The goal is to
purchase 10,000 homes in two years, he said.  About 5.95 million homes are in the so-called U.S. “shadow
inventory,” which means they face foreclosure or have been
seized by banks and aren’t on the market yet, according to a
July 26 report by Morgan Stanley.  Southwest, Midwest  Chang’s partners are Robert Lee, Sarah Lee and Gavin
Kleinknecht, who are principals of Delmar Realty Advisors, a
homebuilder that already owns a portfolio of single-family
rentals in Atlanta, according to the statement.  Sylvan Road plans to start buying houses in the Southeast
and Midwest, targeting markets where it can assemble about 300
to 400 homes to achieve efficiencies of scale, Chang said.  The company, with offices in Atlanta and  San Francisco ,
will acquire, repair and manage its housing stock through a
subsidiary called HavenBrook Homes, Chang said. HavenBrook has
25 full-time employees and expects to hire more as it expands to
new markets.  As an example, Sylvan could buy a home for about $50,000
that needs another $50,000 in repairs, such as replacing windows
and air conditioning, plumbing and electrical systems, Chang
said. The houses will rent for about $1,250 to $1,500 a month,
he said.  By managing the renovations and properties itself, Sylvan
can reduce expenses to less than 40 percent of rental income,
which is close to the cost of managing multifamily rental
properties, Chang said. Based on that cost, investors would get
about 9 percent annual yield on their money.  “The operating component of this is so critical, not only
because it increases your return,” Chang said. “It also allows
you to provide a better-quality house and better service. If
you’re in this business to institutionalize it, you have to
deliver a higher-quality product.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  