-- Ex-U.S. Senator Mitchell Is Named Penn State Integrity Monitor
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-01T21:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/ex-u-s-senator-mitchell-is-named-penn-state-integrity-monitor.html
George Mitchell , the former U.S.
Senator who in 2007 concluded a 20-month investigation into
performance-enhancing drug use in  Major League Baseball , has
been appointed as the independent Athletics Integrity Monitor at
 Pennsylvania State University .  Mitchell, 78, was selected by college sports’ governing
body -- the National Collegiate Athletic Association -- and his
five-year position begins immediately.  Mitchell’s role will be to evaluate Penn State’s compliance
with the NCAA sanctions handed down last month for the school’s
role in the child-sex abuse case involving former assistant
football coach Jerry Sandusky. He’ll also make sure the school
adheres to the athletic integrity agreement it will sign later
this month with the NCAA and Big Ten Conference.  “Senator Mitchell has impeccable credentials as a fair and
experienced arbitrator nationally and globally,” NCAA President
 Mark Emmert  said in a statement. “He will bring the benefit of
his vast experience and knowledge to the execution of the
agreement.”  Mitchell will prepare quarterly progress reports for the
NCAA, the Big Ten and Penn State’s board of trustees. He’ll have
“broad access” to the school’s campus, personnel and records,
and can make any recommendations he deems necessary for the
university to adhere to NCAA and conference rules and
principles, the NCAA said in a statement.  The NCAA on July 23 hit Penn State with a $60 million fine,
took away 20 scholarships annually for four years and issued a
postseason ban that matches the longest in college football
history after determining school officials, including former
coach  Joe Paterno , tried to cover up child abuse by Sandusky.  Moves Promptly  Mitchell said he’s mindful that the Penn State abuse
scandal “deeply affected many lives” and will seek to ensure
the school moves “promptly and decisively to achieve the very
high level of trust and integrity needed to fulfill its
important mission to those it serves.”  Mitchell, a Democrat, represented his home state of Maine
for 15 years in the  U.S. Senate , including as Senate majority
leader, and later served as a special adviser to President  Bill Clinton  on Ireland. From 1996 to 2000, he was the independent
chairman for the Northern Ireland Peace Talks, and in 2000 and
2001, Mitchell was chairman of an international fact-finding
committee on violence in the Middle East.  A former basketball player at Bowdoin College in Brunswick,
Maine, Mitchell in 2006 and 2007 led the investigation into the
use of performance-enhancing drugs in baseball. More recently,
he was a U.S. Special Envoy for Middle East Peace from 2009 to
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  