-- Ousted Badminton Players Lose in Challenge to Olympic Spirit
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-08-02T08:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/expelled-badminton-players-lose-in-challenge-to-olympic-spirit.html
Teams from  Japan , China,  South Korea 
and  Indonesia  all tried to avoid winning at the Olympics on July
31. Japan was the only one to get away with it.  Norio Sasaki, the coach of the Japanese women’s soccer
team, fielded a weaker squad against  South Africa  and played for
a tie as the country tried to sidestep a victory that would have
meant a long trip for a match with tougher opponents.  “It was the coach’s instruction that we wanted to stay in
Cardiff and come second in the group,” said Japan’s Azusa
Iwashimizu. “So it was difficult to play, but I understood his
idea because it is something we needed to do in order to get a
medal.”  In a variation of Sasaki’s plan, four pairs of badminton
players from  China , South Korea and Indonesia wanted to extend
their chances of Olympic glory. They found themselves tossed out
in a rare expulsion after casting a shadow on the ethos of the
games.  The world champions and top seeds, Yu Yang, 26, and Wang
Xiaoli, 23, from China, and South Korea’s Jung Kyung Eun, 22,
and Kim Ha Na, 22, were warned by officials after they appeared
to deliberately serve into the net. A second South Korean pair,
the third-seeded Ha Jung Eun 25, and Kim Min Jung, 26, and
Indonesia’s Meiliana Jauhari and Greysia Polii, 24, also were
disqualified.  “Everybody is required to play their best every time they
go on court,” Thomas Lund, the Badminton World Federation’s
secretary general, said at a press conference.  The players’ actions drew jeers from spectators at Wembley
Arena in  London . They were disqualified yesterday after a five-
hour meeting.  Athletes’ Oath  At the Opening Ceremony of the London Games on July 27,
British taekwondo competitor Sarah Stevenson read  an oath  on
behalf of her peers, promising to respect and abide by the rules
of the Olympics “in the true spirit of sportsmanship.”  The  International Olympic Committee , which owns the games,
fiercely defends that tradition, which has helped produce a
billion-dollar brand, said  Paul Swangard , managing director of
the Warsaw Sports Marketing Center at the University of  Oregon .  “The IOC views the  Olympic Games  as a piece of a larger
movement, and the Olympic movement aspires to bring nations
together, to reflect the core values of the brand, which is
sportsmanship and competition, and ethics is certainly rolled
into that,” Swangard said in a telephone interview. “This
particular case strikes to the heart of that equity that the IOC
works very hard to protect and preserve.”  Don’t Mix  Ethics and competition don’t always mix, according to
Julian Savulescu, a director of the Oxford Centre for
Neuroethics.  “Since when is strategy abusive to sport,” he said by e-
mail. “If there is a problem, then the rules for the draw
should be changed. This is typical of the puritanical moralism
that is infecting sport.”  The Japanese soccer team, the Women’s World Cup champion,
rested players in a 0-0 draw against South Africa in Cardiff,
 Wales . Japan already had qualified for the knockout round and
the tie, rather than a win, means it will stay in Wales against
Britain or  Brazil  rather than going to Glasgow,  Scotland , to
face  France  or the U.S., the team it beat for the world
championship a year ago.  “Today I have replaced several of the players compared to
the last match as I wanted to give a chance to all 18 players,
to let them experience the Olympics,” coach Norio Sasaki said
after the match.  Tough Foes  The badminton teams also may have been trying to lose so
they could avoid more difficult opponents in the quarterfinals,
when their competition also moves to a knockout stage. The teams
had already qualified out of the group competition, which was
new in this year’s Olympics.  The teams were charged with “not using one’s best efforts
to win a match” and “conducting oneself in a manner that is
clearly abusive or detrimental to the sport,” the federation
said in an e-mailed statement.  The federation said at a news conference it had rejected
appeals from the two South Korean teams and that an Indonesian
appeal had been withdrawn. Chinese Olympic officials said that
they “fully respect” the expulsion of their athletes.  “The behavior of Yu Yang and Wang Xiao violated the
principles of the Olympic movement and went against the spirit
of fair play,” the Chinese delegation said in a statement
released through the Xinhua news service. “It hurt our
hearts.”  The players and head coach of the badminton team were
ordered to apologize following an investigation by the
delegation, Xinhua reported.  Earlier Win  South Korea defeated China in the Group A match 2-0 to set
up a meeting with another Chinese pair, Tian Quing and Zhao
Yunlei. By losing, Yu and Wang had avoided playing their Chinese
compatriots until the final.  Yu told journalists that she and her partner were already
through and were conserving energy for the elimination stage.  “If we’re not playing the best, it’s because it doesn’t
matter,” she said. “The most important thing is the
elimination match.”  In 2003, Yang Wei and Zhang Jiewen were found guilty of
fixing the result of their quarterfinal at badminton’s World
Championship for not trying in the second game of their defeat
to eventual champions and Chinese teammates Gao Ling and Huang
Sui, the British Broadcasting Corp. said. Although the pair was
reprimanded, no other punishment was given, the  BBC  said at the
time.  New Format  The format of the Olympic badminton tournament was changed
this year to allow spectators to see more of the top players,
IOC spokesman  Mark Adams  said yesterday. The IOC announced last
week that it expected television revenue for the 2014  Winter
Games  and 2016  Summer Olympics  to top $4 billion.  Shawn Klein, an assistant professor of philosophy at
Rockford College in  Illinois  who teaches a class in sports
ethics, said the badminton players were being used as scapegoats
by the IOC and other sports authorities.  “You have to play hard, you can’t just mail it in,” he
said in a telephone interview. “But as I think about it more
and what sports is, rules of the game and good sportsmanship, I
started wondering when is it appropriate to kick them out of the
game and is it really that wrong?”  He said such fudging of the rules was “probably a lot more
widespread than we realize,” and that only the most obvious
cases were penalized.  Past Example  There has been at least one other disqualification of
Olympic athletes for failing to compete at their fullest,
according to David Wallechinsky, a historian of the games and a
commentator in London for NBC Radio.  In 1924, Italian fencers were accused by judges of
conspiring to help Oreste Puliti win a saber competition by
having three teammates intentionally lose to him to inflate his
score, Wallechinsky, president of the International Society of
Olympic Historians, said in a telephone interview.  Puliti threatened to cane the Hungarian judge, Gyorgy
Kovacs, and was disqualified. Puliti confronted Kovacs a few
days later and the two eventually agreed to a duel.  “They fought a real duel with real swords and slashed away
at each other, and then they shook hands and made up,”
Wallechinsky said. “Blood was drawn.”  In 1960, also in saber, there was an accusation of a match
being thrown, though judges decided it was a legitimate contest,
Wallechinsky said.  Swangard, of the University of Oregon, said he understood
the athletes’ reasoning in London, much like when a team in the
 National Football League , the most popular U.S. sport, will
bench some of its key players after it has clinched a playoff
spot.  “And yet there is something about the Olympics and that
expectation of always giving your best that amplifies the angst
in this case,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  