-- MF Global Trustee Sees Return Of 90% Or More to Clients
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-01T15:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/mf-global-customers-will-be-made-whole-freeh-says.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s brokerage
customers, facing a $1.6 billion gap in funds, will eventually
recoup between 90 percent and all of their money, according to
the trustees overseeing the liquidation.  “I think we’re comfortable saying that additional
distributions should certainly be in the 90 percent range,”
James W. Giddens, trustee overseeing the MF Global Inc. unit’s
bankruptcy, said today at a U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee
 hearing  in  Washington . “It’s going to be an uphill fight to
get, as I indicated, to 100 percent.”  Giddens commented after  Louis Freeh , bankruptcy trustee for
MF Global’s holding company, said it was his belief that
customers would eventually recoup all their money. He said he
based his conclusion on estimates of the return of customer
funds from foreign jurisdictions and settlements obtained by
Giddens’s office.  “All of the customers of MF Global Inc. eventually will be
made whole” by the brokerage trustee, Freeh said in testimony
submitted for the hearing, which he isn’t attending.  U.S. lawmakers called for the hearing to oversee the
response to the MF Global downfall and the recent collapse of
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., which has left about $220
million in client funds unaccounted. The failures, which are
being probed by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and  Justice Department  among others, have undermined confidence
in the futures market and spurred calls for new rules, according
to lawmakers and regulators.  More Allegations  The CFTC’s investigation into MF Global could lead to
allegations that rules governing fund segregation and
supervision of customer accounts were violated, Jill E. Sommers,
a Republican commissioner and senior agency member overseeing
the probe, said at the hearing. The CFTC’s enforcement unit
could also file an action against corporate entities or
individuals, including management.  “The shortfall in customer funds was a shock to the
markets from which we have not yet recovered,” Sommers said.  Giddens has distributed about 80 percent of what commodity
future customers are owed, he said. The largest disputes with
claimants include those with the company’s U.K. Joint Special
Administrators. A trial is expected to start in April to resolve
a dispute over $700 million of customer funds.  Giddens is still evaluating creditor and customer claims,
and may litigate those where an agreement can’t be reached on
what the brokerage owes. He said he still sees lawsuits against
former MF Global Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine, former
chief financial officer Henri Steenkamp and former assistant
treasurer Edith O’Brien, among others, as a way to recover more
money for creditors.  JPMorgan Talks  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has already returned $89.2 million in
customer property and $518.4 million in other assets. Talks
continue with the bank, which served as an agent to a $1.2
billion loan to the brokerage, Giddens said. He had previously
said he planned to bring lawsuits to recover more customer funds
by Aug. 3. No lawsuits have been filed.  “I am urgently working to eliminate the shortfall,”
Giddens said in the testimony.  Joe Sarachek, managing director of special situations at
CRT Capital Group LLC, said Freeh “is jumping the gun on a 100
percent payback” of customer funds. “We’re not saying it won’t
happen, we just don’t see the evidence yet to back it up,” he
said in an e-mail today.  Potential Lawsuits  Freeh, who submitted testimony but is not scheduled to
appear at the hearing, said that in total, the parent’s claims
against various units are worth $3.1 billion to $3.3 billion,
including the $2.3 billion in claims against MF Global Inc. He
said he can’t give any detail on potential lawsuits that could
recover more money for creditors at this time, citing his
ongoing investigation into how the company failed.  Chicago attorney and former U.S. Trustee Ira Bodenstein,
the trustee for Peregrine, said he is working to return customer
funds. The  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based commodities brokerage filed
for  bankruptcy protection  on July 10.  About $220 million in segregated client money is
unaccounted for at Peregrine, which did business as PFG Best.
Founder and Chief Executive Officer Russell Wasendorf Sr. was
ordered held in custody July 13 following a suicide attempt. He
confessed to a 20-year fraud in a signed statement, according to
a federal complaint.  Forged Statements  Wasendorf forged the company’s statements from Firstar
Bank,  US Bank (USB)  and Harris Bank, he said in the signed statement.
He also made forgeries of official letters and correspondence
from the banks, along with trade confirmation statements. He
used photo-editing and spreadsheet software, as well as scanners
and printers, to produce “convincing forgeries” of almost
every bank document.  “I intend to confirm the validity of the information on
the books and records at Peregrine so that such information can
be disseminated to the account holders with all deliberate
speed,” and that customers can be repaid as soon as possible,
Bodenstein said.  The MF Global and Peregrine failures demonstrate the need
for new surveillance of self-regulators, including the  National
Futures Association , according to CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler .
NFA was the primary overseer of Peregrine, while the CFTC
oversaw NFA and conducted at least three limited reviews of the
futures brokerage.  “It is clear that the system failed to protect the
customers of Peregrine,” Gensler said in testimony for the
hearing. “I have directed the CFTC’s staff to do a full review
of how the agency conducts oversight” of the self-regulatory
organizations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  