-- MF Global Claims Trade Higher as Customers Seek 100% Back
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-01T19:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/mf-global-claims-trade-higher-as-customers-hope-for-100-payback.html
MF Global Inc. customers who had
money trapped when the U.S. broker collapsed are rushing to sell
their claims at higher prices after a prediction they could
recover 100 percent of what was lost, claims buyers said.  Louis Freeh , the trustee for the brokerage’s parent,  MF
Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , said today at a U.S. Senate Agriculture
Committee  hearing  in  Washington  that customers may eventually
recoup all of their money. His testimony was at odds with that
of a trustee for the brokerage, James Giddens, who predicted
customers will eventually get a recovery of about 90 percent.
Those who buy customer claims said prices and volumes are
increasing today as a result.  “Freeh’s statement set off a frenzy,” said Joe Sarachek,
managing director of special situations at CRT Capital Group
LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt. “Giddens’s statement
hasn’t tempered that, which is crazy.”  Sarachek said Giddens’s math shows an 88 percent payout for
commodities customers and an 82 percent payout for customers who
trade on foreign exchanges if he wins a lawsuit with MF Global’s
U.K. unit.  CRT is seeing claims trade today for about 1 cent on the
dollar higher than yesterday, Sarachek said. For commodity
claims, the range is now 96 to 96.5 cents on the dollar, and for
customers who traded on foreign exchanges, it’s 82 cents to 84
cents, depending on the size of the claim.  Larger claims often sell for higher prices because buyers
pay less in transaction fees.  Clearer Range  “The phones have been going all morning,” said Barrett Mikelberg, a director at New York-based Triax Capital Advisors.
“People are reaching out to see what their claims can be bought
for after the news.”  With a clearer range of what recoveries could be, customers
are saying, “Let’s take the money now and put it back to work
and eliminate the bankruptcy exposure,” Mikelberg said.  His firm is paying as much as 96 cents on the dollar for
commodity claims and in the low 80-cent range for foreign
claims, he said.  Andrew Gottesman, a director at SecondMarket Holdings Inc.,
which holds monthly auctions on claims, said a price change
won’t be apparent until the next auction, on Aug. 22. The most
recent one showed commodity claims trading from 94 cents to 96
cents, and 76 cents to 78 cents for foreign claims.  ‘Different Agenda’  “At most, today’s testimony drives the ask,” Gottesman
said. Smart buyers should keep in mind that Freeh, who oversees
distributions to creditors, is one step removed from the
customer claims, which are in Giddens’s jurisdiction, Gottesman
said.  Freeh also has “a different agenda” from Giddens because
unless the customers are fully repaid, creditors will get
nothing, Gottesman said.  Bond prices are also trading at high levels after today’s
news, said Kevin Starke, an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC.
Bank and bond debt at around 44 cents to 45 cents on the dollar
are “lofty levels,” Starke said in a research note.  Even if a report in today’s Wall Street Journal citing an
unnamed source as saying $500 million may be left to pay
creditors at the holding company is correct, bond prices are
still high, noted Sarachek. A $500 million recovery would only
be a 25 cent recovery for bonds, Sarachek said.  MF Global’s 6.25 percent notes due 2016 most recently
traded at 44 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the bond
price reporting system of the Financial Regulatory Authority.  June Trades  In June, there were 270 trades of MF Global customer claims
with a face value of $296.8 million, according to data from
SecondMarket. MF Global bankruptcy claims were the second most
actively traded after those of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
SecondMarket said.  Sonar Credit Partners II, Longacre Institutional
Opportunity Fund LP, and CRT Special Investments LLC have been
among the active buyers of MF Global Inc. claims in past weeks,
according to court filings.  MF Global Holdings Ltd., the brokerage’s parent company,
filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy in  Manhattan  court on
Oct. 31 with debt of almost $40 billion. MF Global Inc.’s wind-
down is being overseen under the Securities Investor Protection
Corp. in the same court.  U.S. lawmakers called today’s hearing to oversee the
response to the MF Global downfall and the collapse of Peregrine
Financial Group Inc.  Commodity Customers  Giddens, who has said he sees a potential $1.6 billion
shortfall to what customers say they’re owed, has distributed
about 80 percent of what commodity futures customers are owed.
He is still evaluating claims and said his largest disputes with
claimants include those with the company’s U.K. Joint Special
Administrators.  A trial is to start in April to resolve a dispute over $700
million of customer funds.  Giddens may also sue former MF Global Chief Executive
Officer Jon S. Corzine, former chief financial officer Henri Steenkamp and former assistant treasurer Edith O’Brien, among
others, as a way to recover more money for creditors, he said.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 