-- Facebook Plunge Continues as Growth Concerns Persist
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-01T20:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/facebook-plunge-continues-on-growth-concern-san-francisco-mover.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  dropped 3.8 percent to
a record low, the fourth straight day of declines after the
world’s largest social-networking service reported second-
quarter results that showed slowing growth.  Shares slipped to $20.88, the lowest closing price since
the  Menlo Park , California-based company held an initial public
offering on May 17.  Facebook , which hasn’t closed above the $38 IPO price since
its first trading day, reported second-quarter sales growth of
32 percent, down from 45 percent in the previous three months.
The company still needs to prove to investors that it can profit
from the growing number of users who access the site on mobile
devices, said  Tom Forte , an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in
 New York . He estimates that ads shown to handset users generated
only about $15 million last quarter.  “The market has spoken,” Forte said. “They think that
the price that investors are being asked to pay for a company in
a state of transition when it comes to mobile monetization is
too high.”  The shift to mobile usage is “happening faster than anyone
anticipated,”  Richard Greenfield  of BTIG Researc said in a
report, citing Facebook’s regulatory filing yesterday. The
percent of users accessing the site only through mobile devices
rose to about 11 percent from 9 percent three months earlier, he
said.  Second-quarter revenue was $1.18 billion, Facebook reported
on July 26, topping an estimate of $1.16 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Facebook’s operating margin dropped
from a year earlier and payments-related sales were $192
million, below the $199.3 million average projection.  Revenue may climb 30 percent to $6.41 billion next year,
from $4.94 billion in 2012, according to the average analyst
estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  “The investor reaction I think has been glass half-empty
on mobile monetization, whereas we’re a believer in glass half-
full because they are literally starting from nothing,” said
Forte, who has a 12-month price estimate of $40 to $42 on the
shares. “There oftentimes can be a disconnect between the
market’s reaction on a stock and the underlying value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  