-- Facebook Says 23 Percent of Data-Center Power Is Green
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-01T20:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/facebook-says-23-percent-of-data-center-power-is-green.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the world’s
largest online social network, derived almost one-fourth of its
energy for data centers from clean and renewable sources last
year.  Facebook’s energy mix was 23 percent green, 27 percent
coal, 17 percent natural gas, 13 percent nuclear, the company
said today. While the remainder was uncategorized, it can
include all the above energy sources and is available for
purchase on the  spot market , according to a  report  from the
 Menlo Park , California-based company today.  Greenhouse emissions or the “carbon footprint” from data
centers, offices, employee travel and other factors was 285,000
metric tons ( about 628.3 million pounds ) of carbon dioxide
equivalents, according to the report.  “We’re releasing this data because we believe in the power
of openness, and because we hope that adding another data point
to our collective understanding of our industry’s environmental
impact will help us all keep improving,” the company said on
its site. “We recognize that this data is just one slice of our
overall environmental footprint, but we think it’s an important
starting point.”  The company wants to get at least 25 percent of its energy
for data centers from clean and renewable sources by 2015 even
as it grapples with a growing user base that’s reached more than
950 million members. The energy mix may get “worse before it
gets better” as Facebook grows, the company said. A data center
in  Sweden , slated for 2014, should boost the percentage of
cleaner power, according to the report.  Rare ‘Transparency’  “Facebook has committed to being fully renewably powered,
and today’s detailed disclosure and announcement of a clean
energy target shows that the company means business and wants
the world to follow its progress,” said Gary Cook, a Greenpeace
International analyst. “Unfortunately, the transparency
Facebook exhibited today is still rare among companies who are
racing to build our online world.”  The company’s data centers and offices used 532 million
kilowatt-hours of power last year, while Google Inc. used 2.26
million megawatt-hours in 2010, according to a separate  report 
from the  Mountain View , California-based company.  Facebook estimates that each user on its service is
responsible for about 269 grams of emissions, or the equivalent
carbon footprint from a couple of glasses of wines or a medium
latte. Apple Inc. estimates the company was responsible for 23.1
million tons of greenhouse gas emissions in 2011, according to a
 report . Google estimates 1.46 million tons. Two percent of
Apple’s carbon footprint comes from facilities, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  