-- Fed Signals More Steps to Spur Economy Amid Slower Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-01T21:47:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/fed-says-economy-has-slowed-signals-new-steps-to-boost-growth.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it will pump
fresh stimulus if necessary into the weakening economic
expansion to boost growth and reduce an  unemployment rate  that’s
been stuck at 8 percent or higher for more than three years.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery
and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a
context of price stability,” it said today in a statement at
the end of a two-day meeting in Washington. “Economic activity
decelerated somewhat over the first half of this year.”  Stocks fell on disappointment Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
refrained from taking action even as  consumer spending  flagged,
job growth slackened and manufacturing cooled. Before its next
meeting Sept. 12-13, the FOMC will assess unemployment reports
for July and August, and the  European Central Bank  may take
steps to ease Europe’s debt crisis at a meeting tomorrow.  “They were as blunt as you can get without actually
pulling the trigger,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global
strategist at BTIG LLC in New York. “They’re saying, ‘Hey,
things are not good and we’re an inch away from easing.’”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  erased gains after the
statement, falling 0.3 percent to 1,375.32. The yield on the 10-
year Treasury note rose to 1.52 percent from 1.47 percent
yesterday. Gold futures for December delivery slid 0.7 percent
to $1,603.10 an ounce in electronic trading at 4:47 p.m. in New
York. The dollar rallied 0.7 percent to $1.2226 per euro.  ‘Accepting’  “The best news we got is the Fed doing nothing and the
market accepting that,”  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of New
York-based Marketfield Asset Management, whose $2.29 billion
Marketfield Fund has outperformed 96 percent of rivals in the
past five years. “It shows that the market is more resilient
than we would have expected going into today.”  The FOMC said in today’s statement that “household
spending has been rising at a somewhat slower pace than earlier
in the year.”  The Fed said it will continue swapping $667 billion of
short-term debt with longer-term securities to lengthen the
average maturity of its holdings, an action dubbed Operation
Twist. The central bank will also continue reinvesting its
portfolio of maturing housing debt into agency mortgage-backed
securities.  ‘Late 2014’  The Fed left unchanged its statement that economic
conditions would likely warrant holding the benchmark Fed funds
rate near zero “at least through late 2014.” The committee
said it “will closely monitor incoming information on economic
and financial developments.”  Under former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  the phrase
“closely monitor” was sometimes used before the Fed took
action between its regular schedule of meetings, according to
 Eric Green , head of global foreign exchange and rates research
at TD Securities in New York, and a former New York Fed
economist.  “We still have to think the odds are low for intermeeting
ease, they’re just higher than they otherwise would be,” said
Green. “What would get the Fed to move I think is if conditions
deteriorate in Europe to the point that stocks begin to get hit
hard.”  Policy makers said inflation would run “at or below”
their goal of 2 percent for the personal consumption
expenditures index, the same as in the last statement.  Consumer prices in June rose 1.5 percent from a year
earlier, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Excluding
food and energy, prices increased 1.8 percent.  Fifth Dissent  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented for the
fifth consecutive meeting, saying he preferred to omit the 2014
time horizon. Lacker opposed the FOMC’s June decision to extend
Operation Twist through the end of the year and has said he
expects interest rates will need to be raised in 2013.  Twelve percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted that the FOMC would announce a new round of large
scale asset purchases today, while 48 percent forecast such
purchases would be announced at the Fed’s Sept. 12-13 meeting.  At the September meeting, policy makers will update their
forecasts for growth, unemployment, inflation and interest rates
before Bernanke holds a press conference. He doesn’t plan a
press conference today.  Bernanke in congressional testimony last month said the
central bank may ease further should U.S. employment fail to
steadily improve. A Labor Department report on Aug. 3 will
probably show that the economy added 100,000 jobs in July, while
the jobless rate was unchanged at 8.2 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Steady Progress  “It’s very important that we see sustained progress in the
labor market and avoid deflation risk,” Bernanke said in July.
“Those are the things we’ll be looking at as the committee
meets later this month and later this summer.”  The Fed is also watching “two main sources of risk,”
Bernanke said. The first is the so-called fiscal cliff, about
$600 billion of spending cuts and tax increases that will go
into force in January and impair growth unless Congress acts.  Congressional leaders said yesterday they will vote in
September on a $1.047 trillion, six-month stopgap measure that
would keep the government operating after the start of the
fiscal year on Oct. 1. The extension would give lawmakers more
time to debate how to avoid the fiscal cliff.  The second risk is that the European debt crisis will
create turmoil in global financial markets, Bernanke said.  Build Consensus  ECB President  Mario Draghi  is attempting to build consensus
among governments and central bankers for a plan to ease
borrowing costs in Spain and Italy before policy makers convene
tomorrow. Also tomorrow, the  Bank of England  in a statement will
probably maintain its bond purchase program.  Draghi sparked a global market rally last week with a
pledge to do “whatever it takes to preserve the euro.” Last
month, the ECB cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a record low
of 0.75 percent.  U.S. stocks rose before today on speculation the Fed will
continue to add stimulus and as corporate earnings have beaten
estimates. The  S&P 500  has rallied 9.4 percent this year and
remains near a three-month closing high of 1,385.97 on July 27.
All 10 industry groups have advanced.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread , a measure of
stress in bond markets, traded today at about 20.25 basis
points, about the lowest in a year and down from 2012’s high of
almost 60 basis points in October. The gauge, which dropped 4.4
basis points in July for the second straight monthly decline,
widens when investors seek the perceived safety of government
securities and narrows when they favor assets such as corporate
bonds.  Global Demand  Treasuries are benefiting from global demand for  U.S. debt 
as investors flee troubled European nations from Spain to Italy.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note declined to an all-time
low of 1.3790 percent on July 25.  U.S. consumers are cutting back as Europe’s debt crisis and
looming tax-policy changes dent confidence. Household
consumption, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy,
rose at a 1.5 percent rate from April through June, down from a
2.4 percent gain in the prior quarter, according to Commerce
Department data.  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted for a
second month in July, a report today from the Institute for
Supply Management showed. The ISM’s factory index was 49.8 last
month, close to the three-year low of 49.7 reached in June.
Fifty marks the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  Profit Outlook  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , the Memphis, Tennessee-based operator of the
biggest cargo airline, gave a smaller profit forecast than
analysts estimated for the fiscal year ending in May 2013.
“Weaker global economic conditions,” such as Europe’s debt
crisis and slowing growth in Asia, will impair performance,
Chief Financial Officer Alan Graf said on a June 19 earnings
call.  The slowdown in consumer and business spending is hurting
growth. The economy expanded at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the
second quarter after a revised 2 percent gain in the first
quarter, the Commerce Department said July 27. Economists
estimate that gross domestic product will rise 2.1 percent this
year, according to the median of 72 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s largest package-
delivery company, cut its full-year earnings forecast July 24
amid a drop in international package sales. Chief Executive
Officer Scott Davis said the Atlanta-based firm predicts the
economy will expand 1 percent in the second half of the year.  More Uncertainty  “Our macro concerns start with the fact that we saw lousy
numbers in the last couple of months,” Davis said on a call
with analysts and investors, citing declines in gauges of retail
sales and manufacturing. “There’s just more uncertainty out
there than ever.”  While many U.S. companies face headwinds from slowing
growth, others are surpassing Wall Street estimates for
quarterly earnings. Of the 353 companies in the S&P 500 Index
that have reported results, 253 beat analyst estimates, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’re in a real muddle-through economy that’s very
disappointing in the rate of  job creation ,” said Michael Dueker, a former St. Louis Fed economist who is now chief
economist for Seattle-based Russell Investments, which oversees
$152 billion.  “There’s been a real drop-off in demand in the economy
from the first to second quarter,” he said. “I don’t think the
economy is in danger of recession but it is unacceptably slow.”  Seventy-four percent of economists in the Bloomberg Survey
said the Fed wouldn’t change its statement that it expects low
interest rates through at least 2014. Ninety-six percent said
the central bank would not lower the interest rate paid on
reserves that banks keep with the Fed, with 74 percent never
expecting such a move.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  