-- Fiat Suspends New Investments in Italy Because of Europe Crisis
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-08-01T19:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/fiat-suspends-new-investments-in-italy-because-of-europe-crisis.html
Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer
 Sergio Marchionne  temporarily stopped new investments in Italy
as  Europe ’s debt crisis causes sales in the region to plunge.  “For the time being, the economic crisis and current
difficulties in the European auto market prevent the company
from being able to give any indications concerning future
investments,” the Italian carmaker said today in an e-mailed
statement, adding that Fiat will give its new plan for Italian
factories at the end of October, when it will releases third-
quarter results.  Marchionne, who has been spearheading an industrywide
effort to cut excess assembly lines in Europe, has vowed to
close a second Italian factory, after shuttering one last year,
unless he finds a way to export cars to the U.S.  European auto sales are set to fall for a fifth straight
year as high unemployment and the region’s sovereign debt crisis
causes consumers to hold back from making big ticket purchases.
 Capital spending  at Chrysler Group LLC, which Marchionne also
runs, will rise to $4 billion this year from $3.1 billion in
2011, while Fiat is reducing European investment by 500 million
euros in 2012.  “Difficult conditions persist in the European auto market,
particularly in Italy where demand is approaching the lowest
level since 1979,” Fiat said in the statement. “Certain peers
who are still heavily exposed to the European market are
experiencing significant losses and have even had to announce
plant closures.”  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest carmaker,
announced last month plans to close a French factory and
eliminate a total of 16,000 jobs. That follows an announcements
from  General Motors Co. (GM)  that the American automaker plans to
shut a German plant.  Temporary Layoffs  Fiat said today it’s focused on  temporary layoffs  to reduce
costs during the crisis as opposed to permanent job cuts.
 Italy ’s biggest manufacturer confirmed it will complete
investments at plants in Grugliasco for a new Maserati sedan, in
Modena for the Alfa 4C sportcar and in Pratola Serra for engines  “Marchionne told us he suspended new investments in Italy,
including the ones at Mirafiori,” Eros Panicali, a leader of
the Uilm metalworkers union, said in a phone interview after
meeting the CEO today. “We will meet again in a couple of
months to get a clearer picture.”  Fiat has plans to build at least two new models at its
Mirafiori plant in Turin. The Italian carmaker said in February
it will make a new Fiat car at the plant beginning at the end of
next year and a Jeep model starting in 2014 as it aims to
assemble 280,000 cars a year at its oldest facility.  -- Editors: Chad Thomas, Heather Harris .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ; 