-- Finmeccanica Drops as Investors Await Restructuring Details
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2012-08-01T09:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/finmeccanica-drops-as-investors-await-restructuring-details-1-.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  shares dropped in
Milan trading as investors held out for more details on Chief
Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi’s plan to restructure the
aerospace and defense company.  Shares of Finmeccanica fell as much as 5.2 percent.
Orsi said the Rome-based weapons maker remains on course to
generate 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) in cash from disposals
this year, including rail operations. The CEO wasn’t specific on
a call with analysts late yesterday.  “We find it difficult to bet on a long-term restructuring
story in an industry that is witnessing a defense spending
cut,” Massimo Vecchio, an analyst at Mediobanca Securities,
said in a note to investors. “We don’t have visibility on when
and how it would happen so we prefer to bet only on
fundamentals.”  Orsi, appointed in May 2011, is a year into trying to
rebuild the company after a record loss last year, a corruption
probe, and a power struggle with a former chairman. The Italian
company, which presented results to analysts late yesterday, has
lost more than 44 percent of its value in a year. The overhaul
extends to a stake in Italian engine-maker Avio. Orsi said he’s
got a back-up plan to sell the 14.3 percent holding should
Avio’s planned initial public offering be canceled.  Finmeccanica was trading down 3.6 percent at 2.87 euros as
of 11:42 a.m. local time. The shares, cut to “neutral” from
“outperform” at Mediobanca today, are flat this year, valuing
the company at 1.65 billion euros.  Defense Electronics  Finmeccanica yesterday named Allan Cook chairman of its
integrated defense electronics business that will be comprised
of three units. Cook was formerly chairman of the Selex Galileo
unit that makes radar systems. His CEO at that unit, Fabrizio
Giulianini, will take up the same role of the merged business.  “We are now ready to carry out the major reshaping and the
relaunching of this business,” Orsi said in the call with
analysts. “We are heading in the right direction. There will be
bumps on the road.”  Even though the costs of the integration have already been
accounted for, the savings have not, Orsi said. The size of
those benefits will be disclosed in coming months.  Improving purchasing and cutting headcount helped deliver a
134 million-euro profit boost in the first half, the maker of
helicopters, military jets and munitions said. Finmeccanica is
targeting 440 million euros by 2014.  Profit Increase  Earnings before interest, tax and amortization rose 4
percent to 459 million euros, excluding restructuring and other
one-time costs. Nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated
417 million euros, on average. Net income was 53 million euros,
missing analysts’ estimate of 80.4 million euros.  A slowdown in U.S. and European defense spending led sales
in the first six months to fall 4.8 percent to 8 billion euros.
The company boosted its order book to 46.1 billion euros from
from 45 billion euros.  Finmeccanica has been weighed down by high debt,
particularly since its purchase of U.S. defense electronics
maker DRS Technologies in 2008. Total net debt at the end of
June was 4.7 billion euros from 4.5 billion euros at the end of
March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  