-- First All-Market Gain in Two Years Led by Drought, Draghi
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a ,   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-01T21:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/first-all-market-gain-in-two-years-led-by-drought-draghi.html
For the first time in more than two
years, commodities, equities, bonds and the dollar posted a
monthly gain, as the U.S. drought sent corn prices to a record
and European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge to
protect the euro buoyed stocks.  Raw materials  led the increase as the Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw materials rose 6.4 percent in
July, the most since October. The MSCI All-Country World Index
of equities rallied at the end of the month for a 1.4 percent
gain. The U.S.  Dollar Index , a measure against six currencies,
added 1.3 percent. Bonds of all types returned 1.4 percent on
average, the most since December, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Index shows.  The last time all four measures rose for a month was in
April 2010, when concerns about Greece were heating up and U.S.
economic reports were improving. While corn rose the most last
month in almost a quarter century and wheat reached a four-year
high, financial assets gained as policy makers worked to boost
global growth. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
he’s prepared to take more steps, and Draghi pledged to do
“whatever it takes” to preserve the euro.  “A lot of the rally in everything is central-bank led,”
said Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment
Management in  Santa Fe , New Mexico, which oversees $80 billion.
“So now we have a world where central-bank actions are really
what people are looking at, and those actions are really
positive for all asset prices and negative for savers and folks
who are looking to put money in at reasonable levels over a
longer period of time.”  Treasuries, Dollar  Gains in all four measures have been unusual as Europe’s
debt crisis and slowing growth in China spurred demand for the
perceived safety of the dollar and U.S. bonds while damping
optimism for stocks and hurting  oil prices .  Government of Singapore Investment Corp., managing more
than $100 billion, almost quadrupled its cash holdings to 11
percent of its portfolio in the year ended March from 3 percent
a year earlier, the sovereign wealth fund said in its annual
report this week. GIC pared its holdings of stocks and bonds.  In April 2010, U.S. stocks rallied as profits of Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index companies grew 52 percent in the first quarter
and 48.5 percent in the second. Treasuries and the dollar
strengthened amid worries that Greece would default. Commodities
got a boost as economic reports showed improvement and from
investors buying gold, crude and corn as alternative assets.  Drought Worsens  Even after last month’s crop-led gain, the S&P GSCI is 1.4
percent lower for the year, extending a 1.2 percent drop in
2011. Arabica coffee fell 26 percent and cotton declined 20
percent, while oil slid 11 percent. Commodity assets under
management slumped a record $5.3 billion to $404 billion in the
second quarter, Barclays Plc estimates. The  MSCI All-Country
World Index (MXWD)  rose 5.5 percent since Dec. 31, the Dollar Index
rose 3 percent and the Global Broad Market Index of bonds
returned 4.2 percent. The S&P GSCI rose 0.3 percent today to
637.61 as of 4 p.m. in New York.  Grain and oilseed rallies accelerated in July as heat waves
in southern Europe damaged crops, Indian farmers delayed sowing
because of a late monsoon, and Australian growers endured below-
average rainfall. That was partly offset by a drop in hog and
feeder-cattle prices prompted by concern that owners will send
more animals to slaughter as feed costs surge.  Corn jumped 27 percent last month on the Chicago Board of
Trade, touching an all-time high of $8.205 a bushel yesterday,
and soybeans rose 15 percent, reaching a record $16.915 a bushel
on July 23. Wheat advanced 17 percent to $8.8825 a bushel. Corn
will trade at $9 in three months, wheat at $9.80 and soybeans
$20, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said on July 23.  ‘Supply Shock’  “The agricultural commodities’ price spike is a one-off
supply shock” and “investors are concerned about Europe and
slowing growth in  emerging markets ,” said Ashish Misra, the
London-based head of investment strategy at Lloyds TSB Banking
Group Plc’s private banking unit, which oversees about 11
billion pounds ($17 billion) of assets. “Investors are still
expecting some kind of policy intervention.”  Natural-gas futures rose 14 percent last month on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , exceeding $3 per million British
thermal units for the first time since January. A 62 percent
tumble over 10 months through mid-April because of a supply glut
made the fuel cheaper than coal for  power plants . Air-
conditioning use in the U.S. was projected to be about 12
percent above normal in the week ending today, according to
Weather Derivatives, a consultant in Belton, Missouri.  Natural gas will average $3.25 next year, from a projected
$2.64 this year, Barclays said July 26. The U.S. had its warmest
first half to a year on record, Roger Pulwarty, the program
director for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration’s drought system, told a Congressional panel.  Speculator Holdings  Hedge funds  and other large speculators are now holding
their biggest  bet  on rising commodity prices since March,
according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 Open interest , or outstanding futures contracts, across the 24
members of the S&P GSCI rose 0.4 percent in July, expanding for
the first time since April.  The MSCI All-Country World Index was 2.9 percent lower for
the month on growing concerns about the slowing global economy
until Draghi’s comments. The measure wound up rising 1.4 percent
including dividends, rallying for a second month. The gauge
advanced 5 percent in June after an 8.9 percent slump in May.
Stocks rose on bets Europe may move toward a new round of bond
buying to ease borrowing costs.  Renewed Optimism  Draghi’s euro pledge “brought some optimism that Europe is
getting its act together,”  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6
billion as chief investment officer at Philadelphia Trust Co.,
said in a phone interview. “Anything that would lower borrowing
costs would be a positive from an economic standpoint. You want
to see growth and you want to see an increase in corporate
earnings. Those policy responses are being viewed as a way to
get you there.”  The advance in the MSCI  equity gauge  was led by Nexen Inc.,
the Calgary-based energy company that climbed 48 percent in July
on a buyout offer from  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO) , China’s largest offshore oil
and gas explorer. Richardson, Texas-based MetroPCS
Communications Inc., a pay-as-you-go wireless carrier, rallied
45 percent for the month after reporting quarterly profit that
beat analyst estimates. Western Digital Corp., the maker of disk
drives in Irvine, California, increased 30 percent after
earnings exceeded forecasts by 37 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 4.1 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 1.4 percent. The  S&P 500  will
rise 0.7 percent to 1,389 by the end of the year, according to
the average of 13 Wall Street strategists tracked by Bloomberg.
The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 1.5 percent.  Growth Concern  Concern that slower economic growth and Europe’s crisis
would hurt profits sent global stocks to the lowest level in
about a month on July 25. Sales beat analysts’ estimates at 48
percent of the gauge’s companies that have reported earnings for
the latest quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares with 62 percent in the previous quarter.  Alcatel-Lucent SA (ALU)  plunged 31 percent as France’s largest
telecommunications-equipment supplier said it will miss a profit
forecast and posted a quarterly operating loss because of weaker
demand. Advanced Micro Devices Inc., based in Sunnyvale,
California, tumbled 29 percent after forecasting lower sales
amid a loss of market share and diminished demand for personal
computers.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the largest social network, dropped 30
percent after its first earnings report as a public company
showed a slower sales gain and narrower profit margins.  The 1.4 percent return on fixed-income securities
worldwide, including interest reinvested, was the most for a
month since December and compares with a 0.2 percent loss in
June, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show. Sovereign
debt globally appreciated 1 percent, the most since May.  Record Yields  Treasuries gained 1 percent, reversing the previous month’s
0.4 percent loss. The yield on the benchmark 10-year security
reached a record low of 1.38 percent on July 25. It will average
1.68 percent in the third quarter, according to the median of 75
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  South Africa’s bonds were the best performers among the 26
sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, rising 4.2 percent.
The rand depreciated 1.2 percent after the central bank
unexpectedly cut borrowing costs on July 19, the first reduction
since November 2010.  Securities for France and Belgium returned about 3.4
percent, while Portugal’s bonds were the worst performers,
losing 1.2 percent. The yield on France’s 10-year bonds will
average 3 percent this quarter, from 2.18 percent now, the
median of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.
Corporate bonds globally returned 2.2 percent in July, the best
return in six months.  Spanish Deficit  Interest rates  declined amid renewed concern about Spain’s
national budget deficit and those of the regional governments,
as well as worries that Greek bondholders may take more losses,
said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist at  LPL Financial  Corp.
There is a 90 percent chance of Greece leaving the euro in the
next 12 to 18 months, Citigroup Inc. said.  “The risk of Greek default is back on the table and you
have to worry about a Greek exit from the euro,” said Valeri of
LPL Financial, which oversees about $350 billion of assets.  The 1.3 percent advance in Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s
 Dollar Index (DXY)  was the biggest since May. The gauge will average
82.8 this quarter, little changed from 82.7 now, the median of
12 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The euro
declined against 15 of its 16 major counterparts in July.  Emerging Markets  Emerging-market bonds rallied, sending yields on local-
currency and dollar debt to record lows, as central banks from
China to South Africa and Brazil cut interest rates to support
economic growth. The JPMorgan GBI-EM Global Diversified Index of
local debt returned 1.9 percent, with its yield falling to an
all-time low of 5.71 percent on July 20. The EMBI Global gauge
of dollar bonds gained 2.6 percent.  “The process of monetary policy easing is becoming broader
and more sustained across the emerging markets,” Geoffrey Dennis, an emerging market strategist at Citigroup in New York,
said in a July 25 report. “This should eventually cause equity
markets to catch up” with bonds, he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  