-- First Solar Profit Jumps 81% on Shift to Project Sales
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-01T22:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/first-solar-profit-rises-as-u-s-plant-construction-accelerates.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s biggest
maker of thin-film modules, said profit jumped 81 percent after
it recognized revenue for selling  power plants , validating the
company’s strategic shift to building solar farms using its
panels.  Net income was $111 million, or $1.27 a share, compared
with $61.1 million, or 70 cents, a year earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
restructuring charges, earnings were $1.65 a share, 71 cents
more than the average of 27 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Sales increased 80 percent to $957.3 million, largely from
selling utility-scale power projects to companies such as Exelon
Corp. and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  While competitors are focused on selling
panels to developers, most of First Solar’s growth will come
from its  development unit , a strategy that’s insulating it from
falling panel prices, according to Chief Executive Officer Jim Hughes.  “We’re in discussions for a whole series of joint-venture
relationships” with companies that will buy First Solar’s
projects, Hughes said today during a conference call with
analysts. “There should be a steady stream of announcements
that reflect us continuing to get our feet under us.”  The sales gain was “primarily due” to recognizing revenue
for selling power plants, according to the statement. That
included the 230-megawatt Antelope Valley Solar Ranch 1 project
in California that  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  bought in September, and the 50-
megawatt Silver State North project in  Nevada  that Enbridge Inc.
acquired in March.  Only Profits  That shift to projects is expected to make First Solar the
only company in the 17-member BI Global Large Solar Index to
report a profit for the second quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The shares  surged  20 percent to $17.77 at
6:10 p.m., after the close of regular trading in  New York .  The company is developing 2.9 gigawatts of projects in the
U.S.,  Canada  and  Australia  that it has already sold, according
to supplemental  data  released today. It also announced plans to
build a new project in California, the 139-megawatt Campo Verde
solar farm, which will sell power to  Sempra Energy (SRE) ’s San Diego
Gas & Electric under a 20-year contract.  “First Solar’s got good earnings visibility into next year
and even 2014 because of their project pipeline,” said Ben Kallo, an analyst at Robert Baird & Co in San Francisco, before
the earnings statement was released. “They’ve got to show some
progress on building markets for their power plants outside the
U.S.”  Pipeline Questions  The question for First Solar is whether it can keep its
project pipeline full, said  Jesse Pichel , an analyst with
Jefferies Group Inc. in New York. “We want to see how well
they’re winning new projects,” he said in an interview.  First Solar may not be able to sustain the same pace of
sales growth, according to  Gordon Johnson , an analyst at Axiom
Capital Management Inc. in New York.  “This does not represent tangible demand,” he said in an
e-mail. “The company is pulling forward future revenue to
cushion its current income statement. We see rising risk to the
company’s earnings trajectory in 2013.”  First Solar’s average efficiency rose to 12.6 percent in
the second quarter from 12.4 percent in the prior quarter.  For the year, First Solar raised its earnings forecast to a
range of $4.20 to $4.70 a share, excluding restructuring
charges, from a May 3 estimate of $4 to $4.50 a share.  “Unlike many solar manufacturers, First Solar is
generating positive  cash flow ,” Mehdi Hosseini, an analyst at
Susquehanna Financial Group LLP in  San Francisco , said in an
interview. “It’s going to come down to, when the industry
stabilizes, what is going to the be company’s earning power?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  