-- Florida Ended Death Probe at Private Brain Rehab Center
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/florida-ended-death-probe-at-private-brain-rehab-center.html
State regulators ended inquiries into
a patient’s death and alleged abuse at the  Florida Institute for
Neurologic Rehabilitation  last year over doubts about their
legal authority.  The 196-bed institute, a closely-held company known as
FINR, is one of the largest brain-injury centers in the U.S. and
draws patients from around the country.  The Florida Department of Health brought an end to
inquiries over the February 2011 death of Melinda Jakobowski, a
mentally ill Connecticut woman sent to FINR, after other state
regulators had already concluded there were care lapses in her
case, according to inter-agency e-mails reviewed by Bloomberg
News.  The e-mails also showed a top Department of Health official
believed FINR was operating outside its brain-injury license in
treating Jakobowski and others who didn’t have such injuries at
its facility in Wauchula, 50 miles southeast of Tampa. The
department has taken no action against FINR over the alleged
unlicensed care.  The state’s decision not to further scrutinize the brain-
injury company preceded a second death in Wauchula last year and
charges of criminal abuse of FINR residents by employees.  Patients’ families or state agencies have alleged abuse or
care failures in five FINR residents’ deaths since 1998, as
reported by Bloomberg News last week.  FINR denied the allegations in three of those cases, which
led to lawsuits. One resulted in a $5 million verdict against
the company and the other two ended in settlements. FINR has
declined to comment on the Jakobowski case or the later death,
which have not been the subject of any lawsuits.  ‘Proactive Approach’  Officials from three Florida agencies will meet tomorrow to
discuss cases at FINR, said Victor Johnson, a state  Department
of Health  Official who oversees its  brain-injury program .  “All of us have to change the way we have done or
responded to these issues in past,” Johnson said. “We want to
go with a more proactive approach to respond to these issues
with one state response.”  Wayne J. Miller, a lawyer for FINR, said “there is
probably no health care provider in the state that has as much
oversight.” He said the facility is subject to inspections and
regularly visited by police, state agencies, disabled-protection
groups, guardians, family members and others. When a problem is
identified at FINR it is “immediately evaluated and
corrected,” Miller said.  Jakobowski, 24, died five months after the state of
 Connecticut  sent her to FINR. She was found unresponsive in her
bed with her hair wrapped around her neck and died later at a
Tampa hospital in what was ruled a cardiac arrhythmia.  E-mails Released  Florida released internal e-mails in that case and others
to Bloomberg News under an open records law request. Although
her name was redacted, Florida officials confirmed Jakobowski is
the person referenced in the e-mails.  Three Florida agencies that deal with FINR -- the
Department of Children and Families, the  Agency for Health Care
Administration  and the Department of Health -- passed their
findings in the case around internally, the e-mails show. None
of the agencies believed it had authority to take regulatory
action.  An AHCA investigation found that FINR failed to maintain
proper supervision of Jakobowski and that she was left alone
despite a history of trying to hurt herself. It said in an e-
mail that it had no authority to regulate patient treatment --
and sent a request for further investigation to the Department
of Health.  Reimbursement Sought  William Reineking, the administrator for the brain-injury
program in that department, responded in April 2011 that he
might not investigate the case unless his office was reimbursed
for its costs.  The case provided evidence “again” that “FINR is
treating people not covered by the license,” Reineking said in
another e-mail to AHCA the following month.  Although Jakobowski was suffering from mental illness, she
was not brain-injured. The health department says it only has
the authority to regulate the care of FINR patients under a
“transitional living facility” license covering those
suffering from traumatic-brain or spinal-cord injuries.  Both the health department and AHCA, which licenses health-
care facilities, declined to say why the state has permitted
FINR to treat patients at its brain-injury center when they
don’t have brain injuries.  Regulatory Gap  Other cases of alleged abuse involving patients who were
severely mentally ill or autistic, but not brain-injured, also
have fallen into the regulatory gap, the e-mails show.  When the children and families agency later forwarded an
abuse allegation of an unnamed patient at FINR to Reineking, he
quickly responded that there was nothing he could do.  “The patient was not admitted with a TBI” -- or tramautic
brain injury -- “as defined in law and rule,” he wrote in an
August 2011 e-mail. “We do not have authority or jurisdiction
to intervene. Thank you for sharing this information.”  One month after that e-mail, a 21-year-old autistic patient
at FINR was allegedly abused over a two-hour period by two
staffers who took turns elbowing, punching and slapping him. The
staffers face pending charges of abusing a disabled person.  In December 2011, a second autistic man was allegedly
knocked to the floor by an employee who also has been charged by
prosecutors. All three staffers were fired. They have pleaded
not guilty to the criminal charges.  Another Death  The same month, just after Christmas, another FINR patient
died. Reginald Hicks was taken to the cafeteria by a FINR
employee and given solid food that lodged in his lungs and
killed him, according to his daughter, Heather Hicks. Her
father, who was injured in a car accident, had a care plan that
called for tube feeding because he couldn’t swallow, she said.
Autopsy findings cited aspiration of food and pneumonia as
causes of death.  William Dartland, executive director of the non-profit
Consumer Federation of the Southeast, called for state and
federal officials to take immediate action to protect patients
at FINR.  “If authorities need to take over control of the facility
to ensure the patients are safe, then that’s what needs to
happen -- now,” said Dartland, a former deputy attorney general
in the state.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  