-- Frontier Communications Bonds Rise After Earnings Beat Estimates
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-08-01T19:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/frontier-communications-bonds-rise-after-earnings-beat-estimates.html
Frontier Communications Corp. (FTR) ’s bonds
rose after the phone company reported second-quarter earnings
that beat analyst  estimates .  Frontier’s $945.3 million of 9 percent notes due August
2031 climbed 2.25 cents to 101.75 cents on the dollar at 2:37
p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The
 Stamford , Connecticut-based telecommunications company said
yesterday in a statement that adjusted net income for the three
months ended June 30 was $75.3 million, or 8 cents a share, more
than the 5 cent estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Frontier, which sells voice and broadband service to
individuals and businesses, has reported declining sales for
seven straight quarters after it purchased Verizon
Communications Inc.’s local wireline business in 14 states for
more than $8 billion. The 1 percent drop in revenue in the
second quarter from the previous three months was less than
investors expected, according to Anna Basanskaya, an analyst for
CreditSights Inc. in  New York .  “The rate improved even though the company guided that
this would be a cleanup quarter and it wouldn’t do anything
aggressive until the end of year,” Basanskaya said in a
telephone interview.  Sales fell to $1.26 billion in the three months ended June
30 from $1.27 billion in the first quarter, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue was $1.4 billion in the third
quarter of 2010.  Frontier is showing signs of cost savings after completing
a network upgrade, Scott Dinsdale, an analyst at Montpelier,
Vermont-based KDP Investment Advisors Inc., wrote today in a
report. Investors will be watching to see if the
telecommunications company can add broadband Internet customers,
he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  