-- Gas Liquids ‘Bloodbath’ Brings Shale Pain to Oil Market
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-08-02T15:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/gas-liquids-bloodbath-brings-shale-pain-to-oil-market.html
The shale boom that sent natural-gas
prices to a 10-year low is being felt for the first time in the
oil markets.  Williams Partners LP (WPZ)  joined  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and  Devon
Energy Corp. (DVN)  yesterday in blaming a glut of propane and related
products for lower profits in the second quarter.  Spectra Energy
Corp. (SE)  and  Apache Corp. (APA)  followed suit today. Next week more
companies are expected to show the effects of falling prices for
so-called natural-gas liquids used in backyard barbecues and
motor fuels as producer  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Targa
Resources Partners LP (NGLS) , a pipeline and storage company whose
trading symbol is NGLS, release earnings.  The “NGL bloodbath,” as it was dubbed by Tudor,
Pickering, Holt & Co. last month, is rippling across the oil and
gas industry as explorers cut production and reduce cash flow
projections, service companies forecast lower demand for
drilling rigs, and pipeline partnerships suffer falling revenue
for their gas liquids processing plants. The price of an ethane-
propane  NGL mix  was down 58 percent yesterday from a high in
January, outpacing the 19 percent drop in crude from a February
peak.  “The same thing is now happening to liquids that happened
to natural gas itself,” said  James Williams , an energy
economist at WTRG Economics in London, Arkansas. “We now have
too much. We have an oversupply, so it’s depressing the price.”  NGL Disappointment  U.S. energy producers had counted on more lucrative oil and
gas liquids to lift profits as the price of gas in New York
tumbled earlier this year to an  intraday low  of $1.902 in April.
As companies drilled for more liquids, the same oversupplies
that gutted gas prices began to deflate NGLs.  Gas liquids are a heavier, or “wetter” component produced
along with natural gas, and can include ethane, propane, butane,
isobutane and natural gasoline. Gas liquids supply from the
Rocky Mountain region of the U.S. has increased at a 47 percent
compound annual growth rate since 2006, when explorers first
started seeking to add more liquids to production,  Tudor
Pickering  said in a July 12 report.  With demand staying flat while supplies rose, the average
price of a mixture of ethane and propane plunged 53 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Williams, which gathers and processes gas from the  Gulf of
Mexico  to Wyoming, said its net income fell to 29 cents per unit
from 91 cents in the same quarter of 2011.  Negative Effects  “Our earnings were negatively affected by a rapid,
significant decline in NGL prices,” Alan Armstrong, chief
executive officer of parent  Williams Cos. (WMB)  said in a statement.
The warm winter and downtime at chemical plants that consume
NGLs were the main drivers of the decrease, he said.  Pipeline companies Targa and  Enbridge Energy Partners LP (EEP) ,
both based in Houston, which process gas to separate NGLs,
warned of lower earnings in part because of the collapse of
liquids prices. Both companies get revenue by keeping and
selling a portion of the liquids they produce at their gas-
processing plants, according to T.J. Schultz, an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets .  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD) , the second biggest U.S.
pipeline operator, is moving away from that practice in favor of
charging a flat fee for processing, Chief Executive Officer Mike Creel said in a conference call yesterday. The company claimed
96,000 barrels a day of NGLs in the second quarter compared to
120,000 a year earlier.  Devon Shift  Rapidly falling gas liquids prices and NGL plant shutdowns
contributed to earnings declines at Devon, which sold NGLs for
an average of $31.42 a barrel in the second quarter, 26 percent
less than a year earlier. Oklahoma City-based Devon now is
moving some of its drilling rigs away from gas and gas liquids
fields to look for oil, Chief Executive Officer John Richels
said on a conference call.  Marathon, based in Houston, cut its rig count in Oklahoma’s
Anadarko Woodford formation to two from six because of lower NGL
prices, which were to blame in part for a 5.8 percent decline in
second-quarter net income from the first quarter, the company
said yesterday.  Apache’s net income dropped 72 percent from a year earlier
after realizing less than $34 per barrel for NGLs in the second
quarter, the company said in a statement. That was less than the
$38 that Eliot Javanmardi, an analyst at Capital One Southcoast
in  New Orleans , estimated.  Spectra’s profit fell 25% to 33 cents per share, and low
NGL prices will affect its earnings for the rest of 2012,
according to the company’s statement today.  Chesapeake Energy  Because NGLs comprise about 60 percent of Chesapeake’s
overall liquids production, lower prices will have a significant
impact on the Oklahoma City-based company when it reports
earnings Aug. 6, said  Mark Hanson , an analyst at Morningstar
Investor Service in Chicago.  “There’s lots of moving pieces with Chesapeake but we’ll
probably see a downward revision for operating cash flow this
year” as a result of falling NGL prices, Hanson said in a
telephone interview. The negative effects will extend into the
rest of 2012 if the NGL market continues to deteriorate and
Chesapeake accelerates production of those commodities, he said.  Service Companies  Service companies also felt the effect as cutbacks trickled
down to drilling operations.  Nabors Industries Ltd. (NBR) , the world’s
largest provider of land drilling rigs, said the market
deteriorated sharply toward the end of the second quarter.  “Operators are even more reluctant to sign contract
extensions of meaningful length since both cash flow and
drilling budgets are declining,” Tony Petrello, chief executive
officer, said on a conference call.  In some areas, Houston-based  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , an energy
service provider, is seeing its own pricing pressured by the
declines.  “I characterize it as a knife fight right now in terms of
pricing,” Martin Craighead, chief executive officer at Baker
Hughes, said July 20 on a conference call.  There may be some rebound in pricing in the second half of
the year as winter temperatures trigger more demand for the
heating fuel propane and a ramp-up in exports provides a bigger
market for ethane, according to Tudor Pickering analyst  Bradley Olsen .  Ethane supply will likely outpace incremental demand
increases until new chemical plants that use the liquids as raw
materials for their products come on line around the middle of
the decade, Devon’s Richels said.  “As long as natural gas prices remain low, we’d expect
ethane prices also to be weak in this period,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  