-- Geithner Vows to Press for Writedowns for Underwater Home Loans
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/geithner-vows-to-press-for-writedowns-for-underwater-home-loans.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , twice rebuffed, is vowing to try a third time to
persuade the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  to allow principal
forgiveness on mortgages backed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac. (FMCC)   “I urge you to reconsider this decision,” Geithner wrote
to FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco, who yesterday
announced that Treasury Department financial incentives would
not be enough to make it financially worthwhile for the two
taxpayer-owned companies to write down debt on troubled loans.  DeMarco’s decision came three months after an April speech
in which he signaled that he believed the technique would not
work and could encourage additional defaults. Geithner yesterday
offered technical assistance should DeMarco change his mind.  “Treasury stands ready to provide any additional
analytical support to make a targeted principal reduction
program at the GSEs successful,” he wrote to DeMarco.  DeMarco yesterday made it clear that he doesn’t plan to
change his mind, a decision hailed by housing analysts as good
for the market.  “This should be positive for housing by taking off the
table the threat of a wave of defaults by borrowers looking to
get principal reduction,”  Jaret Seiberg , senior policy analyst
at Guggenheim Partners, wrote in a note to investors.  Months of  analysis  showed there would be no clear benefit
to taxpayers if the Federal Housing Finance Agency changed its
policy barring the government-owned mortgage-finance companies
from loan modifications including debt writedowns, DeMarco said
at a briefing with reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  “We concluded the potential benefit was too small and
uncertain relative to unknown costs and risks,” DeMarco said.  Under Pressure  The decision follows months of pressure to reverse the
policy from activist groups and congressional Democrats, who
touted it as a way to keep more families from losing their homes
to foreclosure. FHFA has been in talks since January with
Treasury officials, who offered Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  as
much as 63 cents for each dollar of principal reduction, using
unspent funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program.  DeMarco released a  detailed  analysis showing that under
most scenarios, even while there might be a net benefit to the
government-sponsored enterprises, taxpayers would lose money
because they would be funding the program through the Treasury.  DeMarco’s stand and Geithner’s response reflect tension
between FHFA, an independent agency, and President  Barack Obama ’s Democratic administration, which has pushed to expand
aid for more than 11 million borrowers who owe more than their
homes are worth in the wake of the 2008 credit crisis.  Limited Success  The administration has had limited success in spurring loan
modifications through an overlapping set of programs. Although
the administration originally sought to assist about 9 million
borrowers, the two main federal programs have reached by 2.2
million.  In his letter, Geithner argued that writedowns would extend
relief to more homeowners.  “I do not believe it is the best decision for the
country,” Geithner wrote. “The use of targeted principal
reductions by the GSEs would provide much-needed help to a
significant number of troubled homeowners.”  Republican lawmakers praised DeMarco for resisting such
pressure.  “The administration put incredible political pressure on
Director DeMarco, and he deserves praise for standing up for the
best interests of the American people,” said Representative
 Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican and chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee. “The administration’s foreclosure
mitigation plans have not and do not work.”  Yesterday’s announcement underscored DeMarco’s reputation
for independence, said Tim Rood, managing director of the
Collingwood Group, a Washington-based consulting firm.  “You’ve got to give the guy credit for being a steward of
the taxpayer dollars, and he should be a shining example for
other politicians,” Rood said in a telephone interview. “The
best decision is not always the easiest decision.”  Investors Pleased  DeMarco drew praise from investor and banking groups, who
said debt writedowns would make lenders more reluctant to
provide credit to borrowers who show  default risk , and scorn
from homeowner advocates, some of whom called for his firing.  “It is incomprehensible that Mr. DeMarco would reject the
chance to save up to a billion dollars in taxpayer funds while
helping nearly half a million homeowners,” said Representative
Elijah E. Cummings, a Maryland Democrat on the House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee. “He should immediately
withdraw this reckless and misguided letter.”  Julian Mann, who helps oversee $5.94 billion in bonds as a
vice president at Los Angeles-based First Pacific Advisors LLC,
said he was pleased.  “DeMarco is doing the right thing, looking after the
taxpayer and recognizing that these measures don’t perceptibly
move the needle when trying to floor the housing market,” Mann
said. “It’s a relief both as an investor and as a homeowner.”  Gaining Popularity  Principal writedowns are gaining popularity in
modifications of loans backed by lenders and private investors.
About 10 percent of such modifications now involve writedowns,
according to data from the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  The technique may work better for private investors because
they can choose which loans are eligible, an almost impossible
task for  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, who are dealing with more
than 1,000 different loan servicers, DeMarco said.  Fannie Mae, based in Washington, and Freddie Mac of McLean,
 Virginia , have drawn almost $190 billion in Treasury aid since
they were taken under U.S. conservatorship in 2008 amid loan
losses that pushed them to the brink of insolvency.  The analysis, which builds on a study FHFA released in
April, looked at the costs and benefits of reducing principal on
troubled loans under different scenarios, including how many
eligible borrowers would participate and the ratio of their debt
to income. In addition, DeMarco said, the administrative costs
of the program could reach $90 million.  Encouraging Defaults  Like previous FHFA analyses, the most recent data predicted
that loan forgiveness would create new costs for the taxpayer-
funded firms by encouraging defaults among borrowers who have
kept making payments even though they owe more than their homes
are worth. Three out of every four so-called underwater
borrowers with GSE loans are current.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have completed 1.1 million loan
modifications since the end of 2008 and have engaged in more
than 1 million other transactions to avert foreclosures,
including short sales or repayment plans.  Fannie Mae’s 3 percent, 30-year securities rose 0.18
percent to 104.09 cents on the dollar as of 4:46 p.m. in  New
York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  