-- Genworth Plunges as CEO Cites Mortgage-Spinoff Obstacles
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-01T17:52:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/genworth-plunges-as-ceo-cites-spinoff-obstacles-new-york-mover.html
     Aug. 1 (Bloomberg) -- Genworth Financial Inc. declined
after acting Chief Executive Officer Martin Klein listed
potential obstacles to separating the U.S.  mortgage-insurance 
unit from the company.  The cost of winning  bondholder  approval “could be
significant” and a spinoff may not be viable, Klein said in a
conference call today. Ceasing to sell policies wouldn’t delink
the unit, he said. The business posted a $25 million operating
loss in the second quarter, the firm said yesterday.  “They can’t really give the market what it wants, which is
a very clear game plan in terms of what the go-forward strategy
is,” said  Suneet Kamath , an analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN) , in an interview
after the call.  Genworth  dropped  7.1 percent to $4.68 at 1:50 p.m. in  New
York  and is down 29 percent this year, the worst performance in
the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index. Moody’s
Investors Service said in June it may cut the Richmond,
Virginia-based firm’s debt from the lowest investment-grade
level after losses tied to U.S. home loans drained capital.  “We recommend investors avoid the stock given challenging
operating fundamentals and limited capital flexibility,”  Jimmy Bhullar , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a research
note today. “Given Genworth’s low returns, volatile earnings,
limited capital flexibility, and history of missing management
targets, we believe the risk-reward is unattractive.”  Klein, Zucaro  Old Republic International Corp. (ORI)  halted a planned spinoff
of its mortgage-insurance business in June after objections from
stakeholders, a group that includes bondholders and regulators,
CEO Aldo Zucaro said. Moody’s reduced the Chicago-based
insurer’s  debt rating  by one level after Zucaro stopped the
spinoff.  Klein and Zucaro are seeking to expand in more profitable
businesses and avoid having to commit more capital to mortgage
insurance. Genworth also sells  life insurance  and announced
yesterday it would seek rate increases for long-term care
coverage.  “We need to address the complexity of our business
portfolio so it is simpler for investors to understand and more
attractive for them,” Klein said today.  Klein, who became acting CEO in May after the departure of
Michael Fraizer, said the board has completed its review of the
company’s business mix and that implementation of its plan can
begin before a permanent replacement is selected. He said that
for now he’d have to avoid disclosing details of the plan,
including which units may be sold, to avoid what he called
“undue market expectations and distractions.”  ‘Premature’  Kamath told Klein on the call it was “frustrating” to not
have details of the company’s strategic plan and asked whether
investors and analysts are “going to be here 12 months from now
still sort of waiting for the results to come through.”  Klein said it would be “premature” to disclose its
approaches to units.  “We know what they are in our minds, but we need to kind
of work that through in the marketplace,” he said.  Eric Johnson , president of Carmel, Indiana-based 40/86
Advisors Inc., said Genworth’s management “did a bad job on
today’s conference call.”  The insurer, which trades at about  15 percent  of equity, is
“a value trap, but I could be talked into taking a shot at some
of the heavily discounted longer-dated bonds,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  