-- German Winter-Barley and Rapeseed Yields Seen 10% Higher by DBV
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-01T10:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/german-winter-barley-and-rapeseed-yields-seen-10-higher-by-dbv.html
German winter barley and rapeseed
yields should be about 10 percent higher than last year, based
on harvest results, farm lobby Deutscher Bauernverband said. The
main wheat harvest is about to start, it said.  Winter-barley yields range from about 5 metric tons a
hectare (2.47 acres) to 10 tons, with the average yield in
 Germany  estimated at 6.3 tons a hectare, the Berlin-based DBV
wrote in a  report  on its website today.  Germany is the European Union’s second-largest grower of
rapeseed and barley, behind  France . Sunny weather at the end of
July allowed farmers to progress the harvest, before rains over
the weekend disrupted field work, according to DBV.  “The much-needed period of good weather allowed for the
harvest to advance under good combining conditions,” DBV wrote.
“The rain in the past weekend, however, caused another
interruption of harvesting work.”  The country will remain dry today with temperatures
climbing to 30 degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit) in the
south, with rain expected in coming days, according to
forecaster Deutscher Wetterdienst.  The winter-barley harvest is almost completed, with some
remaining plots to be harvested at higher altitudes, in northern
Schleswig-Holstein and parts of  Lower Saxony , the Berlin-based
DBV wrote in a report on its website today.  Specific weight, an indication of the amount of dry matter
in the grain, ranges from 55 to 70 kilograms (121 to 154 pounds)
per hectoliter (2.8 bushels), the farm group wrote. Most of the
harvested winter barley is between 60 and 65 kilograms per
hectoliter, which is “quite satisfactory,” DBV said.  About a quarter of Germany’s spring barley has been cut,
which doesn’t allow for definitive statements on yield and
quality, DBV said.  Winter Rapeseed  Harvesting of winter rapeseed is about 75 percent done,
with yields climbing 11 percent from last year to 3.3 tons per
hectare, DBV reported.  The wheat harvest has hardly started because the grain
isn’t ripe after rain in June and July delayed development,
according to DBV. Good water supply during the grain-filling
period will allow for “good” specific weight, the group said.  Corn is mostly in good to very good condition, with growth
boosted by sufficient water supply and helped by recent warmer
weather, according to the farm lobby.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  