-- German Bunds Slide as Monti Comments Boost Spanish, Italian Debt
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-08-01T15:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/german-bunds-fall-on-monti-comments-before-five-year-auction.html
German bunds fell, with 10-year
yields rising the most in a month, as Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti ’s comment that his country doesn’t need a bailout
reduced demand for the region’s safest securities.  Five-year  German notes  declined after the nation sold 3.4
billion euros ($4.18 billion) of the debt at the lowest yield on
record. Italian bonds advanced before  European Central Bank 
policy makers meet tomorrow.  Spain ’s securities also gained
after two people in  Madrid  said Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
is pushing for additional budget cuts after Germany signaled
such a move would be rewarded by bond-market assistance.  “There is a little bit of risk sentiment in the market,
Spanish yields are lower, as the market still thinks there’s a
chance that  Europe ’s leaders are working to stem the crisis,”
said Allan von Mehren, a fixed-income strategist at  Danske Bank
A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen. “There is some shorting of bunds because
people see them as too expensive.” A short position is a bet an
asset will decline.  Germany’s 10-year yield rose nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 1.37 percent at 4:36 p.m. London time,
after advancing as much as 11 basis points, the biggest intraday
increase since June 29. The 1.75 percent bund due in July 2022
dropped 0.805, or 8.05 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to
103.495.  Italy’s economy doesn’t need a bailout, Monti said in an
interview with Finnish newspaper  Helsingin Sanomat . The country
may need some support as “markets are slow to understand the
measures it has taken and all it has achieved,” the paper
reported him as saying.  ‘Possible Intervention’  “We’re thinking of a possible intervention in various
combinations involving the EFSF, the ESM and the ECB,” Monti
said, referring to the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility, the permanent European Stability Mechanism and the
European Central Bank.  Italy’s  10-year yield  dropped 15 basis points to 5.93
percent, shrinking the spread over similar-maturity German
yields by 24 basis points to 456 basis points. Spain’s 10-year
yield declined two basis points to 6.73 percent.  Spain’s De Guindos wants further cuts in health and
education spending after  Germany  signaled to him that such a
move would be rewarded by bond market assistance, according to
the two people in Madrid familiar with his thinking.  Germany sold 3.35 billion euros of five-year notes at an
average yield of 0.31 percent, the least on record, the
Bundesbank said. Investors bid for 8.6 billion euros of the
securities, compared with a maximum target of 4 billion euros,
according to the data.  The yield on Germany’s five-year note climbed five basis
points to 0.36 percent.  Most Volatile  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Spain, according to measures of 10-
year bonds, the spread between two-year and 10-year securities
and credit-default swaps. The change in the German spread was 2
1/2 times the 90-day average.  Belgian bonds declined after a report showed gross domestic
product in the nation -- the sixth-largest economy in the 17-
nation euro area -- fell 0.6 percent from the first quarter.  The nation’s 10-year yield climbed one basis point to 2.61
percent, after falling to a record 2.39 percent on July 20.  German bunds returned 4.1 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities dropped 5.1
percent, and  Italy ’s bonds rose 7.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  