-- Wind Lobby Raises German Turbine Forecast, Offshore Concerns
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-08-01T12:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/germany-forecast-to-add-2-4-gw-of-wind-turbines-in-2012.html
A German wind-power lobby raised its
forecast for the country’s turbine installations this year after
expansion in the first half was greater than anticipated.  Germany  will add 2,400 megawatts of turbines, up from the
prior estimate of 2,200 megawatts, Alexander Sewohl, a spokesman
at the German Wind Energy Association, or BWE, said in an
interview. First-half installations expanded by 26 percent to
1,004 megawatts, according to the lobby group.  “We’re seeing the southern German states increasingly
backing the German energy switch with new wind projects,”
Herrmann Albers, president of BWE, told reporters in Berlin.
Accumulated installations in Germany rose to 30,016 megawatts.  Germany is investing in clean energy after saying it will
phase-out nuclear power. It plans to build offshore wind farms
covering an area six times the size of  New York  city and raising
the share of renewable-energy output to at least 35 percent of
total production by the end of the decade, from 25 percent now.  BWE forecast 46,000 megawatts of installations around the
world this year. The figure may decline to 40,000 megawatts or
less next year as the U.S. market is expected to decline
“catastrophically” and  Europe  remain unchanged, said Thorsten Herdan, head of VDMA Power Systems, a manufacturers’ group.  Pressure on prices to fall will continue to dominate the
industry as Chinese companies try to sell more turbines in
Europe after building up capacity that is capable of satisfying
“the entire current global demand,” Herdan said.  Offshore Delays  Germany added 45 megawatts of offshore  wind turbines  in the
first half, less than expected, mainly on delays in connecting
them to the grid, he said. Delays mean it won’t reach a target
to install 10 gigawatts of turbines at sea by 2020, Herdan said.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest utility, last week said it
postponed a decision on building the Innogy Nordsee 1 offshore
wind farm until 2013 as it waits for the government to set out
who will pay for delays. BWE expects 150 megawatts of offshore
turbine installations in Germany this year, Albers said.  German turbine makers including Siemens AG and  Nordex SE (NDX1) 
last year produced volumes valued at about 5.96 billion euros
($7.3 billion), or 16.1 percent of the world total, BWE said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  