-- Ghana’s Mahama Nominates Central Bank Governor as Vice President
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-08-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/ghana-s-mahama-nominates-central-bank-governor-as-vice-president.html
Bank of Ghana Governor Kwesi Amissah- Arthur was nominated to become vice president of West  Africa ’s
second-biggest economy, a week after the death of President John Atta Mills.  Amissah-Arthur, a former deputy finance minister who headed
the central bank for almost three years, was proposed by new
President John Dramani Mahama, the leader’s spokesman, John
Jinapor, said by phone yesterday from Accra, the capital.  The governor “comes with a wide range of experience and
knowledge and will also have a good working relationship with
the president,” Jinapor said. Amissah-Arthur’s nomination has
been communicated to Parliament and will be referred to the
body’s appointments committee for approval, he said.  Amissah-Arthur was appointed by Mills, who died on July 24
with five months left in his first term in office. Former Vice
President Mahama was sworn in six hours later in the world’s
second-biggest cocoa producer and will be the ruling National
Democratic Congress Party’s candidate for an election in
December.  The yield on  Ghana ’s $750 million Eurobond, due 2017, fell
by 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.657 percent by
7:42 p.m. yesterday in Accra, the lowest in almost two weeks,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cedi weakened 0.1
percent to 1.955 a dollar.  The governor’s nomination comes as  inflation  slowed from 18
percent in his first month in office in October 2009 to 9.4
percent in June. This year, he raised the policy lending  rate 
2.5 percentage points to 15 percent to cool economic growth and
reverse a weakening in the local currency.  The cedi has weakened 16 percent against the dollar this
year after economic growth reached 14.4 percent in 2011, the
fastest pace in Africa, boosted demand for dollars. Expansion in
the $31 billion economy is expected to reach 9.4 percent this
year, according to the  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  