-- Ghost of 2008 Haunts Fed as Companies Take Short View on Risk
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/ghost-of-2008-haunts-fed-as-companies-take-short-view-on-risk.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  computer
systems monitoring the heartbeat of global commerce sent a
discouraging message last quarter as package flows began to fall
below the company’s forecast.  On July 24 executives announced that they were reducing
their Asian air network by 10 percent. Domestic routes were also
fine-tuned to lower volumes by systems called Volcano and HFNO
that efficiently plan how packages move on planes and trucks to
consumers’ doorsteps.  “We don’t wait three months to say, ‘Is there a
pattern?’” said Jack Levis, director of process management at
UPS, the world’s largest package shipper, in an interview. “We
are always looking ahead at what’s the risk.”  The 2008 collapse in U.S. gross domestic product is now
“seared into history,” former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan  said
in an interview.  That’s changing the way U.S. corporations treat risk:
Threats that might portend a slowdown are given greater weight
because they could quickly develop into something worse. Hiring,
investment and the  U.S. economy  as a whole now retreat suddenly
at the first sign of potential catastrophe, said  Joseph Carson ,
director of global economic research at Alliance Bernstein, an
asset management firm headquartered in  New York .  This business cycle has “more fits and starts than ever
before and global issues affect it as much as local issues
because we are so tied into global supply chains,” Carson said.
“Risk management strategies seem to have become much more
prevalent since the 2008 financial crisis.”  ‘Risk-On/Risk-Off’  Corporate managers are so adept now at dialing up and
dialing back their activity that Carson dubs the post-crash
business cycle the “Risk-On/Risk-Off Economy.”  That presents a conundrum for the  Federal Reserve , whose
Federal Open Market Committee concludes a two-day meeting at
about 2:15 p.m. today in  Washington . Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  told lawmakers July 17 that the committee is
“prepared to take further action as appropriate to promote a
stronger economic recovery.”  The three-year expansion has been battered by the flaring
of the euro countries’ debt crisis -- the volatility of yields
on Spanish 10-year bonds has more than quadrupled since late
2008 -- the March 2011 Japanese earthquake and tsunami, and
political battles over the U.S. deficit.  Debt ceiling wrangling in the  U.S. Congress  caused  consumer
confidence  to fall in August 2011 by the most since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. A year later, Bernanke
warned lawmakers on July 17 that concerns about automatic
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled for 2013, the so-
called fiscal cliff, could again depress activity.  Jagged Growth  Growth slowed to a 2 percent and 1.5 annual pace in the
first and second quarters after expanding 4.1 percent in the
final three months of last year. Retail sales fell for a third
straight month in June, after rising the previous three months.
The  National Federation of Independent Business ’ optimism index
fell to 91.4 in June, the lowest reading since October, from
94.4 in May. That was the biggest monthly decline in two years.  “Our customers are increasingly nervous,” Scott Davis,
chairman and chief executive officer of Atlanta-based UPS, told
investors on a July 24 conference call.  The Fed attempted to insure growth with a $600 billion
round of quantitative easing in November 2010 as the economy
began to slow. In April 2011, the central tendency forecast by
Fed governors and presidents for growth that year was 3.1
percent to 3.3 percent. In June, policy makers published an
outline of their so-called exit strategy.  Operation Twist  By September 2011, the FOMC declared itself dissatisfied
with the economy’s progress and launched what became known as
Operation Twist, lengthening maturities of Treasuries on its
balance sheet. In November,  Fed officials  marked down their
outlook and forecast growth of just 1.6 percent to 1.7 percent
for the year. A second round of Operation Twist was undertaken
in June this year as the economy’s pace decelerated again.  “You couldn’t design a better experiment in how policy
uncertainty impacts the economy,” said  Ethan Harris , co-head of
global research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.
“That in turn forces the Fed to act, just as they have in the
last two years.”  The Fed has diminished influence over this business cycle
because periods of persistent volatility in markets and investor
expectations can blunt the impact of monetary policy, said
Nicholas Bloom, an associate professor of economics at  Stanford
University  near  Palo Alto ,  California .  “We find you get less of a multiplier out of monetary
policy,” Bloom said. “When you are uncertain, you don’t
respond to anything.”  Volatile Index  An  index  of U.S. economic policy he constructed rose 67.1
points for the three months ending June, the biggest jump since
the U.S. debt ceiling dispute in July and August last year. It’s
based on three components: newspaper coverage of policy-related
uncertainty, the number of federal tax code provisions set to
expire in future years and disagreement among economic
forecasters.  After three years of growth, corporate managers are still
showing high  risk aversion  when it comes to investments based on
a longer-term outlook.  A Bloomberg News review of the performance of five
indicators related to longer-term expenditures or investment
shows that their volatility hasn’t declined to pre-recession
levels, and in three cases remains much higher than during the
pre-recession period.  Wholesale inventory investment volatility remains about
twice as high as the pre-recession volatility level. Data on
changes in manufacturing inventories, durable orders, imports of
goods, and a survey of homebuilder expectations are all more
volatile today than before the recession.  Big Data  Corporations “are responding very rapidly to macroeconomic
uncertainty,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “They aren’t
taking any chances.”  With the U.S. expansion’s large swings over the past six
quarters, companies are using big data systems inside their own
businesses for hints on which way to move. At Norfolk Southern
Corp., data-crunching software known as OPD churns through
millions of bits of information a week to find out what’s moving
across the company’s 20,000 miles of routes.  That capability led the rail company to respond rapidly
when Fred Ehlers, vice president of network and service
management at the Atlanta control center, noticed in January
that coal car loadings were falling. At the same time demand for
finished auto shipments out of the Midwest was surging.  Auto Market  Ehlers and the company’s team of network managers shifted
locomotives, rail cars, their attention and even people from
south to north to serve the booming auto market.  The railroad’s revenue jumped 6 percent to $2.8 billion in
the first quarter, a record high for the period.  “We are always adjusting the plan, we are always looking
out,” said Ehlers. “Decision making has to be faster.”  Greenspan said in the interview that the memory of 2008,
when a shutdown of short-term funding markets sent U.S. gross
domestic product down at an 8.9 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, has shifted attitudes about risk.  Catastrophic events such as wide-scale financial market
panic no longer seem remote, and that’s made long-term returns
less clear, he said.  Greenspan, who now runs his own consulting firm in
Washington, says the ratio of fixed investment to cash flows is
a signal of companies’ willingness to turn liquid assets into
long-lived investments. This expansion has shown the lowest
quarterly ratios since the end of World War II, a sign that
corporate managers see a bigger benefit from holding cash than
making long-term bets on the economy’s future.  ‘Horrendously Different’  “This was a horrendously different period: short-term
credit shut down,” Greenspan said. “The  risk premium  on long-
lived assets is now higher” and a lack of clarity on tax rates
and fiscal policy is adding to the reluctance to invest.  Faced with risks like a euro breakup that are hard to
quantify, Levis said UPS is constantly running simulations on
how it would trim or shift its network of 527 planes and 101,000
ground vehicles.  “It’s about making better decisions under uncertainty,”
Levis said. “We have to make decisions quicker than before.”  -- With assistance from Seth Myers in New York. Editors: Anne Swardson, James Tyson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  