-- Gore Vidal, Novelist and Critic of ‘Imperial’ U.S., Dies at 86
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-08-01T05:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/gore-vidal-novelist-and-critic-of-imperial-u-s-dies-at-86.html
Gore Vidal , the prolific polemicist
of the left whose novels, plays and commentary challenged fellow
Americans to rethink textbook lessons about power and patriotism,
has died. He was 86.  Vidal died late yesterday of pneumonia in his Hollywood
Hills home in  Los Angeles , the  Associated Press  reported, citing
his nephew Burr Steers. There was no phone listing for Steers.  The  author  of two dozen novels, Vidal questioned
traditional views of gender and sexuality in “The City and the
Pillar” and “Myra Breckinridge,” satirized religion in
“Kalki” and “Live from Golgotha” and demythologized American
history in fictional accounts of  Abraham Lincoln  and the
founding fathers.  He  won  the National Book Award for nonfiction for “ United
States ” (1993), a collection of essays on topics including
literature and film, feminism and imperialism. His columns on
sex, Hollywood, politics and religion appeared, among other
places, in Esquire, the Nation and the New York Review of Books.  In recent years, his criticism of the U.S. approached rage.
In a 2009  interview  with Johann Hari of the U.K.’s Independent
newspaper, he declared the American experiment “a failure,”
the country “a madhouse” and the war in  Afghanistan  “terminal
for the American empire.”  Christopher Hitchens , in a piece for
 Vanity Fair  headlined “Vidal Loco,” denounced Vidal for the
“crank-revisionist and denialist history he is now peddling.”  The grandson of a U.S. senator, Vidal grew up in  Washington 
in proximity to power, then spent much of his adult life in
Italy railing against what he saw as America’s imperial impulses
and self-delusion. Vidal and his companion of more than 50 years,
Howard Austen, lived on the Amalfi Coast for four decades, and
maintained a home in Los Angeles since 1978. Austen died in 2003.  Dull, Literal  Vidal argued that the U.S., starting in 1947, had moved
inexorably toward a “national security state.” He urged a
repeal of drug laws, deep cuts in defense spending, brief and
publicly funded presidential campaigns, and an end to military
aid to Israel and other Middle East nations.  He called the U.S. “the land of the dull and the home of
the literal,” and began his novel “Duluth” (1983) with a line
that many read to encapsulate his view of his homeland: “Love
it or loathe it, you can never leave it or lose it.”  The 1948 publication of “ The City and the Pillar ,” about
a love affair between two male athletes, was a milestone in
America’s reckoning with homosexuality. In that work and others,
Vidal portrayed gay people as no different, no less normal, than
everybody else -- and suggested that everybody has bisexual
longings, hidden or not.  Vidal dedicated the novel to the memory of “J.T.,” whom
he later identified as Jimmie Trimble, a prep school classmate
who had been his early love, and who lost his life on Iwo Jima.  Buckley Faceoff  In a televised faceoff at the 1968 Democratic National
Convention, Vidal called William F. Buckley Jr. a “crypto-
Nazi,” prompting the conservative writer to shoot back, “Now,
listen you queer, stop calling me a crypto-Nazi or I’ll sock you
in your goddamn face.”  A year later, Buckley and Vidal assailed each other in
essays for Esquire, and each sued. Vidal’s lawsuit was thrown
out of court. Esquire settled Buckley’s with an apology and
reimbursement of his legal costs.  Buckley died in February 2008. Asked how he felt when he
heard the news, Vidal told the New York Times, “I thought hell
is bound to be a livelier place, as he joins forever those whom
he served in life, applauding their prejudices and fanning their
hatred.”  Vidal’s feuding was by no means limited to fellow
intellectuals of the right. He called  Norman Mailer  “a
demagogue” obsessed with public success. He sued  Truman Capote 
for libel and extracted an apology after an eight-year standoff.  ‘Tiresome Nag’  Describing himself, Vidal wrote, “I am at heart a
propagandist, a tremendous hater, a tiresome nag complacently
positive that there is no human problem which could not be
solved if people would simply do as I advise.”  Eugene Luther Gore Vidal was born on Oct. 3, 1925, at the
U.S. Military Academy in West Point, New York, where his father,
Gene, taught aeronautics.  A former all-American football player at West Point and
Olympic decathlete,  Gene Vidal  went on to found three U.S.
airlines and to serve as director of air commerce under
President  Franklin D. Roosevelt . He and the former Nina Gore, an
actress, divorced when their son was 10.  Vidal grew up in the Washington, D.C., home of his mother’s
father,  Thomas Pryor Gore , a Democrat who represented Oklahoma
in the  U.S. Senate . (Through that side of the family, Vidal was
distantly related to former Vice President  Al Gore .)  Free Thinking  Senator Gore had lost his eyesight in separate accidents
early in life. He called upon his grandson to read him
congressional documents as well as the works of  Mark Twain  and
“free thinkers and skeptics” such as the 19th century agnostic
leader Robert Ingersoll, Vidal recalled in his 2006 memoir,
“ Point to Point Navigation .”  After his mother’s second marriage, to Standard Oil heir
Hugh Dudley Auchincloss Jr., Vidal lived at his stepfather’s
Virginia estate. A subsequent marriage would make Auchincloss
the stepfather -- and Vidal the step-brother -- of Jacqueline Bouvier, whose marriage to  John F. Kennedy  ushered Vidal into a
new generation of Washington power. (An argument with  Robert Kennedy  at a 1961 White House party ended Vidal’s relationship
with the Kennedy clan.)  Vidal joined the U.S. Army in 1943 after graduating from
Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire. During World War II he
was first mate of an Army freight-supply ship in the Aleutian
Islands.  First Novel  After the war, Vidal told friends he’d “live by writing.”
His first novel, “ Williwaw ,” named for the violent storms he
had experienced in the Arctic, told the story of a ship plying
the cold seas. Reviewing the book for the Times, Orville
Prescott said Vidal “is a canny observer of his fellow-men. He
can write.”  Relations between Vidal and the Times soured upon
publication of “ The City and the Pillar” in 1948. In Vidal’s
telling, Prescott refused to review the book because it conjured
a love affair between two normal men. The Times then passed on
his six subsequent novels, and other publications joined in
blacklisting him, Vidal said.  Vidal created mystery novels under the pseudonym Edgar Box
and began writing for live television dramas in 1954, then for
films as a contract writer for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. He wrote
screenplays for “ The Catered Affair ” (1956), starring Ernest Borgnine and Bette Davis, and “ Suddenly, Last Summer ” (1959)
with  Elizabeth Taylor  and  Katharine Hepburn . His Broadway play
“ A Visit to a Small Planet ” also was turned into a movie.  Congressional Campaign  In 1960 he ran for Congress in New York as a Democrat-
Liberal, advocating more spending on education and less on the
military. He pitched himself on TV as a talk-show guest of
 Johnny Carson , Merv Griffin and others.  After losing to incumbent Republican Ernest Wharton, 57
percent to 43 percent, Vidal became a regular TV talk-show guest.
(He’d make another bid for office in 1982, unsuccessfully
seeking the Democratic nomination for U.S. Senate in  California .)  He returned in 1964 with the best-selling novel “Julian,”
about the life of the Roman emperor Julianus II, who futilely
fought the rise of Christianity.  “Myra Breckinridge” (1968), written in the form of a
diary, was a Sexual Revolution-era hit. It told the story of a 
man who, after transsexual surgery, uses his altered identity to
punish other men. The 1970  film , with Raquel Welch, earned an X
rating.  Historical Novels  From 1967 to 2000, Vidal produced the seven acclaimed
novels on American history that he called his “Narratives of
Empire.” They included “Burr: A Novel,” “Lincoln: A Novel,”
“1876” and “Hollywood.” Vidal said one of his hopes was to
bring history to a country he called the “United States of
Amnesia” for its disinterest in lessons of the past.  Joyce Carol Oates, writing in the Times, said the novels
were “concerned with dissecting, obsessively and often
brilliantly, the roots of personal ambition as they give rise to
history itself.”  “Lincoln” was turned into an Emmy-nominated TV mini-
series in 1988.  Vidal played an upstanding, liberal senator derailed by
rumors in Tim Robbins’s 1992 movie, “ Bob Roberts .”  Vidal’s 1998 article for Vanity Fair on the erosion of
American civil rights prompted a reply from Timothy McVeigh,
then on death row for the 1995 bombing of the federal building
in Oklahoma City. In their exchange of letters, McVeigh told
Vidal, “Your work is the first to really explore the underlying
motivations for such a strike against the U.S. government -- and
for that, I thank you.”  While not explicitly praising the bombing, which killed 168
people, Vidal described McVeigh as intelligent and justified in
his anger at the federal government. “He was a noble boy,”
Vidal told Hari in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  