-- Green Mountain Gains After Third-Quarter Profit Rises 30%
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-08-02T13:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/green-mountain-cuts-profit-forecast-as-k-cup-growth-slows.html
Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) ,
maker of Keurig brewers and single-serve pods, gained the most
in more than a year after saying third-quarter profit rose 30
percent.  The shares jumped 25 percent to $22.34 at 9:44 a.m. in  New
York , after climbing as much as 26 percent for the biggest
intraday gain since March 2011. The Waterbury, Vermont-based
company’s stock  declined  60 percent this year through yesterday.  Net income  advanced to $73.3 million, or 46 cents a share,
from $56.3 million, or 37 cents, a year earlier, the company
said yesterday in a statement. Excluding certain items, profit
was 52 cents a share. Analysts projected 50 cents, the average
of 10 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares rebounded from a drop yesterday in late trading
after the company cut its fiscal 2012 forecast. Green Mountain
faces more competition as grocery stores such as  Safeway Inc. (SWY) 
and  Kroger Co. (KR)  make private-label capsules to fit into Keurig
machines. The main patents for K-Cups expire in September.  “We have had some growing pains,” Chief Executive Officer
Lawrence Blanford said in a interview yesterday. “But I think
we’ve learned from them, and it has helped us get a better
handle on our business going forward.”  The company is evaluating whether to license single-serve
coffee pods to stores, Blanford said, without providing
specifics.  Profit Forecast  The company said profit excluding some items will be as
much as $2.26 a share this fiscal year. That’s less than a
previous estimate of as much as $2.50. Analysts estimated $2.39
a share, on average.  In February, Green Mountain introduced the Vue machine,
which makes lattes and cappuccinos to help it compete with
 Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Nespresso makers.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  in March announced
it would begin selling its own single-serve beverage maker, the
Verismo, in time for the holiday season this year.  Hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  said in March that the
Starbucks Verismo brewer “is part of the competitive onslaught
hitting Green Mountain.” When Green Mountain’s main K-Cup
patents expire, it may pave the way for private-label and other
rivals to enter the single-serve coffee market. Einhorn has also
criticized the company for its accounting practices and lack of
transparency.  “You don’t know what the market-share pressure is going to
be when new products enter,” Jim Sanderson, a Boston-based
analyst at Detwiler Fenton & Co., said in an interview. Green
Mountain may need to lower prices “more aggressively” to help
draw customers from lower-priced competitors, he said.  SEC Investigation  Green Mountain is the subject of a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission inquiry, disclosed in September 2010. Two
months later, the company restated earnings for years dating
back to 2007 because of issues with K-Cup coffee-pod revenue and
royalties, according to a statement.  The company is continuing to cooperate with SEC staff,
 Green Mountain  said yesterday in a filing.  In May, Green Mountain removed its founder, Robert P. Stiller, from the chairman role after he improperly sold shares
to meet a margin call after using his stake in the company to
back personal loans. Michael J. Mardy is serving as the interim
chairman.  Revenue increased 21 percent to $869.2 million in the three
months ended June 23. Analysts projected $873.3 million, on
average.  K-Cup sales rose 31 percent to $638 million in the quarter
compared with the year-earlier period. Sales of the pods gained
59 percent in the second quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  