-- Greentech Fails to Win Shareholder Support for Fersa Acquisition
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-08-01T16:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/greentech-fails-to-win-shareholder-support-for-fersa-acquisition.html
Greentech Energy Systems A/S (GES) , a
Danish developer, said it failed to win enough support for a 56
million-euro ($69 million) bid for  Fersa Energias Renovables SA (FRS) ,
citing the target’s complex shareholder structure.  Greentech won 41.81 percent acceptance for its 40 euro-
cents-a-share offer for the Spanish renewable energy developer,
the Danish company said today in an e-mailed statement, short of
the more than 50 percent needed. The final deadline was July 30.  All bar four of the 10-member Fersa board opposed the offer
as it undervalued the company, it said July 27. The developer
today fell 8 percent in  Madrid  and officials wouldn’t comment.  Greentech, based in Copenhagen, began efforts to buy all of
Fersa’s shares in April, as part of plans to purchase companies
affected by the European economic crisis. Fersa has lost more
than half of its value this year as governments including Spain
cut state-aid for clean  power plants  to curb debt. Spain is
Fersa’s largest market, according to the company’s website.  “Fersa’s takeover bid was challenging due to its complex
shareholders structure although it was in line with Greentech’s
industrial project aimed at consolidating its positioning in the
renewable energy market,” Greentech said in the statement.  A director representing Fersa’s largest shareholder, Grupo
Empresarial Enhol SL, backed the acquisition, Greentech said on
July 23. Corp. Caja Granada said July 25 it endorsed the bid and
Banco Mare Nostrum SA also said it would accept the offer.  “As demonstrated by the high level of acceptance, the
offer was good and fair,” Greentech said in the statement. It
expects other possibilities in  Spain  in the next 18 months “for
those who have the patience and the financial capacity to wait
and see,” the company said. It operates about 300 megawatts in
countries such as Italy, Germany, Spain,  Poland  and  Denmark .  Greentech’s offer valued Barcelona-based Fersa at 56
million euros, based on its 140 million shares outstanding.  Combined with Fersa’s debt, the transaction was worth about
300 million euros, Greentech Chief Executive Officer Sigieri
Diaz della Vittoria Pallavicini said in April.  The market value of Fersa is about 48.3 million euros.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  