-- Greek Coalition Leaders to Back $14 Billion in Budget Cuts
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-08-01T18:21:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/greek-coalition-leaders-to-back-14-billion-in-budget-cuts-1-.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
wrested an agreement from his two coalition partners on 11.5
billion euros ($14 billion) of budget cuts required to qualify
for international rescue funds and keep the country in the euro
area amid disagreements on when to implement the measures.  Samaras brokered the accord with Democratic Left head Fotis Kouvelis and Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  after the three
met today in Athens for the second time this week. Venizelos,
the former finance minister who negotiated this year’s latest
bailout, disagreed with Samaras’s insistence on not immediately
pushing for at least another two years to implement the steps.  “Cutting spending by 11.5 billion euros was set as a
necessary prerequisite for  Greece  to remain in the euro,”
Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters after the
meeting. He said the package will now be examined by the so-
called “troika” of officials representing the euro area, the
 European Central Bank  and the IMF, who have been in Athens since
July 24 to judge whether Greece can get the next batch of funds.  The coalition, formed in June amid public opposition to
spending cuts that led to two consecutive elections, is
struggling to find common ground on the budget plan. The cuts
are required by lenders in 2013 and 2014 to keep 240 billion
euros of aid pledges flowing from two European Union and
International Monetary Fund bailouts.  ‘Milder Implementation’  “We should have avoided this new wave of wage and pension
cuts, some 6 billion euros, which will keep the country in
recession in 2013 and 2014,” Venizelos said. More time “would
have allowed for a milder implementation of the measures.”  Still, the government must complete its four-year mandate
and “we won’t lead the country into new elections,” he said.  In Parliament, a bill on changes to the education system
highlighted the growing fissures in the parties supporting the
coalition. The legislation was passed with 163 votes in favor
and 101 votes against, according to a tally of the vote,
televised live on state-run Vouli TV.  Among coalition party members voting against the law, the
government’s first since taking power, were six members of the
socialist Pasok party, including former Prime Minister  George Papandreou  and former health minister Andreas Loverdos.  Samaras’s government is supported by 179 lawmakers from the
three parties in the 300-seat chamber.  Greece risks running out of money without the disbursement
of 4.2 billion euros due in June as the first installment of a
31 billion-euro transfer.  The country may sell 6 billion euros of Treasury bills, 2
billion more than initially planned, and tap bank
recapitalization funds in order to cover its financing needs,
the Kathimerini newspaper reported today, without saying how it
got the information.  The funds will be used to cover 3.2 billion euros of
redemptions for bonds held by the ECB that mature Aug. 20, the
Athens-based newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  