-- Gross’s Total Return Fund Drew $2.1 Billion Last Month
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-08-01T20:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/gross-s-total-return-fund-drew-2-1-billion-last-month.html
Bill Gross ’s  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ,
the world’s biggest mutual fund, attracted $2.1 billion last
month and deposits into his exchange-traded fund, which mimics
the flagship mutual fund’s strategy, reached the highest since
the fund started.  The seventh straight month of net deposits into the mutual
fund contributed to $8 billion in new cash for the year through
July 31, Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  said today. Pimco Total
Return Exchange-Traded Fund attracted $557 million in its best
month ever, leading to $2.1 billion in total deposits since the
the fund started trading on the NYSE Arca exchange on March 1.  Pimco Total Return ETF gained 8.3 percent through
yesterday’s close, almost twice the 4.7 percent return for the
$263 billion mutual fund, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Because the ETF is still much smaller than the mutual
fund, it can snap up notes with the biggest potential returns.  Pimco Total Return Fund, while trailing its ETF version, is
 outperforming  98 percent of similarly managed mutual funds this
year and over five years, the data show.  Unlike the mutual fund, which uses a combination of
options, futures and swap agreements, Gross’s ETF can’t invest
in derivatives because the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has frozen approval of new ETFs that make significant
use of the instruments. Should the SEC lift the temporary ban,
the Total Return ETF would invest in derivatives, Pimco said in
its filing last year.  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach , California, is a unit of the
Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  