-- Icahn Gets Proxy Adviser Support in Forest Labs Board Battle
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-08-01T20:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/icahn-gets-proxy-adviser-support-in-forest-labs-board-battle-1-.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said
he won the support of Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., a
proxy adviser, for two of his candidates for the board of  Forest
Laboratories Inc. (FRX)   ISS recommended Forest shareholders vote for Daniel Ninivaggi,  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) ’s chief executive officer, and
Pierre Legault, CEO of Stone Management LLC, Icahn, the New
York-based drugmaker’s second-largest shareholder, said today in
a statement.  Icahn said last month that Forest CEO Howard Solomon had
refused to put two of his nominees on the board to end a second
proxy fight in as many years. Icahn, who failed last year to get
any of his four candidates elected, has criticized Forest’s
management for what he says was a lack in preparation for the
loss in March of patent protection on its top-selling drug, the
antidepressant Lexapro.  “The fact that this very well respected proxy advisory
firm concluded, and recommended, that the best path forward for
Forest Labs includes a board with shareholder-nominated
directors is very good news for all shareholders,” Icahn said
in the statement.  Icahn recommended four candidates to the Forest board. The
drugmaker is scheduled to hold its annual  shareholders’ meeting 
on Aug. 15.  Forest fell 1.7 percent to $32.97 at the close in New York.
The shares have  declined  10 percent in the last 12 months.  Company Undervalued  ISS’s recommendation undervalues the company’s future
sales, which may reach $6 billion by fiscal 2018, Forest said in
a statement. The drugmaker said Icahn’s previous proposal to cut
$500 million in costs would be “unrealistic, risky, and ill-
considered.”  “We believe ISS’s recommendation for Icahn’s two other
nominees is based on a flawed analysis that adopts Icahn’s
fundamental misunderstandings of the company’s business model
and strategic focus in support of a reckless, cost-cutting
strategy with the potential to destroy value,” Forest said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  