-- Military Mental Health Crisis Exposed With Camp Liberty Killings
-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/military-mental-health-crisis-exposed-with-camp-liberty-killings.html
Sergeant  John Russell  lay awake,
wondering what his wife would do if he killed himself.  He was so messed up that his first lieutenant removed the
firing pin from his M16 assault rifle. Six weeks from the end of
his fifth combat-zone tour, and five years from retiring on a
20-year Army pension, he suspected he wouldn’t see any of it.  Before dawn, shaking and stuttering, Russell walked through
the still desert outside  Baghdad  to the quarters of Captain
Peter Keough, the 54th Engineer Battalion’s chaplain. Keough
listened, and hastily made the sergeant’s fourth appointment in
four days at an Army mental-health clinic.  “I believe he is deteriorating,” Keough  e-mailed  an Army
psychiatrist. “He doesn’t trust anyone.” Russell, the chaplain
wrote, “believes he is better off dead.”  It was 10:07 a.m. on May 11, 2009. The battalion, military
police and combat stress specialists had three hours and 34
minutes to avert tragedy. Instead, after lost opportunities and
miscalculations, the blue-eyed sergeant from Texas used a stolen
gun to kill three enlisted men and two officers in the deadliest
case of soldier-on-soldier violence in the war zone. His
victims’ bodies are buried across the U.S., from  Arlington
National Cemetery  to the Texas panhandle.  Russell slipped through the safety net constructed to catch
troubled soldiers. More and more are falling. The armed
services’ mental-health epidemic has deepened since the Camp
Liberty killings. In June, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
ordered a Pentagon review of every diagnosis from 2001 on.  Court Martial  “The military and the nation were not prepared for the
mental-health needs from being in combat for more than a
decade,” said retired Colonel Elspeth Ritchie, the top
psychiatric official in the Army’s Office of the Surgeon General
from 2005 to 2010, in an interview. “We now confront ourselves
with a mental-health crisis that is a legacy of war.”  Prosecutors paint the 6-foot, 4-inch (1.9-meter) Russell
as a cold-blooded killer, cunning enough to slip through a back
door into a mental-health clinic where he mowed down unarmed men.
His lawyers contend that he’s not guilty by reason of insanity,
undone by repeat deployments and misdiagnosed in that same
clinic.  His hands and feet shackled, Russell said in an interview
that he doesn’t remember much about that day three years ago.
He’s awaiting court martial at Joint Base  Lewis-McChord  in the
shadow of Mount Rainier in  Washington .  Military Life  The Army decided May 15 to seek the  death penalty  on five
counts of premeditated murder, overruling the recommendation at
a pre-trial hearing that Russell’s “undisputed mental disease
or defect” made that punishment inappropriate.  “It scares me,” Russell said.  Prosecutors declined to comment. This account is based on
thousands of pages of Army records, civilian documents obtained
with public records requests and more than two dozen interviews.  For more than 15 years, Russell had a home in the Army.
Born premature, diagnosed with the learning disability dyslexia,
he didn’t graduate from high school until he was 20. He married,
had a son and divorced, working in restaurants, a grocery store
and in property management in his hometown of Sherman, north of
 Dallas . He was 29 when he enlisted.  “I didn’t fit in a tank,” he said, recounting his
decision to train as a radio mechanic. “I seen the little
toolboxes and I picked that. I had a knack for that.”  Being Overruled  Russell had a career and, within a few years, a happy
second marriage to a German he met in  Bamberg , a Bavarian city
on the Regnitz River where the 54th was headquartered. The
couple shared an apartment with two dogs, a Toy West Highland
called Queenie and a Corgi named Louie, and owned a house in
 Texas  that they planned to move into after Russell retired.  Thirteen months into his third  Iraq  tour, on May 1, 2009,
he saw it all threatened.  The 54th  was at Camp Stryker on Victory Base Complex, a
mass of low-slung buildings at the southwest corner of Baghdad
International Airport bounded by blast barriers and razor wire.
With less than two months to go in the battalion’s deployment,
First Lieutenant Mark Natale named Russell team leader in the
radio- and computer-repair shop.  Natale said the promotion was meant to motivate the 44-
year-old, whose peers were mostly two decades younger. It went
badly almost from the start.  One of Russell’s first acts that Friday was to write up a
female subordinate for being 13 minutes late. He’d been needling
the woman, who struggled with tardiness. Natale and another
officer overruled him. And Russell erupted.  Feeling ‘Broken’  “Sir, I will take all three of you down,” he shouted at
Natale, threatening the two officers and the woman. It was an
extraordinary display for someone a co-worker described as “one
of the mellowest guys I have ever known.”  After a 30-minute rant, Russell apologized, saying he felt
“broken.” Natale, who could have disciplined him, gave him a
chance instead. He referred the sergeant to one of the stress
clinics the military had set up to help soldiers cope.  The Pentagon knew mental health was a casualty of long
tours, frequent deployments and combat. Military teams had been
surveying troops’ emotional states since 2003. The Department of
Defense’s  Task Force  on Mental Health in 2007 called the
psychological health needs of service members, and their
families, a “daunting and growing challenge.”  Russell spent almost five years in war zones. With an
armored-cavalry unit in Bosnia and Kosovo in the 1990s, he told
military doctors, he was in firefights and inventoried a
truckload of mutilated bodies.  ‘Under Duress’  On his second Iraq tour, in Ramadi in 2005 and 2006, he
said he saw “pieces of people everywhere” inside a tent hit by
mortar, and described “scraping my friend” off radio equipment
after an improvised-explosive device detonated. He said his
nightmares were so intense a barracks mate videotaped him.  At Victory Base Complex, Russell waited a week for his
appointment at the Camp Stryker Combat Stress Clinic. As the
days passed, the indignity of having rank pulled on him didn’t
fade. It was a black mark, he told friends, that might follow
him into the civilian world.  “He was worried about his career and seemed to think the
shop was out to get him,” said Sergeant Henry Hollenbeck, who
worked with Russell. “He was distraught.”  Russell kept the appointment on May 8, the Friday before
Mother’s Day. Blaine Ropson, the clinic’s psychiatric nurse,
told investigators that when he saw Russell “it was obvious he
was under duress.” The reason, Robson said, just wasn’t clear.  Another Appointment  Other tensions were playing out. Before Russell arrived,
Ropson said, the clinic psychologist, Major Hrysso Fernbach,
took him aside to say he should be “a little sterner” with
patients. Ropson, who sat in on the session with Russell, said
later that the patient was uncomfortable with the major’s
“hostile,” “demeaning” and “antagonistic” attitude.
Russell kept looking to Ropson for reassurance.  Fernbach, a  New Jersey  National Guard member and a former
psychologist at a maximum security prison, had a different
opinion. She told military investigators her demeanor was
neutral, and described Russell as “odd, angry and fragile.”  Russell rushed out of the clinic when they were done -- he
said he went outside to throw up -- and came back 10 minutes
later. By then, Ropson said, the sergeant was “even more
stressed and uncomfortable than when he arrived.”  “Look,” he told Russell, “we can do better than this.”  Ropson made an appointment for him at another clinic. This
one was at Camp Liberty, on the northeast side of the airport,
about 3 miles (5 kilometers) away.  Peace Signs  At around 3:15 p.m., Russell had his second encounter with
the military’s mental-health system in Iraq. This time, it was
with Navy Commander Charles “Keith” Springle, a 52-year-old
with a Ph.D. in social work from Wilmington,  North Carolina .
Springle wore a peace sign on a chain around his neck, and had
another tattooed on his shoulder.  A 21-year veteran, he’d treated troops for combat stress at
bases in Spain and  Germany  -- commanders described him as
“uniquely concerned, caring and empathetic” -- and had asked
to be sent to Iraq. He’d been there for three months.  After spending about 30 minutes with Russell, Springle
decided he needed to see someone who could prescribe medication,
and made an appointment for him with Lieutenant Colonel Michael
Jones, a Camp Liberty psychiatrist, for two days later.  Robin Williams  Specialist Hector Lara, Russell’s military escort, drove
him back home across Victory Base Complex, which was dotted with
the remains of palaces, lakes, islands and a zoo built by  Saddam Hussein . Lara asked how it went. “I don’t think they’re trying
to help me,” Russell replied.  At the battalion, Russell griped about being shuffled from
“the bitch” at Camp Stryker to the comedian  Robin Williams  at
Camp Liberty, a derisive reference to the good-natured Springle.
He complained he was being trifled with.  By Saturday, Natale, the first lieutenant, had heard
enough. He told investigators that he talked to Russell in the
privacy of his room and had a “gut feeling” he might hurt
himself, that “the vibe was not right” when the sergeant told
him he had no intention of doing so.  Natale removed the firing pin from Russell’s rifle. “Thank
you for looking after me, sir,” Natale said Russell told him.
Later, another officer, not knowing what the first lieutenant
had done, took the gun away.  No Church  That evening, Russell tracked down a friend, Private
Marquise Drake, at a cookout on the base. Drake told
investigators that Russell had stopped him from killing himself
10 months earlier when he was beset by difficulties in his
marriage and with an Army boss. He admired Russell, he said, and
now the sergeant needed his help.  Russell shared his troubles, telling Drake about Fernbach
“raising her voice at him.” Drake said he suggested they go to
church. “You know I don’t believe in that,” Russell replied.
Drake said Russell told him that when he saw dead children in
the Balkans, “that’s when he stopped believing.”  Russell had someplace else to be Sunday anyway. It was May
11, and he had the appointment at the Camp Liberty Combat Stress
Clinic with Lieutenant Colonel Jones. One of 14 Army
psychiatrists in Iraq, he was Russell’s last line of defense.  Jones was 59, a widower and an Army reservist, unemployed
in civilian life. Six months before, he’d pledged to enter a
substance-abuse counseling and monitoring program in the U.S.
after his second arrest in three years on charges of driving
while under the influence of alcohol. Now he was in Iraq.  DUI Charge  At 4:10 a.m. on Aug. 29, 2008, Jones had been  pulled over 
by a Dickinson County,  Kansas , sheriff’s deputy, who said the
doctor was “all over the road” and had a bottle of vodka
stashed under the front seat of his car, according to law
enforcement records and an interview with the deputy.  With his medical license due for renewal in November, the
month he was scheduled to be tried on the DUI charge, Jones told
the local court and the Michigan  Bureau of Health  Professionals
that he would enroll in a Michigan-sponsored program to help
doctors and other health-care providers overcome chemical
dependencies and substance abuse, records show.  Kansas district court Judge John Barker, now retired, said
in an interview that the  alcohol-monitoring  agreement Jones
signed influenced his decision to sentence the doctor to a
minimum two-day  jail term .  Michigan officials renewed Jones’ medical license and
didn’t take disciplinary action because he committed to the
program, according to state-licensing director Joe Campbell. If
he didn’t complete it, the state wouldn’t renew his license
again when it expired at the end of 2011, Campbell said.  Antidepressant Pills  On Mother’s Day, May 10, Russell overslept, and signed in
late at Camp Liberty for his appointment with Jones. The doctor
was still able to see him.  After 60 minutes with his patient, Jones typed up his
notes. While Russell had anxiety “greatly amplified by the
chronic and recurrent” deployments, he wrote, “he is  not a
danger  to himself or others.”  Jones prescribed “a mixture of psychoeducation, brief
supportive psychotherapy” and an antidepressant that would take
effect in two to six weeks.  Russell’s despair seemed to lift. “Maybe I am not as
messed up as I thought I was,” he told First Lieutenant David
Vazquez, who escorted him to the clinic. They stopped at the
dispensary to fill the prescription. The pharmacist poured the
pills into a plastic bag.  Russell’s colleagues in the repair shop planned a pizza
party and invited him. It took them two hours to locate a
vehicle. Russell didn’t wait around for the food to arrive.  After Dark  After dark that night, Russell said later, he thought about
killing himself, and about his wife, wondering if he had been a
disappointment to her.  It was 5 a.m. when he got out of bed, and walked the few
paces to where Vasquez was sleeping.  “He was crying and shaking,” Vasquez told investigators.
“He was stuttering his words and was very despondent.”  The two men went together to the chaplain’s quarters and
talked on the front steps before the sun rose, as Russell smoked
cigarettes. “He said he just wished someone would put a bullet
in his head,” Keough, the chaplain, told investigators.  Keough called Jones, the psychiatrist at Camp Liberty, at
7:50 a.m. He followed up with the e-mail about Russell. “His
condition is so volatile right now that we do not have the
capability or resources to get him the help he needs,” Keough
wrote. “He needs round-the-clock care/supervision to see
exactly what is wrong.”  Russell’s appointment was for noon, seven hours after he
rousted his company officer from his bed.  Still Suffering  The Camp Liberty clinic was a haven of bare plywood walls
on a cement slab under a corrugated tin roof. It was surrounded
by seven-foot blast walls. By the time Russell arrived it was
close to lunchtime, and there weren’t many people inside. One
room was set up for a sleep-therapy class, with couches in a
circle. A few soldiers stationed at bases in other parts of the
country were bunking in the overnight quarters.  Springle, who had irritated Russell with his humor, was on
duty. So was Major Matthew Houseal, 54, a physician and former
Navy pilot from Amarillo, Texas, who had once worked in an
emergency room by night and as a crop duster by day. Specialist
Domonic Morales, 21, manned the front desk, checking firearms
into a locked room behind him. Patients weren’t allowed beyond
the lobby with weapons of any kind.  Shouting Match  Specialist Jake Barton of Lenox,  Missouri , 20, had booked a
grief-counseling session, struggling after his mom’s death the
year before. Private First Class Michael Yates Jr., a 19-year-
old combat infantryman, was registered for a course in anger
management. His escort was Sergeant Christian Bueno-Galdos, 25,
from Paterson, New Jersey, who pestered his parents for school
supplies to hand out to Iraqi children.  Yates had recently been stuck in  Kuwait  for eight days on
his way back from visiting his family and year-old son, Kam,
whose name was tattooed on his forearm. The day before, he’d
called home to Federalsburg,  Maryland , and mentioned having met
Russell. “He told me point blank, ‘This man is so far out on a
branch I’m surprised he hasn’t fallen and broken his neck,”’
his stepfather, Richard Van Blargan Jr., said. “My words to him
were, ’If he’s that bad, stay the hell away from him.”’  Russell signed in with Morales at the front desk at 11:20
a.m. Two minutes after his appointment with Jones started, the
sergeant stormed out of the doctor’s office.  “Let’s go get him,” Jones said to Russell’s escort, Staff
Sergeant Enos Richard. Jones told Morales to call the military
police. In the gravel parking lot, witnesses said Jones and
Russell got into a shouting match.  Policy Breach  “If you can’t help me then I will just kill myself,”
Russell said, according to Staff Sergeant Kathryn Pollock, the
noncommissioned officer in charge. Guidelines for an unruly
patient called for the staff to “de-escalate the situation in a
verbal, non-threatening manner,” according to a post-incident
investigation into security. Tensions were rising instead.  The sergeant sat down and lit a cigarette. Military
policemen Bryan Benz and Andrew Short arrived. Russell tossed a
knife out of his pocket, held his wrists together and asked to
be arrested. “I’m done, take me in,” he said. “Nobody in
there cares about people.”  According to Jones, Russell was the problem. Jones said he
didn’t believe Russell would kill himself and that he had been
“verbally noncompliant” during the session. The MPs conferred,
and decided to turn Russell over to his escort.  That was a  policy breach , according to the investigation.
Base rules held that someone who was suicidal should be released
only to a commander or to a first sergeant.  MI16-A2 Rifle  Russell was still sitting when Jones asked him for a
telephone number for his battalion, according to Staff Sergeant
Leah Gates, an occupational therapy assistant.  “It’s all right, sir. You already made your decision,”
Russell said, looking up.  “No, soldier. You have already made your decision,” the
psychiatrist replied.  Russell’s escort drove him back from the clinic in a white
Ford Explorer. The passenger didn’t say a word.  Arriving at the battalion, the escort, Richard, parked and
stepped out of the SUV, and turned to see Russell reach into the
back seat for the MI16-A2 rifle Richard had left there.  “Give me the keys or I will shoot you,” Russell said.  Low-Ready  Richard watched Russell move the lock from safe to
semiautomatic. At the wheel of the SUV, Russell peeled out.
Richard burst into the battalion offices, sweating and out of
breath, shouting, “He’s got my gun, he’s got my weapon.” The
men in the office were pulling on battle gear and preparing to
mount a search party just as Ropson, the psychiatric nurse who
had seen Russell three days earlier, rang to ask about him.  Learning Russell had a firearm and a vehicle, Ropson said
he posted armed sentries in the hallways and evacuated a sick
woman. The Camp Stryker clinic was ready for the worst.  The Camp Liberty clinic wasn’t. In the sleep-therapy room,
about 10 uniformed men and women, including Specialist Richard
Tran, were taking the relaxation course. Looking out a window,
Tran said he saw a man with a rifle at the low-ready position
signaling an imminent engagement. “He looked cold,” Tran said,
“like he was picking out a target.”  The report of shots fired came at 1:41 p.m. Two MPs at an
automated teller machine said they thought they heard a hammer
striking a nail, or wooden pallets crashing. At the front desk,
Morales said it sounded like a door slamming.  Barton, the grieving son, had signed in at  1:40 p.m.  and
was checking his unloaded rifle when Yates, the infantryman,
grabbed it. “Please have ammo. Please have ammo,” Yates cried.  Plywood Splintered  Jones answered a telephone in another staff member’s
office. It was a warning call from battalion’s physician
assistant, Captain Larry Ake. Horrified, Ake listened through
the receiver to what he said “sounded like a whole firefight.”  Houseal, the psychiatrist and onetime crop duster from
Amarillo, was the first to die. Just inside the unguarded back
door, Russell put a bullet into the doctor’s right nostril.  The next office belonged to Jones, but it was Springle who
was standing in the doorway. Russell fired twice into the social
worker’s back, and once into his head. Bullets splintered the
plywood. “The wall lit up,” said Private Michael Franklin,
who’d taken cover in an adjacent room.  Jones leapt out one window, and Franklin another. Soldiers
in the sleep-therapy class poured from doors and windows and hid
under beds. Russell saw Yates holding the unloaded rifle. He
stalked him out the front door and shot him through the chin.  Russell turned to Bueno-Galdos, Yates’ escort. The soldier
crouched by a filing cabinet, screaming, “Oh God.” Russell
fired a bullet into his left eye.  ‘Slow Motion’  Morales and Barton were hiding under the front desk.
Russell stood on his toes, his boots stained with blood, and
reached over the desk with the rifle.  “It was like slow motion,” Morales said. “I see the
bullet come through the desk. As it comes through the desk, it
hits Barton right in his head.” Morales said the dead soldier’s
body pushed up over his own on impact. Russell walked away.  “One  Mississippi , two Mississippi, three Mississippi,”
Morales counted. Then he ran out the back door. Two bullets
zipped past him.  As military police converged at the front and back
entrances, Russell set the weapon down and surrendered. “I
think I’ve just killed some people,” he said, according to
Special Agent Abass Golfrey, who arrested him.  ‘Getting Along’  A lone ambulance drove up about 40 minutes later. People
who had fled the building were sweating in the sun, and MPs
splashed bottled water on paper towels to make cold compresses.
A man sat at a picnic table, struggling to breathe, and a woman
nearby wailed and wept. Another woman rocked back and forth,
fists clenched. The ambulance took the three of them away.  Four hours after the bloodshed, Jones couldn’t remember
Russell’s first name, and said it was “difficult to
reconstruct” what happened, he wrote in a statement for
military police. That August, the psychiatrist went home to
Missouri, resigned his commission in the Army Reserves and let
his medical license lapse. “I’m getting along,” he said by
telephone, before declining to be interviewed.  The 72 hours between Russell’s first and last trips to
combat-stress clinics on Victory Base Complex framed an abrupt
transition. The day the sergeant bolted out of the Camp Stryker
facility, the Army Surgeon General issued a  report  celebrating
“significantly lower” mental-health problems in Iraq than at
any time since 2004. The day of the Camp Liberty tragedy,
Admiral Mike Mullen, then chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said the killings underscored “the need for us to redouble our
efforts in terms of dealing with the stress” of the long war.  ‘No Warrior’  In 2010, mental disorders surpassed pregnancy as the
leading cause of hospitalization in the armed services. This
year, service members are  killing themselves  at the pace of
almost one a day. Defense Secretary Panetta told Congress June
13 that there are “huge gaps” in the system for caring for
psychological wounds.  “The years of denial and pushing things under the rug are
things we know about first hand,” said Susan Springle, the Camp
Liberty social worker’s widow, who asked the Army to return the
peace symbol that hung around his neck. “My husband was not a
warrior. He was there to help people like Russell. He had
dedicated the rest of his career to doing that.”  Fernbach, the Camp Stryker psychologist, declined to be
interviewed. “We all did the best we could regarding this
case,” she said in a voice-mail message. The military
investigation into security procedures at Camp Liberty found
Russell’s “access to professional care was undeniably good.”  Mentally Competent  In early 2011, a  Walter Reed  Army Medical Center team
diagnosed Russell with chronic post-traumatic stress and a major
depressive disorder with psychotic features. While he “did have
a severe mental disease or defect” the day of the killings, he
“was not unable to appreciate the nature and quality or
wrongfulness of his conduct,” team members said in a report.
They found him competent to be court martialed.  Russell’s mother visited him at  the psychiatric hospital  in
Butner, North Carolina, where he spent 20 months before his
transfer to the military prison near Mount Rainier. “He just
cried and cried and cried,” Beth Russell, 74, said in an
interview. “I said, ‘Well John, for 16 years, they taught you
how to kill the enemy and then they became the enemy, you know.’
He just wouldn’t hardly talk. He just mainly cried.”  Wearing an Army combat uniform, Russell was expressionless
as he sat at a table in a conference room at Lewis-McChord. He 
said he couldn’t recall what happened between the time he stepped
out of the SUV and put the rifle down. He combined past and present
as he talked about the morning of May 11, 2009.  “I feel horrible. I feel like I want to commit suicide,”
he said. “I was hoping there was hope.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net ; 