-- Time Warner’s Profit Declines as TV Ad Growth Softens
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-08-01T20:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/time-warner-s-profit-beats-estimates-as-television-revenue-gains.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , the media company
that owns everything from the Batman franchise to the TBS cable
network, posted a 33 percent drop in second-quarter profit after
declines in magazine sales and CNN’s ratings.  Net income fell to $430 million, or 44 cents a share, from
$638 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit
of 59 cents a share beat by 1 cent the average of  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Time Warner, led by Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Bewkes,
is relying on the cable-networks unit for  70 percent  of its
annual operating income. Revenue from that business rose 4
percent to $3.6 billion in the quarter, with ad sales growth
slowing to 2 percent. The company said on a conference call that
it doesn’t expect TV ad sales to increase in the third quarter.  “Obviously we’re not satisfied with the ratings,” Bewkes
said about  CNN  on the call with analysts. “We’re going to do a
better job holding viewers.”  CNN President Jim Walton announced last week that he plans
to resign at the end of the year after almost a decade leading
the network, saying CNN needs “new thinking.”  Advertising revenue growth at the cable networks were
softer than expected, “largely driven by weakness at CNN,”
whose prime-time ratings fell 39 percent in the quarter,
according to Alexia Quadrani, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst who
recommends buying the shares.  Time Warner shares  rose 1.2 percent to $39.60 in New York
at the close. The stock has climbed 9.6 percent this year.  Refocused Company  Revenue from the publishing division, home of People and
 Sports Illustrated , dropped 9 percent.  Bewkes has pared back businesses and refocused the company
on producing broadcast television hits such as “The Big Bang
Theory” and running premium-cable networks such as  HBO , the
home of original series like “Game of Thrones.”   Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  and AOL Inc. were both spun off in the past three
years. As part of that strategy, Bewkes has promoted a TV
Everywhere approach, which lets viewers watch programming they
already pay for on multiple devices, such as with  HBO Go .  The risk is that Time Warner still relies on third parties
for the bulk of its operating income -- either in the form of
advertising dollars paid by marketers or rights fees paid by
cable operators. That makes it more vulnerable during an
economic slump, according to Todd Juenger, an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co.  Economic Risks  “Advertising spend is sensitive to economic
expectations,” he said in a report last week. Another danger:
The company’s television “networks may find their competitive
positions untenable, resulting in either a loss of viewers,
increased production costs, or both,” he said.  The company also reaffirmed its forecast for the year.
Excluding some items, earnings will grow at “in the low double
digits” in percentage terms from $2.89 a share in 2011.
Analysts are  estimating  $3.20 a share on average. The figures
don’t include costs from writedowns, discontinued operations,
mergers and other expenses.  Total sales fell 4.1 percent to $6.74 billion last quarter.
Analysts had predicted $6.96 billion on average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  