-- IMF Warns Government Debt Holdings Risk Bank Stability in Japan
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-08-01T19:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/imf-warns-government-debt-holdings-risk-bank-stability-in-japan.html
Japanese banks are placing the
financial system at risk by putting too much of their money in
 government bonds , the  International Monetary Fund  said, echoing
comments by Bank of  Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa.  “The financial system’s massive holdings of government
bonds leave it exposed to a spike in yields,” IMF staff wrote
in their Financial System Stability Assessment report released
today in  Washington . Exposure to government debt “constitutes
one of the central macrofinancial risks for the system.”  The report underscores concern at the Japanese central bank
that banks including Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. risk
losing trillions of yen by hoarding near-record amounts of
government bonds. Japan’s benchmark 10-year yields reached a
nine-year low of 0.72 percent last week as global market
volatility prompted investors to flock to the bonds even with a
public debt more than twice the size of the economy.  A 2 percentage-point increase in  benchmark Japanese
government bond yields  would cause valuation losses of about 7.3
trillion yen ($93 billion) on debt held by major banks and 6
trillion yen in losses for regional banks, Shirakawa said in
parliament last week.  “While the stress tests show that an adverse macroeconomic
scenario associated with a 100 basis point market yield shock
would have a manageable impact, these exposures require close
monitoring, enhanced risk management, and contingency
planning,” the IMF’s staff wrote in the report.  Banks accumulating record deposits over loans have been
using their excess cash to buy government bonds. Domestic banks
held 166.2 trillion yen in government bonds at the end of May,
 Bank of Japan (8301)  figures show, almost equivalent to  Italy ’s annual
economic output in dollar terms. Their holdings reached a record
171 trillion yen in March.  Monetary Policy  In a separate staff report released today, the IMF called
on the  Bank of Japan  to ease policy further to beat deflation.
Expanding the central bank’s asset-purchase program would help
spur lending and combat the strengthening yen, the report said.  The staff added that the bank’s other options include
extending the maturity of the government bonds it holds, buying
private assets such as equities and corporate bonds and
clarifying that its inflation goal of 1 percent is not a
ceiling. The Bank of Japan responded that its current policy is
“appropriate,” according to the IMF.  The yen is “moderately overvalued,” and while the
government should leave the markets to set the  exchange rate ,
interventions to smooth volatility and disorderly moves could be
used, the staff wrote. Japanese authorities said the
overvaluation was “substantial” rather than “moderate,” the
report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net . 