-- IMF Chief Lagarde Praises Greece, Spain for Efforts
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-08-01T19:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/imf-chief-lagarde-praises-greece-spain-for-efforts.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  defended the lender’s role in  Greece 
and said the nation has made progress even as it needs to deepen
structural changes to its economy.  “When I look back to the initial program and the
achievements of the  Greek economy  and the Greek population, it’s
impressive,” Lagarde told reporters in  Washington  today.
“There is still a lot that the country can do.”  Greece’s budget deficit will narrow to 7 percent of gross
domestic product this year and 2.7 percent next year, the
Washington-based IMF said in a July 16 report. The IMF had
forecast in April that Greece’s deficit will be 7.2 percent this
year and 4.6 percent in 2013.  Lagarde also praised  Spain , saying, “When we look at what
Spain has already done, and is committing to do, there’s not
much more that we would be asking from Spain if it was in a
program with the IMF.”  Spain sought a European bailout for its banks in June of as
much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) as the government
lacked the financing to shore up its lenders. Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  is fighting to keep enough access to markets to
fund the deficit, and has called for the  European Central Bank 
to buy Spanish bonds and for European Union nations to take
steps to bring down borrowing costs.  Spanish Government  The Spanish government will introduce debt ceilings for the
17 semi-autonomous regions, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro
said yesterday after a meeting with the regions’ finance chiefs.  Lagarde said all policy makers should be in “crisis-
management mode,” and she hopes the region’s leaders will
“indicate what vision the Europeans have for their euro zone.
Not for the next three weeks, but for the next years, so that
bondholders who buy a 10-year bond from Spain or  Italy  know
exactly what Spain and Italy will be in 10 years’ time.”  On the U.S., Lagarde said that “there are serious
questions concerning the U.S. economic future, particularly as a
result of the potential fiscal cliff.”  She was referring to the more than $600 billion in higher
taxes and reductions in spending that will take effect at year-
end unless Congress acts. The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget
Office  has said the economy would shrink by 1.3 percent in the
first half of next year if the higher tax rates and automatic
cuts are kept in place.  Bank Losses  Greece has been told to overhaul its banks after lenders
sustained losses on their holdings of Greek  government bonds  in
the country’s debt swap, the biggest sovereign restructuring in
history. The country obtained a 130 billion-euro ($160 billion)
bailout from the EU and International Monetary Fund in March,
which earmarked 50 billion euros for recapitalizing the banks.  “The IMF never leaves the negotiation table,” Lagarde
said when asked about the lender’s role in Greece. “Will the
IMF lose its credibility in the process? I will do everything I
can to avoid that.”  Lagarde also reiterated the IMF’s view that “more can be
done” on monetary policy by the ECB. She noted that the central
bank, which holds a policy meeting tomorrow, has already acted,
including cutting the benchmark  interest rate  to a record low of
0.75 percent on July 5 and taking the rate on overnight deposits
to zero to help spur growth in the region.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said July 26 that “within our
mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it takes to preserve
the euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  