-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Drop on Goldman Forecast Cut
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-08-01T11:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-drop-on-goldman-forecast-cut.html
Most Indian stocks climbed for the
fourth day as investors awaited monetary policy decisions by the
U.S. Federal Reserve and  European Central Bank .  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.1 percent
to 17,257.38 at the close, as 16 stocks climbed and 14 fell on
the gauge. Drugmaker  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA)  advanced the most in more than
eight months after its profit exceeded estimates.  State Bank of
India Ltd.  and  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC)  increased more
than 1 percent each.  The U.S. Federal Reserve will probably forgo announcing a
third round of large-scale asset purchases and is more likely to
wait until September to unveil plans to buy debt, economists
said before the two-day monetary policy meeting that concludes
today. The European Central Bank will announce a decision
tomorrow after ECB President  Mario Draghi  vowed last week to do
whatever it takes to preserve the euro.  “The ECB having raised the expectations got to come up
with something substantive this week and it would be enough to
encourage the risk-on trade for a while,”  Geoff Lewis , head of
investment services at JPMorgan Asset Management in Hong Kong,
told Bloomberg UTV today. “The ECB will do its best to calm the
financial markets.”  The Sensex has increased 12 percent this year, helped by
record purchases by overseas  investors . India’s economy will
grow 5.7 percent in the year to March 31, less than a previous
forecast of 6.6 percent,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  wrote in a
report today, citing the outlook for weaker farm output from
deficient monsoon rains.  ‘Sticky Funds’  Foreign funds bought a net $2 billion of stocks in July,
taking their investment this year in Indian equities to $11.3
billion, data from the regulator show. That’s a record for the
period and the most in Asia in 2012.  “Foreign institutional investors are sticking with  India 
as the long-term growth prospects are still very attractive,
especially when compared with developed markets,” Lewis said.
“A lot of bad news is being discounted. We will see a gradual
build up of flows back into India and this will actually take
some pressure off the rupee, and the current account deficit
will prove finance-able.”  India’s rupee strengthened, snapping a two-day decline, on
speculation global policy makers are preparing to take measures
aimed at arresting a global slowdown. Foreign investors raised
holdings of rupee-denominated debt by $610 million last month
through July 30, exchange data show.  ‘Sentiment Hit’  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao left the
benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at 8 percent for a second
meeting yesterday. The RBI raised its  inflation  forecast to 7
percent as a drop in the rupee, infrastructure bottlenecks and
higher food costs stoke price pressures, a trend that may be
worsened by the impact of the monsoon.  “The biggest surprise has been the weak monsoon,” Goldman
analysts led by  Tushar Poddar  wrote in the report. “This will
likely exacerbate the hit to business sentiment, which has
already worsened more and quicker than we expected largely due
to the lack of significant policy reforms.”  Singh is grappling with a  budget deficit  and discord in the
ruling coalition that has set back efforts to turn around a
slowdown in investment. Two power-grid collapses in 36 hours
that affected a record 600 million have dented his credibility,
already strained as the economy grows at the slowest pace in a
decade and his government struggles through 18 months of policy
reversals and corruption allegations.  Investor Confidence  Singh vowed last month to revive investor confidence after
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings warned they may strip the
country of its investment-grade credit rating.  Palaniappan Chidambaram was named finance minister for the
third time yesterday, taking over from Singh, who assumed the
post temporarily after  Pranab Mukherjee  resigned to run for the
country’s presidency.  India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against
losses in the S&P CNX Nifty Index, surged 2.8 percent to 16.45.
The Nifty added 0.2 percent to 5,240.50. The BSE-200 Index rose
0.4 percent. Combined volume on India’s top two bourses was 809
million shares yesterday, 10 percent less than the 12-month
daily average of 899 million.  Cipla soared 5 percent to 354 rupees, the most since Nov.
15. First-quarter profit rose 58 percent to 4.01 billion rupees
($72 million). The median of 23 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was a 3.1 billion-rupee profit.  Sun Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , the most valuable drugmaker, added 1 percent to
659.85 rupees.  Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD)  climbed 1.3 percent
to 1,635.95 rupees.  State Bank  added 1.4 percent to 2,033.4 rupees. Housing
Development gained 1.3 percent to 699.85 rupees.  Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the biggest power-equipment maker, surged 2.2
percent to 220.4 rupees.  Tata Consultancy Services, the largest software exporter,
fell 1.5 percent to 1,224.65 rupees.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO)  declined 0.4
percent to 2,218.55 rupees.  Overseas investors bought a net 9.28 billion rupees ($166
million) of stocks yesterday, according to the regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  