-- India’s Cash-Starved Utilities Helped Crash Grid, Regulator Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-01T15:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/india-s-cash-starved-utilities-helped-crash-grid-regulator-says.html
India ’s cash-starved electric
utilities, unwilling to buy power, are exceeding their
allotments from the nation’s grid, which helped trigger the
world’s biggest blackout, India’s chief electric regulator said.  The “financial position is not really sound, so they don’t
have enough money to buy electricity,” Pramod Deo, chairman of
India’s Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, said in an
interview today during a conference in  Washington . “So first
thing is that you withdraw and hope that nothing will happen.”  Utilities will have to raise rates in order to buy
sufficient power, he said. “Tariffs have to increase, and
politically that’s very sensitive,” he said.  Deo said power was “more or less” restored in all areas
after a blackout yesterday left more than 640 million Indians --
about 9 percent of the world’s population -- without power. The
blackout forced homes and businesses to switch to back-up
supplies, halted trains and public transport, trapped miners and
caused traffic jams.  States usually arrange to buy electricity a day in advance,
said Jayant Deo, managing director of Indian Energy Exchange
Ltd., a market for buying and selling power. Some draw more
power than was arranged in advance, resulting in penalties. When
a buyer exceeds the contract, the electric flow on the grid
drops, causing the system to collapse and power plants to shut
down.  Committee Review  Deo said that while the blackout will be examined by a
three-member committee, it appears a failure of a transmission
line and very humid weather played a role.  R.N. Nayak, chairman of the state-run  power grid , which
carries half of the electricity India generates, said it was
excessive draw downs by states in north India that caused the
grid to collapse.  Ten northern Indian power transmission companies and eight
electricity dispatch centers had been censured for exceeding
their contracted electric withdrawals from Jan. 1 to March 25.  On July 10, the states of  Uttar Pradesh , Rajasthan, Punjab
and Haryana were ordered by the national Planning Commission,
citing safety concerns, to cease overdrawals from the grid. As
of July 30, the withdrawals were continuing, the commission
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  