-- Indonesia’s July Inflation Accelerates on Higher Food Prices
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-08-01T07:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/indonesia-s-july-inflation-accelerates-on-higher-food-prices-1-.html
Indonesia ’s inflation quickened for a
second month in July, limiting scope for the central bank to
join its neighbors in lowering  interest rates  even as declining
exports threaten growth.  Consumer prices  rose 4.56 percent from a year earlier,
after climbing 4.53 percent in June, the statistics bureau said
in Jakarta today. The  median forecast  of 23 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 4.59 percent gain. Inflation was
mainly held up by increasing food costs, the bureau said.  Bank Indonesia has held off from adding to a February rate
cut, seeking to support a currency that has fallen about 4
percent in 2012. Policy makers from  China  to the  Philippines 
lowered rates last month, a move Governor Darmin Nasution may
avoid amid the risk of price pressures as the world’s largest
Muslim population observes the fasting period of Ramadan and the
Eid al-Fitr festival that marks its end.  “Inflation has started to creep higher, with inflation now
in the upper half” of the central bank’s target range, said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America Corp.
“We expect Bank Indonesia to hold the policy rate” at the Aug. 9
meeting, he said.  The rupiah fell 0.3 percent to 9,470 per dollar as of 2:35
p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled
by Bloomberg.  Record-Low Rates  Bank Indonesia  held its  benchmark reference rate  at a
record-low 5.75 percent last month. The central bank said at its
July 12 meeting the crisis in  Europe  and growing imports have
put pressure on the rupiah, adding it will develop foreign-
exchange monetary instruments to support stabilization of the
currency to ensure it reflects fundamentals and is in line with
regional counterparts.  Consumer prices rose 0.7 percent last month from June,
today’s report showed. The core inflation rate was 4.28 percent,
compared with a previously reported 4.15 percent pace in June.  Exports in June fell 16.4 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau said. Imports rose 10.7 percent. Indonesia’s
 trade deficit  in June was $1.32 billion, the widest in the past
five years, according to the statistics bureau.  “The rapidly rising deficit is symptomatic of an economy
growing beyond its productive potential,” said Robert Prior- Wandesforde, director of Asian economics at Credit Suisse Group
AG in  Singapore . “Indonesia’s rapidly deteriorating external
account doesn’t bode well for the rupiah and our foreign
exchange analysts expect it to continue underperforming other
Asian currencies in the months ahead.”  The statistics bureau will conduct a survey to assess the
impact of Europe’s crisis on Indonesian exports, Chairman
Suryamin said, without providing details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  