-- Internal-Combustion Engine to Enjoy Long Life, U.S. Study Finds
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-08-01T13:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/internal-combustion-engine-to-enjoy-long-life-u-s-study-finds.html
The internal-combustion engine,
propelling U.S. automobiles since before the Model T Ford, will
remain the dominant  power source  for cars until at least 2050,
according to a study by a panel advising the Energy Department.  The National Petroleum Council said high costs and
technology hurdles will impede any substitute technologies such
as batteries and hydrogen fuel cells, which have been promoted
by presidents  Barack Obama  and  George W. Bush .  The petroleum council, which includes representatives from
industry, government and universities, said today U.S. policies
should be “technology neutral” and depend on “market
dynamics” to pick winners and losers.  “It’s too soon to choose” which technology holds the most
promise, said Linda Capuano, a co-author of the report and vice
president for technology at  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  in Houston.  Energy Secretary Steven Chu asked the council in 2009 to
study how advancement of “alternative-fuel vehicle systems”
can improve  fuel efficiency , helping to lower greenhouse-gas
emissions and reduce the need for oil imports. Chu was briefed
on the report by the council at an event in Washington today.  The internal-combustion engine will remain the “dominant
propulsion system for decades to come,” said Bill Reinert, a
co-author of the report and a  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  executive.  Combining traditional engines with electric batteries in
plug-in hybrids and reducing the weight of cars and trucks
promise to increase per-gallon mileage averages, the report
states.  Efficiency Gains  Vehicle efficiency gains could be as much as 90 percent
even with the internal-combustion engine as the dominant
technology, the council said.  It will take some kind of “disruptive innovation” to
knock the internal-combustion engine from its perch, the report
states.  Obama has sought to advance battery development through
U.S. grants, tax breaks and loan guarantees to companies
including Fisker Automotive Inc. and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  He also
set a goal of one million electric vehicles on the road by 2015.  General Motor Co. (GM) ’s Chevrolet plug-in hybrid Volt more than
tripled sales this year to 8,817 as of June 30, while sales of
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s all-electric Leaf slid from a year earlier.  Vehicles fueled with compressed natural gas -- not electric
batteries -- will emerge as the biggest competitor to the
combustion engine if natural-gas prices remain low, the report
found. Hydraulic fracturing in shale rock formations has boosted
supplies and pushed prices for the fuel to their lowest level in
a decade.  Gas Emissions  Chu also asked the council to examine the likelihood the
U.S. could cut in half greenhouse-gas emissions from cars and
trucks by 2050.  S. Shariq Yosufzai,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  vice president for global
downstream and among the authors of the report, said greater use
of biofuels, natural gas and electric batteries will lead to
significant per-mile carbon-emission reductions.  Those gains may be offset with an increase in total miles
driven as forecast by the Energy Information Administration,
which tracks and analyzes energy data for the U.S.  There isn’t a clear path to meeting the 50 percent
greenhouse-gas reduction target, Yosufzai said.  In 2010, transportation accounted for a third of U.S.
greenhouse-gas emissions.  Of that, about 80 percent comes from cars and trucks on the
road, with boats, railroads and airplanes accounting for the
remainder, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  