-- Intesa Second-Quarter Net May Fall on Bad Loans, Lower Revenue
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2012-08-01T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/intesa-second-quarter-net-may-fall-on-bad-loans-lower-revenue.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-
biggest bank, may say second-quarter  profit  fell as it set aside
more money for bad loans and earned less from trading and fees.  Net income  probably declined to 271 million euros ($333
million) from 741 million euros a year earlier, according to the
 average estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
estimates ranged from 217 million euros to 346 million euros,
and include a gain of about 105 million euros from the sale of
its stake in London Stock Exchange Group Plc.  Results “will continue to show weak fundamentals and the
impact of sovereign uncertainty,” Francesca Tondi an analyst at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in a July 20 report. The brokerage expects
that the quality of assets will continue to deteriorate, while
“capital is not a major concern.”  Intesa, the only Italian lender among the top five that
hasn’t needed additional capital to comply with European Banking
Authority requirements, is eliminating jobs and reducing costs
to strengthen finances as part of a five-year business plan.
Chief Executive Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani is reviewing
the plan because Italy’s third recession in a decade is
affecting  credit quality  and profitability.  Revenue may decline to less than 4 billion euros in the
quarter from 4.5 billion euros a year earlier, while loan loss
provisions may increase 34 percent in the quarter to 1.1 billion
euros, according to the analysts.  The Milan-based bank is scheduled to publish earnings on
Aug. 3 and hold a conference call at 2 p.m. the same day. The
following is a table of the analysts’ estimates and the year-
earlier results. The figures are in millions of euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  