-- Inter Milan Said to Sell 15% Stake to China Railway
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-02T17:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/inter-said-close-to-stake-sale-to-china-rail-construction.html
China Railway Construction Corp. (1186) 
agreed to buy a 15 percent stake in  Inter Milan  from the Moratti
family, valuing the Italian  soccer club  at 500 million euros
($611 million), according to two people familiar with the talks.  The transaction would include debt from the 18-time Italian
champion, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the negotiations are private. Hong Kong-based QSL Sports Ltd.
will be part of the investment group, the people said.  China Railway will also work with the soccer team’s new
partners to build a new stadium, Inter Milan said, as Chinese
builders seek more contracts overseas amid slowing growth at
home. Inter President Massimo Moratti has spent several months
seeking new investors to bolster the club’s finances, newspapers
including  Corriere della Sera  have reported.  China Railway said the company and its units aren’t
included in the investment group and they aren’t in talks on a
stake purchase, according to a statement filed to the  Shanghai
Stock Exchange  today. An Inter official in Milan declined to
identify members of the investment group.  The builder’s investment “is completely out of the blue,”
said Shanghai-based  Masterlink Securities Corp. (2856)  analyst  James Chung . “It has nothing to do with their core business and I
have no idea why they’ve done this.”  Investor Group  The construction company, which has no investments in
Chinese sports teams, has worked on rail projects overseas,
including in the Middle East, he said.  China Railway Construction Corp. is the name of both a
listed company and its state-controlled parent. The  unit , the
world’s second-biggest listed builder, dropped 3.5 percent, the
most since July 23, to HK$6.70 in Hong Kong trading.  Inter Milan said in a  statement  on its website late
yesterday that it had sold a stake to an unidentified Chinese
investor group, which will become its second-largest
shareholder. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Inter plans to build a new stadium, which it expects to be
completed by 2017, in the Italian financial capital, according
to its statement. The team currently shares the San Siro stadium
with city rival AC Milan, which is owned by the family of former
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi .  Champions League  Inter won Europe’s  Champions League , Italy’s Serie A and
the Italian Cup two years ago. It failed to qualify for the
elite continental club competition this season and instead is
playing in the second-tier Europa League, where it faces Hajduk
Split of Croatia in the third qualifying round starting today.
The team’s main sponsor is tiremaker Pirelli & C. SpA.  The new stadium will be 2.5 kilometers (1.5 miles) from San
Siro on the site of the 2016 Milan Expo, and will seat 60,000
people, one of the people said. It has municipal planning
approval, and will be open in time for the Expo, the person
said. It won’t be shared with AC Milan, the person said.  Inter said in its statement that it would work with a unit
of China Railway Construction on selecting potential locations
for the stadium, defining the project team and on seeking
approvals in the months ahead.  Chinese builders have begun to push overseas because of
slower growth at home and after the government cut spending on
new railways last year following a crash.  China Communications
Construction Co. (1800) , the nation’s No. 2 builder by market value,
and machinery-maker Sany Group in April signed a  deal  to build a
stadium in Qatar for the 2022 soccer  World Cup .  Growth Cooled  China is now boosting spending on railways after economic
growth cooled to the slowest pace in three years. The Ministry
of Railways plans to spend 470 billion  yuan  ($74 billion) on
railroads and bridges this year, according to a bond prospectus
issued on July 30. That is higher than the 461 billion in
spending for last year.  The Morattis, who also own  Saras SpA (SRS) , the biggest refiner
in the Mediterranean region, were advised on the deal by Four
Partners Advisory SIM SpA and Lazard Ltd. and by law firm  Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP , according to the statement.  Gallipos AG and UBS AG worked as financial advisers for the
Chinese side, with Studio Legale Associato Negri-Clementi acting
as legal advisers, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  