-- Intercontinental Exchange Profit Rises on Energy Trading
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-08-01T15:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/intercontinental-exchange-profit-rises-on-energy-trading-1-.html
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , the
second-largest U.S. futures market, reported second-quarter
profit rose 18 percent as trading records in crude oil and
heating oil boosted revenue.  Net income climbed to $143.2 million, or $1.95 a share,
from $121.4 million, or $1.64, a year earlier, the Atlanta-based
company said in a statement. That exceeded analyst estimates of
$1.93 per share, according to a  survey  conducted by Bloomberg.  Trading at the company’s ICE Futures Europe exchange set a
second-quarter record and helped volume jump 11 percent across
all three of its exchanges for the three months ended in June.
Monthly volume records were set during the quarter in its Brent
oil contract, the grade of crude that sets prices outside the
U.S., and in heating oil, according to the company.  The futures industry has suffered two high-profile breaches
of investor confidence within the last year, as the bankruptcies
of MF Global Holdings Ltd. and Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
led to the loss of about $1.8 billion in customer money held at
the firms.  Jeff Sprecher, Intercontinental’s chief executive officer,
said the lost customer trust could help his company as investors
shift to clearinghouses and exchanges to manage risks rather
than futures brokerages.  ‘Best Interest’  “We’ll be able to provide more services and charge for
them,” he said on a conference call with analysts. “This trend
is in our company’s best interest.”  Intercontinental competitor CME Group Inc. last month
proposed a plan to house all excess customer funds at
clearinghouses or other depositories.  Terrence Duffy , CME
Group’s executive chairman, testified to Congress that the plan
“will be controversial and perhaps have disruptive
consequences.”  Sprecher said today that it’s ultimately up to investors to
choose safe places to keep their money.  “There will be protections in the marketplace, but there
won’t be an implicit guarantee,” he said.  Daily commissions for energy over-the-counter transactions
rose 3 percent to $1.58 million in the quarter, compared with
the year-earlier period, the company said last month. Trading at
the company’s U.S. exchange rose 6 percent while at its Canadian
exchange 10.5 percent more contracts changed hands than in the
similar period a year ago, the company said July 3.  Cash Level  Revenue rose to $351 million in the quarter from $325
million.  The company reported $1.1 billion  in cash and cash
equivalents  as of June 30. That’s up from $968.4 million at the
end of the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Scott Hill, chief financial officer, declined to
specify any plans on how the company will use that cash when
asked on the conference call.  “We constantly look at the best way to deploy our
capital,” he said. The company could issue a dividend, though
simply because it can do that doesn’t mean it will, he said.  “It’s a lot of cash,” Rich Repetto, an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP, said on the conference call.  Intercontinental  fell  2.5 percent to $128.77 as of 10:34
a.m. in  New York . Through yesterday, the shares have  advanced 
6.4 percent in the past year.  CME Group (CME) , the world’s largest futures market, said last
week that its second-quarter profit fell 17 percent as  interest
rates  near zero reduced trading in the company’s biggest
contract. Excluding some expenses, CME Group earned 89 cents per
share, exceeding the average estimate of 83 cents in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts. Daily futures and options volume in the
quarter dropped 9 percent to average 12.4 million contracts, the
company said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  