-- Iran Denies Nuclear Plants Hit by Virus Playing AC/DC
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i
-- 2012-08-01T14:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/iran-denies-nuclear-plants-hit-by-virus-playing-ac-dc.html
Iran  denied that its nuclear
facilities suffered a cyber attack that shut down computers and
played music from the rock band AC/DC, the state-run  Iranian
Students News Agency  reported, citing the head of Iran’s Atomic
Energy Organization, Fereidoun Abbasi.  Reports of the cyber attack are “incorrect,” Abbasi told
local reporters on the sidelines of a government meeting,
without elaborating, according to the Tehran-based  news agency .  A new worm targeted  Iran’s nuclear program , closing down
the “automation network” at the Natanz and Fordo facilities,
the F-Secure Security Labs website said this month, citing an e-
mail it said was sent by a scientist inside Iran’s Atomic Energy
Organization.  The virus also prompted several computers at the sites to
play the song “Thunderstruck” by AC/DC at full volume in the
middle of the night, according to the e-mail, part of which is
published in English on the website.  F-Secure Security Labs, which is linked to  F-Secure Oyj (FSC1V) ,
the Finnish maker of security and cloud software, said that
while it was unable to verify the details of the attack
described, it confirmed that the scientist who reported them was
sending and receiving the e-mails from within Iran’s Atomic
Energy Organization.  Iran’s nuclear and oil facilities have been subject to a
succession of cyber attacks that the Foreign Ministry said in
May were launched by hostile governments as part of a broader
“soft war.”  Iran accuses the U.S. and  Israel  of trying to sabotage its
technological progress. Both countries say Iran’s nuclear
activities may have a military intent, an allegation that Iran
denies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net 
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran via Dubai at  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  