-- Iran Completes Cleanup of Suspect Nuclear Site, Group Says
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-08-01T17:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/iran-completes-cleanup-of-suspect-nuclear-site-group-says.html
Satellite images show that Iran has
completed cleanup activity at a suspected nuclear weapons-
related site, a Washington-based research group said today.  The Parchin military complex attracted international
attention early this year when the  United Nations ’ nuclear
watchdog, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna,
sought to inspect the site because of suspected undeclared
nuclear activities.  The Institute for Science and International Security, a
Washington-based non-profit research group, reported in May that
satellite images taken in April indicated that Iran had begun
substantial earth removal and other activities at the site to
eliminate evidence of nuclear weapons work.  “Over the subsequent four months there was considerable
activity with the razing of two buildings within the site,
notable earth removal and displacement, the likely cleanup of
the inside of the suspect building and possibly its exterior
surfaces, the removal of the security perimeter, and the removal
of all roadways,” according to the report today by  David Albright , president of the non-profit research group, and Robert
Avagyan.  “The degree of the site’s modification and the fact that
this apparent cleanup work started soon after the IAEA’s request
for access cast further doubt on Iran’s claims that its nuclear
program does not or has never had any military aspects,” they
wrote.  The report comes as U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said today in  Israel  that all possible means must be tried
before a military strike against Iran and that the U.S. is
prepared to use force to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear
weapon.  ‘Credible’ Evidence  In November, the IAEA reported that it had “credible”
evidence that Iran built a container inside of which scientists
studied blast patterns useful for triggering a nuclear weapon.  After the IAEA sought permission to send inspectors to the
site,  Iran  in early June denied a visit to the military base 18
miles (30 kilometers) southwest of Tehran.  As recently as June 21, IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano
said access to Parchin remained a “matter of priority” for
inspectors.  Iran has said its nuclear program is peaceful and charged
that the allegations are based on fabricated intelligence
provided to IAEA inspectors by Western nations.  Albright and Avagyan wrote that the IAEA may not be able to
make further progress at the site, and the issue should be sent
to the UN Security Council to impose additional sanctions on
Iran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  