-- Iran Oil Shipping to Resume as Insurers Step In: Corporate India
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-08-02T10:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/iran-oil-shipping-to-resume-as-insurers-step-in-corporate-india.html
India, the third-biggest buyer of
Iranian oil, will offer state-backed insurance to tankers,
helping the nation’s biggest sea carrier to resume cargoes from
the Persian Gulf nation hit by international trade sanctions.  Shipping Corp. of India  will soon start services to  Iran  as
Indian insurers have agreed to give as much as $100 million of
cover per voyage, Chairman Sabyasachi Hajara said without
specifying a timeframe. Prior to the sanctions, European
companies provided unlimited protection against risks including
oil spills and collisions, he said.  The resumption of services will help  Mangalore Refinery &
Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) , India’s biggest buyer of Iranian crude, and
other state processors secure supplies after European Union
measures disrupted trade. The sanctions, prompted by Iran’s
nuclear plans, also affect shipments to  China ,  Japan  and  South
Korea  as 95 percent of  oil tankers  are insured by the 13 members
of London-based International Group of P&I Clubs.  “As far as India is concerned, we are bothered about our
sovereign requirements,” Hajara said in a July 31 interview at
the company’s Mumbai headquarters. “We took a pragmatic view.”  Mangalore Refinery halted purchases from Iran after the
sanctions made it impossible to get ships to carry the crude,
Managing Director P.P. Upadhya said last week. That prompted the
company to buy more of its requirements from the  spot market 
where prices are typically higher.  Iran was the fourth-biggest supplier of crude to the South
Asian nation in the year ended in March, according to the
Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India. The
country purchased about 18 million tons of Iranian oil, the New
Delhi-based lobby group said on May 8.  ‘No Option’  “Being a sovereign entity, Shipping Corp. has to follow
certain directions in the larger interest of the nation,” said
Chetan Kapoor, a Mumbai-based analyst with IDBI Capital Market
Services Ltd. “They don’t have much of an option.”  The EU ban on the purchase and insurance of Iranian oil
targets the nation’s disputed nuclear program that the U.S. and
its allies say is a cover for developing atomic weapons. Iran
has said the program is for civilian energy and medical
research.  U.S.-led sanctions against Iran are costing OPEC’s third-
largest producer $133 million a day in lost sales. Shipments
from Iran have plunged by 1.2 million barrels a day, or 52
percent, since the sanctions banning the purchase, transport,
financing and insuring of the nation’s crude began July 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In June, Japan’s parliament passed a bill to provide $7.6
billion of sovereign insurance to tanker owners that carry
Iranian oil. Importers in China and South Korea are also seeking
alternative covers or have relied on Iran’s fleet after
 International Group  members, who follow EU law, stopped covering
shipments.  India Exempted  Indian refiners will buy 11 percent less crude from Iran
this year, junior oil minister R.P.N. Singh said in May, after
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged the country to cut
purchases. A month later, the U.S. exempted India from its
financial sanctions on oil imports from the Islamic Republic.  Indian government officials including Foreign Secretary
Ranjan Mathai and Oil Minister Jaipal Reddy have said the
country will follow sanctions imposed only by the  United Nations 
and isn’t bound by the U.S. and EU measures against Iran.  The global sanctions have also affected Shipping Corp. The
company has decided to end its joint-venture with the Islamic
Republic of Iran Shipping Lines, Hajara said July 25. Assets of
the venture will be split between the two partners, he said.  Assets Frozen  IRISL’s assets are blocked and frozen in the U.S. The
Indian company has 49 percent in the three-decade-old venture,
Irano Hind Shipping Co., which operates six vessels, according
to the Iranian shipping line’s  website .  Bulk carriers such as tankers contributed to as much as 67
percent of  Shipping Corp. (SCI) ’s 38 billion-rupee ($684 million)
sales in the year ended in March, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It posted a loss of 4.3 billion rupees in the period,
its first annual  deficit  in at least two decades, because of
higher fuel prices and finance costs.  Shipping Corp. will stick to its orders for 25 ships that
are due for delivery by 2014, Hajara said in the interview. The
company, 64 percent owned by Indian government, had 75 ships in
its fleet as of March.  The carrier was little changed at 55.65 rupees at close of
trading in Mumbai today. The  stock  has risen 16 percent this
year, after plunging 63 percent in 2011.  Reinsurance Blocked  Hajara said insurers including  United India Insurance Co. 
and General Insurance Corp. of  India  are offering a lower cover
for Iranian shipments compared with their European counterparts
because the sanctions blocked their access to reinsurance.  The Indian insurers are offering $50 million of hull and
machinery cover and $50 million of protection and indemnity per
voyage, he said. Two calls each to the chairman’s office of
United India and General Insurance in Chennai and Mumbai weren’t
answered today.  Shipping Corp. is going ahead with the plan as its studies
have shown that carriers in the Iran-India route haven’t sought
any claims from insurance companies in the past 10 years, he
said. Still, potential liabilities may run into “billions of
dollars,” Hajara said.  IDBI Capital’s Kapoor said the Indian government may bail
out Shipping Corp. should the company face any claims stemming
from accidents.  “As a sovereign entity, if ever they face any liquidity
issue, they are likely to be covered by the government,” he
said. “I don’t see the size of the cover as a worry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  