-- Iran Loses $133 Million a Day on Embargo, Buoying Obama
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-08-02T16:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/iran-loses-133-million-a-day-from-sanctions-as-oil-buoys-obama.html
U.S.-led sanctions against  Iran  are
costing OPEC’s third-largest producer $133 million a day in lost
sales without raising global crude prices, handing President
 Barack Obama  an election-year foreign-policy victory.  Shipments from Iran have  plunged  by 1.2 million barrels a
day, or 52 percent, since the sanctions banning the purchase,
transport, financing and insuring of Iranian crude began July 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Annualized, that would
cost President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s country about $48 billion
in revenue, equivalent to 10 percent of its economy.  While Iran’s threats to disrupt the flow of oil through the
Persian Gulf sent crude to a three-year high in March, increased
production from Saudi Arabia, a U.S. output boom and the slowing
global economy have left prices 1 percent lower in 2012. That’s
helping Obama avoid steeper domestic fuel costs before the
November presidential election. Iran has to contend with a
weakening currency and rising unemployment.  “It’s been an unqualified success,”  Mike Wittner , head of
oil-market research for the Americas at Societe Generale SA,
said in a telephone interview from  New York  on July 25. “There
were a lot of concerns sanctions could backfire by causing an
oil-price spike, but in the end the U.S. and Europeans got their
cake and they ate it too, because volumes are down and prices
are down.”  Concern Drops  Voter concern about fuel costs has plunged since Republican
 Mitt Romney , Obama’s presumptive challenger, called for firing
top officials he blamed for rising gasoline prices in a March 18
interview on “Fox News Sunday.” In a monthly Gallup poll on
the most important issues facing the U.S., 1 percent of
respondents cited fuel or oil prices in questioning July 9-12,
compared with 8 percent in an April 9-12 survey.  Regular unleaded gasoline  at the pump, averaged across
America, fell 10 percent to $3.534 a gallon on Aug. 1 from the
2012 high of $3.936 reached on April 4, according to data from
Heathrow, Florida-based AAA, the largest U.S. motoring group.  Brent oil has dropped 3.8 percent to $106.34 a barrel since
Jan. 23, when European Union ministers approved a ban on the
purchase and insurance of Iranian oil. The U.S. is paying 6.2
percent less than a year ago for imported crude as domestic
fields produce the most in 13 years, driving  stockpiles  to all-
time highs, Energy Department data show.  Hormuz Passage  Crude futures in London rose as high as $128.40 on March 1,
an advance of 20 percent for the year, after Iranian officials
threatened to order the closing of the  Strait of Hormuz . The
Gulf waterway, 21 miles wide (34 kilometers) at its narrowest,
is a conduit for 20 percent of the world’s traded oil, according
to the Washington-based  Energy Information Administration .  Prices retreated as Saudi Arabia boosted output. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ biggest producer
is pumping more than 10 million barrels a day, the most in three
decades and 22 percent more than at the end of 2010, according
to the  International Energy Agency . The Paris-based adviser to
the world’s biggest industrialized economies cut its forecast
for global oil use four times this year, to 89.9 million barrels
a day.  Iran is exporting 1.1 million barrels a day of oil,
according to the median estimate of 10 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg, down from an average of 2.3 million in 2011. The lost
sales are valued at $133 million a day, based on the 2012
average price of $110.60 a barrel for Iran Heavy crude in  Asia ,
according to Bloomberg data.  Struggling Economy  Daily output fell 9.5 percent in July to 2.86 million
barrels, the lowest level since February 1990, a Bloomberg
survey showed last month. Iran dropped to third among OPEC’s
biggest producers, after holding the No. 2 spot since May 2000.  Prices of meat, rice and bread have spiraled in Iran as the
rial lost a third of its value against the dollar on the open
market since November. Inflation accelerated to 22.4 percent in
the 12 months through June 20, according to the central bank.
Unemployment reached 13.5 percent in March, the Shargh newspaper
reported, citing figures from the national statistics bureau.
The jobless rate was 11.9 percent in 2010, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Economic growth will slow this year to 0.4 percent, from 2
percent in 2011, the IMF said July 16. Gross domestic product is
expected to accelerate to 1.3 percent in 2013, with unemployment
set to rise over the two next years, according to IMF forecasts.  The international sanctions are “the harshest ever imposed
on a country,” Ahmadinejad said on July 3. Oil accounts for
half of Iran’s government revenue, according to the EIA.  Cutting Access  U.S. and EU sanctions have a global reach, thwarting
financial transactions with Iran’s state entities and blocking
insurance for oil shipments to Asia, the biggest market for
Iranian crude. A U.S. law that took effect June 28 threatens to
cut access to dollars for any foreign bank settling oil trades
with Iran.  China ,  Japan ,  India  and 17 other countries received
renewable 180-day waivers for reducing imports.  Obama announced an executive order on July 31 extending
sanctions to buying Iranian petrochemical products, providing
material support to the National Iranian Oil Co. or Central Bank
of Iran, and acquiring U.S. bank notes or precious metals by
Iran’s government. The Treasury Department also said the Bank of
Kunlun in China and Iraq’s  Elaf Islamic Bank (BELF)  helped Iranian
firms conduct transactions worth millions of dollars and blocked
the offenders from the U.S. financial system.  Congress is set to give final approval to legislation aimed
at preventing Iran from repatriating oil revenue, with measures
against everything from conducting oil-for-gold swaps with the
country to helping it mine uranium.  1979 Origins  The U.S. has limited dealings with Iran since 1979, when
militants took 52 hostages at the American embassy in Tehran.
The  United Nations  levied four sets of sanctions against Iran
starting in 2006. None had the teeth to curb sales, and in 2007
the country’s crude exports rose to an 11-year high of 2.6
million barrels a day, according to Energy Department estimates.  Restrictions on supplying equipment and technology have
stymied plans to modernize refineries and develop the world’s
second-largest natural-gas reserves. Iran lacks the expertise to
build the liquefaction plants needed to boost gas exports and
prolonged sanctions may hurt its ability to maintain and expand
oil production, according to Robin Mills, head of consulting at
Dubai-based Manaar Energy Consulting and Project Management and
a former Iran specialist at  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Shipping Impact  The EU ban prevents most tankers from sailing to the
country because the global marine-insurance industry is
concentrated in London. All but 5 percent of the world’s fleet
is insured by members of the London-based  International Group  of
P&I Clubs, and the Islamic republic doesn’t have enough ships of
its own to compensate, according to Dahlman Rose & Co., a New
York investment bank.  China, Iran’s biggest customer and an opponent of
sanctions,  imported  more crude from the Persian Gulf producer in
June than its monthly average for 2011. Since the July embargo,
Iranian tankers able to carry at least 20 million barrels have
signaled for the Asian nation, ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The world’s second-largest oil consumer hasn’t
sent any of its own ships since July 1, and the government in
Beijing hasn’t said if it will insure cargoes.  “The future of Iran’s oil exports hinges on whether China
is going to use its own ships,” said Nigel Prentis, the London-
based head of research at HSBC Shipping Ltd. “That’s what we’re
waiting for, because there’s nothing stopping them aside from
the insurance issue.”  India, Japan Insurance  India, the third-biggest buyer of Iranian oil before the
sanctions took effect, will start offering state-backed
insurance to tankers carrying the crude. Insurers have agreed to
give as much as $100 million of cover per voyage, Shipping Corp.
of India’s chairman, Sabyasachi Hajara, said without giving a
timeframe. Japan, the second-largest customer, is already
providing sovereign guarantees and this month will load its
third Iranian cargo since the embargo.  The U.S. and Europe are pressuring Iran to stop a nuclear
program they say is aimed at developing arms. The  International
Atomic Energy Agency  says it has evidence the country studied
making nuclear weapons, for which Iran would need uranium
enriched to 90 percent. The nation defends what it calls its
right to process uranium, after achieving 20 percent enrichment
for the first time in 2010. The government says it needs atomic
capabilities for energy and medical purposes.  Iranian Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said July 24
that the country won’t bow to foreign pressure or sanctions,
according to Fars.  “We could be looking at a very significant economic
contraction in Iran over the next year,” said Crispin Hawes,
director of  Middle East  and North Africa research at the Eurasia
Group consultant in London. “It will take longer to see the
impact on Iranian policy. Clearly the government isn’t going to
throw their hands in the air and say, ‘You’re right, we give
up,’ but undeniably the pressure is going to grow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  