-- Italy May Have Lost Third of Corn Crop on Heat, Drought
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-01T17:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/italy-may-have-lost-third-of-corn-crop-on-heat-drought.html
Italy  may have lost a third of its
corn crop, the European Union’s third-biggest, and half of its
soybean harvest because of drought and record heat, farm-
industry organization Confagricoltura wrote.  Crop losses in the the region of Polesine in the Po River
delta may be 150 million euros ($185 million), including 75
million euros of losses for corn alone, the Rome-based group
wrote in an e-mailed statement today.  Italy was the EU’s third-biggest corn grower last year with
production of 9.8 million metric tons, behind France and
 Romania , according to the International Grains Council. The
country was the bloc’s third-largest importer of the grain last
year, behind  Spain  and the Netherlands.  “Water shortages and record warmth are causing heat
exhaustion for agriculture, with organic deterioration of corn
plants, sunflowers, soybeans, beets, tomatoes, grapes, and the
harvest destroyed,” Confagricoltura wrote.  The Po River, used to irrigate rice and corn crops, is 7.5
meters (24.6 feet) below its normal level at the city of Cremona
in northern Italy, farm union Coldiretti wrote in a separate
statement today. The water is sufficient to ensure only two
weeks of irrigation, it said.  Crop damages are in excess of 500 million euros, according
to the union. Cows are producing 10 percent to 20 percent less
milk, even as farmers install fans and showers to cool the
animals, according to Coldiretti.  Growth Decrease  Pigs are eating as much as 40 percent less than their usual
ration of 3.5 kilograms of feed, resulting in a “substantial”
decrease of growth, while laying hens are producing fewer eggs,
Coldiretti said. Bees are unable to get pollen and nectar,
putting honey production at risk, it said.  Most of the grain harvest in the Veneto region has been
“compromised,” particularly in the provinces of Rovigo, Padua
and  Venice , according to Confagricoltura. Fruit, vegetables and
vines have also been affected, the group wrote.  “The damages in the countryside caused by the African heat
and drought are very serious,” Confagricoltura said. “We’ve
requested that dams be opened urgently to guarantee sufficient
water for emergency irrigation.”  Confagricoltura did not provide specific figures for crop
losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  