-- Ivory Coast’s Coastal Cocoa Farmers Say Drought Threatens Crop
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 2012-08-01T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/ivory-coast-s-coastal-cocoa-farmers-say-drought-threatens-crop.html
A drought along the coastal areas of
southwestern  Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest cocoa producer, is
raising farmers’ concern before the start of the main-crop
harvest.  “We haven’t seen big rains since the rainy season started
one month and a half ago,” Antoine Nabo, who owns a 15-hectare
(37-acre) cocoa farm in Tui, near the port city of San Pedro,
said in an interview on July 29. “There has been only some
scattered rains. But it’s not enough.”  The western coast around Sassandra and San Pedro is most
affected by the lack of rainfall, Antoine Kouassi Koffi, an
Abidjan-based agro-meteorology engineer at the country’s
National Meteorological Service, said by phone yesterday.  Ivory Coast, which accounts for 34 percent of global cocoa
output, needs adequate rain and sunshine to develop pods in the
period before the October start of the main harvest. The lack of
rain may prevent the flowers that develop into pods from
growing, especially amid cool weather conditions, Koffi said.  “This region is facing a serious shortage of rains,” he
said. “The situation is crucial as we are in the middle of a
period of flowering.”  Some leaves have already started to turn yellow on cocoa
trees while some pods have turned black, said Nabo.  August Rains  San Pedro  received no rain from July 11 to July 20 and 2.1
millimeters from July 1 to July 10, according to figures from
the National Meteorological Service. Sassandra recorded 0.3
millimeters of rainfall in the second 10 days of July and 27.3
millimeters from July 1 to July 10, the figures showed.  The situation could be improved if rain begins falling
soon, Salifou Ouedraogo, who runs a cocoa farmers’ cooperative
in San Pedro, said on July 29.  “If it rains heavily in the first two weeks of August,
flowers should be able to regenerate rapidly,” he said.  Better rainfall has been recorded in other key cocoa-
growing regions including Gagnoa, Daloa and Soubre, Koffi said.
Daloa received 37.2 millimeters of rain from July 11 to July 20
and Yamoussoukro, the country’s central capital got 59.9
millimeters, according to the meteorological service’s data.  “The situation is fine,” Adama Doumbia, a farmer in
Toroguhe, near the central town of Daloa, said by phone
yesterday. “We’ve had so far a good mix of sun and rain.”  Cocoa for December delivery increased 1.3 percent to 1,613
pounds ($2,529) a metric ton by 4:15 p.m. yesterday on the NYSE
Liffe exchange in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net ;
Baudelaire Mieu in Abidjan at 
 bmieu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  