-- Japan Stocks Fall on China Manufacturing; Honda Slumps
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-08-01T06:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/japanese-stocks-drop-ahead-of-fed-decision-honda-slumps.html
Japanese  stocks  fell, with the Nikkei
225 Stock Average declining the first time in five days, after
 China ’s manufacturing teetered on the edge of contraction in
July and as companies from  Honda (7267)  Motor Co. and Komatsu Ltd.
missed profit estimates.  Komatsu, which gets about 14 percent of sales from China,
sank 7.1 percent after the world’s second-biggest maker of
construction equipment cut its annual profit forecast. Honda,
Japan’s third-largest carmaker by sales, slipped 5.7 percent as
it joined Nissan Motor Co. in reporting earnings that trailed
estimates. Nomura Holdings Inc. slid 2.2 percent as Japan’s No.
1 brokerage faces penalties after staff leaked information on at
least three share sales in 2010.  “This quarter’s earnings have shown that Japanese
exporters are badly affected by the slowdown in China, the
recession in  Europe  and the yen’s appreciation,” said  Norihiro Fujito , a senior investment strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan
Stanley Securities Co. “Given that the Chinese economy hasn’t
bottomed yet, next quarter’s earnings could be even worse and
share prices may keep sliding. It’s difficult to see a recovery
by the end of the year.”  The Nikkei 225 dropped 0.6 percent to 8,641.85 at the close,
with almost three shares falling for each that rose. The broader
Topix Index lost 0.9 percent to 729.78. Shares pared losses in
the final hour of trading after Italian Prime Minister  Mario
Monti  said his nation wouldn’t need a bailout. Both gauges
rallied in the past four days on optimism European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  will announce measures to combat the
sovereign-debt crisis when the ECB meets tomorrow.  Investors Waiting  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index were little
changed today. The gauge dropped 0.4 percent in  New York 
yesterday as economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast the
 Federal Reserve  may forgo announcing a third round of large-
scale asset purchases today, and is more likely to wait until
September to unveil plans to buy $600 billion in housing and
government debt.  “Investors have been in wait-and-see mode for the last two
days ahead of key central bank announcements and that will
continue today,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1
billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney.  The Topix lost 16 percent since this year’s peak on March
27, leaving shares on the gauge trading at 0.9 times  book value ,
compared with 2.2 times for the S&P 500 and 1.4 times for the
Europe Stoxx 600 Index. A number less than one means that
companies can be bought for less than value of their assets.  Companies that export to China fell as government data
showed the nation’s  Purchasing Managers ’ Index unexpectedly fell
to 50.1 in July from 50.2 in June. That was the weakest reading
in eight months and compares with the 50.5 median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. A separate report by HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics showed the manufacturing PMI at 49.3 last month.
A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Biggest Decline  Komatsu sank 7.1 percent to 1,633 yen. The company
predicted net income for the year ending March 31 will be 157
billion yen ($2 billion), down from a 190 billion yen forecast
made in April, amid slowing demand in China and  Indonesia  for
construction equipment.  Sumitomo Heavy Industries Ltd. (6302) , a maker of ships and
construction machinery that gets about 13 percent of sales from
China, tumbled 15 percent to 270 yen, the biggest decline on the
 Nikkei 225. (NKY)  The company forecast full-year net income of 16.5
billion yen, missing the 22.5 billion yen average estimate of 12
analysts.  About 50 percent of the 184 companies on the Topix that
have reported quarterly earnings since the start of last month
and for which forecasts are available have missed expectations,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg News.  Honda Drops  Honda declined 5.7 percent to 2,405 yen. The automaker
reported first-quarter net income of 131.7 billion yen, missing
the 150.7 billion yen average estimate of seven analysts
compiled by Bloomberg, as the yen strengthened and amid
increased marketing spending.  Nomura dropped 2.2 percent to 272 yen. The Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission, which is the investigative arm
of  Japan ’s Financial Services Agency, said it recommended that
the regulator take unspecified disciplinary action against
Nomura following a probe into insider trading activities at the
brokerage.  Olympus Corp. dropped 6.8 percent to 1,380 yen as the
world’s largest maker of endoscopes said it uncovered
“irregularities” at a doctor-training program in  Brazil  that
may have violated U.S. law.  Among stocks that gained, Panasonic Corp. climbed 7 percent
to 584 yen after the consumer electronics maker posted earnings
that beat estimates. First-quarter net income rose to 12.81
billion yen, compared with a 30.4 billion-yen net loss a year
earlier and the 9.2 billion-yen average of three analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  