-- Jobs’s Yacht Maker Does Cool Headphones: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-08-01T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/jobs-s-yacht-maker-does-cool-headphones-rich-jaroslovsky.html
The most noteworthy thing about
 Parrot (PARRO) ’s new  Zik  over-the-ear stereo headphones isn’t the sound.
It’s that these babies are stuffed with more technology than an
F-15.  Start with Bluetooth for wireless pairing with your  Apple (AAPL) 
or Android device. Add gesture-based controls, plus sensors that
automatically stop the music when you remove the headphones. And
include a passel of microphones for taking and making phone
calls, as well as for noise cancellation.  They sound pretty good, too. For $400, they should.  While Paris-based Parrot makes voice-activated, hands-free
systems for cars, the company may be best known for the
 AR.Drone , the elaborate smartphone-controlled, high-def-camera-
equipped flying machine.  The Ziks, which are available from retailer  Brookstone  and
through Apple’s online  store , follow in the AR.Drone’s tradition
of flashy tech more or less just for the hell of it.  The headphones were designed by Philippe Starck, the
superstar product auteur whose other projects include the yacht
 Steve Jobs  was having built before he died, now continued by his
widow.  The first thing you’ll notice about the Ziks are how hefty
they are -- 11.5 ounces, which is nearly double the weight of
 Sennheiser’s MM 500-X .  Sturdy Comfort  Still, the premium materials used in the Ziks give them a
sturdy feel, and the weight is sufficiently well-distributed so
that I could wear them for several hours at a stretch without
feeling as though my head were trapped in a vise.  Pairing the Ziks with my iPhone 4S was easy. I just went to
the phone’s Bluetooth settings and selected them, without having
to enter a code.  It’s even easier on some phones running  Google (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, because the Ziks include a special chip called
NFC -- for Near-Field Communications -- that pairs devices just
by tapping them together.  All Bluetooth headphones have a couple of inherent
weaknesses: They sometimes cut out momentarily during music
playback, and the audio quality isn’t as high as with wired
phones. While I encountered a few skips, they were minimal, and,
at least in the kind of music I listen to, not distracting.  Custom Controls  As to the sound, the Ziks are among the best wireless
headphones I’ve tried. The noise cancellation creates an
impressively tomb-like environment, while a free Parrot app,
available now in the iTunes  App Store  and soon in the  Google
Play store , lets you control equalizer settings and concert-hall
effects to customize the audio to your particular tastes.  The neatest controls, though, aren’t found in the app;
they’re built into the headphones themselves. The exterior of
the right ear cup is actually a touchpad that converts your
finger swipes and taps into commands.  Glide your finger up and down to control the volume. Swipe
backward once to return to the start of the current song, twice
to go back to the previous one. A forward swipe skips to the
next track. An incoming phone call stops the music -- a tap of
the ear cup answers the call, while a two-second press refuses
it.  As a general rule, I found the motion and touch-sensitive
controls exceedingly fun to use, even if they weren’t always
completely reliable.  The volume and track-jumping controls worked fine. But when
I slid the headphones down my neck, the music would occasionally
continue to play.  Other times, there might be a several-second delay before
it paused. The headphones seemed to do a better job at resuming
play once I put the Ziks back on my ears.  Accidental Disconnect  It also took me a while to master the phone controls. A
couple of times, I accidentally disconnected calls while I was
trying to answer them or adjust the volume.  Once I got the hang of everything, though, the Ziks proved
to be thoroughly enjoyable. Their ability to shut out ambient
noise is at least on a par with, and may even exceed, my usual
 Bose Quiet Comfort  traveling companions.  Phone-call quality was good, and people I spoke to reported
that my voice came through loud and clear. It’s likely a
function of the jawbone-sensor microphone built into the right
ear cup that helps isolate the wearer’s voice from ambient
noise.  Be aware, though, that using the Ziks for phone calls will
rapidly drain the battery, which otherwise can go 15 to 20 hours
between charges. (The headphones come with a USB cable for
rejuicing from a computer that can also be used with most
smartphone wall chargers.)  There are cheaper headphones, lighter ones, and, if you’re
willing to plug in rather than go wireless, better-sounding
ones, too. I’d be hard-pressed, though, to name any cooler ones.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  and  theater  reviews.  -- Editors: Zinta Lundborg, Jeremy Gerard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 