-- Jupiter’s Funds Under Management Beat Estimates on Retail Flows
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-08-01T10:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/jupiter-s-funds-under-management-beat-estimates-on-retail-flows.html
Jupiter Fund Management Plc (JUP)  said
funds under management climbed 2.6 percent in the first half,
more than analysts predicted, as customers added more money to
higher-margin mutual funds. The shares climbed.  Jupiter’s assets increased to 23.4 billion pounds ($37
billion) at the end of June from 22.8 billion pounds at Dec. 31,
the firm said in a statement today. That beat the 23.3 billion-
pound estimate of four analysts compiled by the company.  “People are nervous for good reason but investing
environments tend to be better when people are nervous and
valuations are lower,” Edward Bonham Carter, Jupiter’s chief
executive officer, said in a telephone interview today. “You
have to project forward three to five years.”  Record low interest rates and quantitative easing have
reduced savings rates in the U.K. so retail customers are
looking to take more risk as they seek to boost their assets.
The 265 million pounds of inflows from individual customers in
the first half helped to mitigate the effect of 502 million
pounds of withdrawals by institutional clients, including wealth
manager St. James’s Place Plc. Jupiter charges higher fees for
retail investors.  Client flows and assets under management were “materially
better,” Rae Maile, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. with an overweight rating on the stock, wrote in a report to
clients today. That will “in combination with the recent market
rally, lead to higher profit estimates.”  Jupiter  rose  3.8 percent to 225.4 pence at 11:21 a.m. in
 London  trading, valuing the company at about 1 billion pounds.  Separately,  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) , the U.K. money
manager cutting costs and changing products under Executive
Chairman  Edward Bramson , had 2.8 billion pounds of net outflows
from insurers including Friends Life and Achmea BV in the first
half. Assets under management dropped 1.9 percent to 98.2
billion pounds over the first six months of the year.  F&C declined 1.3 percent to 86.85 pence in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  