-- Kinross Gold Fires CEO Tye Burt, Replaces With Rollinson
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-08-02T20:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/kinross-gold-fires-ceo-tye-burt-replacing-him-with-rollinson.html
Kinross Gold Corp. (K) , a Canadian gold
producer that has lost almost a third of its value this year,
fired Chief Executive Officer Tye Burt and promoted another
investment banker, J. Paul Rollinson, to replace him.  Rollinson, the company’s executive vice president of
corporate development and a former banker at  Scotia Capital ,
also replaces Burt on the company’s board, Toronto-based Kinross
said yesterday in a statement. The CEO change was needed to
guide Kinross through its “capital and project optimization
process,” the company said.  Kinross said in February it took a $2.49 billion writedown
on the Tasiast mine in Mauritania it bought 17 months earlier in
its all-stock C$8 billion ($7.95 billion) acquisition of Red
Back Mining Inc. The company said at the time it was using
stricter criteria for spending and project approvals amid rising
costs and would delay development of mines in Ecuador and Chile.  “It’s pretty clear that they’re taking this step due to
shareholder pressure,”  David Christensen , CEO of ASA Ltd. in
San Mateo,  California , which manages $600 million and invests in
precious-metals companies, said in a telephone interview.  Kinross, currently the fourth-largest Canada-based gold
producer by market value, has fallen 35 percent this year. That
compares with a 20 percent decline in the 16-company  NYSE Arca
Gold BUGS Index. (HUI)  Kinross has lost 61 percent of its value since
the Red Back deal closed.  ‘Value-Destroying’  The CEO change “is not a surprise,”  George Topping , a
Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said by phone.
The shares have fallen “because of two value-destroying
acquisitions: Tasiast and Fruta del Norte.”  Kinross bought the Fruta del Norte project in Ecuador in
2008 when it acquired Aurelian Resources Inc. for C$614 million
in shares. The company has yet to reach an agreement with the
government to develop the project.  Burt, 55, was appointed CEO of Kinross in March 2005. He
joined the company from  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , where he had been
vice chairman and  executive director  for corporate development.
He’s a former investment banker whose positions included global
head of metals and mining at Deutsche Bank AG and co-head of
global mining at  BMO Nesbitt Burns .  He led Kinross in four company takeovers while CEO,
including Red Back, it’s biggest deal ever, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares Drop  Kinross  fell  5.6 percent to C$7.56 at the close in Toronto.
Gold futures for December delivery declined 0.9 percent to
$1,592.80 an ounce on the Comex in New York.  The announcement comes less than two months since Toronto-
based Barrick, the biggest gold producer, ousted CEO Aaron Regent and replaced him with Jamie Sokalsky, who had been chief
financial officer, after the company said it was
“disappointed” by its share-price performance.  Rollinson joined Kinross as executive vice president of new
investments in September 2008, according to the company’s
 website . Before that he was deputy head of  investment banking  at
Scotia Capital, a unit of Toronto-based  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , and
also worked at Deutsche Bank and BMO.  “We believe Mr. Rollinson has been hired to lead the asset
rationalization and restructuring process for Kinross which may
include a divestment of Tasiast,”  Anita Soni , an analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG in Toronto, said in a note yesterday.  ‘Significantly Higher’  Burt “staked his reputation on Tasiast” when he asked
investors to trust him that it was worth the purchase price,
Soni said. Kinross shareholders approved the Red Back deal, even
with a recommendation by RiskMetrics Group Inc. that they vote
against the acquisition because production would have to be
“significantly higher” than market consensus to break even.  Kinross said in January it was reviewing its plans and
schedule for an expansion at Tasiast amid industry cost
inflation and because it had gained an “increased
understanding” of the gold deposit. The company said in May it
expected to give an update on the project plans, including what
type of ore processing it will use, when it reports  second-
quarter earnings , which are scheduled to be released Aug. 8.  Kinross also has  operations  in the U.S., Brazil, Chile,
Russia and Ghana.  The CEO change “could also signal issues with Tasiast”
that may come to light when the company reports results next
week, Brian Yu, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  San Francisco ,
said in a note yesterday. There is potential for negative news
on the timing of  capital costs  or processing plans at the
operation, he said.  Barrick, which reported  earnings  July 26, said at the time
its biggest development project, the Pascua-Lama mine on the
Chile-Argentina border, may cost 50 to 60 percent more and would
start up a year later than expected.  Barrick,  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  and  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI)  are the three
largest Canadian gold producers by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  