-- Koch to Leave Credit Suisse for Deputy Mayor Job
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-01T14:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/koch-to-leave-credit-suisse-for-deputy-mayor-job.html
Steve Koch, the co-chairman of
mergers and acquisitions at Credit Suisse Group AG, is leaving
the firm after almost three decades to become  Chicago ’s deputy
mayor.  The 56-year-old banker will replace Mark Angelson, who held
the role since April 2011, and report to Mayor  Rahm Emanuel .
Koch will start Sept. 4, according to a statement today.  The Chicago native is no stranger to public service, having
served as chairman of the Sinai Health System of Chicago and the
Greater Chicago Food Depository. He has advised on multibillion-
dollar deals such as Fortune Brands Inc.’s spinoff of spirits
business  Beam Inc. (BEAM) , and Aon Corp.’s $4.9 billion purchase of
Hewitt Associates.  “I will have two jobs: one is to work to make the city the
most attractive place in the world to do business,” Koch said
in an interview yesterday. “The second is to help the mayor and
the existing team work to fix the finances of the city.”  Chicago is forecasting its smallest budget gap since 2009,
$369 million in 2013, according to a financial analysis released
yesterday. While Emanuel credited “tough but necessary
choices” for the improvement, the report also estimated the
deficit will widen to $466 million in 2014 and to $580 million
in 2015 without additional spending reductions.  “Steve Koch is a natural choice to take over for Mark
Angelson and continue the progress this administration is making
to make sure Chicago’s economy is diverse, expanding, fostering
innovation and creating jobs throughout the city,” Emanuel said
in the statement.  Koch’s History  Koch ran the day-to-day operations of  Credit Suisse (CSGN) ’s M&A
group from 1993 to 2001, flying back and forth weekly from
Chicago to  New York . In 2010, he took two months off work to
ride his bike 3,300 miles from  California  to  Florida  to raise
almost $500,000 for Chicago’s Mount Sinai Hospital with his then
23-year-old son.  Credit Suisse today named David DeNunzio as its global
chairman of the M&A group, according to a memo. The Zurich-based
bank is seeking to cut 1 billion Swiss francs ($1.02 billion) in
costs by the end of 2013, with more than half of that coming
from the investment bank. Last year it announced plans to cut
3,500 jobs. Credit Suisse  shares  slumped to 20-year lows in
June.  Koch, who will make $1 a year as deputy mayor, said it was
the right time to shift to the public sector.  “It has always been in the back of my mind that I’d make
this transition,” he said. “There is always up and down, good
and bad on  Wall Street . I’ve dabbled in it for 30 years -- it’s
just the right time to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  