-- Komercni Banka Quarterly Net Rises on Gain From Stake Sale
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-08-01T08:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/komercni-banka-quarterly-net-rises-on-gain-from-stake-sale-1-.html
Komercni Banka AS (KOMB) , the Czech unit of
 France ’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE) , said its second-quarter profit
almost doubled as banking income advanced and it booked a one-
time gain from the sale of a stake in a  development bank .  Net income for the three-month period rose to 4.12 billion
koruna ($199.6 million) from 2.1 billion koruna a year earlier,
the Prague-based lender said in a statement published on its
website today. That beat the 3.59 billion-koruna median estimate
by 10 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Net banking income rose 5
percent to 8.53 billion koruna.  “The results are helped by the one-off gain from the sale
of the stake,” Cyrrus AS analyst Marek Hatlapatka said by phone
today. “However, the cost of risk is lower than we projected
and also higher banking income helped to boost the bottom line
above market expectations.” Hatlapatka has a buy recommendation
on the shares.  Komercni’s cost of risk totaled 352 million koruna,
compared with 2.2 billion koruna a year earlier, the lender
said. The lender said gross lending volume rose 8 percent to
456.2 billion koruna and its market share in loans continued to
advance, driven by demand for mortgages and credit provided to
corporate clients, Komercni said.  “The outlook for the banking industry points to momentous
challenges ahead, especially due to the weakness in the European
economy and unresolved Eurozone crisis,” Chief Executive
Officer Henri Bonnet said in a separate statement. Komercni’s
“strong balance sheet” and its efficiency will allow it to
make the “most” from market opportunities, he said.  Ceskomoravska Stake  Komercni sold a 13 percent stake in state-controlled
development lender Ceskomoravska Zarucni a Rozvojova Banka for
889.5 million koruna in May. Profit through last year was also
hurt as the lender wrote off most of the Greek sovereign bonds
it had in its portfolio.  Total operating costs were 3.32 billion koruna, compared
with 3.4 billion koruna a year earlier.  Societe Generale , France’s second-largest bank, said today
its second-quarter profit fell 42 percent, missing analysts’
estimates, after it took writedowns on its Russian unit and U.S.
asset manager TCW Group.  The bank expects net banking income to grow 1 percent to 2
percent this year from the year before, Komercni Executive
Director Pavel Cekja said today at a Prague press conference.
Lending volume should grow 3 percent to 5 percent this year, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  