-- NBC’s Tape-Delay Strategy Boosting Ratings, Revenue
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-08-01T15:30:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/nbc-says-it-s-right-around-breaking-even-on-olympic-games-1-.html
NBC expects to be “right around”
the point of making money on its London Olympics coverage after
tape-delayed broadcasts during prime time drew higher ratings
than during the previous Summer Games.  The ratings for the games are up 9 percent so far from the
Olympics in Beijing, much better than what the network was
predicting, Steve Burke, chief executive officer of  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBCUniversal, said today on a conference call. The
broadcaster had projected a $200 million loss for the games.  The results suggest that NBC’s strategy of tape-delaying
the Olympics for its U.S. television audience is paying off. The
network has been criticized for the approach, which forced
Americans to watch the opening ceremonies and key events well
after they occurred. NBC also has tried to drum up excitement
for Olympics broadcasts on  Facebook  and other social networks.  “Everything is going NBC’s way,” said  David Bank , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “The ratings take
the pressure off NBC for tape-delaying events. It could be a
marketing issue or luck or a lack of other interesting things
going on. But sometimes it’s better to be lucky than smart.”  NBC, which paid $1.18 billion for the rights to the London
games, had projected a ratings decline of 20 percent versus the
Beijing games, when more of the prime-time coverage was live.
Instead, viewership is “way up,” Burke said on the call today.  Olympic Costs  NBC had lost $223 million on the last Olympics.  David
Joyce , an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, estimates
that NBC’s production costs added $100 million in expenses for
this year’s games, beyond what it paid for the rights. That
means the company would have to take in a total of about $1.3
billion to break even.  Comcast, the cable-TV provider based in Philadelphia,
acquired control of NBCUniversal for $13.8 billion in January
2011. The business, which includes TV, film and theme-park
units,  contributed  about 36 percent of Comcast’s sales in the
second quarter.  Social networking has been a double-edged sword for NBC
during the Olympics. While online buzz has helped promote
events, critics have taken to Twitter and Facebook to deride the
network’s tape-delay strategy.  Guy Adams, a British journalist based in  Los Angeles , was
temporarily suspended from Twitter Inc.’s site after he posted
the e-mail address of NBC Olympics President Gary Zenkel while
urging users to complain. The social-networking company restored
Adams’s account after an outcry over the incident.  Twitter, which has a partnership with NBC to provide
Olympics coverage, apologized yesterday for the “mess up”
surrounding the suspension of Adams, a writer for the U.K.’s
Independent newspaper. Critics said that by initially blocking
his account, Twitter put the relationship with NBC ahead of its
goal of disseminating information.  Adams had lashed out at NBC in a number of Twitter posts
for delaying the major Olympic events on its  broadcast network .
The company is showing live events to cable subscribers online.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  