-- Old Mutual’s Nedbank Says Profit Rises 27% on Boost in Loans
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-08-01T15:12:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/nedbank-says-earnings-ex-items-climb-25-in-first-half-to-june.html
Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , the South African
bank controlled by insurer  Old Mutual Plc (OML) , said first-half
profit rose 27 percent after consumers borrowed more.  Net income climbed to 3.49 billion rand ($422 million) from
2.76 billion rand a year earlier, the Johannesburg-based lender
said in a statement today. The bank extended 69 billion rand of
new loans to customers in the period, helping to increase net
interest income by 11 percent to 9.64 billion rand.  Nedbank, South Africa’s fourth-largest lender by assets,
has been boosting lending to consumers to win a bigger share of
South Africa’s consumer market from rivals such as  Standard Bank
Group Ltd. (SBK)  and Barclays Plc’s  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  The company added
76 outlets, 385 ATMs and developed software for smart-phones in
the period to lure more customers.  “Nedbank has been growing in high-margin areas like
personal loans and cards, but not in problem areas like
commercial property finance or home loans, so it’s doing the
right thing,” Patrice Rassou, who helps oversee about $41
billion as head of equities at Sanlam Investment Management in
 Cape Town , said today.  The company raised its half-year dividend 28 percent to 340
cents. The stock rose 0.3 percent higher to 181.18 rand in
Johannesburg. Nedbank is the third-best performing stock on the
six-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index (JBNKS)  this year after rising
almost 25 percent.  Mortgage Lending  The results were “underpinned by good revenue growth,
prudent provisioning, responsible expense management and
increased capital and liquidity ratios,” Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Brown  said in the statement. Percentage growth in
lending should be in the “mid-single digits” in the second
half, he said.  The bank increased the amount of money it sets aside for
mortgages that sour to 29.5 percent of total home loans, up from
28 percent. Absa, which experienced a 39 percent jump in bad
debts in the first half, increased its so-called coverage ratio
to 22.6 percent last week.  Nedbank may lose market share in mortgage lending by
focusing on existing customers rather than taking on unknown
clients, Brown said in a telephone interview today.  “We have tailored our risk appetite on different
products,” he said, adding that the bank may also lose some
share of the unsecured loans market because it doesn’t want to
increase the size and duration of the personal loans it grants.  South Africa ’s 50 basis point  interest-rate cut  last month
will cost the lender 160 million rand after tax in the second
half, Brown said. Nedbank’s expenses and the number of bad debts
should continue to fall in that period, he said. Lending is
likely to increase and profit margins may widen, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  