-- New York Property Tax Changes Recommended by Grand Jury
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-01T17:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/new-york-property-tax-changes-recommended-by-grand-jury.html
New York  City’s property-tax system
needs to be changed to prevent false document filings, a state
grand jury found.  The grand jury’s report, announced today by Manhattan
District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr., examined the filing of
false documents and information about properties including
rentals, condominiums, cooperatives, hotels and parking garages.
Authorities don’t have enough power to deter false filings and
face a high cost to investigate them, the grand jury said.  “Some unscrupulous individuals and entities routinely try
to cheat the city out of this valuable revenue stream by filing
false information with city agencies,” Vance said in a
statement. Property taxes are New York’s single biggest revenue
source, he said.  The report makes seven recommendations, including civil
sanctions for false filing, new technology to detect property
tax fraud and changes to the criminal law that would make some
tax offenses felonies.  The proposed changes cover Real Property Income and Expense
statements, which are required for any property assessed at
greater than $40,000. This year’s deadline for such forms to be
filed is Sept. 4.  Earlier Deadline  The grand jury recommended setting the annual deadlines in
June, giving more time to evaluate information in the filings,
and the City Council recently introduced legislation to
implement that change, according to Vance’s statement.  Property owners would also be asked to make a sworn
statement about the truthfulness of their filings, allowing
those who lie to be prosecuted for perjury.  “Everyone is hurt when false filings lead to inaccurate
assessments, and some property-owners don’t pay their fair share
of the tax burden,” said Glenn Newman, president of the city
tax commission.  The grand jury report stemmed from an investigation by
Vance’s office into false filings. One study the grand jury
looked at showed 60 percent of property owners failed to report
income from signs posted on their property in documents seeking
to lower their taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  