-- New York’s C Train Ranked Worst Subway Line for Fourth Year
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-01T16:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/new-york-s-c-train-ranked-worst-subway-line-for-fourth-year.html
The  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority ’s C train, which runs from  Brooklyn  to Washington
Heights in upper  Manhattan , was ranked New York’s worst subway
line for the fourth-straight year.  An annual  survey  released today by the  Straphangers
Campaign , an arm of the  New York Public Interest Research Group ,
found that the C was rated lowest in cleanliness, breakdowns and
amount of scheduled service, with about 10-minute intervals
between trains.  The Q, which runs from Coney Island-Stillwell Avenue in
Brooklyn to Astoria-Ditmars Boulevard in Queens, was ranked the
best for the first time in more than 10 years. The Broadway
Express dethroned last year’s winner and inspiration for a
famous rapper’s stage name, the J/Z line.  The report card can spur the MTA into action, said Gene Russianoff, senior attorney for the rider-advocacy group.
Improvements to train lines have followed poor rankings in
previous surveys, he said.  “I’m a believer in giving information to the public and
hoping they run with it,” he said in a telephone interview.  The MTA, operator of the biggest U.S. transit system, has
been struggling with budget gaps worsened by the 18-month
recession that ended in 2009. It projects deficits totaling $374
million through 2016. That gap may widen if the agency can’t
reign in labor costs and push through a planned 7.5 percent fare
and toll increase included in its $13.1 billion budget for next
year. The fare increase would be the second in as many years,
with a third planned for 2015.  C Gets F  The C’s consistently poor performance is partially due to
“lousy cars” and “very limited service,” said Russianoff.
The cars are older than many others in the fleet, he said.  By contrast, the Q line provided clearer announcements,
better seat availability, cleaner subway cars and fewer
mechanical delays than the majority of its peers. The Q’s
ranking was a surprise, Russianoff said.  “It’s not like it did really fantastic in any category,”
he said. “It just did well in most.”  The survey, while helpful, doesn’t tell the entire story,
said Charles Seaton, a spokesman for the MTA, via e-mail.
Reported wait times on the C don’t take into account that other
lines often share the same track, providing additional options
for riders, Seaton said. The agency has ordered 300 new cars to
update lettered routes, he said.  Retiring Cars  “Their arrival in a few years will help further modernize
our car fleet by allowing us to retire C line cars, which are
the oldest in current operation,” Seaton said.  The Straphangers Campaign studied 20 major subway lines.
Using data compiled by the MTA’s  New York  City Transit unit from
2011, the report assessed criteria including seat availability,
breakdown rate, clarity of announcements, cleanliness, amount of
scheduled maintenance and regularity of service.  Riding the subway has become dirtier for the city’s 5.3
million weekday commuters, with car cleanliness throughout the
system down 4 percent from last year. Showing improvement were
clarity of announcements and frequency of breakdowns, the report
found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian White in New York at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  