-- News Corp. Being Considered for Corporate Hacking Offenses
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-08-01T16:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/news-corp-aware-of-police-statements-on-corporate-offenses.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British publishing unit
said it’s aware London police are considering whether corporate
charges may be brought against its board over phone hacking at
its now-defunct News of the World tabloid.  The Metropolitan Police Service in London is being advised
by prosecutors on potential corporate offenses against the unit,
News International,  Sue Akers , the force’s deputy assistant
commissioner leading the probe, told Judge Brian Leveson at an
inquiry into media ethics on July 23.  “We are aware of the reference made by DAC Sue Akers in
her evidence to the Leveson Inquiry and noted also that she
agreed that the current senior management and corporate approach
at News International has been to assist and come clean,” News
International said in a statement today.  About 60 people have been arrested since police started
probes last year into phone hacking and bribery at News Corp.
tabloids. Eight former journalists were charged last month with
conspiring to intercept voice mail, including former News
International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks and former
News of the World editor  Andy Coulson , who later became a press
adviser to U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  While it’s possible a company’s controlling officers could
face criminal claims for offenses related phone hacking,
prosecutors would need to be sure any individuals charged were
actually aware of wrongdoing, said Matt Bosworth, a regulatory
lawyer at Russell-Cooke Solicitors in London.  Lawyer Protest  Lawyers for News International protested to police about
the possibility of corporate charges that could be aimed at the
board of directors, which has included News Corp. Chairman
 Rupert Murdoch  and his son, Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch , the Guardian newspaper reported today.  “We’ve sought legal advice and in respect of both
individual and corporate offenses, and also in relation to our
police powers and our options for investigating,” Akers said at
the time.  The press office at the  Crown Prosecution Service , which is
filing charges against individuals in the case, declined to
comment on the probe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  