-- Next Lifts Profit Target as First-Half Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-08-01T07:18:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/next-lifts-profit-target-as-first-half-sales-beat-estimates-1-.html
Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s second-largest
clothing retailer, increased its annual profit forecast after
reporting first-half sales that rose more than analysts
estimated, driven by a surge in online and catalog sales.  Pretax profit in the fiscal year through January 2013 will
increase to as much as 620 million pounds ($976 million), the
Leicester, England-based retailer said today, compared with a
previous maximum target of 610 million pounds.  Next reported a 4.5 percent increase in sales under its own
brand, driven by a 13 percent gain at the Directory unit, which
includes online and catalog sales. Next’s performance belies
difficulties in the national retail market, which included the
wettest June since 1910. That curbed spending on summer fashions
in the U.K., where retail sales rose 0.1 percent in the month,
according to the  Office of National Statistics .  “Next deserves a gold medal for its remarkable achievement
in topping expectations and edging up its full-year guidance,
despite a very difficult three months in fashion retailing,”
 Nick Bubb , an independent retail analyst, said by e-mail.  The  shares  rose 4.5 percent to 3,365 pence at 8:06 a.m. in
London trading. That boosted the company’s market value to 5.5
billion pounds, re-establishing its lead over competitor Marks &
Spencer Group Plc, which has a value of 5.4 billion pounds.  The increase in Next brand sales in the 26 weeks ended July
28 exceeded the 2.1 percent median estimate of seven analysts
compiled by Bloomberg. For the year, the retailer said it now
anticipates sales growth of 2 percent to 4.5 percent, up from a
previous forecast of 1 percent to 4 percent.  “It’s a very decent all-round performance,” said Richard Cathcart, an analyst at Espirito Santo in  London . He has a
neutral recommendation on the stock.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  