-- Nigeria’s Revised Oil Bill Will Help Boost Output, Minister Says
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-08-01T20:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/nigeria-s-revised-oil-bill-will-help-boost-output-minister-says.html
Nigeria ’s revised oil industry bill
will help increase the country’s crude output by attracting
foreign investors, Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke
said today.  The Petroleum Industry Bill, which was approved by the
Cabinet on July 11 and presented to the Parliament a week later,
proposes a 50 percent tax for onshore and shallow fields and 25
percent for deep-water fields, according to a copy of the bill
obtained by Bloomberg.  The bill is designed to create “a fair balance between
small and big operators operating in the same terrain” and will
give “operators the opportunity to make fair returns during
field decline,” Alison-Madueke said today in an e-mailed
statement from Abuja, the capital.  Operators will pay based on production, “as opposed to
terrain and investment as was previously done,” Alison-Madueke
said. The bill proposes lower rates on condensate from large
fields as well as ultra-deep water fields, she said.  The bill, which seeks to reform the way the oil industry of
Africa’s top producer is regulated and funded, was first
introduced to parliament more than three years ago. Lawmakers
were unable to pass it before the end of the last legislative
session in May 2011.  Energy companies including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  said in a joint
presentation to lawmakers in 2009 that the proposed tax
increases would make exploration “uneconomical.” They pump
more than 90 percent of the country’s oil through ventures with
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  Flare Ban  The new draft includes plans to privatize the state oil
company, create an  asset management company  and set up a new gas
company. The bill proposes a ban on gas flaring in the course of
oil production. The West African nation, which has the
continent’s largest gas reserves of more than 180 trillion cubic
feet, burns away most of the fuel it produces along with oil
because it lacks the infrastructure to process it.  Nigeria produced an average of 2.1 million barrels of crude
a day in July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  