-- No Big Boy Pants for Banks That Whine Over Rules
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-08-01T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/no-big-boy-pants-for-banks-that-whine-over-rules.html
Let’s imagine the customers of a
financial firm get word that more than a billion dollars of
their money is missing. Then, less than a year later, customers
of another firm learn that $200 million of their money is gone,
too.  If such a sequence of events occurred, it’s likely that
leaders from the industry would be called to appear before a
government committee. And they would probably say something
like:  Sorry, folks. But don’t try to slap us with expensive new
rules.  Welcome to the era of financial regulation, cost-benefit
style -- emphasis on the costs, not the benefits.  Although it seems to have escaped the memories of the
people in charge on Wall Street, the economy just about
collapsed in 2008, and a lot of bad things followed. Credit
froze, financial firms went under, and millions of people were
thrown out of work as business owners lost their financing and
their confidence.  Then, last October, that billion-dollars-gone-missing
scenario came to pass. The commodities firm  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ)  declared bankruptcy after customer money got transferred to
a corporate account and then disappeared. Last month, customers
of an Iowa futures trading firm, Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
found out they had lost $200 million after the firm’s chief
executive officer said in a suicide note that he had been
running a  Ponzi scheme  for 20 years.  Government Obligations  Which brings us to the obligatory government hearing.  Last month, the House Committee on Agriculture explored
what it cryptically referred to as “Recent Events (that would
be the lost customer money) and Impending Regulatory Reforms
(which better not be too expensive).” Among those testifying
were two futures industry leaders: Terrence A. Duffy, president
of CME Group Inc., the world’s largest futures market, and
Walter L. Lukken, CEO of the Futures Industry Association, a
Washington-based trade group.  The two men made the requisite noises about ramping up the
industry’s vigilance against fraud. Then both took the
opportunity to get it on the record that there’s a more
important agenda.  Duffy: “I would hate to see us get over-regulated to a
point or have rules put upon us that put us in a very -- a place
that is very anti-competitive.” At a Senate hearing yesterday,
he said he wasn’t opposed to an insurance fund for
fraud victims “if people want to pay for it.”  Lukken: “It would be wise to carefully weigh the costs of
any new regulatory mandates.” Some of the rules being proposed
by the  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  could lead to market
disruption, the exit of futures brokers from the business, and -
- as if it were the customer we really cared about here -- the
limiting of customer choice, Lukken said.  There was a glimmer of hope after passage of the Dodd-Frank
Act two years ago that lawmakers had put some measures in place
to avert another financial disaster. To get the reforms up and
running, though, government agencies first had to write rules
that would execute the law’s objectives.  The financial industry has used many tactics to derail this
process, but its standout victory was a 2010 lawsuit by the
 Business Roundtable  and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce against the
Securities and Exchange Commission, which had proposed a rule to
make it easier for investors to oust corporate directors. The
U.S. Court of  Appeals  in Washington said last July that the SEC
hadn’t properly assessed the rule’s costs and benefits. It was
“an aggressive stretch of the law” in the view of  John Coffee ,
a securities law professor at  Columbia University .  Getting Stuck  A stretch or not, it is what the SEC is stuck with for the
moment, and it’s become “the cornerstone of the attack of
regulatory reform in the courts,” according to an 82-page
 report  released three days ago by the investor advocacy group
Better Markets. Dodd-Frank was passed “to stop Wall Street from
crashing the world again,” Dennis Kelleher, the group’s
president, said in a telephone interview. “Now they’re saying
they can’t do it if it costs them too much money.”  To get an idea of who has the upper hand in this fight,
consider what it entails to be the chump who has to explain the
“benefits” side of financial regulation. Costs can be easy to
figure out. Say there’s a regulation that requires new
compliance officers. Tally up the salaries. If there’s an
assortment of new software you need to comply with Dodd-Frank’s
reporting requirements, you call the computer vendors and get
the numbers.  But how do you measure benefits, like the frauds that never
happen because stricter rules are in place? Is there a dollar
figure we can put on credit markets that don’t collapse? Or the
elderly who don’t lose their life savings because regulators
have cracked down on rip-off artists who troll retirement
villages?  Those are important questions, but they aren’t the ones
being asked at  Washington  hearings that have  titles  like “The
SEC’s Aversion to Cost-Benefit Analysis,” which took place
April 17 before the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform.  One witness that day from the Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based research group Committee on Capital Markets Regulation had
this suggestion for financial regulators looking to get the
cost-benefit equation right: If a regulator isn’t able to
develop data for its cost-benefit analysis internally, it should
get the numbers from third parties such as trade organizations.
If that doesn’t work, the agency should try to get the
information directly from the firms that will be affected by the
regulations. (Whom I’m sure will be anxious to help the SEC get
a new rule in place.) Inconveniencing financial firms with such
requests, though, could be burdensome for the firms, the witness
said, so overseers should make data requests “with an eye to
minimizing the imposition on and disruption to” the firms they
regulate.  See? Easy!  The object of this exercise, of course, is to swamp
regulators with so much cost-benefit work that rule-making will
be impossible.  To keep the SEC busy, one proponent of cost-benefit
analysis showed up at that House Oversight hearing in April with
a nifty checklist for the SEC. J.W. Verret, an assistant
professor at  George Mason University ’s law school, said in his
 testimony  that when the SEC proposes a rule, it should estimate
the impact on  job creation . And gross domestic product. And
whether U.S. stock exchanges will lose listings to overseas
rivals. While we’re at it, let’s just have the SEC “retract and
re-propose” the Dodd-Frank rules the agency has completed, and
start all over again with a new cost analysis, he said.  By the time the SEC is done with that, it should be time
for a flash crash, a couple of London whale copycats, maybe
another MF Global or two. Then we can start the whole re-
regulation argument all over again, if there’s anything left to
argue about.  (Susan Antilla, who has written about  Wall Street  and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on success for  female Saudi
Olympians  and on what the ECB must do to  save the euro ;  Caroline
Baum  on  monetary policy  getting off track;  Michael Kinsley  on
 Romney’s zero tolerance  for the unsuccessful;  Peter Orszag  on
ways to keep lowering  health-care costs ; Handel Reynolds on the
shaky foundation of the  mammogram economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Susan Antilla  at   santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 