-- Nokia Shares Post Biggest 7-Day Gain Since 1992
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-08-01T16:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/nokia-shares-post-biggest-7-day-gain-since-1991.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the phone maker struggling
to stem losses amid plunging revenue, had its biggest seven-day
gain in almost 20 years in Helsinki trading following stronger
sales of its flagship handset and share purchases by top
managers.  The stock surged 6.2 percent to 2.07 euros, extending it’s
seven-day gain to 46 percent, the biggest such increase since
1992. Nokia has risen 51 percent since July 18, the day before
the company reported sales of its Lumia smartphone series that
beat analyst estimates.  Executive Officer Officer Stephen Elop bets on the Lumia,
which runs software from his former employer  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , to
halt market share gains by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets
using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. Nokia, based in Espoo,
 Finland , said this month that sales of the Lumia phone increased
to 4 million units in the second quarter from more than 2
million in the previous period.  “Perhaps this is the beginning of a recovery for Nokia.”
said Jean-Michel Salvador, an analyst at AlphaValue in Paris.
“There is hope that sales might continue to grow also with the
release of the new Windows phone.”  Microsoft is set to release its new Windows 8 computer
operating system in late October. The company has also announced
a mobile version of the software, called Windows Phone 8, though
it hasn’t said when that will be available.  Share Purchases  Elop and several directors bought more than $1 million of
Nokia’s shares as a sign of “commitment to Nokia and confidence
in our future,” the company said yesterday. The company has
announced more than 20,000 job cuts and shuttered production and
research sites as it tries to offset declining revenue.  Still, since the July 19 earnings report, short positions
on Nokia shares have increased 11 percent, with 16 percent of
total shares outstanding currently shorted, according to Markit
data. Relative to supply, the demand to short Nokia’s shares has
never been higher, with 79 percent of the available short supply
currently on loan, the data shows.  The cost of insuring Nokia bonds using credit-default swaps
has declined, falling 15 percent since the record high on July
18, according to Bloomberg data. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph de Weck in Frankfurt at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  