-- North Carolina Utility Board Hires Valukas for Duke Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-08-01T20:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/north-carolina-utility-board-hires-valukas-for-duke-probe-1-.html
The North Carolina Utilities
Commission hired Jenner & Block Chairman Anton Valukas to aid in
its probe of whether it was misled when it approved  Duke Energy
Corp. (DUK) ’s takeover of Progress Energy Inc., the  law firm  said.  Valukas is a former U.S. Attorney in Chicago and served as
U.S. Justice Department examiner in the Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. bankruptcy, documenting that firm’s collapse in 2008.  The state agency is investigating Duke’s decision to fire
Progress Energy Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  within
hours of completing the $17.8 billion dollar merger that last
month created the largest U.S. utility owner.  Johnson, who was to be CEO of the combined companies, was
replaced by Duke CEO  Jim Rogers .  Valukas and his firm “will advise and assist the
commission in the further conduct of its investigation,” the
state agency said in a statement announcing the hiring. “Under
state law, the costs associated with the investigation will be
charged to Duke and will not be passed on to its customers.”  “We have fully cooperated with the North Carolina
Utilities Commission in its recent investigation of Duke
Energy,”  Tom Williams , a spokesman for the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. “That
will continue.”  The last time the state commission hired an outside firm
was about 10 years ago, when it retained Grant Thornton LLP to
audit Duke’s records as part of an accounting investigation,
according to the commission’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  