-- North Korea Floods and Storms Destroy Mines, Kill 31 More
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-08-01T16:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/north-korea-floods-and-storms-destroy-mines-kill-31-more.html
North Korea  said 31 people were
killed in landslides and lightning during heavy rains and
flooding, in addition to the 88 killed in a typhoon that hit the
nation two weeks ago.  Heavy rains on July 29 and 30 destroyed or damaged more
than 4,900 homes and flooded 8,530 others, leaving 21,370 people
homeless, the official Korean Central News Agency said
yesterday. More than 179,000 tons of coal were washed away, and
scores of pits were inundated at coal mines northeast of
Pyongyang, the capital, KCNA said in a separate report.  Flooding threatens the impoverished nation’s ability to
export its underground minerals, one of the few legitimate ways
for the totalitarian regime to earn foreign currency. The
communist nation, now ruled by Kim Jong Un, has suffered for
decades from chronic food shortages, economic mismanagement, and
growing isolation from the international community due to its
nuclear weapons and missile programs and support for
international terrorism.  United Nations staff members based in North Korea made two
July 31 visits with the  Red Cross  and other NGOs to two storm-
struck counties to investigate and assess damage and needs, said
Christopher de Bono, Unicef’s chief of communications for  East
Asia  and the Pacific, in an e-mail.  The visits were made at the request of the North Korean
government, according to a July 30  statement  on the website of
the UN’s North Korea office. The UN expanded sanctions against
the North after it conducted an April 13 long-range missile
test.  Lost Deal  The test also cost Kim a deal with the U.S. for 240,000
metric tons of food that were promised in exchange for a
moratorium on nuclear and missile tests.  North Korea’s rainy season began on July 18 as Typhoon
Khanun struck the Korean peninsula, hitting northwestern coastal
areas the hardest. Torrential rains and flooding between July 18
and 24 inundated, destroyed and washed away tens of thousands of
homes, roads, farmland and embankments. The monsoon season set
in after the country’s worst drought in a century threatened
wheat, barley and potato harvests.  About 16 million of North Korea’s 24 million people suffer
from chronic food insecurity, high malnutrition rates, and deep-
rooted economic challenges, Jerome Sauvage, the UN resident
coordinator in Pyongyang, said in a June 12 statement. As many
as 2 million people have starved to death since the mid-1990s.  Now the storm damage to North Korea’s mining facilities
threatens to do additional economic harm. Last year, according
to a June 1 report by the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion
Agency in  Seoul , the North exported $1.2 billion of minerals, 97
percent of which went to  China , North Korea’s biggest trade
partner, ally and mineral importer. North Korea doesn’t report
economic statistics.  Mineral Riches  The North’s mineral reserves, believed to be valued at more
than $6 trillion, according to South Korean state-owned mining
company Korea Resources Corp., have made it a magnet for Chinese
enterprises.  Aside from its main exports of coal and copper, the country
also has oil, potash, iron ore and uranium, as well as rare
earths used in electronics,  wind turbines  and precision-guided
munitions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  