-- NRA Enabled Bullets-by-Mail Used by Colorado Shooting Suspect
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-08-01T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/nra-enabled-bullets-by-mail-used-by-colorado-shooting-suspect.html
The man accused of the  Colorado 
movie-theater shooting amassed his ammunition stockpile with
help from a 26-year-old law the  National Rifle Association 
hailed at the time as its “greatest legislative milestone.”  The 1986 measure made two dozen changes to gun regulations,
including lifting a ban on interstate sales of ammunition to
consumers, allowing mail-order purchases and, eventually,
 Internet sales . The law, called the Firearms Owners’ Protection
Act, also allowed dealers to sell weapons at gun shows and made
it easier to cross state lines with firearms.  Passage of the act, and the failure of  gun-control 
advocates to repeal it in the decades since, illustrates the
power of the NRA-led gun-rights movement over national firearms
policy. The Colorado mass shooting, in which police say the
suspect purchased 6,000 rounds of ammunition on the Internet,
has prompted calls for legislation to limit mail-order sales.  “It’s time to stop, take stock, hold hearings and expose
the issues,” said former Representative James Oberstar, a
Minnesota Democrat, who backed the gun legislation in 1986 and
now says allowing mail-order sales may have been a mistake.
“Internet sales should at least be subject to the same
background checks and scrutiny that is given to gun purchases.”  Supporters and opponents of gun control are debating
whether restrictions on Internet sales could have prevented the
July 20 shooting in Aurora, Colorado, in which James Holmes, 24,
is accused of opening fire during the new Batman movie. Twelve
people died and at least 58 were injured in the attack.  Buying Time  Limits on Internet ammunition sales could have bought time
for someone to raise suspicion over Holmes’s purchases, Oberstar
said.  Former U.S. Senator Bill Armstrong, a Colorado Republican
who said he voted for final passage of the 1986 legislation,
called suggestions that restrictions on ammunition could have
prevented the shooting “shoveling a lot of smoke.”  “What happened in Aurora is shocking, it’s just
terrible,” said Armstrong, now president of Colorado Christian
University. “But that doesn’t mean we ought to ban guns or ban
movie theaters or ban all Internet sales.”  The legislation removed a requirement for dealers to record
the name, age and home address of customers who buy bullets.  Enforcing Rules  U.S. law prohibits felons, drug addicts or targets of a
domestic restraining order, among other people, from acquiring
or possessing ammunition. Dealers aren’t responsible for
enforcing those rules. Unlike with gun purchases, there is no
requirement for customers to undergo background checks. Dealers
can be prosecuted for knowingly selling handguns and some types
of long-gun ammunition to minors, though they aren’t required to
confirm a buyer’s age.  Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for the Fairfax, Virginia-
based NRA, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. Requests
for comment to the NRA public affairs office also weren’t
returned.  James Reinke, who was president of the NRA when the measure
passed, called it “the greatest legislative milestone in the
NRA’s history” in the group’s American Rifleman publication. He
also said the measure “fundamentally changes things for the
better for all law-abiding Americans.”  The NRA, a membership organization that says it’s the
country’s “foremost defender” of the Second Amendment, has
fought back against ammunition regulations and most other
firearms restrictions.  Stiffer Penalties  The 1986 measure included stiffer penalties for crimes
committed with guns, and a ban on machine gun sales, helping it
win bipartisan support.  When a version of the legislation originally passed the
Senate, Democrats  Al Gore  and  Joe Biden  were among those
supporting it. The House later made changes unrelated to the
ammunition provision before the Senate gave it final approval in
a voice vote that didn’t record individual lawmakers’ positions.
Gore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Betsy McManus. The
office of Biden, now U.S. vice president, didn’t return a call.  U.S. ammunition sales last year were an estimated $1.5
billion, according to the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a
firearms trade association based in Newtown,  Connecticut . The
group’s sales estimates indicate a gradual increase over the
years, and no sudden spike after Congress relaxed the law.  Democratic Votes  House Democrats who voted in favor of final passage of the
1986 bill included  Harry Reid  of  Nevada , who is now the Senate
majority leader, and former Representative Bill Richardson of
 New Mexico , a 2008 presidential candidate. Neither Reid nor
Richardson returned phone calls seeking comment.  New Jersey ’s James Florio, a former Democratic congressman
who received the 1993 John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award
partly for gun control measures passed while he was governor,
also voted for the bill. Florio said he couldn’t recall why he
backed the legislation.  Tim Wirth, a Colorado Democrat who describes himself as a
gun-control advocate, also said he was unable to remember why he
voted for the bill when he was a U.S. House member. Wirth, who
also served in the Senate and is now president of the United
Nations Foundation, a UN fundraiser, said Congress should enact
tougher ammunition regulations.  The bill was signed into law by then-President  Ronald Reagan , who had survived an assassination attempt five years
earlier that severely wounded James Brady, his press secretary.  After the Senate vote, Brady’s wife, Sarah, joined the
board of Handgun Control Inc., which is now known as the Brady
Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, a Washington-based group that
claims to be the country’s largest pro-gun-control lobby. Reagan
died in 2004.  Measure’s Sponsors  The gun measure’s sponsors included then-Representative
Harold Volkmer, a Missouri Democrat, and then-Senator James
McClure, an Idaho Republican. Both died last year.  The bill eliminated “a good 75 percent” of the 1968 Gun
Control Act, according to a 1984 press release from John M.
Snyder, who claimed to be the nation’s senior pro-gun lobbyist
at the time. The 1968 law was passed after the assassinations of
 Martin Luther King Jr . and Robert F. Kennedy.  Passage of the 1986 legislation demonstrated the NRA’s
emerging power, said William Vizzard, a professor emeritus of
criminal justice at California State University-Sacramento, and
a former agent with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives.  “This showed the transition of the NRA from a low-key
group of amateur shooters putting on competitions and building
rifle ranges to becoming one of the most powerful lobbying
organizations in  Washington , D.C.,” Vizzard said.  Seeking Controls  Democrats have attempted to reinstate certain ammunition
controls over the years.  Former Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and then-
Representative  Charles Schumer , both  New York  Democrats, sought
to reinstate the mail-order ban in the 1990s.  This week, Senator  Frank Lautenberg  of New Jersey and
Representative Carolyn McCarthy of New York say they’ll
introduce legislation that would require dealers to notify  law
enforcement  when unlicensed customers purchase more than 1,000
rounds within five days. It would effectively ban Internet sales
by requiring buyers to present a photo identification.  “Right now, the policy on ammunition is keep your fingers
crossed and hope that only the good guys are buying
ammunition,” Lautenberg told reporters at a July 30 news
conference in New York.  Background checks on ammunition are an unnecessary hassle
for consumers and dealers, said Mike McNett, an ammunition
dealer who owns Double Tap Ammo in Cedar City,  Utah . He said he
increasingly depends on Internet sales.  “If you have a gun, that check has already been done,”
McNett said. “If you’ve got ammo and no gun, all you’ve got are
expensive rocks to throw.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  