-- Obama Courts Ohio Voters With Middle-Class Tax, Jobs Pitch
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-01T21:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/obama-loving-every-ohio-inch-with-middle-class-tax-jobs-pitch.html
President  Barack Obama , campaigning
in  Ohio , emphasized a study of  Mitt Romney ’s tax plans and said
the Republican candidate would cut rates for the wealthy and
shift the tax burden to middle-income Americans.  Romney is “asking you to pay more so that people like him
can get a big  tax cut ,” Obama told supporters at a rally at a
park in Mansfield, Ohio. “We do not need more tax cuts for
folks that are already doing well.”  Romney proposes cutting rates and eliminating breaks and
maintains his plan won’t increase the budget  deficit  or transfer
the tax burden from top earners to everyone else. According to a
study released today by three researchers at the Washington-
based  Brookings Institution , that won’t be possible because
there aren’t enough tax breaks for high-income taxpayers to
offset the benefits they’d receive.  Obama’s plan would continue the George W. Bush-era income
tax cuts for all except those in the top 2 percent of earners.
His plan would limit, though not eliminate, tax breaks for high
earners. “I’ve got a different plan for America than Mr.
Romney’s,” the president said.  Obama, who addressed a rally later in Akron, was in Ohio
for the second time in two weeks as he tries to build enthusiasm
among Democrats in this swing state for his economic message
targeting middle-class voters.  Obama Lead  Ohio, with 18 electoral votes, has voted for the winner in
every presidential election since 1964. Obama holds a 50-44
advantage over Romney in the state, according to a poll released
today by  Quinnipiac University ,  CBS News  and the  New York  Times.
The survey of 1,193 Ohio voters was conducted July 24-30 and has
a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  The poll showed Obama with a 6 percentage-point lead in
Florida, where he’ll campaign tomorrow, and an 11-point edge in
 Pennsylvania . Obama is scheduled to be in  Virginia  tomorrow as
he steps up visits to swing states.  Obama on July 16 visited Cincinnati, in the southwest part
of the state, a historically Republican area. Earlier last
month, the president campaigned by bus in northern Ohio.  “There’s not an inch of Ohio that the president does not
love to visit,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  told
reporters yesterday.  The Obama campaign yesterday announced a new television ad,
to air in Ohio and other swing states, which criticizes Romney’s
support of tax-cut extensions for high earners at a time of
worsening federal deficits.  Romney Response  “President Obama continues to tout liberal studies calling
for more tax hikes and more  government spending ,”  Ryan
Williams , a spokesman for the Romney campaign, said in a
statement. “Mitt Romney believes that lower tax rates and less
government will jump-start the economy and create jobs.”  The study cited by Obama said Romney’s plan would shift the
tax burden from the wealthy toward those earning less than
$200,000 a year, and wouldn’t reduce the  budget deficit .  The study concluded that in 2015, the tax-burden shift from
those with incomes exceeding $200,000 a year to those earning
less than that amount would be $86 billion, or at least $33
billion if the rate cuts generate economic growth.  It was conducted by Adam Looney, an economist who worked in
the White House under Obama, and two other researchers at
Brookings.  The economy, and how to spur growth, are central issues in
the presidential campaign.  Ohio’s Role  David B. Cohen, a political science professor at the
University of Akron, said the industrial corridor of northern
Ohio “is going to be very important to the president. He needs
to win with big margins in the northern part of the state
because other parts of the state like the southwest are going to
go for Romney.”  “Northeast Ohio has more Democrats than any other part of
the state,” Cohen said. “His challenge is to get those folks
out to the polls in big numbers and, with the economy going the
way it is, enthusiasm or the lack of enthusiasm could be a real
challenge for the president.”  Northern Ohio has received a boost from the resurgence of
the  auto industry , Cohen said.  Economic Health  Jeanne Gides, 61, a school psychologist who attended the
Obama rally in Akron, said she had supported Obama in 2008 and
would stand by him in November. She said the local economy is
“slow, but it’s getting better.”  “Look at how he brought the automobile industry back,”
Gides said. “It’s very important here. That’s really boosted
the economy.”  Ohio ranks sixth among the 50 states in its rate of
improving economic health, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States from the first quarter of 2011 through the
first quarter of this year.  The state’s  unemployment rate  was 7.2 percent in June,
lower than the national rate of 8.2 percent and down from a high
of 10.6 percent in January 2010, according to the  U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics . The unemployment rate for Akron was 6.6
percent in May, the most recent month for which figures are
available. The jobless rate in May for Mansfield was 7.9
percent.  A Republican-backed protest was planned to greet Obama’s
arrival today in Mansfield, where Pentagon budget cuts could
lead to job losses at the air base.  The Mansfield News Journal reported that the Ohio Air
National Guard’s 179th Airlift Wing and at least 350 full-time
jobs were at risk because of planned budget cuts. The story was
being promoted by the  Republican National Committee .  Josh Earnest , the deputy White House press secretary, said
the Pentagon was trimming the budget for C-27J transport planes,
including those based at Mansfield.  “The president is committed to working with the  Department
of Defense  to find a mission for Mansfield Lahm Air National
Guard Base, so that the men and women who serve there can
continue to make their important contribution to our national
security,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Akron, Ohio at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  