-- Oil Fluctuates After Biggest Gain in Two Weeks Before ECB Meets
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-08-02T07:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/oil-trades-near-two-day-high-after-u-s-crude-stockpiles-tumble.html
Oil traded little changed in  New York 
after the biggest gain in almost two weeks before the  European
Central Bank  meets to discuss steps to contain the region’s debt
crisis and after U.S. stockpiles shrank.  Futures fluctuated after climbing for the first time in
three days yesterday as government data showed crude inventories
slid  the most  since December. The ECB will announce a policy
decision today. The U.S. Federal Reserve yesterday pledged
additional support for the  U.S. economy  if necessary.  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB)  was waiting for approval to resume a pipeline that carries
Canadian crude to the U.S. Midwest.  “Risk markets are going to be very focused on the outcome
of the ECB meeting,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The Fed did what was expected and
that was make a statement which had a clear bias toward further
easing of monetary policy should it be required.”  Oil for September delivery was at $88.79 a barrel, down 12
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:05 p.m. Singapore time. The contract yesterday rose 85
cents to $88.91, the biggest gain since July 19. Prices are 10
percent lower this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement was at $106.19, up 23
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate was at
$17.35, up from $17.05 yesterday, the widest since May.  Crude Stocks  Oil’s rebound yesterday may be unsustainable as New York
futures’ 30-day stochastic oscillators remain above 70,
signaling prices are overbought, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Crude has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band, around $86.12 a barrel today. Buy orders tend to
be clustered close to chart-support levels.  U.S. crude inventories  shrank  6.5 million barrels last
week, the biggest drop in more than seven months, data from the
Energy Department showed. They were forecast to drop by 1
million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. gasoline  supplies dropped  2.2 million barrels last
week, the Energy Department report showed. They were forecast to
rise 800,000 barrels, according to the median estimate of 12
analysts in the Bloomberg News survey.  Enbridge finished repairs on Line 14, which can carry
317,600 barrels a day of Canadian crude to Midwest refiners, and
has submitted a startup plan to federal pipeline regulators, the
company said in a  statement  on its website.  The Calgary-based company, which shut the pipe after an
estimated 1,200 barrels of oil leaked in Wisconsin July 27, must
receive approval for the plan from the U.S. Pipeline and
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration before it can resume
operations. Enbridge must meet 11 other requirements, including
operating the line at reduced pressure, after startup.  Central Banks  The ECB will announce a policy decision today following
President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge last week to do “whatever it
takes” to keep the euro together. The Fed yesterday said it
would take new policy steps as needed to promote stronger
economic growth and employment, even as it refrained from a
third round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing.  London  is overtaking New York as the global hub for trading
oil futures as more Brent contracts changed hands in June than
at any time on record, data from ICE show. It was the first full
quarter and third month in which Brent trading surpassed WTI on
the Nymex.  The average daily volume for Brent rose 17 percent in June
to a record 716,752 contracts. Trading in WTI climbed 6 percent
to 599,674 lots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  