-- Oil Rises After U.S. Supplies Tumble Most in Seven Months
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-08-01T20:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/oil-rises-as-federal-reserve-meets-u-s-supply-falls.html
Oil climbed after U.S. crude
 inventories  dropped the most in seven months and the  Federal
Reserve  said it may take steps to boost the economy.  Futures advanced 1 percent after the U.S. Energy Department
said stockpiles decreased 6.52 million barrels last week, the
biggest decline since December. The Federal Reserve said it will
closely monitor the economy and act “as needed” to spur the
recovery. The  European Central Bank  may move to ease Europe’s
debt crisis at a meeting tomorrow.  “The bigger-than-expected decline in stocks is obviously
bullish,” said Tom Essaye, president of Kinsale Trading in  Palm
Beach ,  Florida . “The market is capped at about $90 a barrel at
the moment. Prices will slowly gain as we whittle away at
inventories.”  Crude oil for September delivery rose 85 cents to settle at
$88.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices are
down 10 percent this year.  Brent oil for September settlement increased $1.04, or 1
percent, to end the session at $105.96 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark grade
traded at a $17.05 premium to West Texas Intermediate crude
traded in New York. It was the widest spread since May 16.  The supply decline left U.S. crude inventories at 373.6
million barrels, 5.2 percent higher than a year earlier,
according to the report. Stockpiles were forecast to fall 1
million barrels, according to the median of 12 responses in a
Bloomberg survey.  Crude  imports  slipped 1.23 million barrels a day to 8.41
million, the lowest level since the week ended March 16.  Oil  stockpiles at  Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for
WTI fell 1.39 million barrels to 45.1 million, the biggest
decrease since May 2011.  ‘Some Clarity’  “Inventories are still pretty high,” said  Chip Hodge , who
oversees a $9 billion natural-resource bond portfolio as senior
managing director at Manulife Asset Management in Boston.
“Until we get some clarity about the economy and the situation
in Europe, oil is going to trade in the high $80s to low $90s.”  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  held off on stepping up record
stimulus even as  consumer spending  flagged, economic growth
slowed and unemployment persisted at 8.2 percent. Before their
next meeting starts Sept. 12, Bernanke and his colleagues will
assess reports on unemployment in July and August.  “The U.S. government will do everything they can to keep
the ball rolling, so I think we’ll see more and more stimulus
come into the market,” Gerrit Zambo, an oil trader at
 Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich, said before the Fed
announcement. “I don’t see much upside for oil from a
fundamental point of view, but if equity markets go up due to
more stimulus, oil will follow.”  Chinese Growth  Leaders of  China ’s ruling Communist Party pledged yesterday
to ensure stable growth and ECB President  Mario Draghi  vowed
last week to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro.  Europe’s debt crisis has reduced economic growth and the
continent’s energy demand over the past two years. The crisis
that began in Greece has spread to Ireland,  Portugal , Italy,
Spain and Cyprus.  “The European debt has reduced economic activity in the
region, which has reduced demand for U.S. and Chinese exports,”
Hodge said. “This weakness has caused demand to slow in the
U.S. and China. This has become a vicious cycle.”  Companies in the U.S. added more workers than projected in
July, a private report showed. The 163,000 increase in
employment followed a revised 172,000 gain the prior month,
Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Employer Services said today. The
median estimate of 38 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for an advance of 120,000.  U.S. Manufacturing  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  for the
U.S. rose to 49.8 in July from 49.7 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said.  “The fundamentals don’t support prices going much
higher,” said Marshall Berol, co-portfolio manager of the
Encompass Fund in  San Francisco , which has about $300 million in
assets. “The  U.S. economy  has very modest growth and Europe is
slowing. We need to see increasing growth for prices to rally.”  The U.S. was the biggest crude-consuming country last year,
responsible for 21 percent of demand, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy released in June. The 27
members of the European Union accounted for 16 percent of global
oil demand in 2011, BP said.  Fuel prices also gained after the government report showed
that supplies of gasoline and distillate fuel, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, declined. Gasoline  inventories 
fell 2.17 million barrels to 207.9 million last week. Stockpiles
of  distillate fuel  slipped 974,000 barrels to 124.3 million.  Gasoline Rally  Gasoline for September delivery advanced 5.99 cents, or 2.2
percent, to settle at $2.8342 a gallon in  New York . Heating oil
for September delivery increased 1.08 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$2.8588 a gallon.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 507,804
contracts as of 4:05 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 521,322
contracts yesterday, 6.6 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  