-- Olympus Refers Possible Corrupt Practice Incident to U.S.
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2012-08-01T07:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/olympus-sees-violation-of-laws-possible-with-disclosure-to-u-s-.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the world’s largest
maker of endoscopes, uncovered “irregularities” at a doctor-
training program in  Brazil  that may have violated U.S. law and
reported them to the  Department of Justice , Chairman Yasuyuki Kimoto said. The DOJ is also examining the company’s marketing
operations in the U.S., he said.  “We might agree to some sort of violation of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act in Brazil,” Kimoto said in his first
interview since becoming chairman in April. “We understand DOJ
is trying to gather lots of information on us.”  At issue in Brazil may be the way the company handled
doctors’ expenses for travel, meals or entertainment, Kimoto
said in a July 23 interview. The country accounts for less than
2.5 percent of the company’s sales. The two enquiries come after
revelations of a 13-year accounting fraud sparked a sell-off
that wiped about $3.7 billion off its market value last year.  Tokyo-based Olympus restated  earnings  last year after
admitting it paid inflated fees on takeovers and overpaid for
three Japanese companies to conceal past investment losses. That
may be why the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  and the Justice
Department, which oversee compliance in the medical industry,
are asking about the company’s marketing operations, Kimoto
said.  “It’s quite natural if they think how to protect
themselves from this kind of situation,” said Kimoto, a former
banker at  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Olympus’s main
lender. “It is not surprising if they pay their attention or
take more scrutiny against us.”  Justice Department  Olympus plunged 6.8 percent, the most since Dec. 19, to
1,380 yen at the close in Tokyo trading. The  shares  have gained
36 percent this year.  The enquiries into Olympus’ U.S. marketing operations may
be part of a wider probe, according to Kimoto.  “We don’t know yet whether it’s just for us or the medical
industry as a whole,” he said.  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
declined to comment on Kimoto’s statements. Sarah Clark-Lynn, a
spokeswoman for FDA, didn’t respond to requests for comment.  The  Justice Department  has already conducted an
investigation into other medical-device companies. In March,
Biomet Inc., a closely held maker of medical devices, agreed to
pay $22.9 million to settle U.S. accusations it bribed foreign
doctors to win business.  Brazil “Irregularities”  Smith & Nephew Plc, Europe’s biggest maker of artificial
hips and knees, agreed in February to pay $22.2 million to
settle allegations by the Justice Department and the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it engaged in a scheme
to pay bribes in  Greece .  The company discovered “some irregularities in our
activities” at its Brazilian training center and reported the
incidents to the Justice Department, said Kimoto, who joined the
company’s  board  in April. The way training services were
provided may have violated regulations, he said. The reporting
was filed in October, according to Osamu Kobayashi, a Tokyo-
based spokesman for Olympus.  “I’m not saying we paid them cash or bribes. If we give
them some sort of a training course and not expensively, then
that might cause a problem, right?”  North America  is Olympus’  biggest  overseas market,
accounting for about 19 percent of revenue in the year ended
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
made 2.5 percent of its revenue in Central America,  South
America  and  Africa , according to the data.  Internal Compliance  Olympus, which replaced its entire board in April, is
strengthening its internal compliance measures by adding
channels for whistle-blowers and setting up a compliance
committee led by an external director, the company said May 22.  The medical unit  is Olympus’s biggest profit generator,
accounting for 68 billion yen ($870 million) of operating income
in the year ended March 31, according to the company. The
imaging systems unit, which makes Olympus PEN cameras, lost 10.8
billion yen during the year, according to a company financial
statement.  The  FCPA  bars corporate employees or their agents from
paying bribes to government officials to obtain or retain
business or to secure an improper advantage.  The law applies to certain foreign issuers of securities.
U.S. investors can purchase American depositary receipts in the
company. Olympus also has a subsidiary based in Center Valley,
 Pennsylvania .  Jurisdiction  The Justice Department may have jurisdiction to investigate
Olympus if it concludes that a U.S.-based subsidiary is a
“domestic concern” with a principal place of business in the
U.S., said Cheryl Scarboro, a partner at Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP in Washington.  “Having a subsidiary in the U.S. that was involved in
potential illegal conduct may be sufficient to give the Justice
Department jurisdiction under the FCPA,” said Scarboro, former
chief of the FCPA unit at the SEC.  The law also may apply if acts to further a bribery scheme
occurred in the  United States , such as using a U.S. bank account
or having e-mails or faxes pass through the U.S., said Mike
Koehler, assistant professor at Southern  Illinois  University
School of Law in Carbondale, Illinois.  The company is trying to expand its endoscope market in
 Latin America ,  India  and Eastern  Europe , Kimoto said.  Cutting Jobs  Olympus filed a criminal complaint with Seoul prosecutors
against Bang Il Seok, the former head of its South Korean unit,
on July 27, the company said in a statement today. The former
official was fired in June.  The company is cutting 2,700 jobs, about 7 percent of its
workforce, by March 2014, it said in June. Most of the jobs
being eliminated are in overseas manufacturing, President
Hiroyuki Sasa said in June. The company will close a plant in
the  Philippines  this year and reorganize others, it said June 8.  Olympus is  projecting  net income of 7 billion yen for the
year started April 1, compared with a 49 billion-yen loss a year
earlier. Operating profit may be 50 billion yen, up from 35.5
billion yen a year earlier, the company said June 8.  The stock rallied the most in six months on July 26 after
 Terumo Corp. (4543)  disclosed that it made a merger offer to Olympus.
Terumo, Asia’s biggest maker of medical devices, also plans to
invest 50 billion yen in Olympus.  Terumo currently is the  10th-largest shareholder  of Olympus
with a 2 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Olympus is also in discussions with  Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Fujifilm
Holdings Corp. (4901)  about possible capital tie-ups, Kimoto said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  