-- Olympic Badminton Players Banned Over Deliberate Poor Play
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-08-01T16:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/olympic-badminton-players-banned-because-of-deliberate-poor-play.html
Eight badminton players who
deliberately performed poorly in matches have been thrown out of
the  London  Olympics, a rare disqualification at the games for
athletes failing to try their best.  The Chinese, South Korean and Indonesian players, who were
competing in the women’s doubles yesterday, drew a caution from
the umpire and jeers from spectators at Wembley Arena in London
during their matches. They were disqualified today after a five-
hour meeting of the Badminton World Federation’s four-member
disciplinary committee at a hotel near the venue.  The teams may have been trying to lose so they could avoid
more difficult opponents in the quarterfinals, when the
competition moves to a knockout stage. The teams had already
qualified out of the group competition, which was new in this
year’s Olympics.  “Everybody is required to play their best every time they
go on court,” Thomas Lund, the federation’s secretary general,
said at a press conference today. “I don’t think this will
affect our status as an Olympic sport. We had a single
incident.”  The teams were charged with “not using one’s best efforts
to win a match” and “conducting oneself in a manner that is
clearly abusive or detrimental to the sport,” the federation
said in an e-mailed statement.  Top Seeds  The world champions and top seeds, Yu Yang, 26, and Wang
Xiaoli, 23, from  China , and South Korea’s Jung Kyung-Eun, 22,
and Kim Ha-Na, 22, were warned by officials because they
appeared to deliberately serve into the net. A second South
Korean pair, the third-seeded Ha Jung Eun 25, and Kim Min Jung,
26, and  Indonesia ’s Meiliana Jauhari and Greysia Polii, 24, have
also been disqualified.  The badminton federation said at a news conference it had
rejected appeals from the two South Korean teams and that an
Indonesian appeal had been withdrawn. China didn’t appeal it’s
athletes’ expulsions.  Chinese Olympic officials said in a statement that they
“fully respect” the expulsion of their athletes.  “The behavior of Yu Yang and Wang Xiao violated the
principles of the Olympic Movement and went against the spirit
of fair play,” the Chinese delegation said in the statement
released through the Xinhua news service. “It hurt our
hearts.”  South Korea  defeated China in the Group A match 2-0 to set
up a meeting with another Chinese pair, Tian Quing and Zhao
Yunlei. By losing, Yu and Wang had avoided playing their Chinese
compatriots until the final.  ‘Depressing’ Outcome  “It’s depressing, who wants to sit through something like
that?” Sebastian Coe, chairman of the London organizing
committee, told reporters at the Olympic Park. “The badminton
federation will take it very seriously.”  The match referee warned the players at 14-10 in the first
game. Tournament referee Torsten Berg of  Denmark  was called and
told the teams that they faced punishment if they didn’t compete
properly. South Korea head coach Sung Han Kook placed the blame
with the Chinese pair.  “It’s not like the Olympics spirit to play like this,”
Sung said at London’s Wembley Arena. “How could the No. 1 pair
in the world play like this? They start playing mistakes.”  Yu, Wang, Jung and Kim were booed by the crowd as they
exited after the South Korean pair won 21-14, 21-11.  Save Energy  Yu told journalists that she and her partner were already
through and were conserving energy for the elimination stage.  “If we’re not playing the best, it’s because it doesn’t
matter,” she said. “The most important thing is the
elimination match.”  In 2003, Yang Wei and Zhang Jiewen were found guilty of
fixing the result of their quarterfinal at badminton’s World
Championship for not trying in the second game of their defeat
to eventual champions and fellow Chinese Gao Ling and Huang Sui,
the British Broadcasting Corp. Said. Although the pair was
reprimanded, no other punishment was given, the  BBC  said at the
time.  The Japanse women’s soccer team, the World Cup champion,
rested players in a 0-0 draw against  South Africa  yesterday in
Cardiff, Wales.  Japan  already had qualified for the knockout
round and the tie, rather than a win, means it will stay in
Cardiff against Britain or  Brazil  rather than have to travel to
Glasgow,  Scotland , to face  France  or the U.S., the team it beat
for the world championship a year ago.  ‘Coach’s Instructions’  “It was the coach’s instruction that we wanted to stay in
Cardiff and come second in the group, so I knew that the bench
were getting information about the other match and I had been
told,” Japanese player Azusa Iwashimizu said in comments on the
Olympic News service. “So it was difficult to play, but I
understood his idea because it is something we needed to do in
order to get a medal.”  Coach Norio Sasaki said Japan didn’t field its best squad.  “Today I have replaced several of the players compared to
the last match as I wanted to give a chance to all 18 players,
to let them experience the Olympics,” Sasaki said.  There has been at least one other disqualification of
Olympic athletes for failing to compete at their fullest,
according to David Wallechinsky, a historian of the games and a
commentator in London for NBC Radio.  In 1924, Italian fencers were accused by judges of
conspiring to help Oreste Puliti win a saber competition by
having three teammates intentionally lose to him to inflate his
score, Wallechinsky, president of the International Society of
Olympic Historians, said in a telephone interview.  Judge Threatened  Puliti threatened to cane the Hungarian judge, Gyorgy
Kovacs, and was disqualified.  Puliti confronted Kovacs a few days later and the two
eventually agreed to a duel.  “They fought a real duel with real swords and slashed away
at each other, and then they shook hands and made up,”
Wallechinsky said. “Blood was drawn.”  In 1960, also in saber, there was an accusation of a match
being thrown, though judges decided it was a legitimate contest,
Wallechinsky said.  The format of the Olympic Badminton tournament was changed
this year to allow spectators to see more of the top players,
IOC spokesman  Mark Adams  said today.  “This is a new format, they moved from a knock-out to a
round robin to allow the best players and all the players to be
seen more often, to play more games,” Adams told reporters.
“It has been tested out and it has worked very well up to now.
We had good reassurances that this would work.”  No Choice  The badminton federation had no choice but to disqualify
the athletes, according to Lisa Delpy Neirotti, a sports
management professor at George  Washington  University in
Washington who has attended 16 Olympics.  “They had to do it,” she said in a telephone interview.
“Otherwise there would continue to be fixed matches and
unethical behavior. When the athletes take the Olympic oath it
says that they’re going to be playing to the best of their
ability and not cheating. This is a form of unethical behavior,
trying to lose in order to gain a competitive advantage.”  There have been controversies in other sports with teams
not trying hard enough to please the crowds.  In the 1982 soccer  World Cup ,  West Germany  and  Austria 
were booed off the field after the Germans won 1-0. The Germans
needed a win to progress from the group stage, and the Austrians
were already through, as long as they didn’t lose by more than
four goals.  No Chance  After the Germans scored in the 11th minute, the two teams
failed to create a chance in the rest of the game. The result
meant  Algeria  failed to advance to the next round.  In London, badminton players said that the punishment was
too harsh, and blamed the setup of the competition. Lin Dan of
China said his compatriots deserved another chance, saying other
teams were using similar tactics.  “Don’t hate the player, hate the game,” Jan Jorgensen of
Denmark after losing his match in the men’s singles today.
“It’s the fault of the BWF, it’s the setup.”  Paul Deighton, chief executive officer of the London
organizing committee, said people who attended the matches won’t
get their tickets refunded.  “They did get to see another game, it wasn’t a one off
game, and as far as I know no one has asked for a refund,”
Deighton told reporters today. “If you get into that territory
it’s very gray and dangerous territory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at the London Olympic Park at   celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  