-- Olympics Hurt London Store Sales as Shoppers Stay Away From City
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-08-01T10:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/olympics-hurt-london-store-sales-as-shoppers-stay-away-from-city.html
The  Olympic Games  is reducing sales
for central London retailers as shoppers and tourists heed
advice to avoid the city, according to the chief executive
officer of  Next Plc. (NXT)   “The effect is definitely negative” in terms of sales,
Simon Wolfson said today in a telephone interview after Next
reported first-half revenue growth that beat  analyst estimates 
and increased its full-year profit forecast.  Wolfson’s admission comes a day after researcher Experian
said London store visits slumped on the opening two days of the
games, which started July 27. The decline in shopper numbers
will disappoint retailers in the city, who had expected
excitement surrounding the games and a related increase in
tourism to help revive sales that are struggling amid the U.K.
double-dip recession and stalling  consumer confidence .  “The Olympics were positioned in the long run to be a
boost to the economy and the retail sector,” said  Bryan Roberts , director at Kantar Retail. “But a lot of anecdotes
like Next suggest stores are seeing much lower traffic.”  London is suffering from a “displacement effect,” with
many locals choosing to work from home and Middle Eastern
tourists, typically big spenders over summer, avoiding the city
after warnings from transport authorities of travel congestion
during the games, said Jace Tyrrell, a spokesman for  The New
West End Co ., which represents 600 retailers in the area.  As many as 1 million extra visitors are expected each day
during the games, making 3 million journeys on public transport
in addition to the usual 12 million, according to  Transport for
London.  Access to the city’s streets is limited during the
Olympics, with 30 miles of Games Lanes restricted to athletes,
officials and the media from 6 a.m. to midnight.  ‘Negative Publicity’  “The negative publicity around public transport has been
very effective, but probably too effective” for the capital’s
retailers, said Kantar’s Roberts.  The number of visitors to stores in West London fell 10.4
percent from a year earlier on July 27, the day of the Olympics
opening ceremony, and 11.6 percent on July 28, according to
Experian. In East London, where the Olympic stadium is located,
store visits declined 7.2 percent on July 27.  “It is negative for the two weeks of the Olympics, our
central London stores will suffer,” said Next’s Wolfson. Online
 sales  at the U.K.’s second-largest clothing retailer are also
impeded around major events, he said.  Business in the West End shopping district has shown some
improvement since the weekend, according to Tyrell, though mid-
market retailers in particular have been suffering, he said.  Late Boost?  Tourists in London for the Olympics will start shopping at
the end of the games, Tyrrell forecast, while the Olympic
“family” of officials and sponsors will be attracted by the
mix of luxury and mid-market brands in the capital, he said.  “We knew it would be a different trading pattern,”
Tyrrell said. “All the hotels are booked up with corporates who
are big spenders.”  To be sure, John Lewis Plc, the U.K department-store chain
which sells official Olympic merchandise, said sales doubled
last week at its Stratford store near the athletics stadium, as
it sold mementos such as toy mascots, key rings and pin badges.
Athletes staying in the nearby village have also been in,
according to store managing director Noel Saunders.  “To make their stay at the Olympic village even more
comfortable, we’ve sold high numbers of door stops, coffee
machines and doormats,” Saunders said.  Next’s Wolfson said the slowdown in central  London  shopping
isn’t representative of the country as a whole.  “We’re only talking about central London, that’s the only
part that’s being affected,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  