-- Rich Guy Broke, Meltdown, Camden Beach: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-08-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/olympic-mania-art-car-chariots-of-fire-london-weekend.html
Meltdown, one of London’s cooler
festivals, raises the stakes with a stellar roster this year:
 Lou Reed  and his other half  Laurie Anderson  are joined by
 Diamanda Galas , Marc Almond and Buffy Sainte-Marie.  The singers are all admired by this year’s festival curator
 Antony , of Antony and the Johnsons, whose predecessors included
 Patti Smith ,  David Bowie  and Ray Davies, no less.  A welcome break from the goings-on at the Olympic Park,
Friday’s concerts feature Anderson, Galas and Joan Wasser, whose
albums, under the Joan as Policewoman name, have won acclaim.
Information:  http://www.southbankcentre.co.uk .  For Olympics junkies, BT London Live has set up giant
screens in parks where the music is interspersed with sports.
The Hyde Park lineup has Amy Macdonald and Cast on Friday. The
 Victoria Park  shows are headlined by Soul II Soul on Saturday.  Information:  http://www.btlondonlive.com/   Saturday  The Olympic cauldron was one feature of the July 27 opening
ceremony that pretty much everybody liked.  Its inventive designer, Thomas Heatherwick, has his first
solo exhibition at the Victoria & Albert museum. Though it’s
small and packed with maquettes and vitrines, it references his
other eye-catching creations: the porcupine-like U.K. pavilion
for Shanghai Expo  China , and the back end of the new London
Routemaster double-decker bus.  At the V&A through Sept. 30. Information:
 http://www.vam.ac.uk  or +44-20-7942-2508.  Saturday Night  The global financial crisis might as well have been
scripted by  William Shakespeare .  In “Timon of Athens” -- the play he co-wrote four
centuries ago with Thomas Middleton, now in a National Theatre
staging --a swaggering philanthropist famous for throwing lavish
parties runs out of cash and, just as quickly, out of friends.  Director  Nicholas Hytner  makes the play all the more
current by setting it in 21st-century London. The parliament
building and the HSBC tower are backdrops. The bankers get
tough. And when the impoverished Timon takes up class warfare,
he turns into one of the Occupy London anti-capitalist activists
who camped out in the capital earlier this year.  The clever production gets a further boost from actor Simon Russell Beale in the title role.  “Timon of  Athens ” is in repertory at the National Theatre
through Nov. 1, and the final performance will be broadcast live
in the U.K. and internationally. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000.  Wahaca’s South Bank Experiment is a temporary eatery built
from eight recycled shipping containers outside Queen Elizabeth
Hall. It has great river views, and each month has new Mexican
dishes that might make it onto the menu in Wahaca restaurants.
Information:  http://bit.ly/Nhyzs3  or +44-20-7928-1876.  Sunday  If you’re looking to relax on a beach somewhere, northwest
London could be an option.  The circular Roundhouse in Camden Town has dumped 150 tons
of sand on its wrap-around terrace to create a mini-Riviera. You
can settle in a deck chair, play badminton or check out the
margarita shack.  It all sounds great -- if the skies over  London  cooperate.
Camden Beach lasts all of July and August. Information:
 http://www.roundhouse.org.uk  or +44-844-482-8008.  Made in Camden, inside the Roundhouse, is a good eat-and-
drink place. The chef used to work for Yotam Ottolenghi, the
restaurateur known for his light, seasonal cooking. Plates to
share include hake tempura and fig pannacotta. You can also opt
for the weekend brunch. Information:  http://www.madeincamden.com 
or +44-20-7424-9992.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 