-- Home-Price Gains Make Mortgage Rates a Bargain: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-08-01T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/home-price-gains-make-mortgage-rates-a-bargain-chart-of-the-day.html
Single-family  home prices  are
increasing fast enough in the U.S. to justify taking on debt for
purchases, according to Liz Ann Sonders, Charles Schwab Corp.’s
chief investment strategist.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks a version of what Sonders
called a “real” mortgage rate in a commentary two days ago.
The rate was calculated by subtracting the year-to-year
percentage change in the median price of single-family homes, as
compiled by the National Association of Realtors, from  Freddie
Mac ’s average rate on 30-year fixed mortgages.  Since April, the real rate has been negative. The reading
in June was minus 4.3 percent, the lowest since 2005, when the
U.S. was in the middle of a housing boom. June’s median price
was $190,100, a gain of 8 percent from a year earlier.  “It makes sense again to borrow to buy a house,” Sonders
wrote in her  commentary  on Schwab’s website. That wasn’t the
case three years ago, when the housing market’s collapse sent
the price-adjusted rate as high as 22 percent, the New York-
based strategist added.  Freddie Mac’s 30-year mortgage rate dropped last week to
3.49 percent, a record. That was 17 basis points lower than the
average at the end of June, which was used to determine the real
rate for the month. Each basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Another plus for housing is that new households are
starting faster than new homes are being finished, Sonders
wrote. About 750,000 households are forming at an annual rate,
according to a February estimate from  Mark Zandi , chief
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
Pennsylvania. Builders completed 447,000 single-family houses
last year, according to the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  