-- Monsanto’s $1 Billion Patent Claim Against DuPont Nears End
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y   a n d   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-01T15:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/monsanto-s-1-billion-patent-claim-against-dupont-to-go-to-jury.html
Monsanto Co.’s claim that  DuPont (DD)  Co.
owes $1 billion for infringing a patent on herbicide-tolerant
crops and a counterclaim the patent was obtained through
deception will go to a jury after lawyers present closing
arguments today.  The trial, in its fourth week in federal court in  St.
Louis , revolves around Monsanto’s patent for making Roundup
Ready crops, a technology at the heart of its $13.7 billion in
 annual revenue . Farmers have embraced the technology because it
allows them to kill weeds with Roundup herbicide while leaving
crops unscathed.  Monsanto argued at the trial that DuPont had no right to
make hundreds of lines of soybeans that combine the Roundup
Ready trait with a similar DuPont technology known as GAT.
Monsanto says that patent infringement is worth $1 billion. In
response, DuPont has argued St. Louis-based Monsanto deceived
the government to obtain the patent, rendering it unenforceable.  “If the jury finds in favor of Monsanto, we remain status
quo in the industry,” said Jeff Windau, an analyst with  Edward
Jones  in St. Louis, who has a hold rating on Monsanto and a buy
rating on DuPont. “If it goes in favor of DuPont, that really
sets up a series of new products that can enter the market.
DuPont would be one of the first beneficiaries.”  The companies are the two largest in the $34 billion
commercial seed market, which includes $13.3 billion of
genetically modified seeds.  Roundup Ready  The Roundup Ready trait is engineered into more than 95
percent of soybeans, largely through licensing agreements,
generating $22 billion of revenue in the past eight years for
Monsanto and the more than 200 seed companies that license the
technology, George C. Lombardi, a Chicago-based Monsanto
attorney with Winston & Strawn LLP, told the jury in opening
arguments on July 10.  The technology in that time drove $6 billion in soybean
seed sales for Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, he said.  Monsanto sued in 2009 to block DuPont from adding the
Roundup Ready trait to its GAT soybean seeds, which are
engineered to tolerate so-called ALS herbicides and glyphosate,
the active ingredient in Roundup. Adding a second glyphosate-
tolerance gene to Roundup Ready crops is prohibited by the
companies’ licensing agreement, U.S. District Judge Richard Webber previously ruled.  ‘End Run’  “It would be a bigger loss for DuPont because of the
implication that their GAT trait wasn’t successful and they were
just trying to do an end run around that failure,” said  Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co.,
who doesn’t believe DuPont’s argument will succeed.  John Soper, a DuPont vice president, testified that the
company in 2008 produced hundreds of soybean lines combining the
Roundup Ready trait with its GAT trait. That means DuPont will
have had unauthorized use of Roundup Ready for six years before
the patent expires in 2014, resulting in damages of $800 million
to $1 billion, Lombardi said.  Monsanto has switched more than three-fourths of its
branded soybean sales to Roundup Ready 2, which is covered by a
new patent, the company said June 27. DuPont, Monsanto’s largest
licensee, hasn’t agreed to use the new trait in its soybeans.  Combining Traits  DuPont claimed during the trial that Monsanto sued only
after it was shown data that the two genes work better than
either GAT or Roundup Ready alone. DuPont argues there was
nothing wrong with making the combination because Monsanto’s
Roundup Ready patent is invalid and unenforceable.  The patent was initially issued in 1997, based on a 1994
application. In 2003, Monsanto asked the  U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office  to reissue the patent to correct what it said
was an inadvertent mixing of patent claims from 1990 and 1994
applications.  DuPont contends Monsanto did that to mislead the patent
office so the agency wouldn’t discover it was trying to hide
information that might have blocked the patent.  DuPont claims Monsanto misled the patent office about which
gene makes Roundup Ready function to obscure the invention’s
similarity to a trait developed by Calgene Inc., a competitor at
the time.  “It was intentional because Monsanto didn’t want people to
know what was inside the bag, what was inside the seed,” Leora Ben-Ami, a New York-based DuPont lawyer with Kirkland & Ellis
LLP, told the jury on July 10. “Monsanto didn’t want people to
know how the seed was made.”  Reissued Patent  Monsanto learned of the vulnerability of the patent when it
sued farmers over unauthorized use of the seeds, DuPont said
during the trial. When Monsanto applied for a reissued patent,
it also failed to properly tell the agency it already held a
similar patent in  Europe , violating U.S. disclosure rules,
DuPont claims.  Janelle Waack, a patent lawyer for Monsanto who handled the
reissue application, and other Monsanto witnesses testified that
there was nothing improper about the applications. The reissue
made the European patent irrelevant, Waack said. All similar
inventions were disclosed and the correct genetic sequence was
referenced in all patent applications, according to Monsanto
testimony.  Shaw predicts Monsanto and DuPont will ultimately settle
their differences.  Reaching Agreement  “They’re going to reach some mutually beneficial agreement
even if one loses the trial,” said Shaw, who has a neutral
rating on Monsanto shares and doesn’t rate DuPont. “Ultimately
both need each other, given the market share.”  DuPont also claimed in a 2009 lawsuit that Monsanto uses
monopoly power to stifle innovation, restricting use of the
Roundup Ready trait while making it difficult for  other
companies  to develop a competing trait. Those antitrust claims
have been split off into a separate case, with a trial scheduled
for April.  Monsanto filed another suit against DuPont and its Pioneer
Hi-Bred unit in June, accusing it of infringing patents over a
way to develop new seeds more quickly and with fewer failures.
The dispute is over a process known as seed chipping, which
enables the automated sampling of genetic material from seeds
without harming their viability. Pioneer has a pending case
against Monsanto, filed in 2011, over ways to produce corn
seeds.  The case is  Monsanto Co. (MON)  v. E.I. duPont de Nemours & Co.,
09cv686, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
 Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  