-- Monsanto Awarded $1 Billion Against DuPont by Jury
-- B y   J o e   W h i t t i n g t o n ,   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-02T13:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/monsanto-awarded-1-billion-against-dupont-by-jury.html
Monsanto Co. was awarded $1 billion,
the biggest U.S. jury verdict this year, in a patent-
infringement trial against  DuPont Co. (DD)  over seeds for growing
herbicide-tolerant soybeans.  DuPont fell 1.14 percent to $49.37 today in early  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Monsanto rose 1.2 percent to
$87.46 on the NYSE.  The verdict was the fourth-largest jury award in a patent
trial in U.S. history, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The largest patent verdict, for $1.7 billion, was awarded in
2009 against  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  in a case involving the
arthritis drug Humira and was later reversed on appeal.  The panel of five women and three men in federal court in
 St. Louis  began their deliberations yesterday and returned 45
minutes later with the verdict against DuPont, ending a four-
week trial.  The trial revolved around Monsanto’s patent for making
Roundup Ready crops, a technology at the heart of its $13.7
billion in annual revenue. Farmers have embraced the technology
because it allows them to kill weeds with Roundup herbicide
while leaving crops unscathed.  The companies are the two biggest in the $34 billion
commercial seed market, which includes $13.3 billion of
genetically modified seeds.  “This verdict highlights that all companies that make
early and substantial investments in developing cutting edge
technology will have their intellectual property rights upheld
and fairly valued,” Monsanto General Counsel David Snively said
in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Fundamental Errors’  DuPont said in a statement that it strongly disagrees with
the verdict and will appeal it.  “There were several fundamental errors in the case which
deprived the jury of important facts and arguments and led to
the disappointing outcome,” DuPont said in the statement.
“DuPont will appeal at the earliest possible opportunity and
expects to overturn this verdict.”  The jury’s finding that DuPont’s infringement was willful
means the damages could yet be increased, according to
Monsanto’s statement.  Lawyers for St. Louis-based Monsanto argued at the trial
that DuPont had no right to make hundreds of lines of soybeans
combining the Roundup Ready trait with a similar DuPont
technology known as GAT.  DuPont, based in Wilmington,  Delaware , countered that
Monsanto deceived the government to obtain the patent, rendering
it unenforceable.  ‘Common Sense’  “You need to use your common sense,” Leora Ben-Ami, a
DuPont lawyer, said in her summation. “If they had nothing to
hide, why did they hide it. These rules are not made to be
broken.”  The Roundup Ready trait is engineered into more than 95
percent of soybeans, largely through licensing agreements,
generating $22 billion in revenue in the past eight years for
Monsanto and the more than 200 seed companies that license the
technology, George C. Lombardi, a partner in Chicago-based
Winston & Strawn LLP, told the jury July 10 in opening
statements.  Monsanto sued in 2009 to block DuPont from adding the
Roundup Ready trait to its GAT soybean seeds, which are
engineered to tolerate so-called ALS herbicides and glyphosate,
the active ingredient in Roundup. Adding a second glyphosate-
tolerance gene to Roundup Ready crops is prohibited by the
companies’ licensing agreement, U.S. District Judge Richard
Webber previously ruled.  At trial, DuPont claimed Monsanto sued only after it was
shown data that the two genes work better than either GAT or
Roundup Ready alone. DuPont argued there was nothing wrong with
making the combination because Monsanto’s Roundup Ready patent
is invalid and unenforceable.  Settlement Offer  Monsanto offered to settle the lawsuit during the trial by
giving DuPont the opportunity to license its technology.  “The interesting part of the award was the speed of the
decision,” Jeff Windau, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward
Jones & Co., said yesterday in an e-mail. “Obviously Monsanto
put forth some compelling evidence.”  He rates DuPont shares a buy and Monsanto a hold.  The patent was initially issued in 1997, based on a 1994
application. In 2003, Monsanto asked the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  to reissue the patent to correct what it said
was an inadvertent mixing of patent claims from 1990 and 1994
applications.  DuPont contended Monsanto did that to mislead the patent
office so the agency wouldn’t discover it was trying to hide
information that might have blocked the patent.  ‘Inside the Bag’  “Monsanto didn’t want people to know what was inside the
bag, what was inside the seed,” Ben-Ami, a New York-based
lawyer with Kirkland & Ellis LLP, told the jury in her July 10
opening remarks. “Monsanto didn’t want people to know how the
seed was made.”  She returned to that theme again yesterday in her closing
argument.  “When Monsanto went to reissue its patent it was not to
correct an error, it was a strategy, an attempt to lengthen its
exclusivity,” Ben-Ami told the jurors.  Rebutting, Lombardi asked the panel for $800 million to $1
billion in royalties.  “They should pay the license fee,” he said. “If you
infringe, you take over the license. They infringed and they
have to pay for it.”  The case is  Monsanto Co. (MON)  v.  E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. ,
09-cv-686, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Missouri 
(St. Louis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Whittington in federal court in St. Louis;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  