-- Monti Bets on Banking License for Rescue Fund in Poke at Germany
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-08-01T22:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/monti-says-rescue-fund-will-win-bank-license-gaining-ecb-access.html
Italy ’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said the permanent rescue fund will gain access to European
Central Bank liquidity via a bank license, challenging German
policy makers to back more actions to tame the euro-area crisis.  “I think this would help, I think this will in due course
occur,” Monti said in Helsinki yesterday at a news conference
with Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen . Monti’s assertion
was a rebuff to Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet hours after
ministers meeting in Berlin hardened their opposition to
granting the planned bailout fund access to the ECB’s resources.  Monti is prodding colleagues across Europe to back his
fight to lower the borrowing costs that investors are imposing
on Italy and  Spain . In travels from Paris to Helsinki and on to
 Madrid  today, where he will meet with Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy , Monti is seeking to bridge a north-south divide
on crisis fighting and capitalize on a pledge by ECB President
 Mario Draghi  to do whatever it takes to defend the euro.  Monti and Katainen both declined to say what they wanted to
hear from Draghi today after a meeting of ECB policy makers,
with the Italian premier urging central bankers to show equal
respect for ECB independence.  He spoke after Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann said the
ECB shouldn’t exceed its inflation-fighting mandate and stressed
 Germany ’s importance in setting common strategy in the 17-nation
euro area, according to an interview conducted in June and
posted on the Bundesbank’s website yesterday.  ‘Degree of Respect’  “I only wish by the way that all components within the
European system of central banks displayed the same degree of
respect for the independence of the ECB as heads of governments
do,” Monti told reporters.  Almost three years since the sovereign debt crisis surfaced
in  Greece , Monti is leading efforts to coax Europe into
strengthening its bailout capacity and help lower bond yields
that have surged to euro-era records. President  Barack Obama 
called Monti July 30 and “reiterated his support for decisive
action to resolve the crisis,” according to a White House
statement.  German benchmark bunds fell yesterday, with 10-year yields
rising the most in a month to 1.37 percent, as demand for safety
eased. Italy’s 10 year-bond yield fell 15 basis points to 5.93
percent at 6:06 p.m. in  Rome . That’s still more than 1
percentage point higher than in early March and 464 basis points
more than similar-maturity German debt. Spain’s 10-year bond
yield fell 2 basis points to 6.73 percent.  German Stomach  “The question is whether the Germans and the Finns have
the stomach for a much looser ECB policy that is more suited to
the south, and so far we haven’t seen much appetite for that,”
Jonathan Tepper, a partner at London-based investment research
firm Variant Perception, said by phone. “Neither seems to want
to budge.”  Italy might want Europe’s rescue funds and the ECB to buy
its bonds, Monti told Finnish newspaper  Helsingin Sanomat  in an
interview, stressing that the country doesn’t need a bailout.
“We’re thinking of a possible intervention in various
combinations,” involving the temporary rescue fund, the
permanent European Stability Mechanism and the ECB, he said.  Markets are awaiting the establishment of the 500 billion-
euro ($615 billion) ESM, which is on hold pending a decision by
Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court, set for Sept. 12.  While Monti has found common cause on stepping up efforts
to resolve the crisis with Rajoy of Spain and French President
 Francois Hollande , leaders in Germany and  Finland  have proven
less willing to commit more help.  Berlin Cabinet  Merkel and her Cabinet ministers ruled out any move to
grant the ESM a banking license, a proposal that would allow the
fund to wield unlimited firepower, Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said.  “The chancellor and we have discussed it and we are united
that a bank license cannot be our way,” Roesler, who is also
vice chancellor, told reporters in Berlin after he stood in for
Merkel at the weekly Cabinet meeting. Merkel is on vacation.
“Fiscal discipline and economic reforms have to be the way
forward,” Roesler said. “Other ways are not suitable.”  Leaders in AAA rated Finland, the northernmost euro member,
have been no more accommodating. Finland demanded collateral for
Greece’s second bailout last year and has since insisted it will
only contribute to Spain’s banking rescue if it gets similar
security. Finland also wants rescue funds to come with strict
terms such as austerity and burden sharing for bondholders.  ‘Very Critical’  “We have been very critical on secondary market operations
by rescue funds as we don’t believe that’s the right way to use
money,” Katainen said. Still, he said the situation in the
sovereign bond markets is “not normal,” and “some sort of
European solution” was needed.  The past month has seen some evidence of a rapprochement
between northern and southern euro members, with German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  voicing his support for Spain’s
austerity drive after Rajoy unveiled a fourth package of cuts
since taking office in December.  Monti and Merkel are both pushing for rapid implementation
of a June European summit agreement that would ease the purchase
of distressed sovereign debt by the region’s rescue funds. He
and Merkel agreed the decisions must be put in place “as
quickly as possible” after speaking by phone on July 28.  Katainen, describing his meeting with Monti as
“extraordinary,” called for more time to assess what countries
have done to reform their economies. Monti, praising Finland as
an example to Italy, said while policy makers must tackle bond
spreads, “we must by all means avoid spreads between
mentalities and spreads between feelings” in  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  