-- Mortgage Writedowns, Tar Sands Loophole, SEC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-01T12:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/mortgage-writedowns-tar-sands-loophole-sec-compliance.html
Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  won’t
forgive principal on delinquent mortgages they guarantee even as
the U.S. Treasury Department is offering incentive payments for
writedowns, the companies’ regulator said.  Months of analysis showed there would be no clear benefit
to taxpayers if the Federal Housing Finance Agency were to
change its longstanding policy barring the government-owned
mortgage-finance companies from loan modifications that include
debt writedowns, Edward J. DeMarco, the agency’s acting
director, said yesterday said at a briefing with reporters.  The decision comes after months of mounting pressure to
reverse the policy from activist groups and congressional
Democrats, who touted it as a way to keep more families from
losing their homes to foreclosure. FHFA has been in discussions
since January with Treasury officials, who offered Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac as much as 63 cents for each dollar of principal
reduction, using unspent funds from the Troubled Asset Relief
Program.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  criticized the
decision in a letter to DeMarco, saying the use of targeting
principal reductions would provide “much-needed help to a
significant number of troubled homeowners.”  DeMarco released a detailed analysis showing that under
most scenarios, even while there might be a net benefit to the
government-sponsored enterprises, taxpayers would lose money
because they would be funding the program through the Treasury.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have completed 1.1 million loan
modifications since the end of 2008, and have engaged in more
than 1 million other transactions to avert foreclosures.  Special Section: Libor Probe  Deutsche Bank Says Internal Libor Probe Clears Management Board  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest lender, said an
internal probe has so far cleared current and former management
board members of wrongdoing amid a global investigation of
interest-rate manipulation.  “A limited number of employees, acting on their own
initiative, engaged in conduct that falls short of the Bank’s
standards, and action has been taken accordingly,”  Paul
Achleitner , the Frankfurt-based company’s supervisory board
chairman, said in a letter to employees yesterday. He didn’t
give further details about the employees or actions taken.  Russia Wants More Oversight of Ruonia, MosPrime After Libor Row  Russia’s central bank is in talks with the Federal
Financial Markets Service on increasing oversight over Russian
interbank rates Ruonia and MosPrime, said Bank Rossii Deputy
Chairman Sergey Shvetsov, adding that discussions center on
empowering the watchdog to regulate the interbank market.  While there are no signs of rate-rigging in Russia, the
regulators are monitoring the scandal surrounding the London
interbank offered rate, Shvetsov told reporters in Moscow
yesterday.  Deutsche Bank Says Facing Lawsuit Over Yen Libor, Derivatives  Deutsche Bank AG, one of at least a dozen banks being
probed over allegations of interest-rate rigging, is being sued
over claims it manipulated the Yen Libor rate and the price of
derivatives tied to the Euroyen benchmark.  The suit was filed in April in the U.S. by parties the bank
didn’t identify who allege Deutsche Bank was one of a group of
banks that rigged the Yen London interbank offered rate, the
Tokyo Interbank Offered Rate for yen held overseas and the price
of Euroyen-based derivatives, Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank said
in a statement yesterday.  The suit is one of several potential class actions filed
against the bank in the U.S. The other suits relate to
allegations the bank manipulated U.S. dollar Libor and the
prices of derivatives tied to that rate.  Banks are the target of litigation as regulators probe
firms over clams they artificially understated their cost of
borrowing or allowed traders to manipulate interest rates and
profit from bets on interest-rate swaps.  Deutsche Bank reiterated yesterday that it’s co-operating
with regulators and said an internal investigation has so far
cleared current and former management board members of
wrongdoing.  UBS Chief Says Bank Isn’t Central to Libor Investigations  UBS AG (UBSN)  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  said there is
no reason to single out the Swiss bank in the probes regulators
worldwide are conducting into the possible manipulation of
London interbank offered rates.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Zurich
yesterday in response to a question on reports that the bank may
have had a key role in rigging Libor.  UBS is among firms including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  and Deutsche Bank AG being investigated
worldwide for practices in setting Libor.  UBS said previously that it received conditional immunity
or leniency for cooperating with the U.S. Justice Department’s
and Swiss Competition Commission’s antitrust investigations into
submissions of yen Libor and the euro-yen Tokyo interbank
offered rate, or Tibor.  The Canadian Competition Bureau also granted the bank
conditional immunity in its investigation into yen Libor, while
the Swiss commission granted immunity on Swiss franc Libor and
certain transactions related to it.  Barclays Documents Seized in Italy in Euribor Fraud Probe  Barclays Plc (BARC)  offices in Milan were searched by Italian
prosecutors who seized documents as part of a fraud and market-
manipulation probe into banks’ roles in setting the Euribor
benchmark interest rate.  Police obtained files dating from 2007 through 2012,
including e-mails, Michele Ruggiero, a prosecutor in the city of
Trani, said by phone yesterday. Officials for Barclays in London
declined to immediately comment.  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank, was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($455 million) in June for attempting
to rig the London interbank offered rate and Euribor, its
equivalent in euros, to appear healthier during the financial
crisis. U.K. fraud prosecutors July 30 said they will
investigate the manipulation of Libor and other interest rates
after deciding that existing British criminal law covers the
conduct involved.  Compliance Policy  EU’s Tougher Capital and Bonus Rules May Be Delayed, FSA Says  The European Union may miss a January 2013 deadline to
implement tougher capital and bonus rules, the U.K.  Financial
Services Authority  said on its website today.  Discussions among lawmakers and finance ministers from the
27-member bloc have taken longer than originally scheduled,
making it “clear the legislation will not be adopted earlier
than autumn 2012,” the U.K.  financial watchdog said  in a
statement. Translation, verification and signing of the text
make it “unfeasible” that the rules will take effect on time.  Governments face a January 2013 deadline set by the Basel
Committee for Banking Supervision to implement the draft law,
which would more than triple the core capital that lenders must
have to 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets. EU lawmakers
have sought to limit bankers’ bonuses to no more than their
annual salary as part of their implementation of the rules.  Money Funds Seen Failing in Crisis as SEC Bows to Shadow Lobby  Money-market fund companies have doubled lobbying efforts
to convince regulators and lawmakers that they aren’t a threat
to the financial system. The money may have been well-spent.  The 10 biggest money-fund managers and the Investment
Company Institute trade group reported combined lobbying
spending of $16 million in the first half of 2012 and
$31.6 million last year in disclosures that reference money-
market mutual funds, according to a review of documents by
Bloomberg News. That compares with $16.7 million in all of 2010.  The companies are seeking to block new rules championed by
Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  that
are headed for a vote before a divided commission as soon as
this month. The proposal would force funds to abandon their
fixed $1 share price or introduce withdrawal limits and capital
buffers.  For more, click here.  Markey Urges Geithner to Close Tax Loophole for Tar Sands Oil  U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a Democrat from
Massachusetts, called on U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
Geithner  to close the tax loophole that could result in
“millions of dollars in lost revenues, revenues intended by
Congress to be made available for dealing with the aftermath of
oil spills.”  Markey made the request in a letter to Geithner in which he
cited the Internal Revenue Service as saying tar sands imported
into the U.S. aren’t subject to per-barrel excise tax. Such
taxes are the largest source of revenue to the Oil Spill
Liability Trust Fund, which was created to help in the aftermath
of oil spills.  The loophole may lead to as much as $48 million in lost
revenue this year based on current levels of tar sands imports,
and also puts taxpayers at risk for having to pay for oil
spills. Democrats released a report on the loophole yesterday.  Compliance Action  Marine Insurance Antitrust Probe Dropped by European Regulators  European Union regulators dropped an antitrust probe into
marine-insurance agreements among groups of ship owners, saying
there wasn’t conclusive evidence that they unfairly shut out
commercial insurers.  “The market investigation was not sufficiently conclusive
to confirm the commission’s initial concerns,” the European
Commission said in an e-mailed statement today.  The commission started a probe in 2010 to examine certain
provisions accompanying claim-sharing and joint-reinsurance
agreements. The protection and indemnity agreements previously
had a 20-year antitrust exemption that expired in February 2009.  The 13 members of the International Group of P&I Clubs,
based in London, cover 95 percent of the world’s tankers,
according to Andrew Bardot, the group’s secretary and executive
officer. Members follow EU law to access the reinsurance pool,
he said in January.  Verizon Wireless to Pay $1.25 Million on Internet Complaints  Verizon Wireless agreed to pay $1.25 million to resolve an
investigation of whether it interfered with customers’ use of
smartphones to relay Internet signals to other devices, the U.S.
Federal Communications Commission said.  Under the agreement, Verizon will tell online applications
websites that it no longer objects to programs that support the
practice, known as tethering, in which a smartphone is used to
feed data over a wired connection to another device.  Verizon “did not block its customers from using third-
party tethering applications,” Richard Young, a Verizon
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The consent
decree “allows us to focus on serving our customers,” Young
said.  Bank of Spain Says Auditors Completed Analysis of Bank Assets  The Bank of Spain said audit firms completed a first stage
of an analysis of Spanish bank loans and foreclosed assets,
according to an in e-mailed statement yesterday by the bank.  The results were delivered to Spanish authorities
yesterday, according to schedule, the regulator said. Results
won’t be published because they are an intermediate phase in the
process.  Using the auditors’ results,  Oliver Wyman  will carry out a
second “bottom-up” stress test of individual banks to
determine their capital needs. Results of the second test are
due in the second half of September, the Bank of Spain said in
the e-mailed statement.  Finra Expels Canada Day-Trading Firm, Bars Chief Executive Beck  U.S. brokerage industry regulators expelled Biremis Corp.
and barred its chief executive officer for failing to implement
adequate safeguards to prevent money laundering and
“manipulative trading.”  Biremis, formerly known as Swift Trade Securities USA, and
CEO  Peter Beck  failed to create a supervisory system that would
comply with securities laws from June 2007 to June 2010, the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said yesterday in a
statement. Violations included layering, or placing non-bona-
fide trades to move the market in a way that leads to execution
of an order on the other side, Finra said.  The company, whose sole business was executing transactions
for day traders, failed to create safeguards against money
laundering required by the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, Finra said.  Beck and Biremis agreed to the settlement without admitting
or denying wrongdoing, Finra said.  A telephone message left at a number for Biremis’s offices
in Kelowna, British Columbia, before normal business hours
wasn’t immediately returned.  VimpelCom Registers 50 Billion Rubles of Bonds With Regulator  OAO VimpelCom, a Russian mobile-phone company, registered
50 billion rubles ($1.6 billion) of domestic bonds with the
 Federal Financial Markets Service , the regulator said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  Separately, Russia’s competition watchdog said parent
company  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  shareholder  Telenor ASA (TEL)  agreed that the
chief executive officer of the Russian mobile operator should be
a Russian citizen.  VimpelCom Ltd. is considered a strategic Russian company
and therefore the CEO should be Russian,  Igor Artemyev , head of
the Federal Anti-Monopoly Service, told reporters in Moscow
yesterday.  China Investigates Officials Over Tainted Capsules, Xinhua Says  Six government officials in eastern China are under
investigation for dereliction of duty involving the production
of contaminated medicine capsules, Xinhua News Agency said
yesterday, citing the provincial procuratorate.  An initial probe showed that lax supervision by six food
and drug administration officials in Zhejiang province caused
incidents where several companies had made drug capsules with
industrial gelatin, which contains excessive levels of chromium
and is illegal to use for making drug capsules, Xinhua reported.  Courts  SEC Loses Lawsuit Against Ex-Citigroup Official Brian Stoker  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lost a jury
verdict in its lawsuit against former Citigroup Inc. official
Brian Stoker over a deal at the center of the bank’s proposed
$285 million settlement with regulators over subprime
residential mortgage securities.  The jury reached its verdict yesterday in Manhattan federal
court. The SEC had accused Stoker, the former director of
Citigroup’s collateralized debt obligation structuring group, of
violating securities law in putting together the assets
underlying a $1 billion CDO.  The SEC claimed New York-based Citigroup structured and
sold the CDO without telling investors that it helped pick about
half the underlying assets and was betting they would decline in
value by taking a short position.  The SEC was seeking to have Stoker disgorge profits from
the deal and pay a fine.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who oversaw the trial, last
year rejected Citigroup’s $285 million settlement with the SEC
in which the bank wasn’t required to admit any liability. That
ruling is on appeal.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stoker, 11-cv-7388, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Hearings  Geithner Says U.S. Housing Programs May Take 2-3 Years  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner spoke about the
U.S. housing market, the economy and regulatory matters.  Geithner, who spoke at an event at the World Affairs
Council in Los Angeles, also discussed the European financial
crisis. Council President Terry McCarthy moderated.  For the video, click here.  Walter Says SEC Should Set Muni-Bond Disclosure Rules  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Commissioner Elisse
Walter speaks on a teleconference about regulation of the $3.7
trillion municipal-bond market.  In a report released yesterday following a two-year review,
the SEC said Congress should let it set standards for what
information municipalities must disclose to investors and
require issuers to have audited financial statements.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Duke’s U.S. Regulator Backs Utility Boards’ Right to Pick Chiefs  Jon Wellinghoff, chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, said a utility’s board has the right to decide who
runs the company while declining to discuss the ouster of  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s chief last month.  Wellinghoff was asked yesterday to comment on the Duke
board’s decision to fire Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson ,
58, within hours of the company completing the $17.8 billion
takeover of Johnson’s Progress Energy Inc. The deal, approved by
FERC on June 8, remains an open docket and Wellinghoff said he
can’t comment on the case.  Duke replaced Johnson with  Jim Rogers , 64, who ran the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based company before the merger and
had agreed to become chairman, clearing the job for Johnson. The
shift triggered an investigation by the North Carolina Utilities
Commission, which also approved the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 