-- Losing 500,000 Jobs Seen New Reality of Europe Crisis
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r ,   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a   a n d   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-08-01T22:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/losing-500-000-jobs-seen-new-reality-of-europe-crisis.html
Efforts by  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and
 Fiat SpA (F)  to end losses in Europe could cost more than 500,000
people their jobs as automakers and parts suppliers grapple with
the effects of the European sovereign debt crisis.  The region’s  auto industry , including component makers such
as  SKF AB (SKFB)  and  Autoliv Inc. (ALV) , is set to pare payrolls as auto
demand contracts for the fifth straight year. Easy-to-fire
temporary workers, which account for about 1.5 million of the
industry’s 7 million employees, would likely bear the brunt of
the cuts, according to Lars Holmqvist, the former head of the
region’s parts supplier association.  The dismissals would follow about 800,000 job losses in the
industry since 2007 and add to a record unemployment rate of
11.2 percent in the 17-nation euro area. With auto demand
already hampered by 17.8 million jobless, the 13-member Stoxx
600 Automobiles & Parts Index has dropped 14 percent over the
past 12 months, led by Peugeot’s 72 percent plunge.  “It’s becoming increasingly apparent with the declines in
vehicle sales in the region that production and staffing levels
at certain manufacturers are just well beyond where they need to
be,” said  Ian Fletcher , an analyst at IHS Automotive in  London .
With nearly 30 percent of European auto factory potential
unused, “excess capacity is the main issue at hand. The lower
sales are just killing these companies.”  Turin, Italy-based Fiat said late yesterday it is
suspending investment in  Italy  in response to the slump in
demand and will focus on temporary layoffs to reduce costs.
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said this week he will
make a decision about restructuring in Europe, including further
plant closings, after third-quarter earnings.  Shrinking Suppliers  The biggest cuts announced so far are at Peugeot. Europe’s
second-largest carmaker is eliminating more than 14,000 jobs and
plans to close a factory on the outskirts of Paris. Its auto
unit lost 662 million euros ($812 million) in the first half.  The firings at automakers are just the tip of the iceberg.
For every job lost at a carmaker, five typically disappear at
suppliers, said Holmqvist, who headed European auto supplier
group Clepa until April and is now senior adviser on auto issues
at consulting company Kreab Gavin Anderson in Brussels.  “We’ll see a reduction of about half a million supplier
jobs by the end of next year in  Europe ,” Holmqvist said.  The cuts are under way. MAN SE eliminated 900 temporary
jobs and froze new hires at its truck and bus unit. Peugeot
plans to reduce 650 temporary workers at its Sochaux plant in
 France  by the end of the year, said Bruno Lemerle, a CGT union
official at the factory. The carmaker employs about 3,800
temporary workers at its three main French factories.  Increased Flexibility  The use of workers on temporary contracts helps the
region’s manufacturers get around rules that restrict firings,
giving them more flexibility in a crisis.  “After 2000, management started using temporary work as a
cushion, even though many of the temporary workers have almost
become permanent workers in the long run,” said CGT’s Lemerle.
“Before that, temporary work was saved for very peculiar
periods, such as the launching of new vehicles.”  SKF, the world’s biggest maker of bearings that supplies
machine parts to most carmakers, has cut “quite a few hundred
temporary jobs” in its European auto business since the end of
2011, Chief Executive Officer Tom Johnstone said in a July 18
interview. The company, which has also reduced working hours at
several plants, is ready to cut more temporary workers if demand
slides further, he said.  Autoliv Inc. (ALIV) , the world’s largest producer of seat belts
and airbags, eliminated 300 jobs in the second quarter, mainly
in France, Spain,  Germany  and  Sweden , and is likely to cut more
jobs this year, spokesman Mats Odman said.  French Intervention  Peugeot, which earned 75 percent of revenue in Europe last
year, is fighting with the French government over the job-cut
plan. France will extend a research tax break for the auto
industry, raise incentives for the purchase of hybrid and
electric cars and provide 450 million euros in financing to auto
suppliers to help protect jobs, Economic Recovery Minister
 Arnaud Montebourg  said July 25.  European car sales have shrunk for nine consecutive months
and truck demand is down for the last five, according to the
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. The group
forecasts that passenger car sales in the EU will shrink 7
percent this year to 12.2 million vehicles, 21 percent below the
2007 peak and the weakest demand since 1995.  The crisis is also hurting overseas carmakers.  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s European business swung to a pretax operating loss of $404
million in the second quarter from a profit of $176 million a
year earlier. It now expects full-year European losses to exceed
$1 billion. Ford has already cut some 500 temporary jobs in
Europe since last year, and is trimming production by having a
four-day work week at a plant in Genk,  Belgium .  Ford, GM  “We’ve got some overcapacity, but we’ll do what we always
do and match our production to demand,” said John Gardiner, a
spokesman for Ford’s European operations. “We’re looking at all
aspects of our business.”  GM’s Opel moved in June to close a factory in Bochum,
Germany, at the end of 2016. The Detroit-based automaker, whose
European operations have lost $16.4 billion since 1999, will
reduce management jobs to lower costs ahead of the shutdown.  Still, there are bright spots.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,
the leading luxury-car maker, continues to create jobs in the
region, including 800 at a plant in Leipzig, where it will start
production next year of the electric-powered i3 city car. In
total, BMW added more than 5,000 jobs in the past 12 months.  There’s also Jimmy Ekstrand. The 24-year-old temporary
worker got offered a permanent position at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Scania unit starting in September after sweating over his future
following more than a year on a short-term contract.  “It’s a headache that’s disappeared,” said Ekstrand, who
makes truck parts at Scania’s factory in Soedertaelje, Sweden.
“I want to stay here for many years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net ;
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  