-- Emerging Stocks Advance a Fifth Day on Interest-Rate Speculation
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-01T21:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/most-emerging-stocks-advance-as-china-pledges-stable-growth.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, sending
the benchmark index to the longest rally since April, as
speculation of more interest-rate cuts by central banks
outweighed data showing weaker manufacturing in Asia.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 0.2 percent to
954.22, with 432 companies gaining to 329 declining. Homebuilder
Rossi Residencial SA and state controlled oil company  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  led Brazilian stocks higher. Russia’s Micex Index
climbed, led higher by OAO Mechel, the country’s biggest maker
of coking coal.  Anhui Conch (914)  Cement Co. surged in Hong Kong after
the government pledged to ensure stable economic growth.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will provide additional
accommodation as needed” to boost economic recovery, it said at
the conclusion of a two-day meeting in Washington. A purchasing
managers’ index released today showed China’s manufacturing
industry grew at the slowest pace in eight months in July. The
 European Central Bank  will announce a policy decision tomorrow
after ECB President  Mario Draghi  last week pledged to do
“whatever it takes” to preserve the euro.  “It’s the reaction toward comments from different
authorities and that has continued into this week,” Elena
Ogram, a portfolio manager at Bank am Bellevue AG in Zurich,
which manages about $50 million of emerging-market equity
assets, said by phone. “Markets expect some sort of
quantitative easing from either the ECB or the  Federal Reserve 
or both.”  EM ETF Gains  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.2
percent to $39.19, the first rise in three days. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, gained 1.9 percent to 27.48.  The Bovespa rose 0.3 percent in Sao Paulo, with Rossi
adding 8.6 percent, the most in two weeks. Petrobras climbed 1.6
percent, its fifth increase in six days.  Russia’s Micex index advanced 0.3 percent as Mechel gained
6.6 percent after reporting that first half coking coal
concentrate sales rose.  China’s Purchasing Managers Index unexpectedly fell to 50.1
in July, a government report showed today. Fifty marks the line
between expansion and contraction. South Korea’s exports slid by
more than double the amount forecast by analysts.  South African Shares  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  increased 1.4 percent
in Johannesburg, as  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the largest
producer of the metal, advanced 1.2 percent.  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,
Africa’s biggest mobile-phone company, gained 4.1 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in Hong Kong rose 0.9 percent for its a fourth
consecutive advance, its longest winning streak in six months.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  also gained 0.9 percent, the most
in three weeks and up from the lowest close since March 2009.  Anhui Conch jumped 4.4 percent in Hong Kong, leading cement
makers higher in its largest rise since March 27. The China
Securities Journal said the nation’s economic planners may allow
local governments to sell subway and railway bonds to support
infrastructure projects.  MediaTek Inc. (2454) , a chip designer, rose 6.9 percent, the most
since February, after the company said second-quarter profit was
NT$3.36 billion ($112.2 million), exceeding analysts’ estimate
of NT$3.2 billion.  Lenovo Surges  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the second-biggest personal-computer
maker, jumped 6.9 percent in Hong Kong, the most since Jan. 19.
The company agreed to resell machines made by EMC Corp.  The  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.1 percent in Mumbai
with  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s biggest producer, falling the
most since Feb. 16 amid India’s worst-ever power crisis. A
blackout yesterday across the north and east of the country, the
second in two days, left more than 640 million people without
electricity. India’s government controls the price of
electricity and the coal used to produce it. That crimps
utilities’ profitability and investment.  South Korean bonds rose, building on a run of four monthly
gains, as data showing a slide in exports and the slowest
inflation since 2000 fanned speculation the central bank will
cut  interest rates . The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent
notes due June 2015 slipped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.83 percent at the close in Seoul, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 333, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  -- Editors: Linda Shen, Peter Branton  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 