-- Hot Chip Takes Synth Crown From LCD Soundsystem in NYC
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/hot-chip-takes-synth-crown-from-lcd-soundsystem-in-nyc.html
Terminal 5  had an extraterrestrial
feel on July 20th. In the packed, dimly lit venue, four blue
strobe lights hovering over the heads of hipster 20-somethings
began to flicker in a blinding manner.  UK electronic pop masters Hot Chip took the stage and
pumped trumpet synth notes over a heavy kick drum for the lofty
“Motion Sickness,” the opening track to their 2012 album, “In
Our Heads.”  The quintet was joined by drummer Jim Orso -- of local New
York band Holy Ghost! -- and multi-instrumentalist Rob
Smoughton. That let the guys sprinkle additional elements into a
reworked version of their 2006 number, “And I Was a Boy From
School.”  A rubbery bass line, a snappy drum machine, keys layered
upon keys and lead singer Alexis Taylor crooning in thin-frame
glasses and oversize clothes -- all of it brought this jam from
a crawl to full frenzy.  They returned to their latest album for “Don’t Deny Your
Heart.” As the tune unfolded, guitarist Al Doyle moved over to
percussion while Taylor and Owen Clarke picked up guitars for a
Talking Heads-style jam.  After a tropical take on “One Life Stand,” the band
offered an electronic-heavy “Night & Day” with Joel Goddard’s
pulsating keys and Doyle’s thumping bass. Taylor teetered at the
edge of the stage as he jokingly rapped. It was loose and funky.  With the retirement of  LCD Soundsystem  -- where Doyle spent
the past several years -- Hot Chip has become one of indie
music’s best live electronic acts.  Jacket Off  Taylor doffed his baggy jacket to fire up the crowd during
“Flutes.” Synths swelled for a number that would serve a long-
distance runner well. Instead we got Doyle and Taylor at center
stage doing a little dance routine.  The guys returned to their sophomore album for the standout
“Over and Over.” A guitar groove was matched by some wobbly
bass and pulsating piano notes that had the floor popping like a
trampoline.  For the encore, the band brought on Lizzie Bougatsos from
Gang Gang Dance -- who opened Hot Chip’s Brooklyn show two
nights earlier -- for the calming “Always Been Your Love.”
Taylor and Bougatsos sang easily on this ’80s number. The pause
that followed was broken by a robotic voice singing the opening
lines of “Ready for the Floor.”  Happy Sea  The crowd moved as one big happy sea and then offered a
collective “ahhh” as the band flowed seamlessly into a cover
of Fleetwood Mac’s “Everywhere.”  The night came to an end on the anthemic “Let Me Be Him.”
We trickled out to the street with sweaty clothes and smiling
faces.  Hot Chip will tour  Europe  before returning to the U.S. in
September for a string of West Coast dates. They will also be
back in December as part of this year’s inaugural  S.S. Coachella
Music Festival at Sea .  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in August. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 