-- Motey Says He Passed Doug Whitman Marvell Sales Figures
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-01T22:09:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/motey-says-he-passed-doug-whitman-marvell-sales-figures.html
Karl Motey, a former computer-chip
industry analyst, testified that he got confidential revenue
figures for  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  from company insiders
and gave the data to Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug Whitman.  Motey told jurors today at Whitman’s  insider-trading  trial
that he took tips from two employees at Marvell from 2007 until
April 1, 2009, when he was approached by  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation agents. He passed the information to his hedge-
fund clients including Whitman, he said. His alleged Marvell
sources, Bill Brennan and Sam Miri, haven’t been charged.  “I would tell him that the information came from a
particular contact at Marvell,” Motey said during the second
day of Whitman’s trial in Manhattan federal court. “He would
thank me and tell me the information was useful to him.”  Prosecutors have charged Whitman with using inside
information from Motey and from  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
executive, to make almost $1 million for his Menlo Park,
California-based hedge fund.  The trial is part of a broad government investigation of
insider trading involving hedge funds. Since August 2009, at
least 70 people have been charged with illegal trading by the
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. More than 60 have pleaded
guilty or been convicted at trial.  Avoid Prison  Motey, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud, told jurors he’s testifying in hopes of avoiding a prison
sentence.  Prosecutors said they plan to call Khan as a witness.
Jurors will also hear from Wesley Wang, a consultant and a
friend of Whitman’s, who admitted passing tips about  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  and Marvell, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Christopher LaVigne said yesterday.  Whitman denies the charges against him.  In an opening statement yesterday, one of his attorneys,
 David Anderson , told jurors that Motey, Khan and Wang are
“criminals and liars” who hope to stay out of prison by
incriminating his client.  Motey told jurors today that he and Whitman met during the
1990s. They later shared an interest in Marvell as both thought
the chipmaker’s stock was undervalued, he said. Motey told
jurors he began working as a consultant for Whitman and four
other clients in 2006, after losing a job at Wachovia Corp.  ‘Soft Dollars’  Motey testified that Whitman paid him $12,500 a quarter in
“soft dollars.” Soft dollars are generated as trading
commissions and directed to a third party, he said.  Motey read to jurors from notebooks he kept with entries in
English and Farsi regarding information about Marvell that he
said came from Miri and Brennan. They gave him material he knew
to be confidential, including revenue figures before they were
reported publicly and the company estimates of how Marvell
expected to do financially in future quarters.  Marvell, based in Hamilton, Bermuda, makes computer chips
that run smartphones and that are used in computer hard drives.  Douglas Yoo, a spokesman for the company, didn’t
immediately return a message seeking comment on Motey’s
testimony.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  