-- House Republicans Urge Democrats to Extend Full Tax Cut
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-08-01T21:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/house-republicans-urge-democrats-to-extend-full-tax-cut.html
Speaker  John Boehner  and other U.S.
House Republican leaders urged Senate Democrats to pass the
income tax-cut extension for all income levels that the House
plans to vote on today.  “It is the interest of our economy to quickly remove the
threat of the entire tax hike,” Boehner of Ohio said in the
letter to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat.
The letter also was signed by House Majority Leader Eric Cantor
of Virginia, Majority Whip  Kevin McCarthy  of California and
Republican Conference Chairman  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas.  The Senate voted last month to extend most of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts while letting them expire for top earners. The
plan, supported by President  Barack Obama , would continue the
tax cuts for individual income of as much as $200,000 a year and
married couples’ income of as much as $250,000.  “In the event the Senate takes action, we stand ready to
bring the House back into session for the purpose of enacting
solutions,” the letter said.  Boehner said the House would return to Washington during
Congress’ summer recess if the Senate found a way to avert
automatic U.S. spending cuts of $1.2 trillion set to start in
January. Half of the cuts would come from defense spending.  Congress is scheduled to start its recess next week.  In a response to Boehner, Reid said the House Republican
demands were “extreme and wrong” and urged House leaders to
adopt the Senate’s tax measure.  “For nearly two years, the Republican-led House has
ignored the will of the American people by accomplishing
virtually nothing of bipartisan substance,” Reid wrote. “If
the House is prepared to ask millionaires and billionaires to
contribute their fair share, the Senate is prepared to remain in
session as long as necessary to approve an agreement on a
balanced deficit-reduction package.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in  Washington  at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  