-- House Drops Plan for One-Year Extension of U.S. Agriculture Law
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-08-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/house-drops-plan-for-one-year-extension-of-u-s-agriculture-law.html
House Republican leaders abandoned
plans for a one-year extension of U.S. agriculture policy,
averting a showdown with farm groups led by the  American Farm
Bureau Federation  who want a new five-year law.  Instead, lawmakers will vote on reviving  disaster relief 
for drought-stricken livestock producers, David Dreier, a
California Republican and chairman of the Rules Committee, said
yesterday in an interview. Representative  Frank Lucas , chairman
of the Agriculture Committee, said the House will take up the
measure tomorrow, days before Congress begins a monthlong
recess.  Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican, said his goal remains the
passage of a five-year farm bill, Still, “the most pressing
business before us is to provide disaster assistance to those
producers impacted by the drought conditions who are currently
exposed,” Lucas said yesterday in a statement.  The one-year extension of the current agriculture-policy
law that expires in September was scrapped after Republican
leaders realized they didn’t have enough votes for passage,
Lucas said.  House Speaker  John Boehner  earlier had endorsed the
extension, which would have pushed back any debate on a new farm
bill beyond the November elections. A measure that would restore
disaster-aid provisions for livestock producers that expired
last year had been attached to the extension legislation.  Farm Groups  The Farm Bureau, the National Farmers Union and crop
industry groups from corn to wheat to soybeans had opposed an
extension unless it would be used as a vehicle to get to
conference with the Senate, which has already passed a five-year
bill. They said farmers needed more certainty than a one-year
extension would provide.  While the House Agriculture Committee also approved a farm
bill, Boehner never scheduled a vote on the measure. Boehner
spokesman  Michael Steel  said earlier this week that the speaker
would oppose using an extension as a way to get to a conference
with the Senate.  Lucas said the drought assistance bill would provide about
$300 million in relief for ranchers and poultry producers whose
feed costs soared or whose animals died from the persistent
heat. It would also extend aid to apple and citrus growers and
producers of farm-raised fish.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  