-- House Votes to Legalize Olympians’ Climbing Trail in Colorado
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-08-01T22:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/house-votes-to-legalize-olympians-climbing-trail-in-colorado.html
Olympic hopefuls, Air Force Academy
cadets and high school athletes have been testing their
endurance on an abandoned cable-car route near the base of Pikes
Peak in  Colorado . When they do, every step they take is against
the law.  That could change.  The House agreed by voice vote to transfer the land title
and make it legal to ascend the one-mile, 2,000-vertical-foot
Manitou Incline trail, about 10 miles from the U.S. Olympic
training center in Colorado Springs.  The land is owned by the company that used to run the cable
cars.  The legislation would give the right-of-way to the  U.S.
Forest Service  so that the public could keep using it without,
technically speaking, trespassing. A new federal law is needed
to do that because an 1875 law gave the access rights to the
Manitou and Pikes Peak Railway Company.  Sponsor Doug Lamborn, a Colorado Republican, said the
legislation would remove a “centuries-old legal cloud” over
the trail and let the Forest Service manage it professionally.  The cable cars stopped running after a landslide in 1990.  An estimated 350,000 to 500,000 people ignore the posted
signs to complete the hike each year, according to a site
development and management plan prepared for the city of
 Colorado Springs .  The ownership transfer is intended to settle concerns about
safety and liability because of the site’s popularity.  “It’s the one workout where people truly have to face
something that is unbeatable,” Apolo Anton Ohno, a short-track
speedskater who has twice won an Olympic gold medal,  told the
New York Times  in 2008. “It is you against yourself.”  The bill is  H.R. 4073 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  