-- How to Navigate Today's Mortgage Doc Maze
-- B y   C a r l a   F r i e d
-- 2012-08-01T21:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/how-to-navigate-today-s-mortgage-doc-maze.html
     Connecticut investment adviser Peter Nagle bought a
vacation condo in Oahu, Hawaii, in 2010 and had no trouble
getting a mortgage from a local bank. But the process of
trying to trade up in the same condo development, he says, was
“like night and day.”  Despite a pristine credit report, a seven-figure income
that's more than enough to satisfy even the most conservative
debt-to-income ratios a loan originator could conjure up, and
being ready to plunk down a 25 percent down payment, Nagle
waited two and a half months for his deal to close. Along the
way, he was peppered with an endless stream of document
requests. “It felt like they were trying to figure out if I
was a criminal or something,” he says.  Nagle had to explain an $1,800 check he wrote six months
ago. Then the problem was a $36,000 deposit Nagle made into
his checking account. “I stupidly didn’t think it would be a
problem if I sold my Porsche,” he explains. A copy of the
check and a notarized bill of sale weren’t enough
documentation. Nagle had to provide a copy of the car title
showing he'd transferred ownership. “It's absurd," he says.
"None of the requests go toward increasing the security of the
lender.”  The document gauntlet  Nagle waited only about half as long as Scott Thompson.
Last December, Thompson applied to refinance a 4.75
percent, 30-year fixed-rate loan for $337,000 for his family’s
4-bedroom, 2.5-bath colonial in a northern Philadelphia
suburb.  The problem is that Thompson is co-owner, with two
brothers, of a small manufacturing firm with $22 million in
annual revenue. His initial application was turned down
because his share of the company’s debt, which is fully
secured with company assets, was added to his personal debt.
His share of the company’s $5 million equity was not counted
as an asset.  The firm’s finance head and the outside accounting firm
have had to provide signed and notarized statements that the
business debt is in fact secured.  “I am not under water, my credit is good, I have never
been late with a payment and I am not looking to take equity
out,” says Thompson. "All I want to do is reduce my mortgage
payment from $2,450 to $2,150. That’s actually improving my
finances.” He has reapplied with a different lender.  Welcome to the wacky world of getting a mortgage
post-crisis (let's be hopeful). Stories of deals hitting snags
or falling apart due to low appraisals are so 2011 -- though
that still mucks up plenty of deals. If you want a chance of
grabbing a sub-4 percent mortgage the latest challenge is
being prepared to run the document gauntlet and become a
supplicant to the underwriting gods.  'Horror show'  “I prepare my clients for the horror show they are going
to go through,” says Kathy Godin, a branch manager at Cross
Country Mortgage in Raleigh, North Carolina. “If you are
private and don’t want to provide everything that is asked
for, you won’t get a mortgage.” Jack Pritchard, chief
operating officer of The Mortgage Professor, an online
mortgage information and shopping site, likens it to oral
surgery. “If you emerge from the process with just one tooth
pulled, not three, you’ve done well.”  Lenders typically want to sell loans they originate in
the secondary market; Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the big
buyers. In the wake of the real estate bubble, Fannie and
Freddie have gotten serious about reviewing loan files for
mortgages that have gone sour. In the event there is a default
down the line, and Fannie or Freddie can find any
improprieties in loan documentation, the mortgage can be
transferred back to the lender. That has had a sword of
Damocles impact among lenders. Their response: To put the
mortgage process into documentation overdrive. (Insert your
own “my how the pendulum has swung” eye roll here.)  Sep Niakan, a real estate broker in Miami, suggests the
first step is to ask friends, colleagues and real estate
agents for intel on lenders that are closing deals. “It’s one
thing to see a great advertised rate, but what matters is
working with a lender that is closing deals, and closing them
in a decent amount of time.” Niakan and other real estate pros
recommend checking out smaller community banks and credit
unions, where there can be a more human touch to vetting
applications than at the local branch of a big money-center
bank.  Next comes putting on a great application face. Ellie
Mae, a provider of technology systems for the mortgage
industry, says the average conventional mortgage for a
purchase that gets approved these days is for a
borrower with a FICO credit score of 764. The average score
for approved refinancings is two points higher. (FICO scores
range from 350 to 850.) According to mortgage data provider
CoreLogic, the average FICO score for conventional mortgages
10 years ago was 710.  While FHA-insured loans are a viable way to get in with a
low down payment -- though you end up paying for that
insurance -- if you plan on going the conventional
route, Ellie Mae says the average down payment for purchases
is 21 percent and equity of 28 percent for refinancings.  Lenders will also compute two debt-to-income ratios.
Among approved conventional mortgages recently, the monthly
mortgage cost was 21 percent to 23 percent of gross monthly
income. The monthly payment as a percentage of household debt
was 33 percent.  Ready, set, document  Once your application is approved, the real fun begins.
You will be presented with a laundry list of documentation
needed to get you to the closing. Mortgage pros say it's
common for lenders to wait for every piece of requested
information before they order the appraisal.  The Mortgage Professor's Pritchard suggests that even
before you start the process you have a basic document file
ready with:  Three years of tax returns. The whole megillah, not
just the first two pages. While Fannie Mae guidelines require
only two years, Pritchard is running into lenders asking for
more. “Every lender can have their own overlay of
requirements, above what Fannie and Freddie require,”  he
says. Lenders will verify your reported income with the IRS.   Two months of bank statements. Every page, front and
back.   Your most recent retirement and brokerage statements.
Again: every page.  Two most recent pay stubs  Your homeowner’s insurance proof-of-insurance with a
contact number for your agent/insurer  Your first-born son (ha)  Self-employed? In today's mortgage circles that’s
pretty much branding you with a scarlet SE. Lenders will ask
you to jump through extra hoops. Pritchard has seen situations
in which successful doctors and lawyers have had trouble
qualifying for a low-rate mortgage because lenders ignore
their gross receipts and instead focus on taxable income. If
they have a good CPA, taxable income could be a lot lower. In
those cases, the workaround can be to find a lender who will
agree to a slightly higher, though still competitive, rate for
a loan it intends to keep in its own portfolio, rather than
sell in the secondary market.  No sudden moves  Putting your financial life into a state of suspended
animation is what the lender most wants while you are waiting
for the loan to close. As Nagle found out with his Porsche
sale faux pas, any sudden financial move between approval and
closing will trigger a round of document requests and delays.
Any deposit or withdrawal of more than $1,000 from your bank
account that isn’t clearly wages or another income source will
raise a yellow flag that will require explanation.  Once you make it to the closing and sign on the dotted
line, don’t exhale just yet. There can be one last sweep of
your file to make sure everything is kosher. Godin says one
client was approved for a loan on the stipulation he pay off a
few credit-card balances and close the accounts. He paid off
the balances, and the mortgage closed. The next day the lender
discovered that he hadn’t shut down the credit-card accounts
and threatened to nullify the mortgage. The client closed the
accounts, and his mortgage closed. For real.
 