-- How the Fed Took Money Out of Monetary Policy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-08-01T22:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/how-the-fed-took-the-money-out-of-monetary-policy.html
I’ve been thinking a lot about
 monetary policy  recently: not so much the question of will they
or won’t they -- they being Federal Reserve policy makers --
provide additional stimulus.  Rather, I’ve been wondering how it is that monetary policy
stopped being about the quantity of money and started being
about something else: financial conditions, credit allocation,
long-term interest rates, expectations, investor preferences,
the maturity of the Fed’s portfolio and relief for specific
sectors of the economy (housing). I’ve also been wondering
whether this is a good or a bad thing.  Some of the policy detours have their roots in the 2008
financial crisis. After the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September of that year, Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke 
switched sides. No longer would monetary policy focus on the
size of the liability side of the  balance sheet  (the monetary
base), Bernanke explained. From that point on, Fed policy would
concern itself with the composition of the asset side of the
balance sheet.  The implementation of  credit policy , or direct lending to
particular sectors (commercial paper) or borrowers (American
International Group Inc.), represented a “radical departure
from Fed and traditional central bank practice,” writes Robert
Hetzel, senior economist and research adviser at the Richmond
Fed, in his new book, “ The Great Recession: Market Failure or
Policy Failure? ”  Radical it was: a radical failure, in Hetzel’s view.  Money’s Demise  “If the problem was the failure of banks to lend to
credit-worthy borrowers willing to spend, the scale of Fed and
government intervention should have revived both lending and the
economy,” he writes.  With the federal funds rate, the traditional policy
instrument, close to zero, the Fed embarked on a series of
large-scale asset purchases in November 2008, buying Treasuries
as well as agency debt and mortgage-backed securities.  Monetary policy had found a new form of self-expression. As
Bernanke  explained it : The Fed’s purchases of long-term
Treasuries affect financial conditions by depressing their
yields, forcing investors into riskier assets -- stocks,
corporate bonds, mortgage securities -- in search of higher
returns. Lower  mortgage  and corporate bond rates make it cheaper
for homeowners to borrow and businesses to invest. Higher stock
prices make consumers feel wealthier and encourage them to spend
more.  Why, it almost sounds as if the goal of policy is to
artificially inflate another asset class!  Money’s real demise, or policy makers disregard for it,
predates the crisis by a few decades. (Almost all the
monetarists have died or converted in the interim.) Starting in
the late 1970s, empirical evidence suggested that money demand
and  velocity , the rate at which money turns over, were no longer
stable, according to Michael Bordo, a professor of economics at
 Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  When velocity was stable, central banks changed the growth
rate of money in order to achieve a similar change in output.
Nowadays, it’s not so easy. Velocity plummeted during the crisis
as demand for money -- both the public’s and the banks’ --
increased. In fact, Hetzel argues that the explosion in the
 monetary base  starting in September 2008 “simply accommodated
the increased demand for bank excess reserves,” which he says
is supported by the contraction in  bank credit  during that
period. “The Fed did not conduct a policy with aggregate
expenditure as the objective and with money creation as the
instrument.”  Tight Policy  In the face of a near-zero funds rate and a Fed balance
sheet almost 2 1/2 times its original size, monetary policy was
tight, not easy, Hetzel says, in what is certain to be a
controversial assessment of the Fed’s role in the crisis.  Economists understand that the level of the  funds rate  per
se doesn’t reflect the stance of monetary policy. Both the
inflation rate and the economy’s natural rate (an unobservable
rate that keeps the economy growing at potential) come into
play.  The same holds true for money. If the increase in supply
merely satisfies the demand, money growth may not be
expansionary. Bernanke admitted as much in  a 2003 speech , saying
that money growth, as well as nominal and real short-term
 interest rates , were unreliable measures of the stance of
policy.  “Ultimately, it appears, one can check to see if an
economy has a stable monetary background only by looking at
macroeconomic indicators such as nominal GDP growth and
inflation,” Bernanke said.  “Bernanke was a market monetarist back then,” says Scott Sumner, a professor of economics at  Bentley University  in
Waltham,  Massachusetts , referring to economists who advocate a
nominal gross domestic product target for the Fed. “The last
four years saw the slowest growth in nominal GDP since  Herbert
Hoover .”  Using Bernanke’s criteria, the monetary backdrop doesn’t
look too stable. And that’s with zero percent interest rates and
a $2.8 trillion Fed  balance sheet . It makes you wonder if Hetzel
isn’t onto something.  Maybe the Fed needs to do less talking (pledging to hold
rates at zero until some future date) and less light
housekeeping (rejiggering its portfolio) and consider more
outright purchases of Treasuries.  Yes, print money. There, I said it. It’s been a long time
since anyone talked about monetary policy the way  Milton Friedman  did: If the Fed prints more money than the public wants
to hold, someone will spend it.  I know the risks. I’ve been among those to point them out.
In the long run, the Fed can only affect the rate of inflation.
Given the Fed’s history of being late to the party -- the funds
rate was at a high of 5.25 percent as late as September 2007 --
and monetary policy’s long and variable lags, inflation is a
risk, what with so much raw material for credit expansion just
waiting for an opportunity.  As I said at the start, I’ve been thinking about monetary
policy recently. Thinking differently, that is, although not
coming to any conclusions just yet.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on success for  female Saudi
Olympians  and on what the ECB must do to  save the euro ;  Susan
Antilla  on Wall Street’s  efforts to stymie new regulations ;
 Michael Kinsley  on  Romney’s zero tolerance  for the unsuccessful;
 Peter Orszag  on ways to keep lowering  health-care costs ; Handel
Reynolds on the shaky foundation of the  mammogram economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 