-- HP Wins Ruling Against Oracle Over Itanium Server Support
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-02T14:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/hp-wins-ruling-against-oracle-sending-itanium-case-to-jury-2-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  is contractually
obligated to continue developing software for  Hewlett-Packard
Co. (HPQ) ’s Itanium-based servers, a  California  judge ruled.  Oracle fell more than 1 percent to $29.80 in early Nasdaq
GS stock market trading in  New York . Hewlett-Packard rose
42 cents, or 2.4 percent, to $18.08 at 10 a.m. on the New York
Stock Exchange.  Both sides have 15 days to file objections to the decision,
Superior Court Judge James Kleinberg in San Jose said. Oracle
said in a statement that it will appeal. If yesterday’s ruling
stands, the suit will advance to a  jury trial  in which Hewlett-
Packard may seek $500 million in damages for breach of contract.  The judge agreed with Hewlett-Packard that Oracle made a
commitment to support servers that run on  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s Itanium
chips in an agreement the companies reached over Mark Hurd’s
transition from chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard to
co-president of Oracle.  “The settlement and release agreement entered into by HP,
Oracle and Hurd on Sept. 20, 2010, requires Oracle to continue
to offer its product suite on HP’s Itanium-based server
platforms and does not confer on Oracle the discretion to decide
whether to do so or not,” Kleinberg wrote.  The judge ordered the companies back into court Aug. 22 to
prepare for the second phase of the case, adding that he expects
them to “meet and confer productively” beforehand.  $500 Million  Before the trial, Hewlett-Packard said it was seeking about
$500 million in damages, according to a person familiar with the
matter who didn’t want to be identified because the damages
request is confidential.  Without the order requiring Oracle to continue developing
the software, Hewlett-Packard estimated it should be awarded
more than $4 billion in damages, based on an extrapolation to
2020 that accounts for projected losses, the person said.  Sales of Hewlett-Packard’s so-called business critical
systems that use Itanium chips plummeted 23 percent to
$421 million in the fiscal second quarter that ended in April.
The company also garners services revenue from the systems that
it doesn’t break out.  Dave Donatelli , the company’s executive vice president in
charge of data center products, said in a recent interview the
Itanium hardware decline was all attributable to Oracle’s
decision to stop developing software for the platform. Hewlett-
Packard last November said it’s developing new systems that will
offer Itanium customers a technical path to moving their
applications to new systems it’s developing.  2011 Announcement  Oracle’s March 2011 announcement that it decided to stop
software development for the Itanium chip came after the company
“became convinced that Itanium was approaching its end of life
and we explained our rationale to customers,” an Oracle
spokeswoman,  Deborah Hellinger , said in an e-mailed statement.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City , California, denied Hewlett-
Packard’s claims, arguing that it never agreed to forfeit
control over what software it can develop and what price it can
charge.  Hewlett-Packard’s claims in the case “turns the concept of
Silicon Valley ‘partnerships’ upside down,” Hellinger said in
the statement. “We plan to appeal the court’s ruling while
fully litigating our cross-claims that HP misled both its
partners and customers.”  Oracle said in its cross-complaint against Hewlett-Packard
that Intel “really wanted to kill” the Itanium chip, which
Oracle said was on “life support.”  ‘Campaign of Secrecy’  Oracle accuses Hewlett-Packard of engaging in a “campaign
of secrecy and deception” and “payoff” to Intel to induce it
to continue making the chips, according to an Oracle court
filing. Those claims may be aired at the trial’s second phase.  Hewlett-Packard called yesterday’s ruling “a tremendous
win for HP and its customers.”  “We expect Oracle to comply with its contractual
obligation as ordered by the court,” Hewlett-Packard said in an
e-mailed statement.  The  Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Oracle Corp., 11-cv-203163,
California Superior Court, Santa Clara County ( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 