-- Panasonic Shares Rise After Profit Beats Estimates: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-01T01:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/panasonic-shares-rise-after-profit-beats-estimates-tokyo-mover.html
Panasonic (8253)  Corp., maker of the Viera
range of televisions, rose the most in three years in Tokyo
trading after reporting first-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates.  Panasonic climbed as much as 7.9 percent to 589 yen, headed
for the biggest gain since July 24, 2009, and changed hands at
576 yen as of 10:12 a.m. in Tokyo. The stock was the second-
biggest percentage gainer on  Japan ’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average, which dropped 1.3 percent.  The Osaka-based electronics maker yesterday reported its
first  net income  in six quarters after cutting jobs and shutting
factories. Net income was 12.81 billion yen ($164 million) in
the three months ended June 30, compared with a net loss of 30.4
billion yen a year earlier. That beat the 9.2 billion-yen
average of three analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg News.  “Panasonic is steadily gaining earnings strength,”
 Takashi Watanabe , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote
in a report today. Rationalization and cost cuts may “continue
to have an effect from second quarter, which should help absorb
the impact of any further decline in sales,” he said.  Watanabe raising his 12-month price estimate for the stock
by 3 percent to 690 yen and maintained a buy  rating .  The maker of Lumix cameras is trying to turn around its
unprofitable TV, electronic component and battery operations
this fiscal year after closing plants and eliminating 36,000
jobs amid falling prices and a surging yen.  President  Kazuhiro Tsuga , who replaced Fumio Ohtsubo in the
role last month, has pledged to revive the Japanese manufacturer
“by all means.”  The audio-visual network  division , devices unit and
battery-making division all turned profitable during the quarter
from a loss a year earlier after reducing costs, Panasonic said.  Panasonic will probably cut costs by 130 billion yen this
fiscal year after a 64 billion-yen reduction in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Chief Financial Officer Hideaki Kawai said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  