-- Panetta Says All Options Must Be Tried Before Iran Strike
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-08-01T16:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/panetta-says-all-options-must-be-used-before-iran-strike-1-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
said all possible means must be tried before a military strike
against  Iran  and that the U.S. is prepared to use force if
needed to stop the Iranian development of an atomic bomb.  “We have to exhaust every option, every effort before we
resort to military action and that’s important,” Panetta said
while visiting an anti-missile battery in Ashkelon, southern
 Israel . Still, “if they continue and make the decision to
proceed with a nuclear weapon, we have options we are prepared
to implement to ensure that does not happen.”  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  expressed doubts
that Iran will back down quickly and said time “is running
out” for a peaceful solution.  Their comments today showed that U.S. and Israel continue
to disagree about what constitutes grounds for a military
strike, said  Gerald Steinberg , a professor of political science
at  Bar-Ilan University  near  Tel Aviv . For Israel “it’s not a
decision by Iran that matters because that may not be knowable,
but it’s Iranian capability,” Steinberg said.  While the U.S. and Israel both suspect that Iran is
covertly seeking nuclear-weapons capabilities through  uranium
enrichment  and other activities, the two allies have disagreed
openly about how much time to give economic sanctions and
negotiations to try and persuade Iran to give up its nuclear
program. Iran has denied it aims to build nuclear weapons.  Sanctions Impact  Netanyahu and Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  told Panetta
today that even if sanctions were to cripple Iran’s economy they
wouldn’t slow down the country’s nuclear program.  Expanded sanctions announced yesterday by President  Barack Obama  “will have an even greater impact on Iran’s economy”
than previous rounds, Netanyahu told Panetta at a meeting in
 Jerusalem  today. “But unfortunately it is also true that
neither sanctions nor diplomacy have yet had any impact on
Iran’s nuclear weapons program.”  Iran believes that “the international community does not
have the will to stop its nuclear program. This must change, and
it must change quickly because time to resolve this issue
peacefully is running out,” Netanyahu told Panetta.  Barak said that while talks and sanctions may have some
impact, they will give Iran more time to proceed with uranium
enrichment.  Immunity Zone  “We in Israel see the probability that it will lead the
ayatollahs to gather around a table, look at each other and tell
each other that ‘we have to give up the nuclear program,’ the
probability of that is extremely low,” Barak said at a press
conference with Panetta.  Barak in February warned that Israel would need to act
militarily within months, before Iran reaches a “zone of
immunity” where its underground enrichment facilities would be
invulnerable to Israeli air strikes.  Under pressure from Israel as well as from the U.S., where
Obama’s Republican rival  Mitt Romney  is accusing the president
of being weak on Israel’s security, the Obama administration
appears to have stepped up talk of military options against
Iran, said Steinberg in a phone interview.  “There’s a more consistent message out of  Washington  for
the potential for military action after all options have been
exhausted,” Steinberg said. The increased number of U.S.
officials visiting Israel in recent weeks and statements from
both sides “indicate that Israeli and U.S. officials agree that
sanctions impact is moving slowly,” he said.  Nuclear ‘Capabilities’  Still, Panetta’s statement that the U.S. would take
military action if the Iranians decide to proceed with a nuclear
weapon reflects the differences between Israeli and American
officials on what constitutes a red line, Steinberg said.  The U.S. position was summarized by  James Clapper , director
of national intelligence, in February congressional testimony
when he said, “We assess Iran is keeping open the option to
develop nuclear weapons, in part by developing  various nuclear
capabilities that better position it to produce such weapons,
should it choose to do so.” Clapper went on to say, “We do not
know, however, if Iran will eventually decide to build nuclear
weapons.”  “That’s a point of friction that has continued for two
years,” Steinberg said. Although the differences “have not
been fully bridged” the U.S. has taken actions including
positioning two aircraft carriers in the region to show military
strength, he said.  Iron Dome  Panetta’s visit to Israel follows trips here this month by
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , White House National
Security Adviser Tom Donilon and Deputy Secretary of State Bill Burns.  Panetta said the Obama administration would continue to
seek funds to bolster Israel’s Iron Dome anti-missile defense
system noting that the U.S. has provided $270 million toward the
system including $70 million that Obama authorized last week.  He spoke at an Iron Dome site about five miles from the
 Gaza Strip , from where rocket and mortar attacks are launched
against Israel.  The last such rocket attack was five weeks ago on a
Saturday at about 9 p.m., and the system successfully
intercepted the rockets, Colonel Zvika Haimovich told reporters.
The system has an 80 percent success rate in intercepting short-
range rockets, Barak said.  The Pentagon also has agreed to allow “a package of
enhancements” to the fleet of Lockheed Martin Corp.-made F-35
jets that Israel is buying so that the Jewish state has
“unquestioned air superiority,” Panetta said. Measures like
the Iron Dome and F-35 give Israel a “qualitative military
edge,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  