-- Penn State Loses Running Back Silas Redd to USC After Sanctions
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-01T13:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/penn-state-loses-running-back-silas-redd-to-usc-after-sanctions.html
Pennsylvania State University  lost
its most high-profile player since being hit with sanctions that
include a four-year bowl ban, as running back Silas Redd is
transferring to the University of  Southern California .  Redd, 20, rushed for 1,241 yards as a sophomore last
season, the 10th-highest total in school history, and scored a
team-leading seven touchdowns.  The 5-foot-10, 200-pound Redd has two seasons of college
football eligibility remaining and will be able to play
immediately for USC, which isn’t allowed to have more than 75
scholarship players -- 10 fewer than the maximum -- due to
National Collegiate Athletic Association penalties the school
received in 2010 for giving football players improper benefits.  “At USC, we’ve seen both sides of this issue, having lost
a number of players to transfer due to our NCAA sanctions,” USC
Athletic Director Pat Haden said in a statement. “But  Lane Kiffin  and his coaches would not be doing their job if they did
not try to improve our team every single day.”  USC is bowl-eligible this season, though will have to clear
a scholarship for Redd as a result of its sanctions, meaning a
walk-on player would probably have to give up a scholarship if
an incoming freshman recruit isn’t academically ineligible.  The NCAA on July 23 hit Penn State with a $60 million fine,
took away 20 scholarships annually for four years and issued a
postseason ban that matches the longest in college football
history after determining school officials tried to cover up
child abuse by former assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky.  The NCAA also said it would allow any entering or returning
 Penn State  football player to transfer to another school and
play immediately. The program has also had safety Tim Buckley
transfer to North Carolina State and junior tight end Kevin
Haplea leave for Florida State.  Running Back Depth  Kiffin, USC’s coach, had said at last week’s Pacific-12
Conference media day that his biggest concern for this season
was the team’s depth at running back. That’s been addressed with
the addition of Redd, who started last season with five straight
100-yard rushing games, becoming the first Nittany Lion to
accomplish the feat since Curtis Enis in 1997.  Redd enters the season as a candidate for the Doak Walker
Award, presented to the nation’s top running back.  The Trojans return senior quarterback Matt Barkley, who
decided to come back to school rather than enter the National
Football League draft after throwing a school-record 39
touchdown passes last season. He also passed for 3,528 yards as
the Trojans went 10-2, but were ineligible to play in a bowl
game because of their NCAA violations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  