-- Peregrine Probed by Labor Department, Trustee Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-01T17:10:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/peregrine-probed-by-labor-department-trustee-says.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
handling of its employees’ 401(k) plan is being reviewed by the
U.S. Labor Department, the collapsed commodity firm’s bankruptcy
trustee told a U.S. Senate Panel.  Trustee Ira Bodenstein disclosed the department’s action in
written testimony for a hearing today by the Senate Agriculture
Committee. In the statement, Bodenstein summarized his role and
progress in the bankruptcy since being appointed July 11 to
liquidate the firm and pay its creditors.  “I am also working diligently to address employee issues,
including those related to an investigation that has been
initiated by the Department of Labor into Peregrine’s employee
401(k) plan,” Bodenstein said without elaboration.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy on July 10 after
the  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm and founder Russell Wasendorf Sr. were sued by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The CFTC accused Wasendorf and the firm of misappropriating
more than $200 million in customer funds. He has been charged
with lying to U.S. agents and is being held in federal custody.  Peregrine filed for bankruptcy in  Chicago , where it also
maintained offices, listing more than $500 million in assets,
more than $100 million in liabilities and more than 10,000
creditors.  The Labor Department doesn’t comment on the existence of
ongoing investigations, Jason Surbey, an agency spokesman, said
in a telephone interview today.  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Iowa  ( Cedar Rapids ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  