-- Pfizer IPO, Cost Cuts Yield Time to Reinvent Its Research
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-01T20:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/pfizer-ipo-cost-cuts-yield-time-to-reinvent-its-research.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, put in place the last piece of its plan to refocus
the company on developing new drugs, announcing it would start
the separation of its animal-health business this month.  As the drugmaker spins off the unit and makes deep spending
cuts, Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  has set the stage for
Pfizer’s future without Lipitor, the drug that dominated the
company’s sales until this year after losing market exclusivity.
Top on the agenda is making New York-based Pfizer better at
turning out innovative new medicines, he said.  The company has three drugs with the potential to generate
over a $1 billion each in sales that could reach the market next
year, including treatments for  heart disease , Alzheimer’s and
rheumatoid arthritis. Eliquis, a blood thinner, could be
approved in the first half of 2013.  “On the research side, we’re before the middle innings,
because it takes a longer timeline,” than cutting expenses,
Read said yesterday in an interview. “We need to make it easier
for people to make an impact and get things done inside a
company that has 100,000 colleagues.”  Pfizer yesterday said it would start an initial public
offering in mid-August to sell as much as 20 percent of its
animal-health unit.  It also  reported  second-quarter net income that rose 25
percent to $3.25 billion, or 43 cents a share, and adjusted
earnings per share that topped analyst estimates by 8 cents,
largely due to aggressive cuts that knocked out $8.27 billion in
adjusted expenses. Revenue sank 9 percent to $15.1 billion in
the quarter led by declining sales of Lipitor, which dropped 53
percent to $1.22 billion.  Shares Increase  Pfizer  rose  less than 1 percent to $23.94 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time. The company’s stock has gained 26 percent in the last
12 months.  The company continues to generate enough cash, and has fat
to trim, Read said. As part of its spending overhaul, Pfizer may
cut as many as 10 more facilities in the next several years,
Chief Financial Officer Frank D’Amelio said.  “Read showed he is serious about cost cutting, and
investors already rewarded him with a nice run-up in the stock
price over the last 12 months,”  Erik Gordon , a professor of
business at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , said
yesterday in an e-mail. “The new products have to pan out and
Pfizer has to grow its non-U.S. sales in the face of a global
slowdown.  Both are riskier propositions.”  Read and D’Amelio also have been able to keep earnings per
share up through stock buybacks. The company bought back $9
billion in shares last year and will buy back $5 billion this
year, D’Amelio said.  R&D Effort  “Pfizer can keep investors interested by dividends and
using cash to buy back stock,” said  Tony Butler , an analyst
with Barclays Plc. As for the research and development effort,
it “takes some time for those changes to bear fruit.”  There have been setbacks.  Yesterday, the company said that U.S. regulators may delay
approval of tofacitinib, a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis,
beyond its current August deadline.  At the same time, Pfizer released a study showing the drug
was more effective than methotrexate, an older treatment.
Tofacitinib was superior in easing pain and swelling of joints
caused by rheumatoid arthritis and no new side effects were
found, according to the study. Results were from the last of
three stages of human tests generally required for Food and Drug
Administration approval. The drug may compete with  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) ’ top-seller, Humira.  Experimental Drugs  Bapineuzumab, an Alzheimer’s disease drug being developed
with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and Elan Corp., failed the first of four
pivotal, final-stage clinical trials, Pfizer said on July 24.
Results from the next trial will be released this month, Read
said.  The company also is seeking marketing clearance for
Eliquis, a blood thinner being developed with New York-based
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  The FDA rejected Eliquis in June,
asking the companies for more information from existing trials.  The FDA could take as long as six months after the
companies give regulators the data to respond. The agency hasn’t
asked for a new clinical trial. The drug, aimed at patients with
heart arrhythmia, would have $2.5 billion a year in sales by
2015 if approved, according to  Tim Anderson , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York.  Innovation Engines  Read said he’s committed to sticking with his strategy of
getting Pfizer’s innovation engines working even if there are
near-term setbacks, and won’t turn to buying drugs or companies
just to fill the pipeline.  “We invest internally in projects that we believe have a
return above our cost of capital,” Read said. “External
opportunities are subject to the same analysis. We are not going
to do projects that do not return our cost of capital because of
issues internally or non-issues internally. Our willingness to
do deals externally is driven by the value of the deals.”  The company has bid for other companies, including
drugmaker Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc., Bloomberg has reported.
However, it hasn’t announced a  purchase  worth more than $50
million during Read’s tenure, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company has cash coming that will give it more room to
breathe, from the divestiture of the two noncore units. April,
Pfizer agreed to sell its infant nutrition business to Vevey,
Switzerland-based Nestle SA for $11.9 billion.  Zoetis Business  Along with the IPO of the animal-health business, Pfizer
plans to give current shareholders stock in the company, to be
named Zoetis, Read has said previously. That will further reduce
Pfizer’s amount of outstanding stock and increase earnings per
share.  The drugmaker plans to sell shares of the animal-health
business in the first half of next year, Read said. The company
will file a registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission that will start the process of separating
the business this month.  Pfizer hasn’t announced yet where the animal health company
will have its headquarters, nor said who will lead it.  Money from the divestitures is likely be to be used for
share buybacks, which Read calls “the case to beat,” compared
with acquisitions.  Butler, of Barclays, thinks Pfizer and the rest of the
pharmaceutical sector are entering a period with more research
and development promise than any time in a decade.  “They’re managing these businesses much better than they
did at the turn of the decade and the mid-90s,” he said. “They
are  growth stocks . Not at the level they once were. But perhaps
at a more sustainable level than they had been.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  