-- Phillips 66 Profit Rises, $1 Billion Share Buyback Planned
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-08-01T20:22:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/phillips-66-rises-after-debut-as-most-valuable-u-s-refiner.html
Phillips 66 (PSX) , which became the largest
U.S. independent refiner after its spinoff from ConocoPhillips
earlier this year, said second-quarter profit rose 13 percent on
higher fuel margins and announced a plan to buy back shares
valued at $1 billion.  Net income rose to $1.18 billion, or $1.86 a share, from
$1.04 billion, or $1.64, a year earlier, Houston-based Phillips
66 said in a statement today. Profit excluding the sale of the
Trainer refinery, debt retirement, and other one-time costs was
$2.23 a share, 55 cents more than the average of 14  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. refiners have seen profit reach the highest point
since 2007 as new crude  production  in  Texas  and the Midwest has
reduced oil costs. The difference between crude and the price at
which refiners can sell fuel  averaged  $29.05 a barrel in the
April-to-June period, the most for a second quarter, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Phillips 66 plans to keep its
Alliance refinery in Belle Chasse,  Louisiana  in anticipation of
less expensive Gulf Coast crude.  “We’re off to a solid start, running well in a positive
margin environment,” Greg Garland, chairman and chief executive
officer, said in the statement. The board has approved the
repurchase of as much as $1 billion of the company’s shares. The
company didn’t give a timeframe for the buybacks.  The emerging advantage of U.S. crude supplies will help
Phillips 66 return cash to shareholders and may draw new
investors to boost the stock price,  Paul Cheng , an analyst at
Barclays Plc in New York, said in a June 30 note to clients.
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said on July 13 that  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  had invested in Phillips 66.  Pipeline Growth  The company was still part of ConocoPhillips during the
first month of the quarter before its April 30 spinoff. The new
company reported earnings in its refining, pipeline and
chemicals businesses for the full three months that compare to
what it would have earned in the year-ago quarter on the same
basis.  Phillips 66 has stakes in 15 operating refineries as well
as a chemical joint venture with  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and a pipeline
unit with  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE)  Garland has touted future growth
from pipelines and chemicals as he seeks to reduce less
profitable refining holdings.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  last week said its quarterly profit fell 33
percent because of the loss of income from the refining unit.  The earnings were announced before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. Phillips 66 rose 1.8 percent to $38.27 at the
close in New York. The shares have 11 buy ratings and six holds
from analysts.  Independent refiners process crude but don’t explore for or
produce oil and natural gas. Phillips 66 is the largest
independent U.S. refiner by sales and market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  