-- Quebec’s Charest Calls September Vote Amid Protests
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-08-01T16:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/quebec-s-charest-calls-september-vote-amid-protests.html
Quebec  voters will go to the polls
Sept. 4 after Premier Jean Charest called an election with more
than a year remaining in his mandate, betting he can overcome
months of social unrest and win a fourth consecutive term.  Quebec’s legislature was dissolved after Charest met with
Lieutenant-Governor  Pierre Duchesne  in  Quebec City  today,
Charest told reporters in the provincial capital.  The election raises the possibility of a return to power of
the separatist Parti Quebecois, whose support in recent polls is
close to Charest’s Liberals, a prospect that is making investors
wary of the province’s debt. The Parti Quebecois is led by
Pauline Marois, a former Quebec finance minister.  “Even though the PQ doesn’t talk a lot about sovereignty,
and even through Ms. Marois doesn’t want to commit on a date for
a referendum, the PQ remains a sovereigntist party,” said
Daniel Salée, a professor of political science at Concordia
University in  Montreal . “Sovereignty is a fundamental goal of
theirs.”  Quebec’s 5 percent bonds due in 2038 yielded 32 basis
points more than British Columbia’s 4.7 percent bonds due in
2037, the most since at least August 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That spread has averaged 12 basis points
over the past two years.  Quebec, which is predominantly French-speaking, has twice
voted in referendums against seceding from  Canada , most recently
in 1995. The sovereignty issue has lost momentum in recent
years. In the May 2011 federal election, the separatist  Bloc
Quebecois  was reduced to four seats from 49 in 2008.  According to a poll by Leger Marketing published today by
Le Journal de Montreal, Quebec sovereignty was ranked 10th among
a list of top election issues for voters. Health care topped the
list.  Polls Close  The same poll found the Parti Quebecois has the support of
33 percent of voters, with the Liberals backed by 31 percent.
The poll, taken July 29 and July 31, has a margin of error of
2.4 percent.  Charest has been in power since April 2003, when he ended
nine years of rule by the Parti Quebecois. He had until December
2013 to call a vote.  The 54-year-old leader has been facing months of street
protests from students and union groups with a plan to press
ahead with an increase in post-secondary tuition fees, an issue
that is poised to dominate the election campaign. Charest pushed
through in May a  law  that suspended school and curbed
demonstrations.  The protests may end up working in Charest’s favor. Fifty-
six percent of respondents in a June poll by Leger Marketing
said they backed the tuition increase, while 35 percent say they
favor the students’ stance.  Non Voters  “A big chunk of those demonstrators who took to the
streets against Charest simply don’t vote. Their participation
rate is quite low,” Salee said. “There’s a combination of
factors that could help Mr. Charest hang onto power.”  About 155,000 students at Quebec universities and community
colleges have been on strike since Feb. 13 over a plan by Quebec
to raise university fees by 75 percent, or C$1,625, over five
years. The protest movement, which has swollen to include
workers, opposition politicians and labor unions, has sparked
hundreds of demonstrations in Montreal and more than 1,600
arrests.  Charest must also defend himself against charges of lax
governance. The Liberal government has been hurt in the last two
years by media reports that organized crime infiltrated the
 construction industry  to win government contracts. A  commission 
looking into the public contracting process opened in May and is
set to resume Sept. 17 after a summer recess.  Tuition Increase  Finance Minister Raymond Bachand is counting on the tuition
increase to help Quebec, which has the highest debt as a
percentage of gross domestic product in Canada, plug a C$1.5
billion ($1.5 billion) budget gap by 2013-14. Quebec expects the
additional fees to bring in as much as C$332 million a year by
2016-17.  Government debt in Quebec amounted to about 62 percent of
2011-12 gross domestic product, the highest among Canada’s 10
provinces, according to a June report published by the Toronto-
based credit rating company DBRS Ltd. Quebec’s debt is rated A+
by  Standard & Poor’s , Aa2 by Moody’s and A (high) by DBRS. S&P
affirmed its rating on July 11, saying the province has
“demonstrated its commitment to reducing debt.”  Quebec’s election also comes amid signs that the provincial
economy is faltering. Output was little changed in April as
agriculture, forestry and mining declined, according to a July
19  report  by the Institut de la statistique du Quebec, the
provincial statistics agency. Canadian growth accelerated to 0.3
percent in April,  Statistics Canada  said June 29.  Jobless Rate  Unemployment in the province exceeds the national average.
Quebec’s jobless rate was 7.7 percent in June, Statistics Canada
said July 6, compared with 7.2 percent for the whole country.
The province also has the country’s highest personal tax rates,
according to  data compiled  by the federal revenue department.  Bachand said yesterday’s he’s opposed to a proposed
takeover of home improvement retailer  Rona Inc. (RON)  by U.S.
competitor Lowe’s Cos, saying the Quebec company’s supply chain
is a “strategic asset” for the province.  Charest plans to encourage economic development in its
sparsely populated north to boost revenue from natural resources
such as natural gas, minerals and wind power while helping to
raise  living conditions . Environmental activists and opposition
politicians have criticized Charest for the so called Plan Nord,
arguing the government isn’t doing enough to protect the
environment or charging companies enough in royalties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  