-- Rand Declines for Fourth Day Before Fed, ECB Policy Meetings
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-08-01T15:16:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/rand-gains-first-day-in-three-on-stimulus-speculation-pmi.html
The rand declined for a fourth day as
investors awaited the outcome of central banks’ policy meetings
for clues on more stimulus measures after manufacturing gauges
in  China  and the U.S. shrank.  South Africa ’s currency retreated as much as 0.4 percent,
and traded 0.1 percent weaker at 8.2648 per dollar as of 4:42
p.m. in Johannesburg. The nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
yielded 6.66 percent, unchanged from yesterday’s close.  Members of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Open Market Committee
will end their two-day meeting today. While they refrained from
introducing a third round of asset purchases at their June
session, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated last month that it’s
an option. The  European Central Bank  will announce a policy
decision tomorrow.  “Demand for high-yield assets on a global scale will only
remain supported if the Fed and ECB live up to the stimulus
expectations today and tomorrow,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a
Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed
comments. “As a result there is significant event risk ahead of
the policy meetings this week.”  The  MSCI Emerging Markets stock index  erased gains and the
prices of metals including copper and nickel declined after a
purchasing managers’ index released today showed China’s
manufacturing industry grew at the slowest pace in eight months
in July. Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted for a
second month in July, adding to signs the global economy is
faltering.  Metals and other commodities accounted for 45 percent of
South Africa’s exports in 2011, according to government data.  ‘Dovish Statement’  “The Fed seems unlikely to announce any major policy
change today,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, said in e-
mailed comments. “The most we can hope for is a more dovish
statement, which isn’t likely to appease a worried market. Risks
are therefore biased towards losses.”  South Africa’s purchasing managers’ index rebounded in July
from a 10-month low, rising to 51 from 48.2 in June,
Johannesburg-based Kagiso Tiso Holdings said. The median
estimate of six economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for the
index to decline to 47.5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  