-- Transocean Considers Halt Order, Keeps Working in Brazil
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-08-01T14:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/transocean-considers-halt-order-keeps-working-in-brazil.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore drilling company, continues operating in Brazil and is
evaluating a court order issued yesterday to suspend operations
within 30 days while two oil spills are investigated.  The case against Transocean is “without merit,”  Guy Cantwell , a spokesman, said in a telephone interview. The
suspension was in response to spills at  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Frade
offshore oil project in November and March. Transocean supplied
the rig where Chevron had a drilling accident last year at
Frade.  “We reiterate that Transocean crews acted responsibly and
quickly, following the highest industry standards,” Cantwell
said. “We have a very strong case and we will use every legal
means necessary to prove it.”  Transocean, based in Vernier, Switzerland, has nine rigs
operating in Brazil, according to the company’s website. Seven
of the rigs are contracted by state-controlled  Petroleo
Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , according to Rigzone, a website that tracks
global drilling activity.  Magda Chambriard, the head of  Brazil ’s oil regulator ANP,
said July 19 that Transocean had no role in the Frade spills and
that the agency was in talks with Chevron to resume output. The
Brazilian court said the suspension of operations will last
until the federal prosecutor’s office, the oil regulator and
environmental agencies complete investigations into the spills.  “If something so preposterous were to take hold it would
be a reason to question how the system works,” Cleveland Jones,
an oil specialist and geology professor at Rio de Janeiro State
University, said in a telephone interview. Jones expects
Transocean and Chevron to appeal the decision.  Chevron shut production at Frade in March and doesn’t
produce oil anywhere else in Brazil.  Transocean’s shares rose 0.1 percent to $46.89  at 10:38 in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  