-- Transocean Beats Analyst Expectations With Rig Cost Control
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-08-01T23:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/transocean-posts-loss-as-rigs-need-more-maintenance-projects.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s largest
offshore-rig contractor, reported second-quarter profit that
beat analysts’ estimates as it controlled costs to maintain its
rigs, partly to satisfy more stringent safety regulations
following the Macondo oil spill.  Excluding various one-time items including a $750 million
charge related to Macondo, the company beat by 28 cents the
average of 32 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
climbed 10 percent to $2.6 billion.  The company reported a second-quarter loss of $304 million,
or 86 cents a share, compared with a profit of $124 million, or
39 cents, a year earlier, the Vernier, Switzerland-based company
said in a statement today.  The number of industry rigs  operating  in the U.S.  Gulf of
Mexico  rose 45 percent to an average of 45 during the second
quarter from 31 a year earlier, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) 
Average daily operating costs are expected to climb in the range
of 5 to 10 percent year over year, partly due to wages and
maintenance, Chief Financial Officer Greg Cauthen told analysts
and investors on a May 3 conference call.  “It was better revenue and better costs,” Luke Lemoine,
an analyst at Capital One Southcoast in  New Orleans , said in a
telephone interview. He rates the shares at add, which means
investors should buy the stock, and owns none.  He expected the company’s costs to climb to $1.65 billion.
Instead, Transocean’s adjusted operating and maintenance
expenses climbed 9.8 percent to $1.61 billion compared to the
first quarter.  Revenue  The company was expected to report revenue of $2.5 billion,
according to the average of 23 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The results were released after the close of regular
trading on U.S. markets. Transocean rose 0.4 percent to $48 at
5:57 p.m. in  New York .  “Everybody in the industry has experienced cost
inflation,” John Keller, an analyst at Stephens Inc. in
Houston, said in a telephone interview before the earnings were
released. He rates the shares at equalweight, which means
investors should hold the stock.  Cauthen said on the call that 35 of its rigs were expected
to be out of service for planned maintenance in the second
quarter, a 35 percent climb from the first quarter.  Rental rates for the industry’s ultra-deepwater rigs, the
world’s most complex and expensive drilling vessels, should
climb 28 percent to a record $714,000 a day by the third quarter
from about $560,000 in March, according to estimates by Ole Slorer, an analyst at Morgan Stanley who dubs the move a “super
spike.”  Transocean owned the $365 million Deepwater Horizon rig
that was destroyed in the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill in the Gulf of
 Mexico . The company employed nine of the 11 workers who died in
the April 2010 disaster.  (Transocean scheduled a conference call to discuss first-
quarter results for 10 a.m. New York time tomorrow. To access
the call, go to  http://www.deepwater.com .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  