-- U.S. Treasury Plans Floating-Rate Notes in Year or More
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-08-01T16:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/treasury-plans-floating-rate-notes-looks-at-negative-rate-bids.html
The U.S. Treasury Department said
today it is developing a floating-rate note program that could
be operational in a year or more, while it is preparing for
possible negative-rate bidding.  The Treasury also plans to sell $72 billion in notes and
bonds in next week’s refunding, it said in a statement in
 Washington . The Treasury intends to auction $32 billion in 3-
year notes on Aug. 7, $24 billion in 10-year notes on Aug. 8 and
$16 billion in 30-year bonds on Aug. 9.  The floating-rate notes would be the first new U.S.
government debt security since Treasury Inflation-Protected
Securities, known as TIPS, were introduced in 1997. With a
 budget deficit  estimated at $1.21 trillion this year, the
Treasury needs to expand its base of investors, and the notes
may appeal to those who are seeking to protect themselves from a
possible increase in interest rates or faster inflation stemming
from the  Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented stimulus.  “People are nervous about fixed-rate instruments because
of rising rates,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money
manager  who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money Management
Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts . “The floating-rate notes remove
that risk for investors, so it makes the Treasury’s source of
capital a little bit more stable.”  The Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, the bond dealers
and investors who meet quarterly with department officials, said
it unanimously supports the introduction of the notes as soon as
possible. The group predicted “strong, broad-based demand for
the product.”  Capital Requirements  Capital and liquidity requirements from the 2010 overhaul
of financial regulation in the Dodd-Frank Act, and from the
Basel III global rules, have increased demand for short-term,
high-quality debt at a time when supply has diminished.  “Treasury plans to develop a floating-rate note program to
complement the existing suite of securities issued and to
support our broader debt-management objectives,” the department
said in a statement. It said the first auction “is estimated to
be at least one year away.”  Still, floating-rate notes pose risks for the Treasury,
according to Campbell Harvey, a finance professor at Duke
University’s Fuqua School of Business in Durham,  North Carolina .
If  interest rates  rise from historic lows, the Treasury will
need to pay investors more to borrow, he said in an April
interview.  Record Low  The yield on benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.51
percent at 11:55 a.m.  New York  time from 1.47 percent late
yesterday. Ten-year U.S. yields fell to a record 1.379 percent
on July 25.  The Treasury also said it is “in the process of building
the operational capabilities to allow for negative-rate bidding
in Treasury bill auctions, should we make the determination to
allow such bidding in the future.”  Investors who bid at auctions for Treasury bills at
negative yields would pay more than face value for the
securities, ensuring that if they hold the debt to maturity they
will get back less than they paid.  The Treasury also said that the U.S. debt limit is likely
to be reached at the end of this year, and it expects to use
“extraordinary measures” to fund the government into early
2013.  The Obama administration said July 27 it is forecasting the
 federal budget   deficit  will be $1.21 trillion this year, down
from $1.33 trillion projected in February. The U.S. faces a so-
called fiscal cliff of higher taxes and reductions in spending
on defense and other government programs that will take effect
at year-end unless Congress acts.  Congressional leaders said yesterday they will vote in
September on a $1.047 trillion, six-month stopgap measure that
would keep the government operating after the start of the
fiscal year on Oct. 1. The measure would give lawmakers more
time to debate how to avoid about $600 billion of spending cuts
and tax increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 