-- Treasury 5-Year Yield Near Record Low Amid Slowing Signs
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-08-01T05:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/treasuries-remain-higher-before-fed-amid-slowing-signs.html
Treasury five-year note yields were
six basis points from a record low as signs of an economic
slowdown in the U.S.,  Europe  and  China  boosted demand for the
securities as a haven.  The notes remained higher following a two-day advance
before reports today that economists say will show U.S.
employers added the fewest workers in three months and that a
gauge of euro-area manufacturing slid to a three-year low.  Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group,
said the  Federal Reserve  will end up buying bonds “forever.”
The Fed will conclude a two-day policy meeting today.  “Economies are weak globally, resulting in a flight to
quality,” said Hiromasa Nakamura, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $42 billion as an investor at Mizuho Asset
Management Co. in  Tokyo . “Treasury yields have more room to
decline.”  The benchmark five-year  yield  was little changed at 0.59
percent as of 6:37 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. It reached the all-time low of 0.53 percent on July
25. The 0.5 percent security due July 2017 traded at 99 17/32
today. Ten-year yields were at 1.48 percent after falling eight
basis points in the past two days to 1.47 percent yesterday.  Japan ’s 10-year bond yields were little changed at 0.775
percent, according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The benchmark rate reached 0.72
percent on July 23, the lowest since June 2003.  A gauge of  China’s manufacturing  was little changed at 50.1
in July, the lowest since November, a report from the Beijing-
based National Bureau of Statistics and the China Federation of
Logistics showed today. A reading below 50 signals contraction.  U.S. Economy  ADP Employer Services will probably say today that
companies in the U.S. added 120,000 workers last month,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. That would be the least since April and down
from a 176,000 increase in June.  A  gauge  of manufacturing in the euro region dropped to 44.1
in July, a level unseen since June 2009, a separate poll of
economists shows. London-based Markit Economics will release the
final reading of the index today.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on July 17 that policy
makers are “looking for ways to address the weakness in the
economy should more action be needed.” The central bank’s
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  said in January
that its benchmark  interest rate  will stay at “exceptionally
low levels” at least through late 2014, extending its pledge
from the middle of 2013.  ‘QE-forever’  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing, or QE, seeking to cap borrowing costs.  “They are not going to stop printing,” Templeton’s Mobius
said at a briefing in Tokyo today, referring to the U.S. central
bank. “It’s no longer going to be QE1, QE2, QE3, it’s going to
be QE-forever until unemployment goes down.” His company
manages about $50 billion in assets.  Twenty-six percent of economists forecast the Fed will
extend its rate pledge today, while 74 percent expect the
central bank not to change its forward guidance, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 58 economists. Forty-eight percent say
the FOMC will announce a third round of asset purchases at its
Sept. 12-13 meeting.  The central bank  will buy  as much as $2 billion of
Treasuries tomorrow maturing in February 2036 to May 2042. The
purchases are part of the so-called Operation Twist that swaps
short-term debt in the Fed’s holdings for longer maturities.  ECB Expectations  Demand for Treasuries was limited before the  European
Central Bank  holds a policy meeting tomorrow amid speculation it
will decide to buy sovereign debt in the euro region to lower
government borrowing costs. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on
July 26 that the central bank is “ready to do whatever it takes
to preserve the euro.”  Spain ’s 10-year bond yields have pared their advance since
climbing to a euro-era record of 7.75 percent on July 25,
standing at 6.75 percent yesterday. The equivalent rate in  Italy 
was at 6.08 percent, down from a six-month high of 6.71 percent
touched a week earlier.  The ECB hasn’t  settled  any purchases of  government bonds 
since March under its Securities Markets Program, in which the
central bank  intervenes  in the euro region’s public and private
debt markets.  “Action by Draghi is likely to drive down bond yields in
Italy and Spain, which would spur risk-on sentiment and put
upward pressure on Treasury yields,” said Mizuho’s Nakamura.
“Any yield gain would be temporary and rates would resume their
decline owing to the weak U.S. fundamentals in the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  