-- Three Cheers, and One Hijab, for a Female Saudi Olympian
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-01T22:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/three-cheers-and-one-hijab-for-a-female-saudi-olympian.html
At the same time as Islamist
extremists in the African nation of  Mali  were  stoning  a couple
to death for having sex (and children) outside marriage, a young
Saudi Arabian woman found herself the object of a dispute over
whether she could compete at the  Olympic Games  wearing a
headscarf. The two are connected; we’ll get to that.  In the case of  Wojdan Ali Seraj Abdulrahim Shaherkani ,
reason prevailed -- a compromise reached Tuesday will allow her
to take part in Friday’s heavyweight judo competition. A
spokesman for the International Judo Federation declined to
elaborate on the deal, but it appears that Shaherkani will wear
a specially designed headscarf. This makes her and teammate
 Sarah Attar , an 800-meter runner, the first women the
conservative Saudis have sent to the Olympics.  Shaherkani will undoubtedly lose her contest against  Puerto
Rico ’s  Melissa Mojica , ranked 13th in the world. Shaherkani, at
16, has only a beginner’s blue belt. But the Olympics committee
and the  International Judo Federation  accepted her lack of
experience. They invited her because they wanted to get Saudi
women into competition. Besides, it’s not the only time Olympic
standards have been lowered: The U.K. sent the less than stellar
Eddie “The Eagle” Edwards to ski jump at the Calgary Winter
Olympics in 1988, and Jamaica famously sent a bobsled team with
just a year’s training.  The judo federation, however, balked at Shaherkani’s
headscarf. A blue belt was fine, it reasoned, but wearing a
headscarf on the mat would be unsafe -- she might be choked.
Plus, it was against “the principles and spirit of judo.” These
arguments were surely undermined by the participation of women
in headscarves at international judo competitions in  Asia .  Barring Shaherkani would have detracted from what should
count as an achievement for the 2012 Olympics: For the first
time, every participating nation has allowed its women to
compete, with Brunei, Qatar and Saudi Arabia finally joining the
rest of the world and ending their bans. (It’s worth noting that
the Olympic  Charter  describes gender discrimination as
incompatible with being a member of the Olympic Movement.)  Feelings about headscarves are immaterial. To many non-
Muslims and secular Muslims alike, the headscarf represents a
tool for the suppression of women. But to prevent women who wear
them from taking part in sports events, working or going to
college -- as was the case until recently in  Turkey  -- is simply
wrong. The goal is not the symbol, the goal is to win the right
for women to govern their own lives and participate fully in
society. Shaherkani wanted to compete.  Saudi Arabia  is a country in which women are still not
allowed to drive cars and where the female  participation rate  in
the workforce is just 17 percent. Girls are  not taught  sports in
public schools. Women aren’t allowed to play competitive sports
outside licensed clubs, and yet no licenses have been granted
for women’s sports clubs. The regime set strict conditions on
its female Olympic hopefuls, including a requirement to have
with them the  male guardians  that all Saudi women are obliged to
have by law.  Yes, there’s a long way to go. But every step taken to
relax restrictions on women in Saudi Arabia should be welcomed
and not rebuffed. Saudi women are beginning to demand more
rights; the sight of their fellow citizens marching in the
Olympic stadium (albeit behind the men) may inspire them. Long
before the headscarf controversy, the decision to send women to
compete in  London  was a cause celebre in Saudi Arabia’s blog-
and Twitter-spheres. Most celebrated the move, but others
attacked Attar and Shaherkani as prostitutes.  Such attitudes, presumably, were shared by Mali’s Islamist
extremists, who last weekend took Shariah law to mean that
adulterers should be stoned to death. As recently as 2007, a
woman was sentenced to death in Saudi Arabia for adultery, and
last year one was beheaded for “sorcery and witchcraft.”
Although Saudi Arabia has not carried out the death sentence for
adultery in many years, the country’s record on  women’s rights 
remains among the worst in the world.  This is why Shaherkani should consider herself victorious,
even if she loses her contest. For any Saudi woman to walk into
the ring at the Olympics, with or without a headscarf, is to
land a long-overdue blow against inequality and oppression.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on what the ECB must do to  save
the euro ;  Susan Antilla  on Wall Street’s  efforts to stymie new
regulations ;  Caroline Baum  on  monetary policy  getting off track;
 Michael Kinsley  on  Romney’s zero tolerance  for the unsuccessful;
 Peter Orszag  on ways to keep lowering  health-care costs ; Handel
Reynolds on the shaky foundation of the  mammogram economy .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 