-- Repsol Sues Bank of New York Mellon Over YPF Election
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-01T21:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/repsol-sues-bank-of-new-york-mellon-over-ypf-election.html
Repsol SA sued  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp.  for more than $50 million for failing to carry out
voting instructions in the election of the board of  YPF SA (YPFD) ,
 Argentina ’s largest oil company.  Argentina seized 51 percent of YPF in April from Repsol,
 Spain ’s largest oil producer, as President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government seeks to halt declining oil output and
stem fuel imports that doubled to $9.4 billion last year. YPF in
June appointed a 17-member board, with Repsol representative
Luis Garcia del Rio as the sole minority-stakeholder member.  Repsol alleged that Bank of  New York  Mellon, as depositary
of YPF’s American depositary shares, refused to carry out the
voting instructions because they were received after the bank’s
deadline. As a result, Madrid-based Repsol was prevented from
exercising its right to appoint three directors and two
alternate directors to the board, according to the complaint,
which also named YPF as a defendant.  “BNY’s refusal and failure to carry out Repsol’s
indisputably timely voting instructions and to vote the pledged
ADSs at the YPF shareholders meeting held on June 4, 2012, was
based on BNY’s own internal failure of communication and the
improper interference of YPF in disallowing Repsol’s
instructions,” Repsol said in the complaint filed today in New
York State Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  Ron Gruendl , a spokesman for Bank of New York Mellon,
declined to comment on the lawsuit. Two representatives of YPF
declined to comment or give their names.  Federal Case  Repsol sued Argentina in Manhattan federal court in May,
saying the South American country has attempted to walk away
from contractual obligations it undertook when it chose to come
to the U.S. to raise capital through an initial public offering
of YPF.  Repsol still owns a 12 percent stake in YPF, making it the
second-biggest stakeholder behind the Argentinian government.  Repsol also filed an arbitration request at the World
Bank’s International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes over the seizure of YPF, Julio De Vido, Argentina’s
planning minister, said in an interview with Venezuelan state
television in May.  The case is  Repsol SA (REP)  v. Bank of New York Mellon,
652653/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  