-- Republicans Urge Romney Focus on Jobs After Troubled Trip
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-01T00:11:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/republicans-urge-romney-focus-on-jobs-after-troubled-trip.html
  Mitt Romney  returns from an erratic,
six-day overseas tour with no discernible boost to his foreign
policy credentials, and facing fresh questions about his
campaign operation as it enters a critical period.  While the presumed Republican nominee’s string of gaffes
and international mini-incidents may not sway U.S. voters, whose
chief concern is the domestic economy, it has reignited some
Republicans’ concerns that the troubles Romney encountered
abroad are indicative of his campaign’s weaknesses at home.  John Weaver , who advised the party’s 2008 nominee, Arizona
Senator  John McCain , said the flare-ups that consumed Romney’s
trip reflected a broader problem: With the candidate eschewing
risk and offering little detail about what he’d do as president,
his campaign is being defined by small things.  “He comes across sometimes as if he’s Gulliver and he’s
tied down by all the Lilliputians when he could actually stand
up and exert some strength -- he just seems to be tied down by a
lot of little things,” said Weaver, who advised Romney’s
Republican primary rival former Utah Governor Jon Hunstman Jr.
“If they were a little bolder, a little more specific and took
some chances -- I don’t consider them chances, but I know they
see them that way -- I think he could win.”  Florida Convention  Calls for Romney to reset his campaign come as he enters
one of the most intensely scrutinized periods of the election
contest. He will roll out his vice presidential pick in the
coming weeks, and, later this month, will officially receive the
party’s nomination at the Florida convention.  Campaign aides said the trip was a success and insisted
that it will have little impact on the election. While foreign
tours are a good way to help candidates bulk up their resumes in
preparation for the three presidential debates this fall, voters
are far more concerned about the country’s slow economic growth,
said Romney strategist Stuart Stevens.  “People understand that big elections are about big
things,” he said.  Some Republican veterans worry it won’t be an easy pivot.
“When you’re on defense it’s hard to get back on offense,”
said Steve Duprey, a New Hampshire Republican national
committeeman who also advised McCain.  President  Barack Obama ’s campaign, he said, “can’t win on
substance,” and therefore has settled on a strategy of using
the summer to try and make Romney an unacceptable alternative.  “That said, the Romney campaign has to get out there and
get on the offense and talk about big ideas,” Duprey added.
“This has been the least substantive campaign in history.”  Economic Plan  Weaver also called on Romney to release more specifics
about his plans to spur growth and create  jobs . Without that, he
said, it gives the Obama re-election operation a chance to raise
doubts about what Romney would do.  “I don’t think it’s going to be enough to simply keep your
fingers crossed until November that the economy continues to do
poorly and Obama will be unacceptable,” Weaver said. As a
challenger, Romney has “an obligation, I think, to tell the
American people what you plan on doing, and secondly, it can
help him get past this hump where he’s not likable.”  The Obama campaign is already renewing demands that Romney
release more than two years of his tax returns, an issue that
was gaining traction before the trip even among some Republican-
leaning groups.  Tax Returns  “Maintaining the secrecy creates the impression, justly or
not, that there is something there to hide,” concluded a July
26  editorial  in the New Hampshire Union Leader, a newspaper
influential in Republican politics. “No escaping that reality.
The impression is there. And it will cost Romney votes he cannot
afford to lose.”  As Romney flew home to Boston, a super political action
committee backing him, Restore Our Future, unveiled a biographic
ad yesterday. The ad features Gold medalists, including skater
Kristi Yamaguchi, from the 2002 Salt Lake City Winter Olympics
that Romney ran testifying to how he turned around the games and
inspired them.  In addition, the Romney headquarters announced he would head 
west later this week to an event in Colorado, where, according to
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie 's office, he will also appear
with Christie, Governor  Bobby Jindal  of Louisiana and Governor 
 Scott Walker  of Wisconsin, names that have been floated as 
potential Republican vice presidential picks.  While such an announcement isn’t expected, the appearance
will change the conversation from the foreign trip and provide
forums for Romney to talk about jobs and the stalled recovery
and renew his criticism of Obama’s handling of both.  Missed Lay-up  Romney’s London visit “was a lay-up -- it was a clear
chance for him to dote on England and give a huge, fat, wet kiss
to everybody involved in the Olympics, and he missed that
opportunity,” said Republican strategist  Hogan Gidley , who
advised former Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania during his
primary challenge to Romney. “But I don’t think that’s going to
matter to anybody in the long run --it’ll be forgotten, if it
hasn’t been forgotten already.”  The three-country tour was supposed to be Romney’s debut on
the global stage, a way of establishing his foreign policy
credentials and showing voters that he could be a credible
commander-in-chief.  Instead, it suggested the shaky stage directions of a
campaign that’s not quite ready for prime time.  One of Romney’s assets, his leadership of the Salt Lake
City games, was turned into a punch line after British Prime
Minister  David Cameron , smarting from Romney’s criticism of
security in England, said “it’s easier if you hold an  Olympic
Games  in the middle of nowhere.”  ‘Shake Your Head’  Karl Rove , former political adviser to President George W.Bush, commenting on Romney’s Olympics security remark during a
July 27  Fox News  interview, said: “You have to shake your
head.”  What was supposed to be the biggest moment of his trip, a
pro-Israel address as the sun set on Jerusalem’s Old City, was
overshadowed by an off-message comment about Iran from a senior
aide that Romney had to clarify.  The campaign sent only a handful of staff members abroad
with the candidate, including four policy advisers -- only one
of whom stayed the entire time.  By contrast, when Obama traveled abroad as a candidate in
2008, he was joined by senior advisers  David Axelrod  and  Robert Gibbs  and a long list of foreign policy experts, including  Susan Rice ,  Dennis Ross , Richard Danzig and  James Steinberg .  In the absence of any new policy pronouncements, the media
coverage of the trip centered on the gaffes and fundraising
events that raised more than $3 million.  Gift Bags  For the Israel donor event, top fundraisers, including
casino executive  Sheldon Adelson , were greeted with gift bags,
toured Jerusalem in private vans and were ushered to front-row
spots at his speech.  Romney dismissed the criticism yesterday, blaming the media
for overplaying the dust-ups that trailed his trip.  “They’ll instead try to find anything else to divert from
the fact that these last four years have been tough years for
our country,” he said in an interview with Fox News, two hours 
before he left for Boston.  Dan Schnur , a former Republican strategist who chairs the
University of Southern California’s Jesse Unruh Institute of
Politics, said while Romney’s overseas blunders won’t hurt him
with swing voters, the trip was a “missed opportunity for him
to begin to establish himself as a leader on the world stage.”  Still, as Romney’s campaign distributed a plethora of news
releases and fact sheets yesterday about his outreach to the
Polish and Israelis while abroad, Schnur noted, “he may have
done himself some real good with a few critical voter blocs,”
including evangelical and Jewish voters who prioritize Israel,
and Polish-Americans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  