-- Republicans Buoyed by Freshmen Seek Rewrite of Tax System
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-01T14:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/republicans-buoyed-by-freshmen-seek-rewrite-of-tax-system.html
U.S.  House Republicans  will vote this
week to create a process for a tax-code overhaul in 2013,
satisfying restless first-term members who want to show they’re
moving forward on the issue.  The Republican plan would simplify and flatten the income
tax system, requiring lawmakers to remove or curtail tax breaks
to cover the cost of lowering the top individual and corporate
rates to 25 percent from 35 percent.  “If you were to distill down the single adjective that was
to describe what members are looking for in  tax reform , it would
be bold,” Representative Peter Roskam, an Illinois Republican,
said in an interview this week.  The Republicans who helped the party take the House
majority in 2010 came to Congress eager to revamp the tax system
and its tangle of exemptions, deductions and credits. Senior
Republicans on the Ways and Means Committee have taken a more
deliberative approach, holding hearings and waiting to produce
legislation until they sense an opportunity to advance their
plan through both chambers of Congress.  The Republican bill outlining a tax overhaul, which drew a
veto threat from the White House, is set for House passage
tomorrow. Today, the House will pass a one-year extension of the
George W. Bush-era tax rates for all income levels. Democrats
oppose continuing the tax cuts for top earners.  Simpler Code  The Republican tax overhaul plan sets broad principles for
a simpler law that would generate from 18 percent to 19 percent
of gross domestic product, higher than this year’s collections
and at about the same level the U.S. government would collect if
current tax rates were extended permanently.  The current six individual tax brackets would be combined
into two. The top individual and corporate rates would drop to
25 percent from 35 percent. The alternative minimum tax would be
abolished, and U.S. corporations would face lighter taxes on
income they earn outside the country.  Important details and politically difficult choices --
including how progressive the  tax code  should be, the fate of
popular deductions and tax rates for investment income -- aren’t
included in the legislation and would be left to the House Ways
and Means Committee to determine next year.  Republican freshmen support the two-bill approach and many
of them endorsed it in a letter to Republican leaders this week.  “We have a tendency to start with 10,000 pages, add 2,000
pages and say we fixed it,” Representative Reid Ribble, a
first-term Wisconsin Republican, said in an interview earlier
this year. “We should stop nibbling around the edges.”  Procedural Hurdles  The bill would remove some procedural hurdles that could
otherwise slow a tax overhaul proposal, though it would let the
Senate minority insist on a 60-vote threshold, rather than a
simple majority, for passage.  The Republican proposal would provide a “huge additional
 tax cut ” for millionaires with no details about changes to such
tax breaks as the mortgage interest deduction to cover the cost,
said Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the Ways and Means Committee.  “Doing that would in most cases very much hurt the middle
class of America,” Levin told reporters on a conference call
July 30. “I’m glad they’re introducing both, because when you
combine them you compound the potential injury.”  Veto Threat  The White House veto threat focused on the combination of
rate reductions and changes to tax breaks that could shift the
tax burden away from top earners.  “The president believes that tax reform presents an
opportunity to make the tax code fairer, simpler and more pro-
growth and that it should contribute to balanced  deficit
reduction , not provide another expensive giveaway to the
wealthiest at the expense of the middle class,” said the
statement, released yesterday.  Representative  Dave Camp  of Michigan, the Ways and Means
chairman, held a series of meetings with lawmakers earlier this
year to gather ideas for a tax-code overhaul.  The principles would in effect prevent creation of two tax
plans supported by a number of Republicans: a flat tax and a
national retail sales tax. That’s a concession to the political
reality of needing a progressive tax system, said Representative
Patrick Tiberi, an  Ohio Republican  on the Ways and Means
Committee.  The so-called fair tax, which would replace many existing
taxes with a national retail sales tax, is sponsored by 70 House
members, almost all of whom are Republicans.  International Tax  Last year, Camp released a draft of his international tax
proposal. He hasn’t specified how Republicans would offset the
budget cost of lower rates.  Representative Todd Young, an Indiana Republican in his
first term, said he wants to move “as soon as possible” on an
overhaul that examines all tax breaks while preserving popular
ones such as the mortgage interest and charitable deductions at
some level.  “People are ready for leadership right now,” he said in
an interview earlier this year. “They want bold decisions and
they want some actions in  Washington , so they want fair-minded
people to put all options on the table.”  The newer members are willing to give their leaders some
time because they don’t want the equivalent of the Democrats’
2010 health care law, which they view as the product of a
flawed, rushed process, Roskam said.  Pointing Blame  Republicans also criticize the Senate and the White House,
saying they need willing partners to move major legislation.  “It is very, very frustrating because we came here with a
lot of zest to turn things around,” said Representative Diane Black, a first-term Tennessee Republican who said the tax
overhaul is among the priorities of the freshman class and “job
creators” in their districts.  Presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  supports lower tax rates
and paying for them by reducing tax breaks. He would keep the
six-bracket structure and cut each tax rate by 20 percent.  If President  Barack Obama  returns for a second term, he
won’t have to face voters again, Tiberi said, so the president’s
agreement in 2010 on a two-year extension of tax cuts for all
income levels gives him some optimism about prospects for a
bipartisan agreement.  “The key is: Do you have a president who is going to be in
a position to lead on this issue rather than play politics?”
Tiberi said.  The House bills to be considered this week are H.R. 8 and
H.R. 6169. The national retail  sales tax  measure is H.R. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  