-- Republic Airways Shares Erase Drop on Quarterly Forecast
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-01T20:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/republic-airways-shares-erase-drop-on-quarterly-forecast.html
Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) , the
parent of  Frontier Airlines , erased an earlier decline to climb
4.8 percent after forecasting a third-quarter profit topping
analysts’ estimates.  The stock closed at $4.77 in  New York  trading to bring its
year-to-date gain to 39 percent.  Earnings will be 45 cents to 55 cents a share, Chief
Financial Officer Tim Dooley said today on a conference call
after Indianapolis-based Republic released second-quarter
results yesterday. That compared with an average estimate for
adjusted profit of 43 cents a share, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Republic is restructuring its Chautauqua unit, an operator
of 50-seat regional jets that have fallen out of favor with the
industry. The company, which also acts as a regional-flight
partner for bigger carriers, continues to rework Frontier after
returning that division to a profit last year. Republic
eventually plans to separate Frontier.  “We don’t believe the regional space is broken,” Chief
Executive Officer Bryan Bedford said on the call. “It’s just
going through the reset process which all of our legacy partners
endured in the last decade. We believe we’ve formulated a
responsible plan to return most of our small jets back to work,
but it’s not done.”  Chautauqua  Republic said its regional-jet unit should have a third-
quarter pretax margin up 4 percent to 5 percent from a year
earlier, while Frontier’s margin should rise in a range of 7
percent to 9 percent.  The company has made “very encouraging progress with key
stakeholders” as it seeks to reduce rates from aircraft lessors
and vendors to cut expenses at Chautauqua, Bedford said.  “Our ongoing restructuring effort for the Chautauqua
platform is going to be key as to whether or not we can restore
that segment to economic viability,” he said.  Delta Air Lines Inc. will close its Comair commuter unit,
which flies 50-seat jets, on Sept. 29 as higher fuel prices make
the small planes too costly to operate. Regional carrier
 Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ)  filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
April, and American Eagle was included in the November 2011
Chapter 11 filing by its parent AMR Corp.  Republic reported second-quarter net income of $20 million,
or 40 cents a share, compared with a loss of $14.9 million, or
31 cents, a year earlier. The results exceeded an average
prediction of 25 cents from five analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales slipped 1.6 percent to $728.1 million after a
decrease in capacity, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  