-- Reynolds Suit Challenging FDA Panel Members Can Proceed
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-01T16:37:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/reynolds-suit-challenging-fda-panel-may-proceed.html
R.J. Reynolds  Tobacco Co. and
 Lorillard Tobacco Co. (LOR)  can proceed with a lawsuit that seeks to
block U.S. regulators from using an advisory panel’s report
because of its alleged conflicts of interest.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in  Washington  today denied
a request by the  Food and Drug Administration  to dismiss the
case, ruling he has authority to evaluate whether the
committee’s members “represent a fair balance of viewpoints”
on regulation of tobacco products.  “Because of the limited number of viewpoints on these
issues, the scientific -- as opposed to political -- nature of
those viewpoints, and the distinct responsibilities of the
committee, I believe I have sufficient standards against which I
can evaluate the agency’s discretion,” Leon said in his ruling.  Reynolds and Lorillard, the second- and third-biggest U.S.
cigarette makers, filed the complaint in February 2011. They
sought an order to prevent the FDA from drawing on reports by
the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee, including
one on menthol in cigarettes.  Three of the eight committee members “have severe
financial and appearance conflicts of interest and associated
biases,” the companies said in their complaint. The three
members serve as paid expert witnesses in lawsuits against the
tobacco industry and take money from drug companies that make
nicotine-replacement products and other smoking-cessation aids,
according to the complaint.  ‘Similar Viewpoints’  The voting membership of the panel is “dominated by a
clique of people with similar viewpoints on smokeless tobacco
and other matters, including matters on which they have jointly
published articles, and thus does not reflect the diversity of
views on tobacco-related issues among the members of the public-
health and tobacco-control communities,” according to an
amended complaint.  Reynolds, a unit of Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based
Reynolds American Inc., makes Camel and Winston cigarettes in
addition to its Kool and Salem menthol brands. Lorillard Tobacco
is a unit of  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , based in Greensboro,  North
Carolina . It makes Newport, the top-selling menthol brand.  Jennifer Haliski, an FDA spokeswoman, said the agency
doesn’t comment on ongoing litigation.  Industry Consultants  The Tobacco Control Act, which authorized the FDA to
regulate the tobacco products in the U.S., requires that none of
the panel’s voting members include a representative from the
tobacco industry, according to the agency’s motion to dismiss.
The law allows for three industry representatives to serve as
consultants to the committee.  “In this lawsuit, Lorillard and R.J. Reynolds preemptively
attack TPSAC in an effort to nullify its advice on menthol
cigarettes, prevent it from working on dissolvable tobacco
product issues, and force the removal of prominent public health
experts whose views the manufacturers oppose,” Patrick
Nemeroff, a Justice Department lawyer, said in its filing
requesting the lawsuit be dismissed.  Leon, appointed to the bench by President  George W. Bush ,
found another part of the law to be unconstitutional. He ruled
Feb. 29 that requiring all cigarette packages to display images
such as diseased lungs and a cadaver with chest staples on an
autopsy table violated the companies’ First Amendment rights.  The FDA appealed that ruling to the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in Washington, which has yet to issue a decision.  The case is Lorillard Inc. v. U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration , 11-cv-00440, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 