-- Roku Signs Haier, Hitachi, Mitsubishi for Web-Enabled TVs
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-08-01T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/roku-signs-haier-hitachi-mitsubishi-for-web-enabled-tvs.html
Roku Inc., the Web-based video
platform, will work with  Haier Electronics Group Ltd. (1169) , Hitachi
America and Mitsubishi Electric to create televisions that can
access online services like Netflix without a set-top box.  The Saratoga, California-based company’s partners include
Element Electronics,  Best Buy Inc. (BBY) ’s Insignia-brand products,
 Onkyo Corp. (6628) , and the maker of Apex Digital televisions, Roku
said in a statement today.  Roku, which makes a set-top box that competes with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Sony Corp. (6758)  to deliver online movies
and television shows to consumers, is lining up support from
consumer-electronics companies for its planned Roku Streaming
Stick. The USB-shaped device plugs into sets and uses the MHL
wireless-streaming standard to connect to home networks for
media downloads.  The company’s 500 entertainment partners include  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX) ’s subscription streaming  service , online retailer
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , Hulu LLC and  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO Go.  “Consumer electronics manufacturers recognize the value in
making products that stream entertainment, yet it is very
difficult for them to deliver and sustain a vibrant, robust
streaming platform on their own,” Chas Smith, Roku’s vice
president of business development, said in a statement. The
Streaming Stick adds this capability “with virtually no
overhead from manufacturers.”  Devices that accept the Roku Streaming Stick will feature a
“Roku Ready” logo, and some may makers may choose to bundle it
with their televisions, the company said. The company didn’t
reveal pricing or say when the new products will be available.
Roku sells its set-top boxes for $50 to $100.  Roku said last week that it raised $45 million in equity
financing from investors including  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc (BSY)  and  News Corp. (NWSA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  