-- Romania May Hold Key Interest Rate for Third Meeting on Turmoil
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-08-01T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/romania-may-hold-key-interest-rate-for-third-meeting-on-turmoil.html
Romania’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a third meeting
as the political turmoil that pushed the leu to a record low
outweighs concern about weaker economic growth.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will leave its monetary-
policy rate unchanged at 5.25 percent today, according to all 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A decision will be announced
after 11 a.m. in Bucharest.  A battle between the president and the premier, which
resulted in an unsuccessful presidential impeachment vote last
week, weakened the leu 3.5 percent against the euro in July,
preventing the central bank from moving ahead with rate cuts
needed to help drag the economy out of its second recession in
three years.  “While the difficult economic conditions could warrant
softer monetary policy, the room for maneuvering looks even more
limited than” in June, ING Bank  Romania  economist Vlad Muscalu
said. “With many months to go until the general elections, it’s
very likely that more episodes of increased tension will follow,
as neither of the main parties appears to be in a too
comfortable position, and easing monetary policy would amplify
the depreciation potential of the leu.”  As the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis is threatening
to throw the economy into recession, central and eastern
European central banks are cutting rates or weighing the merits
of policy easing on their export-driven economies.  Political Wrangling  Romania’s central bank will probably leave the key rate on
hold for the remainder of the year, according to the median
estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg, because of
continued political wrangling between suspended President Traian Basescu, who is expected to be reinstated after the referendum
result was invalidated by a lack of voter participation, and the
ruling coalition of Prime Minister Victor Ponta before general
elections in November or December.  Neighboring Hungary has kept its rate unchanged for seven
months because of stalled international aid talks and a
worsening inflation outlook. It may cut the rate by the end of
this year as the economy slides into recession. The  Czech
Republic  cut its main rate in June for the first time in two
years to combat recession.  Romania’s economy slipped into recession in the first
quarter as government spending cuts hampered consumption and
freezing temperatures curbed export growth. Output growth will
probably slow to 1.5 percent this year compared with 2.5 percent
growth in 2011, according to forecasts by the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  The political turmoil, coupled with the euro area’s debt
crisis, should lead the central bank to leave rates on hold,’’
Banca Comercial Romana SA economists wrote in a note to clients.  “This somewhat goes against the country’s economic
fundamentals, which would normally point to further easing of
monetary policy, especially when the local economy is expected
to grow well below its potential,” according to the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  