-- Romney’s Tax Plan Doesn’t Cover Rate Cut Cost, Study Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-01T21:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/romney-s-tax-plan-doesn-t-cover-cost-of-lower-rates-study-says.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney  says his tax plan cuts rates and eliminates breaks
in a way that doesn’t increase the  budget deficit  and doesn’t
shift the tax burden from top earners to everyone else. That
isn’t possible, according to a study released today.  Even if the top U.S. earners are most affected by
eliminating tax breaks, there aren’t enough for high-income
taxpayers to offset the rate reduction, according to the study.
In 2015, the tax burden shift from those with incomes exceeding
$200,000 a year to those earning less than that amount would be
$86 billion, or at least $33 billion if the rate cuts generate
economic growth.  “I don’t think you can do it in a distributionally neutral
way, and I don’t think you can do it without really hammering
things like mortgage interest,” said Adam Looney, one of the
co-authors and a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington .  The study looked at how concentrated tax breaks are among
top U.S. earners and estimated what would happen if those breaks
were eliminated starting at the top of the income scale. It was
conducted by Looney, an economist who worked in the White House
under President  Barack Obama , and two other researchers at
Brookings.  Romney Response  Lanhee Chen, a policy adviser to Romney, said in a
statement that the report “analyzes only half of Governor
Romney’s tax program” and ignores his proposal for lowering the
corporate tax rate.  Romney’s corporate tax proposal would lower the top rate to
25 percent from 35 percent and give U.S.-based companies lighter
taxes on income they earn outside the country. He hasn’t
specified what corporate tax breaks, if any, would be curtailed
to cover the cost of the lost revenue.  Romney’s income-tax plan would reduce all rates by 20
percent, and the former Massachusetts governor has said he would
do so in a way that doesn’t shift the current distribution of
the tax burden. His plan would eliminate the estate tax and the
alternative minimum tax, which is a parallel tax system designed
to prevent high-income people from avoiding all taxes.  The study assumed that eliminating some tax breaks wasn’t
an option. Those include preferential tax rates for  capital
gains  and dividends and incentives for savings.  Obama’s Plan  Obama’s tax plan would continue the George W. Bush-era
income tax cuts for everyone except those in the top 2 percent
of earners. His plan would limit, though not eliminate, tax
breaks for high earners.  Obama cited the study during a speech today in Mansfield,
 Ohio , according to excerpts distributed by his campaign.  “That means the average middle-class family with children
would be hit with a tax increase of more than $2,000,” he said.
“But here’s the thing -- he’s not asking you to contribute more
to pay down the deficit, or to invest in our kids’ education.
He’s asking you to pay more so that people like him can get a
 tax cut .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  