-- Romney’s Zero Tolerance Approach to the Unsuccessful
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-08-01T22:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/romney-s-zero-tolerance-approach-to-the-unsuccessful.html
Why does a typical  bus driver  in the
U.S. earn a monthly income (after taxes) of $1,594, while a
typical bus driver in  Peru  earns $325?  Why does an American airline pilot  bring home  $4,206 a
month, while a Lithuanian doing what we hope is pretty much the
same job with the same training has an average salary of only
$1,674?  Well, the explanation is obvious, isn’t it? These
foreigners just aren’t as smart as we Americans are, and they
don’t work as hard. Because if they did -- as  Mitt Romney  was
just explaining in  Israel  -- they would be as successful as we
are. And that’s pretty darned successful. And they aren’t.  Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee,
worries that Americans are losing their appreciation of success,
as evidenced by President  Barack Obama ’s desire to reduce the
rewards of success by raising taxes on high incomes. Romney sees
in this not just a bigger tax bill for successful people but an
insult as well. An alternative perspective is that any
successful person who feels personally insulted by a request
from the president to share a bit of it is, in the immortal
words of Liberace, “crying all the way to the bank” (or, to
quote someone else, a “master of the fancied slight”).  Dueling Insults  You might also ask yourself: If Obama is insulting
successful people by suggesting that their success doesn’t
necessarily result entirely from their own hard work and
brainpower, doesn’t that mean that Romney is insulting the vast
majority of folks who are unsuccessful (by Romney’s exalted
standard) by implying that they are lazy and stupid? If your
success is entirely your own achievement, then your lack of
success is entirely your own fault.  How would Romney explain the fact that the average monthly
salary of a baker in the U.S. is $1,461, whereas in  Romania  it’s
$276. Is the bread in this country so much better than bread
elsewhere? Not in my experience. (These figures, from
 worldsalaries.org , use 2005 dollars, adjusted for the actual
purchasing power of various currencies.) Furthermore, consider
those countries where many occupations are paid better than in
the U.S. A baker in  Australia  has an average income of $1,865 a
month. A German airline pilot earns $8,448. How can this be? Can
there be countries where people are smarter and harder-working
than in the  United States of America ? The Romney theory of
success allows for no other explanation.  In recent days, Republicans have been beating Obama about
the head over his “ you didn’t build that ” remark, with which
he suggested that successful people didn’t get where they got on
their own. Many of my colleagues in the commentariat, and some
Democratic politicians on the stump (most notably the U.S.
Senate candidate  Elizabeth Warren  in  Massachusetts ) have pointed
to all the ways in which any citizen’s personal success is aided
by government. Highways, education, medical research, etc. It’s
all true.  The argument makes me a bit nervous, though, because it is
often invoked to justify  government spending  that ought to
either stand on its own feet or be eliminated. Sample argument:
We ought to subsidize passenger trains because we subsidize
buses through maintaining the Interstate Highway System and
airlines in various ways. Or, farm price supports, which started
with the New Deal, must be maintained because sometime around
1952 they stopped being a notorious boondoggle and blossomed
into an honorable tradition. And so on.  Prosperous Countries  However, as the international comparisons demonstrate, you
don’t have to favor any particular form of  government spending 
in order to reject the notion that a person’s success is, and in
a capitalist system should be, built entirely on his or her own
efforts. The main societal subsidy to your neighborhood success
story -- the reason an American hotel chambermaid (of either
sex) supports a family on a median salary of $1,251 a month, but
a Brazilian must do it for $332 -- is the privilege of working
in a  prosperous country .  That prosperity is the compounded result of previous
prosperity. Somewhere back there, it may be credited to
somebody’s hard work and special talent. But it’s not anybody
alive today. (And why talent, as opposed to work, deserves
special reward is a good question for another time.)  The only way the most brilliant and/or hard-working butcher
or baker or candlestick maker in most of the rest of the world
can enjoy an income like that of his or her U.S. counterpart is
to move here. And we know how much that idea excites Romney and
the Republicans.  And what about the inventor or the entrepreneur? The
candlestick maker who discovers a better way to make candles --
or a way to dispense with candles completely? Perhaps by
inventing the electric light bulb? Even in proposing to raise
their  taxes  a bit, Obama loses no opportunity to praise these
godlike creatures. Romney, as one himself, can barely contain
his enthusiasm for the very successful, whatever the basis for
their success. They’re not all entrepreneurs, and even the
entrepreneurs owe some large chunk of their success to those who
have gone before, like Thomas Edison. They don’t need more tax
breaks. If anything is its own reward, it’s success.  ( Michael Kinsley  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on success for  female Saudi
Olympians  and on what the ECB must do to  save the euro ;  Susan
Antilla  on Wall Street’s  efforts to stymie new regulations ;
 Caroline Baum  on  monetary policy  getting off track;  Peter Orszag 
on ways to keep lowering  health-care costs ; Handel Reynolds on
the shaky foundation of the  mammogram economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Michael Kinsley at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 