-- Rona Rejects C$14.50 Offer From U.S. Retailer Lowe’s
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-01T20:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/rona-rejects-c-14-50-offer-from-u-s-retailer-lowe-s.html
Rona Inc. (RON)  investors anticipate a
bidding contest to keep the home-improvement retailer in  Quebec 
hands after it rejected an offer from Lowe’s Cos. that sent the
shares to a record one-day gain.  “We’re certainly not averse to” the Quebec government
leading a counter offer, said  Irwin Michael , a  money manager  in
Toronto at IA Michael Investment Counsel, the third-biggest
holder of Rona, with 3.65 million shares.  Three hours after Rona announced it had rebuffed Lowe’s
unsolicited cash bid of C$14.50 a share, Quebec Finance Minister
Raymond Bachand said the province may take steps to prevent a
takeover by Lowe’s. Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, a
Montreal-based pension fund with a mandate to support Quebec
businesses, and Rona’s biggest shareholder, raised its stake
yesterday to 14 percent from 12 percent.  Bachand asked the province’s development corporation,
Investissement Quebec, to examine actions to counter Lowe’s,
which may include setting up a fund to “defend Quebec’s
interests,” he said.  “This transaction does not appear to be in the interests
of either Quebec or Canada,” he said in a statement.  Rona soared 22 percent to C$14.50 in Toronto yesterday,
before falling back to close at C$13.50 after the Quebec
government announced its opposition to the proposed sale. The
one-day gain was the biggest on record. It closed up another 10
cents today at C$13.60. Lowe’s, which has already started
acquiring shares of Rona, fell 5.6 percent in  New York  yesterday
and closed 0.9 percent lower today at $25.14.  Strategic Asset  Bachand called Rona a “strategic asset” for the country
because of the 30,000 people it employs and its network of
Canadian suppliers. He told reporters on a conference call that
Investissement Quebec could acquire a “small part” of Rona and
lead a coalition of other shareholders opposed to the deal.  The Caisse de Depot bought its additional shares at an
average price of C$14.17 to give it more leverage in the
takeover battle and to profit if Lowe’s raises its bid, said
Sachin Shah, a merger arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon
Americas Corp.  “They’re betting the valuation is much higher than C$14.50
and they are also betting Lowe’s does the things necessary to
get to the finish line,” he said by phone from  Jersey City .  Rona, which operates  Canada ’s largest network with almost
800 of hardware and lumber stores, received the non-binding
proposal on July 8 and the board rejected it unanimously,
according to a statement. The offer is 22 percent higher than
Rona’s closing price the previous day and values the
Boucherville, Quebec-based firm at about C$1.76 billion. Even
with yesterday’s gain, Rona is down 50 percent from its 2005
high.  Remain Focused  “The board believes that in the best interests of Rona and
its stakeholders, the corporation should remain focused on
executing its business plan with a view to capturing significant
opportunities that it sees for its business,” Rona said in the
statement.  Rona would be Lowe’s biggest takeover, allowing the
retailer to accelerate its expansion in Canada, where it has
opened 31 stores since 2007 to compete with Rona, Canadian Tire
Corp. and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  of Atlanta.  “Our interest is to do a friendly transaction and look for
a way to create a proposal that fits the needs of their
stakeholders and ours,” Doug Robinson, Lowe’s head of
international operations and development, said by telephone
today from  Montreal .  Canadian Stores  Lowe’s, based in Mooresville,  North Carolina , said in March
it envisioned operating more than 100 stores in Canada, trailing
competitor Home Depot, which has 180 stores in the country.  Robinson, 53, said Lowe’s is making the case that the
transaction makes sense for both companies and is counting on
Rona investors to “share their views” with Rona’s board.
Lowe’s said institutional  shareholders  representing 15 percent
of Rona’s outstanding shares have indicated support for the
proposal, though Robinson declined to identify which investors.  The federal government in Canada has the power to block
takeovers under the Investment Canada Act unless they provide a
“net benefit to the nation.” In 2010, Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s Conservative government blocked  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40
billion bid for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  Canadian Industry Minister Christian Paradis said yesterday
there is no need for the federal government to review any bid
for Rona Inc. by Lowe’s at this time.  “I am aware that Lowe’s has made a proposal that was
rejected by Rona,” Paradis said in the statement. “There is
therefore no investment to be reviewed under the Investment
Canada Act at this time.”  Not Surprising  Though Quebec would not have the power to directly block a
bid for Rona, it can influence the federal government’s review,
as Saskatchewan did in the Potash case. Quebec Premier Jean Charest is also expected to call an election as early as this
week. The Globe and Mail reported the election call may come
today.  “It’s not a surprising reaction, if you look at the
history of Quebec’s position,” said William Polushin, a
professor of international business at  McGill University  in
Montreal. “It’s consistent with the idea that Quebec does try
to identify wherever possible where it can support Quebec
industry and do it Quebec’s way.”  Lowe’s Robinson said “the lines of communication are wide
open” with the Quebec and Canadian governments, and they are
interested in “friendly negotiations.”  Higher Bid  Robinson said the takeover bid involved combining its
Canadian business with Rona’s headquarters in Quebec, and
maintaining Rona’s Canadian employment. He said those
concessions don’t detract from the transaction because Lowe’s is
looking to expand into Rona’s home base of Quebec, where the
U.S.-based retailer has no stores.  “We would not be surprised if Lowe’s increased its bid to
accelerate expansion in Canada,”  Alan Rifkin, an analyst at
Barclays Capital Inc., wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  “The management of Rona has been disinclined for awhile
now to accept this transaction,” said Jonathan Brodsky, who
helps manage $9.5 billion at Advisory Research Inc., by phone
from  Chicago . “The provincial government of Quebec has
indicated that it’s reviewing the transaction as well. So of
course we’re looking to a higher bid but we recognize there are
issues to overcome.”  Lowe’s said the CEOs of the two companies first met on July
27, 2011, at Rona’s request. Lowe’s made a proposal to acquire
Rona on Dec. 15, 2011 that was rejected by Rona’s board.  Rona hired Scotiabank and BMO Capital Markets as financial
advisers and Norton Rose Canada LLP and Davies Ward Phillips &
Vinberg LLP as legal advisers. CIBC and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch are working with Lowe’s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  