-- Ross-TJX Beat U.S. Stores With Stuff for Season
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/ross-tjx-beat-u-s-stores-with-stuff-for-season.html
Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  and  TJX Cos. (TJX)  are
producing the best risk-adjusted returns among their peers by
flipping extra goods to deal-hungry customers instead of tying
their fortunes to fashion trends.  Ross, which sells discounted designer wear at more than
1,100 U.S. stores, outperformed 53 North American specialty and
department stores in the past five years, according to the
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. The Pleasanton, California-
based retailer had the highest total return and second-lowest
volatility for a risk-adjusted gain of 11 percent. TJX, which
owns the Marshalls and T.J. Maxx chains, came in second with a
gain of 7.3 percent, helped by the smallest price swings.  Ross and TJX stand apart from most department stores and
mall-based retailers by taking advantage of overproduction from
manufacturers to carry in-season goods instead of betting on
what will be fashionable as long as a year in advance. The model
helped reduce revenue swings and cut the time goods are kept in
inventory. The chains are also benefiting from more value-
oriented shopping after the U.S. financial crisis.  “It’s the perfect business model for a good economy and a
bad economy,” said Mark Montagna, a senior analyst at Avondale
Partners LLC in Nashville,  Tennessee , who has a market
outperform rating, the equivalent of a buy, on both stocks.
“The beauty of their buying is if you buy it now for immediate
delivery, that removes so much of the risk.”  When department stores and specialty retailers cancel
orders for products from towels to tank tops, or manufacturers
make too much of an item, buyers for TJX and Ross swoop in and
cut a deal for the goods during or at the end of a season.  Better Discounts  The retailers are able to snag better discounts and sell
items at lower markups than competitors because they are
flexible on the styles and sizes they will accept. Deliveries
are made to distribution centers versus individual stores, and
they don’t request benefits such as return privileges, delayed
deliveries, or advertising and markdown allowances.  The strategy has kept sales more stable than at rivals.
Framingham, Massachusetts-based TJX hasn’t  posted  an annual
decline in same-store sales in the past decade, while Ross had
 one  in that period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Macy’s Inc. had five such declines,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  three and  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  posted drops in all 10 years. Same-store sales at
 Gap Inc. (GPS)  dropped eight times in the past decade.  Total sales growth also surpassed rivals. Ross’s annual
revenue increased by 9.1 percent on average in the past five
years, while TJX’s rose by 5.9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the average 5.7
percent gain at 44 North American specialty retailers tracked by
Bloomberg Industries.  Inventory Days  Goods stayed in inventory for an average of  65 days  for
Ross in its latest fiscal year and 62 days for TJX, highlighting
the retailers’ agility in turning over merchandise. The measure
exceeded 95 days at Macy’s, Sears, J.C. Penney Co. and Kohl’s in
the same time period.  “That means it’s a lot fresher, the margins are a lot more
stable,” said Brandon Geisler, who oversees the $375 million
 Marsico 21st Century Fund (MXXIX) , which includes shares of Ross, in
Denver. “You tend to be trend-right and are in-season at the
right time in the right place.”  Carol Meyrowitz, chief executive officer of TJX since 2007,
and Michael Balmuth, who has run Ross since 1996, declined to
comment for this story.  Fashion Victims  Ross  has returned  386 percent in the past five years and 40
percent this year, and had the second-lowest volatility in both
periods. TJX returned 241 percent and 38 percent respectively,
and was the least volatile stock. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Consumer Discretionary Sector  Index (S5COND)  returned 29 percent in the
five-year period, including 13 percent this year.  Coldwater Creek Inc. (CWTR)  and  American Apparel Inc. (APP) , which have
lost more than 90 percent of their market value in the past five
years, are examples of apparel retailers that have fallen victim
to fashion missteps and commodity fluctuations. Sandpoint,
Indiana-based Coldwater Creek, which targets 45- to 65-year-old
women, has had sales suffer after merchandising decisions such
as reducing the selection of outerwear, dresses and non-apparel.  American Apparel, based in  Los Angeles , saw productivity
and sales decline after the retailer was forced to fire workers
due to immigration violations and amid increasing costs for yarn
and fabric that were difficult to pass on to young customers in
the face of the recession.  Expansion Plans  While they have benefited from the same trends recently,
TJX and Ross offer investors different bets in the years ahead.
For one, TJX is larger, with revenue of $23.2 billion in the
year ended Jan. 28. At 2,938  stores  in the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Europe  as of April 28, it now ranks closer to department stores,
exceeding sales at Kohl’s and J.C. Penney.  Ross is smaller at 1,146  locations , generating $8.61
billion in sales last year. That’s more comparable to Gap, which
had $14.5 billion in revenue in the period and Victoria’s
Secret-owner Limited Brands Inc., which had $10.4 billion.  TJX and Ross also have differing expansion plans. TJX Chief
Executive Officer Carol Meyrowitz has said the company has
“vast growth potential” at its European unit, which posted its
highest first-quarter profit this year.  Ross CEO  Michael Balmuth  is focusing on growth in the U.S.
and in May raised the company’s long-term store target to 2,500
locations from 2,000, with plans to enter new markets and fully
saturate existing areas with its Ross Dress for Less and dd’s
Discounts chains.  Expensive Stocks  TJX also can appeal to higher-income shoppers with some
more expensive merchandise, such as $150 denim, while prices at
Ross would be half of that, Dave Weiner, an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  Shares of Ross, which have more than tripled since the end
of 2009,  are trading  at 22 times the company’s profit in the
past 12 months, higher than 87 percent of its U.S. competitors.
TJX has doubled in the same time period and trades at 21  times 
the past 12 months’ earnings.  Ross’s anticipated success of its new stores and
improvements at its dd’s Discounts chain “are nearly fully
reflected in the share price,”  Richard Jaffe , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York, wrote in a May 17 note.  Jaffe, who has a buy rating on TJX and a hold on Ross, said
he doesn’t share Ross’s optimism that it can expand even to its
original 2,000-location target. TJX’s growth in Canada and
Europe and plans for an e-commerce business provide more
opportunity for growth.  Akre Fund  While Ross’s annual return may slow from a pace of more
than 40 percent gains the past three years, the shares still may
climb “somewhere in the teens” annually in the coming years,
Tom Saberhagen, an analyst at Akre Capital Management LLC in
Middleburg,  Virginia , said in a telephone interview. Ross was
the third-biggest holding in the firm’s top-performing $1.09
billion  Akre Focus Fund (AKREX)  as of Jan. 31.  “We believe that we operate one of the most flexible
business models in the world and that this flexibility has
enabled us to succeed through many types of economic and retail
cycles,” Debra McConnell, a spokeswoman for TJX, said in an e-
mailed response to questions. “We buy close to need, which
gives us greater visibility into current fashion and pricing
trends and helps create continuous freshness in our stores and
higher merchandise margins.”  Ross shoppers are attracted to value in both good and bad
economies, Bobbi Chaville, a spokeswoman for the company, said
in an e-mail.  Keeping Customers  “We believe our performance has been driven by offering
‘great value’ to our customers,” she wrote. “By focusing on
value, we have been able to drive sales, and ultimately, to
achieve strong shareholder returns.”  Ross and TJX should be able to hold on to customers they
gained during the recession, said Akre’s Saberhagen. The Akre
Focus Fund, which bought Ross and TJX in late 2009 and early
2010 as its sole apparel-retail holdings, has gained 22 percent
in the past year, beating 99 percent of its competitors,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Once people learn about the bargains that are available
in this channel, then they’ll continue to come back,”
Saberhagen said. If the economy improves, “same-store sales
might not be as fast as they are right when a recession hits,
but they very rarely go negative with Ross or with TJ.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  