-- Russian Inflation to Near Ignatiev’s Target on Tariffs, Food
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-02T09:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/russian-inflation-set-to-near-ignatiev-s-limit-on-tariffs-grain.html
Russia ’s  cost of living  probably grew
in July at the fastest rate this year as utility tariffs
increased and crop losses signaled higher food prices,
threatening to push inflation near the central bank’s target.  Consumer prices grew 5.8 percent in July from a year
earlier and 1.4 percent from the previous month, according to
the median estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
annual rate would be the highest since December. The Federal
Statistics Service will report the data tomorrow or Aug. 6.  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev has set out to hold
inflation at 5 percent to 6 percent this year after delivering
record-low price growth in 2011, keeping the country on the
sidelines of a global round of monetary stimulus to ease credit
flows and spur economic growth. Russia, which was the world’s
third-biggest wheat exporter last season, has 16 regions
affected by drought this marketing year.  “They’re pretty concerned about their inflation target at
the moment,” Juri Kren, an emerging-markets economist at
IDEAglobal in  London , said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Kren, the  top-rated forecaster  for Russian annual inflation,
predicts price growth quickened to 5.9 percent in July.  The ruble, the worst performer of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg in the second quarter,
depreciated 0.3 percent to 32.4484 per dollar at 12:14 p.m. in
Moscow. Last month, Bank Rossii widened the currency’s trading
corridor against a basket of dollars and euros to 7 rubles,
saying the change would make its rates policy more effective in
containing inflation.  Potato, Cabbage  Cumulative price growth last month through July 30 was 1.2
percent as the cost of communal services and other utilities
advanced, the statistics service said in a report yesterday.
Those increases were partially offset as fruit and vegetable
prices fell an average 0.7 percent in the week. Potato costs
retreated 2.2 percent and cabbage dropped 1 percent.  “It all comes down to how the two opposing trends play
out,” said Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie
Financial Corp. in Moscow. “Fresh fruit and vegetable prices
are starting to fall, but the delayed effect from rising tariffs
will still deliver a big jump in inflation.”  Record Low  Policy makers capped inflation at a record low 6.1 percent
in 2011, down from 8.8 percent in the two previous years. Bank
Rossii targets holding price growth to between 4.5 percent and
5.5 percent in 2013.  The world’s biggest energy exporter is the last major
emerging economy to keep borrowing costs unchanged this year.
The central bank has held its refinancing rate at 8 percent, a
quarter-point above the record low, since December.  The  consumer price index  will probably reach 7.3 percent by
the end of the year as worsening prospects for the global and
domestic harvests compound price growth from a weaker ruble and
rising tariffs, said Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist at VTB
Capital in Moscow.  Dry weather in Russia is cutting grain yields, threatening
to fan food prices amid the worst U.S. drought in a generation,
according to ZAO Raiffeisenbank and  Renaissance Capital . The
drought in the U.S. may spark a rebound in global food prices
from July through October, halting a slide that sent costs in
June to the lowest in 21 months, according to the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization.  Russia’s crop forecast may be downgraded to between 70
million and 75 million metric tons, Interfax reported today,
citing Deputy Agriculture Minister Alexander Chernogorov. Last
year, Russia harvested 94.2 million tons of grains.  “The regulator has for a long time been guiding for ‘below
6 percent,’” VTB’s Oreshkin said yesterday in a research note.
“There is no other way for it, except to hike rates in order to
preserve credibility and to keep inflation expectations
anchored.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  