-- Russia’s Drought Seen by Forecaster Extending Through August
-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 2012-08-01T11:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/russia-s-drought-seen-by-forecaster-extending-through-august.html
The drought in  Russia , the world’s
third biggest  wheat exporter , is seen continuing with less than
the average amount of rainfall expected in grain producing
regions this month, according to the state weather forecaster.  Rainfall is expected to be 35 percent less than normal in
the Volga federal district and may be 5 percent to 22 percent
below average in the Siberian Federal District in August,
Russia’s Federal Service on Hydrometeorology and Environmental
Monitoring said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The country’s crop forecast may be downgraded to 75 million
metric tons if the drought continues, the  Agriculture Ministry 
said yesterday, according to Interfax. Last year, Russia
harvested 94.2 million tons of grains, according to the state
statistics data. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  expects
Russia to export 12 million tons of wheat this season, down from
21.3 million tons in the preceding period. This would make it
the fifth biggest cereal exporter after the U.S.,  Australia ,
 Canada  and the European Union.  “This drought won’t have any impact on the total grain
harvest figure across the country, because grain has completed
its maturation period as of now, except for the northern part of
Siberia,” Anna Strashnaya, head of agricultural
forecasts department at Russia’s state weather center, said by
phone in Moscow today. A lack of rainfall will be “dangerous”
for late crops, including corn, sunflower and sugar-beets in
North Caucasus, Black-Earth regions in central Russia and in the
Volga area, she said.  In the country’s southern regions, rains may stay at 17
percent to 35 percent below the norm, it said. The area has
almost finished reaping crops, according to the regional
governments’ data.  Below Average  Rainfall will be 30 percent to 35 percent below average in
the Central Federal District, according to the forecaster. The
crops were estimated as good and near a record in some parts of
the area last month by the ministry. Most of the harvesting will
be done in August.  Temperatures across Russia are seen at 1 degree Celsius
(1.8 degrees Fahrenheit) to 1.5 degrees Celsius above the norm,
the forecaster said.  Russia’s southern regions accounted for 35 percent of the
national crop in 2011, the Volga Federal District harvested 23
percent, the Central and Siberian districts accounted for 18
percent and 15.6 percent respectively, according to the state
statistics.  Wheat for September delivery dropped 2.4 percent to $8.675
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by 12:09 p.m. London
time. The cereal has risen 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Deane at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  