-- Sales Disappointment Sinks Yandex as ADRs Drop
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-08-01T03:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/sales-disappointment-sinks-yandex-as-adrs-drop-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX)  led declines in Russian
stocks traded in  New York , as the benchmark index fell by the
most in a week, on concern sales growth for the nation’s biggest
Internet search engine will slow in the second half of the year.  The Russian company dropped the most in eight months
yesterday, tumbling 7.7 percent to $19.23, and paring its gain
in July to 0.9 percent. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of
the most-traded Russian companies listed in the U.S. slumped 2.1
percent to 90 yesterday, the biggest decline since July 23. The
 RTS stock-index futures  expiring in September lost 0.4 percent
to 136,405.  Yandex reiterated its  forecast  for 40 percent to 45 percent
revenue growth in 2012, after sales rose 50 percent in the first
half of the year. Oil, the nation’s biggest export earner,
retreated the most in a week on speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will be less likely to announce additional measures to stimulate
the economy after U.S.  consumer confidence  and business activity
unexpectedly grew.  “Some investors may have expected they’d revise the
forecast for 2012 during their call with analysts,” Alexander Vengranovich, an analyst at Otkritie Financial Corp., said by
phone from Moscow yesterday. “If oil falls further, that would
lead to advertising budget cuts throughout the country.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, fell 1.7 percent
to $26.45. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected
swings in the index futures, rose 1.1 percent to 35.07.  ‘Absolutely Optimistic’  Yandex has not seen any slowdown in its business so far
this quarter, Chief Financial Officer Alexander Shulgin said at
a July 31 conference call with analysts and investors.  “We are absolutely optimistic about our performance this
year,” Shulgin said.  The company continues to expand its business in  Turkey ,
Arkady Volozh, chief executive officer at Yandex, said during
the conference call yesterday.  Second-quarter net income climbed to 1.98 billion rubles
($61.5 million) from 1.13 billion rubles in the same period last
year, Yandex said in a July 31 statement.  Yandex’s sales growth forecast of as much as 45 percent for
this year follows an increase of 60 percent in revenue in 2011.
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest social-networking service,
also reported last week second-quarter earnings that showed
slowing growth.  Facebook Slowing Growth  “Some have expected Yandex would revise its 2012 revenue
growth forecast,” Iouli Matevossov, a senior analyst at  Alfa
Bank , said by phone from Moscow yesterday. Investors were
expecting “results would exceed analysts’ estimates. The
sentiment on the industry remains negative following
disappointing Facebook results,” he said.  Russia , the world’s largest oil producer outside of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, received about
half of its 2011 budget revenue from sales of oil and natural
gas.  Oil for September delivery dropped 1.9 percent to $88.06 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Prices
climbed 3.6 percent in July and declined 11 percent this year.  Brent for September settlement retreated 1.2 percent to
$104.92 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Urals crude  lost 1.8 percent to $104.21 per barrel
yesterday.  Federal Reserve policy makers will announce today their
decision whether action is needed to boost an economy that’s
slowed for two straight quarters. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said July 17 that the central bank was studying options for
further easing of monetary policy.  ‘How Much Support’  “The market is waiting for the Fed to provide clarity on
near-term actions,” Ilya Kravets, a portfolio manager analyst
at ED Capital in New York, said by e-mail yesterday. “People
are not so sure that the Fed will pump anything significant or
how much support it would provide.”  The Conference Board’s confidence  index  increased to 65.9
last month from a revised 62.7 in June, figures from the New
York-based private research group showed yesterday. Economists
projected a reading of 61.5, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey.  Business activity in the U.S. grew at a faster pace in
July. A barometer from the Institute for Supply Management-
Chicago Inc. increased to 53.7 from 52.9 in June. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth. A Bloomberg survey projected the
purchasing managers’ gauge would decline to 52.5.  CTC, MTS  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
was unchanged at HK$4.22 in Hong Kong trading as of 11:42 a.m.
local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.5 percent today
as manufacturing data from  Australia  to  China  disappointed
investors.  CTC Media Inc. (CTCM) , the Nasdaq-listed Russian television
company, was the biggest decliner on the Bloomberg Russia-US
Index in July and OAO Mobile TeleSystems, or  MTS (MTSS) , the country’s
biggest mobile phone company, was the biggest gainer. The gauge
rose 1.5 percent in July, gaining for a second consecutive
month.  American depositary receipts of MTS lost 1 percent to
$18.95. MTS rose 0.9 percent to 247.70 rubles in Moscow, the
equivalent of $7.69. One ADR is equal to two ordinary shares.  MTS (MBT)  President Andrey Dubovskov sent an open letter to Uzbek
President Islam Karimov asking for his “personal
participation” in resolving the company’s conflict with Uzbek
authorities as MTS seeks to reinstate its license in Uzbekistan
and demands a release of its five employees detained by Uzbek
authorities in July, the company said in a July 31 statement.  OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , the country’s biggest maker of coking coal,
gained 5.9 percent to $6.48, the highest since July 5. The
company fell 1 percent to 196.90 rubles, or $6.11, in Moscow.  Mechel said it increased production of coal by 7 percent in
the first half of 2012 to 13.4 million tons, according to the
company’s statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  