-- Samaras Secures Greek Budget Plan as Coalition Discord Grows
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-08-01T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/samaras-secures-greek-budget-plan-as-coalition-discord-grows.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
overcame growing differences with his two coalition partners to
secure 11.5 billion euros ($14.1 billion) of budget cuts and
keep international rescue funds flowing.  Samaras brokered the accord with Democratic Left head Fotis Kouvelis and Pasok leader  Evangelos Venizelos  after the three
met yesterday in Athens for the second time this week.
Venizelos, the ex-finance minister who negotiated this year’s
latest bailout, disagreed with Samaras, saying the premier
should be pushing now for more time to implement the steps.  “Cutting spending by 11.5 billion euros was set as a
necessary prerequisite for  Greece  to remain in the euro,”
Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras told reporters after the
meeting. He said the package will now be examined by the so-
called “troika” of officials representing the euro area, the
 European Central Bank  and the IMF, who have been in Athens since
July 24 to judge whether Greece can get the next batch of funds.  The coalition, formed in June amid public opposition to
spending cuts that led to two consecutive elections, is
struggling to find common ground on the budget plan. The cuts
are required by lenders in 2013 and 2014 to keep 240 billion
euros of aid pledges flowing from two European Union and
International Monetary Fund bailouts.  ‘Milder Implementation’  “We should have avoided this new wave of wage and pension
cuts, some 6 billion euros, which will keep the country in
recession in 2013 and 2014,” Venizelos said. More time “would
have allowed for a milder implementation of the measures.”  Still, the government must complete its four-year mandate
and “we won’t lead the country into new elections,” he said.  In Parliament, a bill on changes to the education system
highlighted the growing fissures in the parties supporting the
coalition. The legislation was passed with 163 votes in favor
and 101 votes against, according to a tally of the vote,
televised live on state-run Vouli TV.  Among coalition party members voting against the law, the
government’s first since taking power, were six members of the
socialist Pasok party, including former Prime Minister  George Papandreou  and former health minister Andreas Loverdos.  Samaras’s government is supported by 179 lawmakers from the
three parties in the 300-seat chamber.  Fifth Year  Greece is in a fifth year of a recession that’s been
worsened by the austerity measures to cut a  budget deficit  that
reached more than five times the euro area’s limit in 2009,
sparking the continent’s debt crisis. The country conducted the
biggest sovereign debt restructuring in history this year before
elections in May and June plunged it into political turmoil and
put its place in the 17-nation currency bloc at risk.  Stournaras is due to meet with the troika to begin
analyzing the government’s plans today at 2 p.m. The delegation
has extended its stay in Athens to be able to help piece
together the package. Stournaras said he expected to have a
final version of the cuts at the end of the month.  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  defended the
lender’s role in Greece and said the nation has made progress
even as it needs to deepen structural changes to its economy.  “When I look back to the initial program and the
achievements of the  Greek economy  and the Greek population, it’s
impressive,” Lagarde told reporters in  Washington  yesterday.
“There is still a lot that the country can do.”  Free Food  Members of the far-right Golden Dawn party, which is
represented in parliament, handed out free food to Athenians
yesterday, provided those coming forward showed they were Greek.  Later, workers from the Agricultural  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA
picketed the  Finance Ministry  to protest against last week’s
fire-sale of the bank to  Piraeus Bank SA. (TPEIR)  The sale was part of
changes mandated by international lenders after Greek banks
suffered losses on their holdings of  government bonds .  Greece risks running out of money without the disbursement
of 4.2 billion euros due in June as the first installment of a
31 billion-euro transfer.  The country may sell 6 billion euros of Treasury bills, 2
billion more than initially planned, and tap bank
recapitalization funds in order to cover its financing needs,
the Kathimerini newspaper reported today, without saying how it
got the information.  The funds will be used to cover 3.2 billion euros of
redemptions for bonds held by the ECB that mature Aug. 20, the
Athens-based newspaper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in  Athens  at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  