-- Samsung Lawyer Can’t Undo Apple Trial Evidence Ruling
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-01T19:08:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/samsung-lawyer-can-t-undo-apple-trial-evidence-ruling.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  again lost
its bid to use evidence a lawyer for the company described as
“critical” to rebutting Apple Inc.’s central allegations in a
patent-infringement trial in  California .  Samsung was barred by U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San
Jose  from presenting images of a smartphone that it claims to
have been developing in 2006, the year before Apple introduced
the iPhone. Samsung said in a filing that the images show
evidence that it was developing the next generation of mobile
phones with a “simple, rounded rectangular body” before
Apple’s January 2007 announcement of the iPhone.  Before jurors heard opening arguments in the trial
yesterday, John B. Quinn, a Samsung lawyer, asked Koh to
reconsider her July 30 decision barring the evidence.  Quinn, who said he had never begged in court in more than
30 years of practicing law, told Koh that he was “begging
now.”  Koh rejected the request for what she said was at least the
third time, standing by her ruling that the evidence wasn’t
“timely disclosed” in Samsung’s arguments pertaining to patent
infringement.  “We’ve done three reconsiderations on this and we have a
jury waiting,” Koh told Quinn. “You’ve made your record.”  “Don’t make me sanction you, please,” Koh said when Quinn
persisted with his argument. “I want you to sit down please.”  Samsung Statement  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement that Koh’s ruling
means “Samsung was not allowed to tell the jury the full story
and show the pre-iPhone design for that and other phones that
were in development at Samsung in 2006, before the iPhone.”  “The excluded evidence would have established beyond doubt
that Samsung did not copy the iPhone design,” the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said in the statement.  Samsung’s statement included attachments of the evidence
that Koh had excluded, prompting a demand from Koh for an
explanation of who drafted and issued the release.  Harold McElhinny, a lawyer for Apple, told Koh the release
was “on perception an intentional attempt to pollute this
jury” rising to “contempt of court.”  Public Record  Quinn said in a filing today with the court that he
authorized the statement, and that material included in the
excluded exhibits was previously in the public court record.  “Samsung’s brief statement and transmission of public
materials in response to press inquiries was not motivated by or
designed to influence jurors,” Quinn said in his declaration.  Quinn said that distribution of the statement and attached
exhibits is consistent with Koh’s rulings that the case should
be “open to public view” -- a view demonstrated by the judge’s
repeated denial of Samsung’s and Apple’s attempt to seal
documents.  Apple’s accusations that the disclosure amounted to
contempt of court “unfairly called my personal reputation into
question and have resulted in media reports likewise falsely
impugning me personally,” Quinn said in the filing.  In another ruling yesterday, Koh said Samsung can use some
evidence from a former Apple designer to defend against the
infringement allegations.  Evidence from the designer, Shin Nishibori, who helped
create a model phone influenced by  Sony Corp. (SNE) , includes e-mail
and a computer-aided image that Samsung said will support its
“independent creation story” by proving the “design elements
found in Samsung’s phones were not taken from Apple, but were
known to other designers in the field,” according to a court
filing.  Demonstrate ’Functionality’  Koh said Samsung can use some evidence from the Apple
designer to demonstrate “functionality” and “for no other
purpose.”  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, seeks $2.5 billion
for its claims that Samsung infringed patents covering designs
and technology for mobile devices.  Samsung countersued and will present claims that Apple is
infringing two patents covering mobile-technology standards and
three utility patents. Samsung is demanding royalties of as much
as 2.4 percent for each device sold, according to a court
filing.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  