-- Sands China Says Macau Government Probes Data Transfer
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-08-01T04:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/sands-china-says-macau-government-probes-data-transfer.html
Sands China Ltd. (1928) , the Asian unit of
 Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas company, said its Venetian Macau
Ltd. subsidiary is being investigated by the Macau government in
connection with the transfer of some data to the U.S.  The probe is related to the case of Steve Jacobs, the
former Sands China chief executive officer who is suing the
company, said company spokeswoman Melina Leong. The Macau
government’s Office for Personal Data Protection notified the
company of the probe, Sands China said in a statement to  Hong
Kong ’s stock exchange today.  Jacobs has said that a large amount of evidence in his case
has been transported from Macau to the U.S., according to a June
filing in Nevada state court. Among the missing documents are e-
mails outlining Sands’s strategy of allowing prostitutes in
casinos and its hiring of a casino attorney who also represents
the Macau government, according to the filings.  Sands China shares fell 0.9 percent to HK$22.75 at the mid-
day trading break in Hong Kong, after earlier declining as much 
as 3.1 percent. The stock has lost 8.3 percent in the past year, 
compared with a 13 percent drop for the benchmark Hang Seng 
Index.  Las Vegas Sands (LVS)  responded in a July 17 filing that Jacobs’s
claims regarding it having a “prostitution strategy” were
reckless, irrelevant and false.  The Office For Personal Data Protection confirmed via e-
mail that it has started an investigation into whether the
Venetian Macau breached local rules.  Companies need authorization from the agency under certain
circumstances to transfer data, and failure to comply with some
articles of the Personal Data Protection Act can result in a
fine of 8,000 to 80,000 patacas, the agency said. Other
violations of the law may also “constitute administrative
offenses or crimes,” the government body said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  