-- Schneider to Resume Acquisitions to Sustain Earnings
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-08-01T07:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/schneider-electric-earnings-exceed-estimates-on-pricing.html
Schneider Electric SA (ALO) , among the most
acquisitive electrical engineering companies until a year ago,
said it will resume purchases after completing the integration
of past deals that helped lift first-half profit.  “We were in integration mode” in the first half, Chief
Financial Officer Emmanuel Babeau said in a telephone interview
today, after Schneider reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates. “We will return to a normal situation” in terms of
acquisitions “because this special focus on integration is more
behind us now.”  Schneider spent $3.8 billion last year on takeovers that
included Spanish software company Telvent GIT SA and an Indian
maker power-storage systems. The pace of acquisitions has picked
up among engineering companies, with  ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  buying Thomas &
Betts Corp. for $3.9 billion in January and saying it has
billions in reserve for more takeovers in coming years.  The shares of Schneider, based in Rueil-Malmaison near
Paris, rose as much as 1.87 euros, or 4.1 percent, to 47.9 euros
in Paris, and traded at 47.51 euros as of 9:58 a.m. The stock
has gained 16 percent this year, valuing Schneider at about 25.9
billion euros. Larger competitor  Siemens AG (SIE)  has lost 5.6 percent
in 2012 after lowering its earnings guidance once.  The company reported net income rose 11 percent to 890
million euros ($1.09 billion) in the first half, beating an
estimate of 844 million euros in an analyst survey by Bloomberg.
Revenue climbed 10 percent, helped by acquisitions and the
euro’s decline against the dollar and the Chinese  yuan .  Meeting Goals  Schneider is on track to meet its financial goals this
year, including at least matching last year’s revenue figure,
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire said, adding that
the outlook for many markets has become clouded by economic
threats. Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, said on
July 26 that reaching its profit target had become harder.  “The uncertain world economic outlook and mixed business
trends in the group’s key markets continue to limit near-term
visibility,” Tricoire said in a statement.  Tricoire said last year in April that Schneider would make
smaller deals a priority and that no major acquisitions were
planned for that year. Large purchases are “very, very rare,”
and riskier to execute, he said at the time, responding to
reports that he was weighing a bid for  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)   The company is confident in meeting its profitability
target this year because sales tend to be higher in the second
half, CFO Babeau said. The second-half margin has historically
been about 1.5 percentage points higher, he said.  For the full year, price increases should add about 200
million euros to profit, the CFO said. Productivity gains, which
amounted to 120 million euros in the first half, should total
250 million euros to 300 million euros, he said.  The company’s expecting “a large  cash flow ” in the second
half, because more cash is generated in that period after
Schneider paid its dividend in the first six months, Babeau
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  