-- SEC Shouldn’t Regulate Credit Ratings, Cato Researchers Say
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-08-01T18:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/sec-shouldn-t-regulate-credit-ratings-cato-researchers-say.html
The U.S. government should stop
regulating credit-rating companies, researchers from the  Cato
Institute  said.  Standard & Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch
Ratings have become a “de facto oligopoly” due to rules that
forced banks and other investors to use their ratings to
determine the riskiness of holdings, according to the  paper ,
published today by the Washington-based public policy research
organization, which says it promotes free markets.  Credit-rating companies should be “subject to competitive
market pressures,” wrote Emily Ekins, a research fellow, and
Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies. “Such
pressures would most effectively be brought to bear by a
reduction in regulatory barriers to entry and the removal of
artificial demand due to various compliance requirements.”  Regulators shouldn’t decide which rating companies are
approved for use and should stop using the ratings themselves in
rules, according to the Cato researchers. That would force the
firms to compete based on quality, they said.  “The message we need to send market participants is there
is no seal of approval behind the ratings,” Calabria said in a
telephone interview.  Financial Crisis  After inflated credit ratings for risky mortgage bonds were
blamed for helping cause the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression, policy makers have been searching for a way to
ensure the grades are accurate. The Dodd-Frank Act instructed
regulators to stop relying on ratings and increased oversight of
the ratings companies. The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission should stop regulating the companies instead, the
Cato researchers said.  “Dodd-Frank is a bit schizophrenic,” Calabria said. “It
says we want to reduce reliance on rating agencies but we’re
going to further embed them.”  In 1936, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
banned banks from holding bonds that were below investment
grade. The SEC began using ratings in its rules in 1975,
specifying that the only companies whose grades could be used
were S&P, Moody’s and Fitch. Those firms were designated
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, or
NRSROs. There are now nine.  “Despite the good intentions of the uses of the NRSRO
designation, it is not worth the cost and should be abolished,”
Ekins and Calabria wrote.  Ending credit-rating regulation wouldn’t stop mutual funds
and pension funds from using the grades in guidelines which
determine which bonds they buy. About two-thirds of the biggest
pension funds require that any bonds they buy have ratings from
S&P, Moody’s or Fitch, according to Kroll Bond Ratings Inc., a
competing firm that issued its first assessments last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  