-- Serb Lawmakers Mull Limits on Central Bank, Governor’s Power
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-08-01T16:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/serb-draft-central-bank-law-sees-limiting-governor-s-power-1-.html
Serbian lawmakers will debate a draft
law tomorrow that increases Parliament’s control over the
central bank and limits its governor and management.  The proposed legislation, posted today on the Belgrade-
based assembly’s  website , calls for the establishment of a
supervisory body that would take an “active role” in monetary
policy decision-making. It also calls on the central bank
governor and vice governors to step down.  The draft law “raises deep concerns” and may “jeopardize
the independence of the central bank,” Adriano Martins, deputy
head of the European Union’s mission in Serbia, said today in an
e-mailed statement. Serbia in March became a candidate to join
the 27-nation bloc.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, sworn in on July 27,
said it will replace Governor Dejan Soskic if he resists
government efforts to stimulate economic growth through
expansive fiscal policies. Soskic vowed on July 16 not to
resign, while economists, educators and former central bankers
criticized the move.  This shows that the “political elites can draft any law
they want,” said Djordje Djukic, a central bank board member
between August 1993 and July 1998, and will lead to “multilayer
decision-making,” making it difficult to “pin down the
responsibility to any one entity.”  Dacic’s Socialists, who rose to power for the first time
since the 2000 ouster of  Slobodan Milosevic , lead a coalition
with the Progressive Party of President  Tomislav Nikolic , the
United Regions of Serbia of Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  and
the  Social Democratic Party  of Serbia of Deputy Prime Minister
Rasim Ljajic.  Weak Dinar  The dinar, trading near a decade low to the euro, was at
118.6578 at 4:16 p.m. in Belgrade.  While the European Commission expects Serbia to align
itself with EU legislation on economic and monetary policy, the
draft law “would be a considerable step back” in that effort,
the EU’s Martins said. The commission was not consulted on the
legislation, he added.  The  International Monetary Fund  is also “very concerned”
about possible changes to the law, which may end up being
reflected in Serbia’s bailout-loan program. IMF representative,
Bogdan Lissovolik, told the newspaper Politika yesterday.  The law would give a new body all financial industry
supervisory powers and is designed to “prevent any banks’ abuse
of international-payment operations” and “money laundering”
activities, according to the draft. A new central bank council
will be in charge of managing foreign-currency reserves.  Government Financing  The central bank will be banned from directly financing the
government, while the new law introduces “a possibility of
indirect lending to the state” through the purchase of
 government securities  in secondary markets, the draft said.  Djukic, a lecturer at the Belgrade School of Economics and
board member at  AIK Banka AD (AIKB) , said the introduction of central
bank lending to the government “mimics quantitative easing in
the U.S. and some other developed economies in the West,” where
central banks don’t need to fight inflation.  “Quantitative easing has nothing to do with Serbia’s
structural problems,” Djukic said.  Parliament will elect the governor, vice governors and the
chairman of the new regulatory body. It already appoints members
of the central bank’s council. Lawmakers meet tomorrow at 11
a.m. in Belgrade to debate the law.  Possible Downgrade  The change “can lead to a credit-rating downgrade for
Serbia,” Beta newswire cited former Deputy Prime Minister
Bozidar Djelic as saying.  The central bank’s independence is “the best guarantee to
the citizens for the protection of foreign-exchange reserves,
which belong to them, not to political elites,” Djelic told
Beta in an interview, published today.  Serbia  is struggling to avoid a second recession in three
years, after the economy contracted 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, following a 1.3 percent decline in activity in the
first three-month period of 2012.  The new government is trying to halt a further increase in
unemployment, already at 25.5 percent, while curbing any further
expansion in the fiscal deficit, which reached 7.3 percent of
gross domestic product at the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  