-- Shaky Foundations for the New Mammogram Economy
-- B y   H a n d e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-08-01T22:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/shaky-foundations-for-the-new-mammogram-economy.html
Eighty-one percent of women 50 and
older and 65 percent of women 40 to 49 undergo regular screening
mammography in the U.S. So it’s no wonder that a vast collateral
economy has developed around the procedure, and continues to
grow.  Yet not all the foundations of this economy rest on solid
ground.  Mammography  is imperfect and, for a large population of
women, it has missed breast cancer or raised unnecessary
concern.  Screening mammography has traditionally been promoted using
simple and direct messages. These simple messages have often
been misleading. Advertisements often contain images of young
women, thus heightening fears of breast cancer in this age group
while masking the reality that the disease is much more common
in older women. Promotions also tend to overemphasize the
potential benefits of screening while remaining largely silent
on its limitations. The statement “Mammography can find breast
cancer as small as the period at the end of this sentence”
appeared on many promos in the 1980s and 1990s, leading many
women to expect too much from the technology. A 2003 survey
found that many American women harbor the misconception that
mammography can actually prevent breast cancer from occurring.
“Screening” is not synonymous with “prevention”; mammography
reduces the risk of death only by finding breast cancer early.  The public has never been  educated  on this nuance. So it is
not surprising that when breast cancer occurs in a woman who has
undergone annual screening, she and her loved ones are often
shocked, angry and confused.  Mammography Misses  In the mid-1990s, when routine screening mammography was
becoming widely practiced, delay in diagnosing breast cancer
became the most common reason for patients to file medical
malpractice lawsuits, and this is still the case. From 1995 to
2001, claims added up to more than $170 million. Even though
breast cancer is most common in postmenopausal women, 68 percent
of claimants in those years were women younger than 50.  Mammography misses up to 15 percent of cancers that are
present (false negatives) and finds many things that are not
cancer (false positives). What’s more, some of the cancers it
finds could have safely gone undetected without affecting the
woman’s life or health (overdiagnosis).  Part of the problem is that, on a mammogram, a noncancerous
abnormality can look very much like cancer. A smooth, round lump
in one woman might be a benign tumor; an identical lump in
someone else might be cancer. This causes 10 percent to 15
percent of screened women in the U.S. to be recalled for more
evaluation. Most (95 percent) screening-detected abnormalities
are ultimately found to be noncancerous. An American woman who
is regularly screened during her 40s has a 61 percent chance of
getting a false positive result.  The additional testing after an abnormal mammogram
typically involves specialized mammography views or ultrasound,
but it may also include a biopsy. As routine screening gained
widespread acceptance in the late 1980s and 1990s, the number of
small (nonpalpable) breast abnormalities leading to biopsy rose
drastically. This led to the development of nonsurgical biopsy
techniques, such as stereotactic and ultrasound-guided core
needle biopsy, which could be done in the mammography center.  Now, for every $100 spent on screening, an additional $30
to $33 is spent to evaluate false positive findings. In the
Medicare population, the workup of false positive mammogram
results is estimated to total $250 million a year.  False Positives  Nevertheless, Americans accept the need for false positives
as the inevitable consequence of regular mammography. According
to one survey, although more than 90 percent of women who had a
false-positive mammogram found their experience “scary,” 96
percent reported being happy that they had the test, and 90
percent continued to have mammograms at least as often as
before. In another survey, when asked how many false positives
are acceptable for each life saved, 63 percent of women said 500
or more and 37 percent said 10,000 or more.  False negatives carry a cost, too, of course. Mammography
misses up to 15 percent of breast cancers. It is especially
likely to be ineffective in women whose breasts are relatively
dense. On a mammogram, breast tissue may look mainly white,
indicating that it is dense, or dark gray, when it is more
fatty. Typically, younger women have denser tissue. Because
cancer appears on a mammogram as a white object, looking for it
in dense tissue can be like trying to see a polar bear in a
snowstorm. New computer-aided technology has been developed to
address this problem, but it can lead to false positives.  Because the great majority of lumps found on mammography
are not cancer, many women have an ultrasound after an abnormal
mammogram to see if what they have is a trivial fluid-filled
cyst or a potentially serious solid mass. Ultrasound is not
degraded by dense breast tissue. On the other hand, it finds a
great many noncancerous lumps, so women who undergo this regimen
have many more unnecessary biopsies than those screened with
mammography alone.  Similarly, breast magnetic resonance imaging finds many
more cancers than mammography does but also suffers from high
rates of false positives. MRI is relatively expensive and, until
recently, was not widely available. It’s recommended only for
women at extremely high risk of breast cancer (for example,
those who have the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genetic mutations).  We are seeing increasing use of both these technologies,
thanks in part to what happened to Nancy Cappello. In 2004, at
the age of 52, this Woodbury,  Connecticut , resident was
diagnosed with breast cancer two months after a “normal”
mammogram. Because her breast tissue was dense, she had a
relatively greater risk of cancer, despite having no family
history of the disease. And her cancer was harder to detect by
mammogram. After her ordeal, Cappello founded Are You Dense?, an
organization dedicated to educating women and advocating for
supplemental screening.  Density Difference  In 2006, thanks to her efforts, Connecticut became the
first state to mandate insurance coverage for using breast
ultrasound (in addition to mammography) to screen women with
dense tissue. Three years later, the state went further,
demanding that all mammography facilities inform patients about
their breast density and suggest ultrasound or MRI for those
with dense tissue.  Soon, similar legislation was pending in several other
states. And efforts are under way to persuade Congress to
nationalize the Connecticut model. Since at least 90 percent of
mammograms show some amount of dense tissue that could
potentially mask breast cancer, if Connecticut’s rules were to
be adopted nationwide, some 33 million breast ultrasounds would
be added to the 37 million mammograms now done annually in the
U.S., increasing yearly expenditures from $4.8 billion to $7.7
billion. This figure does not include additional unnecessary
biopsies generated by false positive ultrasound scans.  Of the 2.5 million breast cancer survivors in the U.S.,
500,000 have stage-zero cancer, otherwise known as ductal
carcinoma in situ. Before the advent of screen mammography, DCIS
was practically unheard of; now it accounts for one in four or
five of all new breast cancer diagnoses. This condition is
poorly understood, but many experts believe that, if left alone,
as many as one half of all such abnormalities would never
progress to lethal invasive breast cancer. Yet because of our
inability to distinguish the good actors from the potentially
bad ones, all patients diagnosed with DCIS receive treatment.
DCIS was partly responsible for the “epidemic” narrative that
developed around breast cancer in the late 1980s to early 1990s,
just as screening mammography was becoming widely practiced.  It was during this time that cause-related marketing was
born, thanks in large measure to the work of Nancy G. Brinker,
founder of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation (now
Susan G. Komen for the Cure). Its annual charity 5K Race for the
Cure takes place in more than 100 U.S. cities and several
foreign countries, attracting 1.5 million participants annually.
At this writing Komen has signed 240 corporate partners. These
corporate relationships have added more than $50 million to
Komen’s annual fundraising tally.  Every October, Breast Cancer Awareness Month, retail
products from makeup to vacuum cleaners, breath mints to
jewelry, fast food to kitchen appliances carry a little pink
ribbon and vague promises to support breast cancer awareness or
other efforts.  Breast cancer cause-related marketing has, of course,
benefited from mammography screening, and not only because it
was the mammography-induced breast cancer “epidemic” that called
attention to the disease. Mammography’s tendency to overdiagnose
also enlarges the population of “survivors and those who love
them” -- the people most likely to be influenced by pink
marketing.  (Handel Reynolds is a breast radiologist at Piedmont
Hospital in Atlanta. This is the second of three excerpts from
his new book, “ The Big Squeeze: A Social and Political History
of the Controversial Mammogram ,” which will be published on Aug.
7 by Cornell University Press. The opinions expressed are his
own. Read  Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on success for  female Saudi
Olympians  and on what the ECB must do to  save the euro ;  Susan
Antilla  on Wall Street’s  efforts to stymie new regulations ;
 Caroline Baum  on  monetary policy  getting off track;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Romney’s zero tolerance  for the unsuccessful;  Peter
Orszag  on ways to keep lowering  health-care costs .  To contact the writer of this article:
Handel Reynolds at  bigsqueezebook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 