-- Silver Lake Said to Raise More Than $4 Billion for Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/silver-lake-said-to-raise-more-than-4-billion-for-fund.html
Silver Lake , the largest technology-
focused private-equity manager, has raised more than $4 billion
since it started marketing its latest buyout fund, said two
people with knowledge of the matter.  The fund, Silver Lake Partners IV LP, is seeking $7.5
billion and has the option of gathering as much as $10 billion,
according to a marketing document sent to prospective investors
in March, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman for Silver Lake, declined to
comment.  The firm, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , gathered the
commitments in a crowded fundraising market as a record 1,858
private-equity funds are competing for capital, according to
data compiled by London-based researcher Preqin Ltd. Advent
International Corp. held an initial close last month on 5.8
billion euros ($7.1 billion) toward its 7 billion-euro target
after also sending out marketing materials in March, according
to a person familiar with the situation.  Investors who make larger commitments to the new fund will
get a break on management fees, Silver Lake’s documents show.
Limited partners, led by public pensions, have pressed private-
equity managers to lower management fees to ensure that the
buyout firms make the bulk of their profits from their cut of
successful investments.  The prior fund, Silver Lake Partners III LP, generated a
net multiple of 1.4 times invested capital and a net internal
rate of return of 19 percent, as of Dec. 31, according to the
document. The fund had distributed about $5.4 billion in cash.  Skype Technologies SA, an investment in the third fund,
produced more than a threefold profit for clients when the
video-chat company was sold to Microsoft Corp. last year.  The firm’s best returns came from its $2.3 billion debut
fund, Silver Lake Partners LP, raised 13 years ago. That pool
produced a net multiple of 2.5 times invested capital and a net
internal rate of return of 25 percent, as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  