-- Smart Ways to Keep the Brake on Health-Care Costs
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-08-01T22:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/smart-ways-to-keep-the-brake-on-health-care-costs.html
The rising cost of health care in the
U.S. has been slowing over the past few years, driven both by
weakness in the general economy and by some changes in the way
medical services are provided. The crucial question now is, how
can we make sure that progress continues?  Surprisingly, for all the recent talk about constraining
cost growth, few specific proposals have been made.  That’s why the Center for American Progress should be
commended for gathering a group of health-care experts and
putting forward more than 10 specific proposals. (Disclosure: I
was part of the group, which included a broad array of doctors
and other medical practitioners and academics.) The proposals,
which were  published  in the New England Journal of Medicine, aim
to reduce costs wherever possible by curtailing care that is
unnecessary and reducing the prices of procedures people need.  First, consider how drastic the recent deceleration in
health-care costs has been. A common way to evaluate the growth
in spending for Medicare is to compare the increase per
beneficiary to income per capita. Over the past 30 years, this
excess cost growth for Medicare has averaged about 2 percent a
year. The goal of many policy proposals, including provisions in
the 2010 Affordable Care Act, is to reduce the future excess
cost growth to about 1 percent annually.  Growth Slowdown  Over the past year, though, excess cost growth has been
much less than the target of 1 percent. According to the most
recent figures from the  Congressional Budget Office , total
Medicare spending this year through June rose 4 percent from the
previous year. Meanwhile, the number of Medicare beneficiaries
rose by almost 4 percent, too, and income per capita rose by
about 3 percent. So excess cost growth has been significantly
below zero, let alone below the target of 1 percent a year.  Much of the recent deceleration is probably attributable to
the economy, but as I have  written before , I doubt that is the
full explanation. Health-care providers are anticipating a shift
away from fee-for-service reimbursement, and they are
increasingly using computer software to inform clinical
decision-making and are “benchmarking” physicians -- that is,
comparing their practice norms with those of other doctors -- to
move toward better care. These structural changes are essential
to maintaining slower health-care cost growth as the economy
(eventually, we all hope) picks up.  So how can the recent progress be sustained?  The proposals put forward by the experts assembled by the
Center for American Progress include multiple steps to eliminate
both artificially high prices and unnecessary procedures. For
example, rather than have Medicare set prices for lab tests and
medical devices, we should put all such purchases out for
competitive bidding. In 2011, bidding  reduced Medicare spending 
on wheelchairs and other equipment by more than 40 percent.
Another suggestion is to require that all health-care prices be
fully transparent to consumers.  Other proposals are aimed at the intensity of medical care
rather than its price. The faster we can move away from fee-for-
service payments, which encourage additional care even if it
isn’t helpful, the more value we can get from our health-care
system. The CAP proposals set a 10-year goal of making at least
75 percent of payments on some basis other than fee-for-service.
One of the most promising alternatives involves bundling --
paying a fixed amount for the whole collection of services
typically needed to treat a particular condition. A  Medicare
pilot program  in the 1990s demonstrated the potential of
bundling.  Malpractice Reform  What is perhaps most surprising about the CAP proposals,
given the traditional political alignments on the issue, is that
they also include reform for the medical malpractice system.
Rather than impose an arbitrary cap on damages, the group
proposes a safe harbor for physicians who adhere to practices
that have been clinically shown to be beneficial. As I have
 written previously , this approach can help promote evidence-
based care for patients and also give doctors more clarity about
their liability.  The CAP proposals thus wisely recognize that there is no
single strategy to continue the recent progress in slowing the
growth in health-care costs. In contrast, the Republican budget
plan put forward by Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  seems
based on a belief that all that’s needed is to shift risks: from
Medicare to beneficiaries through a premium-support program, and
from the federal government to state governments by turning
Medicaid into block grants. I wouldn’t bet on these steps
solving the problem. The only certain outcome from them is the
shifting of risk onto state governments and individuals.  Building a more valuable health-care system requires many
more improvements -- which is why the CAP approach is more
auspicious.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on success for  female Saudi
Olympians  and on what the ECB must do to  save the euro ;  Susan
Antilla  on Wall Street’s  efforts to stymie new regulations ;
 Caroline Baum  on  monetary policy  getting off track;  Michael
Kinsley  on  Romney’s zero tolerance  for the unsuccessful; Handel
Reynolds on the shaky foundation of the  mammogram economy .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 