-- SocGen Has Got No Notice of Wrongdoing on Libor, CEO Says
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-08-01T16:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/socgen-has-gotten-no-notice-of-wrongdoing-on-libor-chief-says.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  hasn’t been
accused of wrongdoing by regulators probing the possible
manipulation of London interbank offered rates, said Chief
Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea .  “We are cooperating,” Oudea said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Paris today. “To date, we did not
receive any notice of wrongdoing” from regulators.  As a member of panels that help set interbank rates,
including Libor,  Societe Generale  has gotten requests from
different regulators, Oudea said. The bank,  France ’s second-
biggest, announced a 42 percent drop in its second-quarter
profit today after writedowns on its Russian unit and U.S. asset
manager TCW Group.  An unidentified investor asked Paris prosecutors to look at
possible market manipulation, distribution of false information
and abuse of trust, alleging banks collaborated to influence the
interbank rates, her lawyer Frederik Karel Canoy said today. The
claims are based on findings by U.S. and U.K. probes that led to
the record 290 million-pound ($452.3 million) fine against
London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in June for falsifying its Libor
submissions, he said.  The complaint was filed on July 30, Canoy said. A
spokeswoman for the prosecutors said today that they haven’t
received anything. She declined to be identified citing office
policy.  Societe Generale declined to comment on the complaint, a
spokeswoman said, also declining to be named citing bank policy.  Societe Generale has started an internal investigation over
its contributions to interbank rate panels, Oudea, 49, told
journalists at a press conference in Paris today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Connan in London at 
 cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  