-- SocGen Profit Misses Estimates With 42% Slide on Writedowns
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-08-01T15:34:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/socgen-second-quarter-net-slides-42-on-russian-tcw-writedowns.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-
largest bank, posted a bigger-than-expected 42 percent drop in
second-quarter profit after taking writedowns on its Russian
unit and U.S. asset manager TCW Group.  Net income  fell to 433 million euros ($533 million) from
747 million euros a year earlier, the Paris-based bank said by
e-mail today. That was short of the 695 million-euro average
estimate of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank took a
250 million-euro writedown on its Rosbank division in  Russia  and
a 200 million-euro markdown on Los Angeles-based TCW.  Chief Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  is trimming
corporate- and investment-banking, or CIB, assets and cutting
about 1,600 jobs at the unit, home to Societe Generale’s trading
business. The lender, hurt by last year’s liquidity crunch and
losses on Greek sovereign debt, joined French rivals  BNP Paribas
SA (BNP)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in shrinking balance sheets in most
overseas markets and reducing government-debt holdings.  “For us, the priority is to progressively generate
capital,” Oudea said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.  Societe Generale, unlike BNP Paribas and  Credit Agricole 
which both operate branches in  Italy , has no retail network
there. The company is “completely at ease” with financing its
Italian and Spanish non-sovereign risks, which stood at 14.2
billion euros and 10.1 billion euros, respectively, at the end
of June, Oudea told journalists at a meeting in Paris.  ‘Insignificant’ Risks  Societe Generale ’s combined sovereign exposures to Italy,
 Spain ,  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland are “insignificant” at
about 2.2 billion euros by the end of July, Oudea said.  Societe Generale rose as much as 3.1 percent in Paris and
traded 0.5 percent higher at 18.10 euros as of 4:02 p.m. Before
today, it had  fallen  48 percent in the past 12 months, giving
the bank a market value of about 14 billion euros. BNP Paribas,
France’s largest lender, has dropped 34 percent in the period.  “Even if their business disposals aren’t materializing,
the performance is solid and capital levels are convincing,”
said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage about 500 million
euros at Ofi Gestion Privee in Paris.  ‘No Hurry’  France’s biggest banks are cutting at least 300 billion
euros off their balance sheets to comply with stricter Basel III
capital rules, mirroring similar moves by other European lenders
such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s biggest.  Societe Generale repeated today that it aims to reach a
core capital ratio of between 9 and 9.5 percent, under Basel
III, by the end of 2013 without a rights offer.  “I am very confident that we will be in line with our
objectives at the end of 2013 with capital generation coming
from our earnings,” said Oudea, 49.  Societe Generale is in “no hurry” to dispose of
businesses, the CEO said, repeating that the bank plans to sell
some assets “to have a cushion.” It will also “potentially
reinvest if we have opportunities in business growth,” he said.  The lender’s French unions on July 26 received notice on a
possible sale of the company’s U.S. asset manager TCW, without
any details on the price or the acquirer, according to a union
representative. Oudea today declined to comment “on any
specific disposal processes.”  ‘Difficult Markets’  Societe Generale has cut about 14 percent of its CIB staff
in France this year after shuffling the  unit ’s management. The
lender joins rivals whose earnings were curbed because of weak
markets. Deutsche Bank,  Europe ’s largest investment bank by
revenue, yesterday said that second-quarter pretax profit at its
securities unit slid 63 percent to 357 million euros.  “Markets were extremely difficult, it’s normal to see
trading revenue down,”  Valerie Cazaban , who helps manage 100
million euros at Stratege Finance in Paris and owns no shares in
Societe Generale, said before the results were announced.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Citigroup
Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley had combined
first-half revenue of $161 billion, down 4.5 percent from 2011
and the lowest since $135 billion four years ago.  Asset Sales  Net income at Societe Generale’s CIB unit fell to 131
million euros from 449 million euros a year earlier, compared
with the 102 million-euro average estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Revenue from fixed income, currencies and
commodities declined 5.8 percent, while sales from the equities
markets business dropped 24 percent, the bank said.  Societe Generale has accelerated disposals of subprime-era
assets including U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities
since mid-2011. In the second quarter, it booked 150 million
euros in writedowns and provisions from scaling down subprime-
era holdings.  Societe Generale’s profit from French consumer-banking
networks fell 6.3 percent to 360 million euros. That matched
analysts’ estimate of 365 million euros.  At its international retail-banking business, the lender
had a 231 million-euro loss compared with a year-earlier profit,
hurt by the writedown on Moscow-based  Rosbank. (ROSB)   Societe Generale’s international-retail banking earnings
also have been burdened by Geniki Bank, its Athens-based unit.
Geniki, which has a 2.15 billion-euro loanbook and 2.02 billion
euros in deposits, is “under control,” Oudea said. While
Societe Generale is on “a trend of reduction” for Geniki
risks, the French bank might be “open to all possibilities”
about its future, Deputy CEO Bernardo Sanchez Incera said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  