-- Standard Chartered Posts 11% Rise in First-Half Profit
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-08-01T15:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/standard-chartered-posts-11-rise-in-first-half-profit.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , which earns
most of its income from Asia, posted an 11 percent increase in
first-half profit, escaping the interest-rate rigging scandal
that has embroiled its U.K. competitors.  Net income rose to $2.86 billion from $2.57 billion a year
earlier, the bank said in a statement today. That compared with
the $2.76 billion median prediction of 16 analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg. The lender is set to meet its full-year target for
“double-digit” growth in revenue and earnings per share, Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Sands  said today.  Standard Chartered , Britain’s second-biggest bank by market
value, plans to hire more than 1,000 people this year in
 emerging markets  as lenders such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  cut jobs
and sell assets. Because of its focus on Asia, the lender hasn’t
been tainted by allegations of Libor-manipulation or the mis-
selling of derivatives and payment-protection plans that have
hit London-based competitors such as  Barclays (BARC)  Plc.  “The earnings were reasonably good in a challenging
environment,” Tom Quarmby, head of regional banking research at
Barclays Plc in Hong Kong, said by phone today. “The key areas
of strength appear to be around the wholesale bank with strong
performance, particularly around trade and Greater China-related
trade business.”  The lender will have 100 branches each in China and  India 
by the time it reports full-year results in early 2013,
according to the statement. The lender last week opened its 90th
China outlet in Dalian, and has 94 branches in India.  Increasing Investments  In Africa, the bank said it will have about 250 outlets in
the next couple of years, up from 183 now. Standard Chartered is
also investing in mobile and Internet banking, Sands said in the
statement.  Operating profit in the consumer bank fell 11 percent to
$899 million as earnings in Asia Pacific declined. Wholesale or
corporate banking profit rose 16 percent to $2.99 billion, as
gains in Hong Kong and Korea outweighed a fall in India and the
 Middle East .  “Given the opportunities we see arising from the
turbulence and the disarray of our competitors, we are stepping
up the pace of investment,” Sands said.  The stock  gained 3.6 percent to 1,517.5 pence in London,
giving it a market value of 36.3 billion pounds ($56.6 billion).
The shares have gained 7.7 percent this year, compared with a
0.4 percent decline in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index.  Record Earnings  The lender in February posted its eighth annual record
earnings as 2011 net income rose 12 percent to $4.85 billion.
About three quarters of its profit comes from corporate banking
led by  Michael Rees , which includes trade finance, payment
processing and some investment banking activities such as merger
advisory and equities. Steve Bertamini heads the bank’s
consumer-lending unit.  “Its momentum is strong and fundamental long-term
attractions remain intact for those without the stomach for
investing in cheap U.K. domestic banks,”  Ian Gordon , an analyst
at  Investec Plc (INVP)  in London said in a note to clients today. “It
is the pick of the quality names.”  Sands told analyst today that the euro region’s crisis
probably won’t be solved “any time soon.”  Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is urging his European
counterparts to agree to collective action to fight the
financial crisis, trying to bridge a north-south divide in the
euro area to help to lower borrowing costs.  Libor, Laundering  HSBC, the other U.K. lender that gets most of its profit
from emerging markets, apologized to investors this week after a
U.S. Senate committee found that the bank gave terrorists, drug
cartels and criminals access to the U.S. financial system. It
set aside $2 billion more to cover the costs of fines for that
and redress for wrongly selling insurance and derivatives, and
posted an 8.3 percent fall in first-half net income to $8.44
billion.  “We are not under investigation anywhere” for involvement
in the alleged rigging of benchmark  interest rates , Sands said
on a call with journalists today. “We are not involved in Libor
or Euribor.”  Barclays and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  have set aside a
total of 5.6 billion pounds to compensate clients who were sold
payment-protection insurance they didn’t need. Barclays in June
paid a record 290 million pounds in fines for manipulating the
London interbank offered rate, a benchmark for $500 trillion of
securities.  Finance Director Richard Meddings said he is “very happy”
with his current job, when asked by Bloomberg Television whether
he had been approached to fill the CEO position at Barclays made
vacant after  Robert Diamond  stepped down.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  