-- Startups Woo Wall Street Banks in Tech Arms Race
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/startups-woo-wall-street-banks-in-tech-arms-race.html
In  Washington , it took three years
for entrepreneur Tim Estes to convince the government to take
his digital data-mining program seriously. In  New York City ’s
financial industry, Estes needed just one meeting.  At the start of a 12-week entrepreneurship mentoring
program called the  New York  FinTech Innovation Lab, Estes was
invited to explain his software to executives from  Bank of
America Corp. ,  UBS AG (UBSN) , Morgan Stanley and other top banks. Three
of the companies that saw the pitch --  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  -- were assigned
to give him advice to help him tailor his services to the needs
of the industry.  As banks rush to improve their technology, they’re giving
startups top-level access via the  FinTech  program, which on July
18 wrapped its second year. The banks get a first look at how
entrepreneurs like Estes are developing software for everything
from trading to research to customer relations, and the
companies have a chance to forge relationships and make sales
that might have taken years to develop.  “It’s an arms race right now across Wall Street” to
improve data analysis, said Steve Randich, chief information
officer for  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s institutional clients group. Even
amid that competition, “we’re all trying to solve the same
problems, and collaboration is good for the industry.”  Seeking Investment  The FinTech lab is run by the New York City Investment
Fund, the economic-development arm of the Partnership for New
York City, and  Accenture Plc. (ACN)  The backers expect some of the
startups -- which each get $25,000 and  office space  for the
duration of the program -- to succeed and hire workers in the
city. That could help steer to New York some of the $173.3
billion that research firm Celent expects banks worldwide to
spend on  information technology  in 2012.  Out of about 70 applicants, six were chosen for the
program.  American Express Co. (AXP)  Chief Executive Officer Ken Chenault and Capital One Financial Corp. Chief Technology
Officer Monique Shivanandan were among the executives who met
with the entrepreneurs.  “The first year, banks came not knowing what to expect,”
said  Bob Gach , managing director for Accenture’s capital markets
business. “This year they all came more demanding, in a good
way, more serious about solving the technology issues that will
affect their business.”  Gach said that since New York is home to many of the
biggest customers for financial technology, the city has the
potential to lead the industry. So far, though, it hasn’t:
Roughly $72 million in  venture capital  went to financial
technology startups in New York last year, less than half of
what similar companies in Silicon Valley attracted, according to
the  National Venture Capital Association .  NYC Ecosystem  “The support of the ecosystem in New York has only
happened in the last couple years, with the FinTech lab,” said
Steve Sparkes, chief information officer for technology and
information risk at Morgan Stanley. “Selling to  Wall Street  is
one of the hardest things for any new company to do” because of
regulatory hurdles and security issues.  During the program, entrepreneurs get a deep look at how
banks might use their technology. This saves the fledgling
companies time in creating new products while making them more
attractive business partners.  “The banks have not only participated in our development
process, they have driven it,” said Adam Sodowick, chief
executive officer of  True Office , a 1-year-old company that
makes mobile games intended to complement compliance training.  Catching Attention  As part of FinTech, True Office was invited to set up a
table in the Citigroup lobby. Don Callahan, the bank’s chief
administrative officer, stopped by, and after tinkering with the
app for a few minutes he left his business card and some kind
words. The benefits of the FinTech program have “even exceeded
my optimistic expectations,” said Sodowick, who has gotten his
app into the hands of employees at Citigroup,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Estes, whose 55-employee company is called  Digital
Reasoning Systems Inc. , worked for years to convince the U.S.
government to buy his program, which is now used to sift through
documents in search of information that could help fight
terrorism. Estes says banks might use the technology to ferret
out employees who are writing things that hurt the company’s
reputation, or to scan e-mails received from customers to
discover whether they’re dissatisfied or might be interested in
new services.  Honing Pitches  Sometimes it isn’t immediately clear how a company’s
products might benefit the finance industry, and that’s where
the mentoring comes in. Nigel Faulkner, CIO for  investment
banking  at Credit Suisse, remembers hearing an early pitch from
 EidoSearch , which sells a program that can evaluate market
trends to help make predictions and understand correlations.
After 20 minutes, they didn’t make it clear what their product
could do, Faulkner said.  He and other Credit Suisse executives coached EidoSearch on
what banks wanted to hear: a message focused on return on
investment, not technology.  By the end of the FinTech program, EidoSearch co-founder
David Kedmey knew exactly what to say -- that he already had
mutual funds and  hedge funds  as customers; that his technology
could help predict the volatility of indexes based on past
performance; and that it searches for similar events in a way
Internet-radio service Pandora Media Inc. finds music a user
might like.  Among Kedmey’s mentors was Nick Toro, head of architecture
governance and control at Credit Suisse. Toro said that whether
or not his bank ends up buying Kedmey’s program, it’s worth his
time to meet with the entrepreneurs and give them the access
they need to understand the market.  “There’s always potential that they’re the next
competitive differentiator,” Toro said. “FinTech is just a
microcosm of the push for technology in New York.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  