-- Statoil, Tanzania Will Begin Talks About LNG Plant This Month
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-08-01T09:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/statoil-tanzania-will-begin-talks-about-lng-plant-this-month.html
Tanzania’s national oil company said
it will start talks this month with  Statoil ASA (STL)  about building a
liquefied natural gas plant in the East African country.  “We are expecting a delegation from Norway in August for
inception talks,” Kelvin Komba, principal petroleum geologist
at Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp., said in an interview
from  Dar es Salaam , the commercial capital, on July 30. Statoil
is Norway’s largest oil and gas producer.  Explorers have flocked to  East Africa  over the past six
years, spurred by the discovery of oil in  Uganda  in 2006,
increasing natural-gas reserves in Tanzania and the first crude
discovery in Kenya in March. Statoil, which together with  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  has discovered as much as 9 trillion cubic feet of
gas off Tanzania’s coast, confirmed it’s talking to TPDC about
the possible development of the LNG facility.  “We have a sound dialogue with TPDC, Tanzanian authorities
and other relevant stakeholders regarding a possible LNG
development in the country,” Fredrik Norman, a spokesman for
Stavanger, Norway-based Statoil, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on July 26. “We are currently in an early phase of
evaluating the concept selection for a possible LNG plant.”  BG Group Plc (BG/) , which along with partner  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  has
discovered an estimated 7 trillion cubic feet of recoverable
resources in Tanzania, said it has also been evaluating
potential locations for an LNG export-facility.  Potential Sites  “We have been working with the government of Tanzania for
some two years now, including identifying potential sites, and
we will continue this work in parallel with our exploration
efforts,” Kim Blomley, a spokesman for BG Group, said in an e-
mailed response to questions July 24.  Komba said Tanzania’s government is in the process of
drafting a gas policy and other laws that will guide development
of the industry. The government may require the developers of
LNG plants to satisfy local demand for the product before export
and to co-develop one LNG plant, instead of building several
sites to cut costs, Komba said.  “This will be cost effective, and it works for us, because
it is government that will pay for the plants through foregone
revenue in companies recovering costs,” Komba said.  PanAfrican Energy Tanzania Ltd.,  Orca Exploration Group (ORC/B) ’s
domestic unit, is producing gas from the Songo Songo gas field
whose reserves are estimated at 879 billion cubic feet. Most of
the gas is supplied to power generators and less than 40
industrial users, according to information on PanAfrica’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 