-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Botswana (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-08-01T15:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-botswana-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Botswana:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with
Botswana  On July 25, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Botswana on a
lapse of time basis. Under the IMF’s lapse of time procedures, the
Executive Board completes the Article IV consultations without
convening formal discussions.  Background  Botswana’s economic recovery after the 2008-09 financial crisis was
one of the strongest among middle-income countries (MICs), but its
growth weakened in the second half of 2011. Real GDP grew by 5.1
percent in 2011 (just below the average for its peer MIC group)
compared with 7 percent growth in 2010. The growth deceleration was
driven by a significant slowdown in diamond exports during the second
half of the year. However, the non-mineral sector registered a brisk
growth during the year, despite a significant fiscal withdrawal.
Diamond sales for the first quarter of 2012 showed only a very
modest recovery.
At the same time, while receding, inflation remains relatively high.
Consumer price inflation (year on year) declined from 9.2 percent in
December 2011 to 7.7 percent in May 2012, which is higher than the
upper end of Bank of Botswana’s medium-term objective range of 3-6
percent.  Core inflation  (excluding food, fuel and administered prices)
has declined slightly in the last few months. Alternative measures,
including the trimmed mean, also suggest a downward trend in core
inflation.
Notwithstanding the moderation in growth, conditions in financial
markets have improved. Private sector credit growth is now approaching
pre-crisis level, supported by a strong growth in credit to businesses.
Bank’s nonperforming loans fell notably in the second half of 2011
because of a significant improvement in the quality of loans to
households. Increased interest and non-interest income, combined
with lower provisions for nonperforming loans, contributed to the
rebound in banks’ profitability.
The fiscal outcome was better than planned. The overall fiscal deficit
in FY2011/12 was about 2 percent of GDP, compared with the budget
target of about 6 percent. The non-mineral primary deficit also
declined from about 24 percent of non-mineral GDP in FY2010/11 to
17 percent in FY2011/12. The adjustment reflects a sharp decline in
 government spending  mainly due to savings generated in the education
budget owing to the increase in the number of students admitted to local
tertiary institutions, rationalization of student allowances and
improved administration, as well as better prioritization of
development spending. Higher-than-expected customs revenue from
the Southern Africa Customs Union (SACU) Common Revenue Pool
also contributed to the lower deficit.
The overall external position also strengthened in 2011, with
annual export growth (in dollar terms) of about 40 percent. Exports
grew faster than imports turning the current account deficit into a
surplus for the first time in the last three years. Diamond exports
benefited from higher diamond prices in the first half of 2011, which
more than offset the poor performance of copper and nickel exports.
Besides mining, plastic products and textile exports surged in 2011.
However, exports of meat and meat products fell compared with 2010
because of the restriction on meat exports to the European Union
related to the non-compliance with the EU’s export requirements.
The real effective  exchange rate  lost ground slightly over the last
12 months.
The fragile global economic environment suggests that Botswana’s
growth will likely moderate in 2012. Over the medium term, real GDP
growth is expected to stabilize at around 4.5 percent, while inflation
is expected to converge to the upper band of the Bank of Botswana’s
medium-term objective range in 2013. With projected fiscal surpluses
in FY2012/13 and beyond, the current account surplus is forecast to
stabilize at about 2 percent of GDP. The main near-term risks relate
to the highly uncertain external environment, which remains fragile
and poses significant downside risks to mineral export demand.  Executive Board Assessment
In concluding the 2012 Article IV Consultation with Botswana,
Executive Directors endorsed staff’s appraisal, as follows:
The current fragile global economic environment is likely to delay
the pace of recovery in Botswana. Trend growth will likely moderate
over the medium term as the historical success over diamond wealth
continues to fade.
Against this backdrop, the authorities’ current policy mix of fiscal
restraint and an accommodative monetary policy stance is appropriate.
In a more adverse global economic scenario, the authorities should
allow the automatic stabilizers to operate on the revenue side.
Bolder measures are required to achieve the targeted reduction in the
wage bill. Such measures include streamlining the system of non-wage
payments, rationalizing the size and structure of government,
tightening the link between pay and performance, strengthening
payroll systems, and revising the wage scale.
Broadening the tax base should be an integral part of the authorities’
fiscal consolidation strategy. Staff strongly recommends conducting a
full-fledged study on tax expenditure to provide a solid foundation for
streamlining tax incentives to specific activities that absolutely need
it.
The authorities should adopt a fiscal anchor that delinks the fiscal
stance from volatile mineral revenue and SACU receipts. Thus, staff
reiterates the need to adopt either the non-mineral primary balance
or the structural fiscal balance (à la  Chile ) in the formulation of
fiscal policy.
Staff supports the main thrust of the Bank of Botswana’s recent reform
in its liquidity management framework. Greater coordination between
monetary operations and debt management through enhanced issuance of
treasury securities should help to support the needed burden-sharing
of sterilization costs.
The authorities should pay close attention to macro-financial linkages.
The high level of exposure of the banking system to  household debt  is a
significant source of vulnerability and warrants close monitoring.
There is an urgent need to strengthen the capacity of the non-bank
financial institutions’ regulator. The rapid expansion of these
institutions has propelled them into a systemically important component
of the financial system, while the capacity of the non-bank regulator to
supervise these large institutions lags behind. The cross-linkages
between the bank and non-bank parts of the financial system constitute
potentially an additional risk to the financial system.
Botswana faces long-term development and structural challenges
that it needs to address to move the country to a higher level of
development. Current redistributive aspects of fiscal policy should
be complemented with policies that tackle inequality through fostering
effective investment in education and health and enhancing financial
inclusion. As one of the largest employers in the economy, the
government has an important effect on economy-wide wage settlements
and  job creation . Thus the reform of the public sector employment
policies is critical to enhancing job creation in the broader
economy. Fostering deeper institutional and capacity development
should be an important part of the government’s reform agenda to
support long-term growth.
Staff judges the level of the real effective exchange rate as broadly
in line with fundamentals from a medium-term perspective.
SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 