-- Stocks Cheapest to Bonds Amid Record-Low Rates: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-08-01T15:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/stocks-cheapest-to-bonds-as-earnings-surprise-corporate-brazil.html
Brazilian stocks reached their
cheapest levels ever relative to  government bonds , signaling a
rally is coming as the government takes stimulus measures and
cuts interest rates to bolster economic growth.  Reported earnings for companies listed on the Bovespa
equaled 8.1 percent of current share prices yesterday, compared
with an 8.2 percent  yield  on two-year local government bonds,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The spread on earnings yields
over bond yields widened from a negative 300 basis points, or 3
percentage points, in mid-2011 to an all-time high of 80 basis
points on June 28.  Earnings yields surged after Brazil’s benchmark index
plunged 18 percent from its 2012 high, reached on March 13, amid
concern that growth will falter even after the central bank cut
 interest rates  to a record 8 percent. The earnings yield for
Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA, the Brazilian unit of AES Corp.,
was at 43 percent, the highest among the 67 stocks on the
Bovespa.  “It makes absolutely no sense that the market is doing so
poorly with rates at a record low,” Wagner Salaverry, who helps
oversee 5.5 billion reais ($2.7 billion) at  Porto Alegre ,
Brazil-based Geracao Futuro Corretora de Valores SA, said in a
telephone interview. “From what we know today about how
businesses are going, stocks look cheap.”  Of the 19 companies on the Bovespa index that reported
second-quarter earnings and have estimates tracked by Bloomberg,
nine posted profit that  topped  analysts’ estimates.  Cheapest Stocks  The Bovespa has  dropped  1.4 percent this year, the worst
performer after  Argentina  in  Latin America .  Mexico ’s benchmark
 IPC index  has advanced 10.4 percent. The yield on Brazil’s two-
year fixed-rate bond has fallen from about 13 percent a year ago
as policy makers lowered the benchmark Selic rate to shore up
growth.  Eletropaulo shares have dropped 47 percent this year, the
third-worst performance in the index. The yield for homebuilder
 Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  was at 25 percent after shares plunged 41
percent. The two companies are the cheapest stocks on the
Bovespa, trading at price-to-earnings ratios of 2.3 and 4.1,
respectively.  “Any concern that you may have about the outlook for
corporate earnings, I don’t think it justifies the dive that the
market took,” Alexandre Ghirghi, a portfolio manager at Metodo
Investimentos in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview. “Stocks
are cheap. The problem is that the Brazilian market depends on
foreign investors to go up, and with all that’s going on in the
world, flows have been pretty negative.”  Foreign Flows  International investors, who accounted for 40 percent of
the trading volume in Sao Paulo this year,  pulled  2.6 billion
reais from the exchange in the second quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Flows were positive at 4.8 billion reais
from January through March, when the Bovespa index jumped 14
percent, its best start to a year since 1999.  Concern about a deepening slowdown in the global economy
may stop  Brazil ’s equity market from rebounding anytime soon,
said Marc Sauerman, a portfolio manager at JMalucelli
Investimentos in Curitiba, Brazil.  “If higher earnings yields relative to bond yields were a
sign to buy, then you’d be buying a lot of things in the  United
States  and  Japan , where interest rates are close to zero,”
Sauerman, who helps oversee 650 million reais at JMalucelli,
said in a phone interview. “The fact that, even at what appears
to be very cheap levels, equities are still performing poorly
goes to show how investors are taking a very cautious stance
right now.”  ‘Frustrating’ Economy  The worldwide retreat in stocks since March has  wiped out 
about $3.4 trillion of market capitalization amid concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will curb global economic growth.  A deepening slowdown in the world economy has limited lower
borrowing costs from fueling faster growth in Brazil, said
 Luciano Rostagno , the chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil
SA.  “It’s surely a bit frustrating to see the economy and the
equity market performing so badly even with such low rates,”
Rostagno said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “But we may see a
rebound in the coming months if the external outlook improves,
and Europe takes some steps to solve its crisis. Then we could
see the rate cuts driving a more solid recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  