-- Suez Environnement First-Half Net Slumps Amid Waste Decline
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-08-01T10:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/suez-environnement-first-half-net-slumps-on-desalination-costs.html
Suez Environnement (SEV) ,  Europe ’s second-
biggest water company, reported an 82 percent drop in first-half
profit because of cost overruns at an Australian desalination
project, while waste-handling fell as economic growth slowed.  Net income slid to 40 million euros ($49 million) from 221
million euros a year before, the Paris-based company said today
in a statement. That beat the 26.4 million-euro average  estimate 
of five analysts Bloomberg surveyed. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization dropped 8.1 percent to 1.13
billion euros, compared with a 1.14 billion euro estimate.  Sales fell 0.7 percent to 7.32 billion euros.  “The decline in industrial production in the first half of
2012 in a more difficult macroeconomic context, especially in
Europe, impacted performance of our waste division,” Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Louis Chaussade said in the statement.  Suez Environnement, 36 percent-owned by utility  GDF Suez (GSZ) 
SA, took a 52 million-euro charge on net income for the
development of a desalination plant in Melbourne, the second
impairment since October, on delays and increased costs. The
company said the charge and a “difficult” economic situation,
would leave Ebitda and sales unchanged in 2012. Chaussade
declined to give an outlook for next year, citing the economy.  Suez Environnement had anticipated this year and next would
be growth years after struggling, like larger rival  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE) , to boost industrial-waste sorting following
the 2009 recession that shut factories.  Dark Water  Instead, it reported a 3.2 percent drop in volumes of waste
processed in the first half as European economies slowed.
Landfill tonnage dropped 12 percent while waste recovery for
business including energy generation rose 4 percent.  “The months of April and May were particularly difficult
while June was a little better,” Chaussade said on a call. The
drop in annual waste volumes will be 3 percent to 4 percent,
according to Chief Financial Officer Jean-Marc Boursier.  The  Melbourne  desalination plant is “almost completed”
and should be at full capacity in December, Chaussade said. In
total the order shaved 237 million euros from net income last
year and 52 million euros in the first six months of 2012.  At the same time, the utility said Spain’s downturn is
having “little impact” on its business, with Ebitda growing 5
percent in the first half. Water networks “need lots of work”
and rates are expected to rise more than the European average in
decades-long agreements, unlike in  France  were the trend is for
rate decreases and shorter contracts, Chaussade said.  Household Revenues  “The household revenues are falling so we are very careful
every time we raise rates,” he said. The utility controls
 Spain ’s largest non-state water supplier Sociedad General de
Aguas de Barcelona SA, or Agbar, and has put in place rates to
help lower income households, Chaussade said.  The utility said it would raise a cost-savings target by 40
million euros this year to 150 million euros and reduce net
investment by 100 million euros. Some smaller assets may be
sold, according to Chaussade. Suez Environnement will pay a
dividend equal to or higher than 65 cents a share this year.  Debt rose to 7.88 billion euros, or 3.26 times Ebitda, from
7.56 billion euros at the end of the year.  Veolia, Suez and Saur SA face a formal probe by European
Union antitrust regulators into possible collusion to fix the
price of water and waste-water services in France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  