-- Sumitomo to Pay Devon $1.4 Billion for Oilfield Stakes
-- B y   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-08-02T03:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/sumitomo-to-pay-devon-1-4-billion-for-oilfield-stakes.html
Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , the fourth-largest
Japanese trading company by earnings, plans to invest about $2
billion in Texas shale oilfields after agreeing to buy a stake
in the assets from operator  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)   The trader will pay Devon $340 million cash for 30 percent
of the project located in the Permian Basin, the biggest oil
resource in  North America , Oklahoma City-based Devon said
yesterday in a statement. Including Sumitomo’s investment in
drilling and other facilities, its spending will rise to $2
billion in the first three years, the Tokyo-based company said
today in a  statement .  Japanese companies have committed more than $30 billion to
developing oil and gas properties this year as projects in the
U.S., Australia and Canada promise to provide energy to fuel
Asia’s growth. The Sumitomo deal is Devon’s second this year
involving an Asian partner after it won a commitment from China
Petrochemical Corp. in January to spend $1.6 billion to develop
five exploration projects.  The purchase comes at a time when the shale boom that sent
natural gas prices to a 10-year low in the U.S. is translating
into the oil market. Devon joined  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and
 Williams Partners LP (WPZ)  yesterday in blaming lower profits on a
glut of propane and other related products.  The investment is Sumitomo’s first in so-called tight oil
assets, spokesman Tsuyoshi Asada said by phone in Tokyo. The
company was the first from Asia to invest in U.S. shale, buying
shares in the Barnett Shale region in 2009, according to
Sumitomo’s statement.  ‘Good Price’  The joint venture with Sumitomo encompasses 650,000 net
acres in the Cline and Midland-Wolfcamp, both in the Texas
portion of the Permian Basin,  Chip Minty , a Devon spokesman,
said in a phone interview. Devon has previously said its 500,000
acres in the Cline formation may contain the equivalent of 3.6
million barrels of oil.  “It’s a pretty good price, well above the company’s cost
basis,”  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst for RBC
Capital Markets LLC, said in a telephone interview. “This is an
emerging position and I think the market will view it as
positive.”  Sumitomo is paying about $6,500 an acre, Hanold estimated
today in a note to clients. He rates Devon shares outperform,
equivalent to a buy, and owns none.  Rival Oklahoma City-based gas producer  Chesapeake Energy
Corp. (CHK)  plans to sell about 1.5 million acres in the Permian
Basin. Chesapeake Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon 
estimated the value at $5 billion, or about $3,333 an acre.  Devon Profits  Devon had said in April it was seeking to close a joint
venture for the Cline assets worth about $1.35 billion next
year. The agreement with Sumitomo is expected to close this
quarter, with an effective start date of Jan. 1, 2012, according
to Devon’s statement.  Devon said yesterday Sumitomo would invest $1.025 billion
to fund 79 percent of drilling costs in addition to paying $340
million for the equity. Sumitomo’s $2 billion figure includes
drilling costs over the first three years, spokesman Asada said.  Devon yesterday reported second-quarter net income fell to
$477 million, or $1.18 a share, from $2.7 billion, or $6.58 a
share a year earlier when it recorded a gain on the sale of
assets in Brazil. Sales fell 27 percent to $1.62 billion on
lower oil and natural- gas prices .  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Mitsui & Co. and  Itochu Corp. (8001)  are the
largest trading houses in Japan by annual profit.  Tight oil projects involve the extraction of crude oil from
shale, limestone and sandstone formations with low-permeability
that are classified as source rock using the same horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing technologies used in shale gas
development.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  