-- Suntech May Tap Funds in China Amid Concerns in New York
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-01T22:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/suntech-may-tap-funds-in-china-amid-concerns-in-new-york.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  stands its
best chance of meeting $541 million in debt obligations by
raising money in China after analysts in New York voiced concern
about the viability of the biggest solar manufacturer.  “It can sell bonds in China,” said Liu Wenping, vice
president of Chinese investment research firm Pacific Epoch, an
investment research company in  Shanghai . “The government may
also step in with a bailout.”  U.S. investors have lost confidence with Suntech after the
company this week said it hadn’t verified the existence of 560
million euros ($689 million) in German bonds pledged as
collateral by an affiliated company, Aaron Chew, an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in an interview yesterday.  The Wuxi, China-based company’s American depositary
receipts fell 11 percent to $1.01 at the close in  New York . Of
28 analysts covering Suntech, 18 rate it a sell and 10 rate it a
hold, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. There have been
no buy recommendations since May 31.  “There’s no way they’re selling more stock here -- who’s
going to buy it?” Chew said. He lowered his 12-month price
target for Suntech to zero from 50 cents.  The “government will orchestrate some sort of buyout,”
probably by a state-owned enterprise, Chew said. China doesn’t
“want to see Suntech go away. But it’s not a viable operation
right now. It’s not solvent. It needs to re-cap,” he said.  Financing Gap  Questions about the German bonds, used as collateral for a
2010 loan Suntech guaranteed, prompted Suntech to shelve plans
to raise funds by selling its stake in a European solar
developer. The funds were intended to plug a liquidity gap.  Suntech is operating with a “significant working capital
deficit,” according to its 2011  annual report  filed in April.
The deficit, representing its total current liabilities less its
total assets, was $523 million at the end of last year, and
Suntech said it needed more funds to remain “a going concern.”  The company’s total short-term debt at the end of last year
was $1.6 billion. Long-term debt stood at $149 million,
according to the annual report. The principal on convertible
notes due next year was $541 million. Those bonds today dropped
to 44.25 cents on the dollar, the lowest since Jan. 3. They
declined 36 percent yesterday to 45 cents, from 70.8 cents on
July 24.  Suntech discovered financial irregularities as it was
seeking to sell its 80 percent stake in Global Solar Fund S.C.A.
Sicar, managed by former sales representative Javier Romero.  State Funding  Suntech guaranteed a 554.2 million-euro loan in 2010 from
state-owned lender  China  Development Bank Corp. to a GSF backer,
with the German bonds pledged as collateral. Those bonds may
have never existed, Suntech said July 30.  Government help has already been deployed in aid of China’s
solar industry, which is grappling with a global supply glut
that’s curbed prices and trimmed profit margins. The government
of the eastern Chinese city of Xinyu said in July it would pay a
portion of the debts of  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the solar-wafer maker
that reported four consecutive quarterly losses. LDK sold 500
million  yuan  of notes in Shanghai in December.  In Suntech’s case, “the local government may help the
company to secure loans,” Jerry Weng, a Shanghai-based analyst
at  KGI Securities Co. (6008) , said today by phone. “Raising money for
them in  Hong Kong  is impossible, as the feedback will be similar
to that in Western markets.”  Credit Lines  Suntech is pursuing a “possible” credit facility and is
considering a local bond sale in China, Chairman Shi Zhengrong
said July 30 on a conference call with analysts.  Shi defended the decision to funnel business in  Europe 
through GSF. The affiliate “got better returns from developing
downstream years ago when tariffs were higher,” Shi said in an
interview yesterday.  Two calls to the  Wuxi Municipal Commission of Economy and
Information Technology , which is responsible for local industry
and enterprise development, weren’t answered.  Suntech will be “down but not out even if it doesn’t have
financing,” KGI Securities’s Weng said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Feifei Shen in
Beijing at   fshen11@bloomberg.net ; Justin
Doom in New York at   jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  