-- N.J. Shrugs Off Swan Barb as Australia Election Silliness
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-08-02T05:04:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/swan-channeling-springsteen-seeks-to-avoid-new-jersey-plight-1-.html
New Jersey officials hit back at
Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  for his depiction of their state
as a down-trodden place where workers get “thrown on the scrap
heap of life.”  “Apparently, the electoral ‘silly season’ is not a
uniquely American phenomenon,” Tom Kean, the top Republican in
the state legislature, said in an e-mail. Swan gave a speech
yesterday in Melbourne, calling Bruce Springsteen his hero and
the state’s struggles the singer’s muse. Given that New Jersey
outpaced Australia in  job creation  in recent months, “I’m not
terribly certain why anyone here would care what Mr. Swan has to
say,” he said.  Swan, in the prepared text of his speech, said that if he
could distill the relevance of Springsteen’s music to the
country, it would be: “don’t let Australia become a down-under
version of  New Jersey , where the people and the communities
whose skills are no longer in demand get thrown on the scrap
heap of life.”  Facing an election due late next year, Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s administration is trying to champion the cause of
working-class voters, and Swan’s latest effort channels the
American songwriter known for his blue-collar following. Quoting
songs by Springsteen dating back to the 1970s, Swan, who is also
deputy prime minister, cautioned against a widening of  income
inequality  in his country, where a rising currency has hurt
exporters.  Governor’s Reply  “Give me a break,”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , said in an interview at the
capitol in Trenton. “I’d like to know if he has any knowledge
of New Jersey beyond what he’s heard in a  Bruce Springsteen 
song.”  A spokesman for the deputy prime minister said in an e-
mailed statement today that Swan was talking about the New
Jersey that Springsteen describes in the 1970s and ’80s and not
making any judgments on the state today, and people would be
wrong to assume otherwise.  Christie is another fan of Springsteen. He had a blue-and-
white Fender guitar signed by the singer hung on his office
wall. Christie has found himself at odds with the singer known
as The Boss, who criticized budget cuts for services to the poor
last year.  Employment Comparison  Employers in Australia, with a population of 22.7 million,
added a total of 800 jobs in May and June, compared with the
27,500 added in New Jersey, which is home to about 8.8 million
people, according to official data in both places.  Even so, the state’s unemployment rate in June was 9.6
percent, the fourth highest in the country and above the
national American average of 8.2 percent, according to the U.S.
Department of Labor. Australia’s jobless rate in June was 5.2
percent.  Swan, 58, is trying to help Gillard build public support
for taxes on mining profits and  carbon emissions  that came into
force July 1. Her government trails the opposition Liberal-
National coalition by 12 percentage points, a margin that if
replicated at the election due in the second half of 2013 would
lead to a landslide defeat.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  