-- Knight Market-Making Unit Says It Had ‘Technical Issue’
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g ,   J o s h u a   F i n e m a n   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-01T21:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/swings-in-small-cap-stocks-spur-speculation-on-computer-trading.html
Computers sent more than  100 stocks 
into trading spasms just after U.S. markets opened, whipsawing
investors and pushing shares of  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  down
by the most ever on speculation it was to blame.  Knight, which helped execute almost $20 billion of equity
transactions a day in June, plunged more than 30 percent in
record volume. The  errors  were caused by a malfunction in a so-
called trading algorithm, according to a person at the company
who asked to remain anonymous. The  New York  Stock Exchange said
that after reviewing 140 securities, it would cancel
transactions in six that occurred during the height of the
volatility starting at 9:30 a.m. in New York.  The disruptions, occurring after three Dow Jones Industrial
Average stocks fluctuated in regular hourly patterns for a full
trading day on July 19, emboldened critics of American market
structure who say the computers that dominate trading have
become too complex to control. Special curbs adopted after the
May 2010 equity crash helped calm today’s fluctuations.  “All of a sudden, there was choppy trading and some stocks
were halted,” Arthur Hogan, a strategist at Lazard Capital
Markets LLC, said in a telephone interview. “People were
scratching their heads, but it wasn’t a sense of panic. It was
more curious. There’s got to be some human error here.”  Stock Swings  As the stock swings materialized, Knight told some clients
of its market-making business that a “technical issue” was
affecting its systems and advised them to route orders
elsewhere. The issue was confined to that unit and its other
operations were unaffected, the company said.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  rose more than 10 percent before
fluctuations in the stock narrowed and it finished up 6 cents at
$11.51. In intraday trading,  Manitowoc Co. (MTW)  gained as much as 14
percent, Pandora Media Inc. climbed 11 percent and Level 3
Communications Inc. plunged 15 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. None ended more than 4 percent away from
the previous close.  The disruptions may further alienate investors who pulled
money from mutual funds for five years. Share  volume  on American
equity venues has fallen 13 percent this year amid rising
volatility, concern the global economic recovery is slowing and
disappointments such as the initial public offering of Facebook
Inc., whose shares have fallen 45 percent.  “The pundits will begin to point toward yet another market
mishap blamed on technology and how it further erodes retail
investors’ confidence,”  Mark Turner , head of U.S. sales trading
at New York-based Instinet Inc., which accounts for almost 4
percent of daily U.S. equities volume, said in an e-mail.  Review Trading  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  reviewed 140 securities, including Bank of
America Corp.,  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and Pfizer Inc. In a decision
made with regulators that it said isn’t subject to appeal, NYSE
canceled trades in six where prices swung at least 30 percent in
the first 45 minutes, according to a statement on its website.  Knight’s initial review indicated a “technology issue”
occurred in the company’s market-making unit related to the
routing of shares to the NYSE, according to an e-mail from
spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons.  “Knight notified its market-making clients this morning to
route listed orders away,” according to the statement. “The
company’s OTC securities and trading in its other businesses are
not affected. The company continues to review internally.”  The market-making business traded a daily average of $19.5
billion worth of equities in June with volume of 3.1 billion
shares, according to its  website .  Algorithmic Trading  The  Jersey City , New Jersey-based firm is reviewing the
possibility the error was generated by faulty software, said the
person who asked to remain anonymous because the matter hasn’t
been publicized. Market makers use algorithms to decide the
prices at which they want to buy and sell and the number of
shares they’re willing to provide or accept.  More than 63 million shares of Knight  changed hands  today,
the most ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
number of bearish options traded on Knight soared to a record.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. said in an e-mail that it is
investigating “potentially erroneous” transactions. Robert Madden, a spokesman for the exchange, declined to comment
further.  “As is our practice, we are closely monitoring the
situation and in continuous contact with the NYSE and other
market participants,”  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman for the
Securities and Exchange Commission, said in an e-mail.  Opening Prices  Trades that occurred 30 percent above or below the opening
price in Wizard Software Corp.,  China Cord Blood Corp. (CO) , Reaves
Utility Income Fund, E-House China Holdings Ltd., American
Reprographics Co. and Quicksilver Resources Inc. will be voided,
according to a statement on the NYSE website.  As the unusual price patterns were materializing, NYSE
employees took steps to stabilize individual stocks, Jason Weisberg, head of institutional trading for Seaport Securities
Corp., said in a telephone interview from the exchange.  “Things were always calm,” Weisberg said. “When the
price dislocations were popping up all over the room, exchange
officials picked up on the anomalies and put the brakes on. It
was happening so frequently and simultaneously they didn’t catch
everything, but they caught most very fast.”  Trading was halted on at least five stocks on the NYSE
after they tripped so-called “circuit breakers” designed to
prevent excessive moves. China Cord Blood soared 143 percent;
CoreLogic Inc. fell more than 11 percent; Trinity Industries
Inc. rose 17 percent; Kronos Worldwide Inc. climbed 19 percent;
and Molycorp Inc. fell 18 percent.  Repeating Patterns  Investors in three of the biggest  Dow (INDU)  stocks witnessed
repeating fluctuations on July 19, fueling speculation the moves
were a consequence of computerized trading. Shares of
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  swung between successive lows and highs in
intervals that began near the top and bottom of each hour.  Regulators have increased scrutiny of computerized
strategies that rose to prominence in the U.S. after more than a
decade of market structure reform. The SEC and Commodity Futures
Trading Commission blamed a broker’s algorithm for setting into
motion the events that caused the May 6, 2010, market crash that
briefly erased $862 billion from U.S. equities in less than 20
minutes.  Algorithms are automated trading strategies that can be
used to break larger buy or sell orders into smaller pieces over
a specified period of time such as an hour or day. Traders at
fund managers or brokers use them to mute price impact and mask
their activity as they try to scoop up visible and hidden orders
spread across exchanges and alternative venues such as dark
pools and provide bids and offers to other investors.  VWAP Analysis  A volume-weighted average price,  or VWAP , strategy seeks to
buy or sell stock over a certain period, weighted for the number
of shares traded at different levels. A percentage-of-volume
algorithm will try to account for a specified share of trading
volume in a company’s stock to avoid buying or selling that
moves the stock price. More aggressive and tailored algorithms
exist to fine-tune trading based on market conditions such as
changes in volume, volatility or the price movements of indexes.  The SEC voted last month to require exchanges and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority to build a single system
to monitor and analyze trading activity on U.S. equity and
options markets. The rule mandates a so-called consolidated
audit trail to expedite surveillance across 13 equity exchanges,
10 options markets and more than 200 broker-dealers that execute
stock trades away from public venues.  The effort is part of the agency’s response to the May 6,
2010, stock rout that temporarily sent the Dow down almost 1,000
points. The so-called flash crash was triggered by a mutual fund
firm’s algorithmic trade that sparked the rapid selling of
financial futures because it took into account volume but not
price or time, according to a report released by the SEC and
CFTC in October 2010.  “It’s troubling,”  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer at
BMO Harris Private Bank in  Chicago , which oversees about $60
billion of assets, said in a phone interview. “It’s just one
other reason for individual investors to stay away from the
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fineman in New York at 
 jfineman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  