-- U.K. Home Prices Plunge Most in Three Years, Nationwide Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-01T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-k-home-prices-plunge-most-in-three-years-nationwide-says.html
U.K.  house prices  recorded their
biggest annual drop in three years in July as the economic slump
worsened,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  Prices fell 2.6 percent from a year earlier, the most since
August 2009, the Swindon, England-based lender said in an e-
mailed report today. From the previous month, prices dropped 0.7
percent to an average 164,389 pounds ($257,800).  Britain’s recession deepened in the second quarter and
 mortgage approvals  fell to an 18-month low in June. The Bank of
England will probably keep its bond-purchase target unchanged
tomorrow as officials assess the impact of their Funding for
Lending program on the flow of credit in the economy.  “The weaker price trend observed in recent quarters is
unsurprising, given the disappointing performance of the wider
economy,” Nationwide Chief Economist Robert Gardner said in the
report. “This disappointing outturn can be only partly
explained by unusually wet weather and the impact of an extra
bank holiday during the quarter.”  Lenders granted 44,192 loans to buy homes in June, the
lowest since December 2010, the central bank said this week. Its
credit statistics report also showed that net mortgage lending
fell 355 million pounds in June from May, the most in 18 months.
 Mortgage approvals  are at less than half their monthly average
in the decade to 2007, before the financial crisis struck.  Demand Weakens  Other house-price indicators point to weakness in
residential property. Hometrack Plc said this week prices fell
0.1 percent in July and a measure of demand dropped the most in
six months.  Data last week showed the U.K. economy shrank 0.7 percent
in the  second quarter , the most in more than three years, after
a 0.3 percent contraction in the three months through March. A
GfK NOP Ltd. index of  consumer confidence  held at minus 29 in
July, the seventh month it’s stayed in a range of minus 29 to
minus 31.  The  Bank of England  will probably maintain its target for
bond purchases at 375 billion pounds tomorrow, according to all
but one of 40 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. All 53
economists in a separate poll say the bank will keep its
 benchmark interest rate  at 0.5 percent. The central bank
announces its decision at noon in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  