-- U.K.’s Osborne Opens Funding for Lending Program to Aid Economy
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-08-01T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-k-s-osborne-opens-funding-for-lending-program-to-aid-economy.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  opened the government’s latest program to
increase credit and boost the British economy after three
straight quarters of decline.  The 80 billion pound ($125 billion) Funding for Lending
Scheme with the  Bank of England  opens today and allows banks to
borrow at cheaper rates for as long as four years. An existing
plan based on the same principle that’s limited to small
companies will be superseded by today’s program.  The plan will deliver “credit easing to the whole
economy,” Osborne said in an e-mailed statement.  The Treasury said changes in market funding conditions
meant the small-business loan program is no longer as attractive
as the newer, broader plan that also gives banks the chance to
supply more mortgages and other loans. The program is the latest
measure to help the economy fend off contagion from the turmoil
in the euro area and recover from a recession.  The Bank of England activated a sterling liquidity facility
in June to ease potential strains on banks and restarted
 quantitative easing  last month. Figures last week showed the
economy contracted 0.7 percent in the second quarter, extending
the U.K.’s second recession in three years.  The new plan allows banks to borrow Treasury bills from the
central bank starting today to fund lending into the economy.
Banks will have 18 months to use the facility and as long as
four years to repay.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  won’t participate in the new program,
saying July 13 that it will “continue to fund its planned
lending growth through its own resources.” It added that it
“would not hesitate to join” the scheme “should circumstances
change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  