-- U.K. Factory Output Shrinks Most in More Than Three Years
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-01T08:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-k-factory-output-shrank-most-in-more-than-three-years-in-july.html
U.K.  manufacturing  shrank the most in
more than three years in July as new export orders slumped,
indicating the economy continued to weaken at the start of the
third quarter.  A gauge of  factory output , based on a survey by  Markit
Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply ,
fell to 45.4 from a revised 48.4 in June, London-based Markit
said today. The index was weaker than any of the  30 forecasts  in
a Bloomberg News survey and the pound weakened against the
dollar and the euro. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  British manufacturers are continuing to struggle as the
sovereign debt crisis deepens in the euro area, the U.K.’s
biggest trading partner. The  Bank of England  will probably
maintain its target for  bond purchases  tomorrow as policy makers
assess their Funding for Lending plan aimed at stoking the flow
of credit.  “A perfect storm of wet weather and weak confidence in the
U.K. has combined with global economic drift to engulf the
manufacturing sector,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer  David Noble 
said. “While the  euro zone  has continued to be the major
factor, declines in business from  Asia  have dashed hopes of a
quicker recovery.”  Economists had forecast a reading of 48.4 for the factory
index, based on the median estimate. Markit said the level of
new export business declined for a fourth month in July and at
the fastest pace since February 2009. The euro area “remained
the principal drag” on exports, it said.  Pound Drops  The pound weakened against both the dollar and the euro
after the report, which may add to concerns about Britain’s
economy after it shrank 0.7 percent in the  second quarter .
Sterling traded at $1.5650 as of 9:48 a.m. in  London , down 0.2
percent from yesterday. It was at 78.67 per euro, weaker by 0.3
percent.  Euro-area manufacturing  contracted for a 12th month in
July, according to a separate report today. A gauge of
manufacturing in the 17-nation region fell to a 37-month low of
44 from 45.1 in June.  Edinburgh-based  Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF) , a U.K. maker
of semiconductors whose technology is being used in Samsung
Electronics Co.’s latest Galaxy smartphone, said yesterday that
the global outlook continues “to be challenging.”  The Bank of England will probably keep its  asset-purchase
target  at 375 billion pounds ($586 billion) tomorrow, according
to all but one of 40 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
central bank, which expanded stimulus last month, will also hold
its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent,
according to a separate survey.  “We don’t think it really alters the outlook for
tomorrow’s Bank of England policy meeting,”  James Knightley , an
economist at ING Bank NV in London, said in an e-mailed note.
“They only just announced another round of quantitative easing
while the long heralded Funding for Lending Scheme only starts
today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  