-- House Tax Cut Vote Continues Partisan Staredown
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-02T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-s-house-votes-to-extend-tax-cuts-for-all-incomes.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
voted to extend tax cuts through 2013 for all income levels,
defying a veto threat from President  Barack Obama  and setting up
a partisan showdown on fiscal policy after the Nov. 6 election.  The bill passed on a 256-171 vote yesterday, mostly along
party lines. It won’t advance in the Democratic-led Senate, and
a Senate-passed proposal failed in the House. To prevent a tax
increase in 2013, one or both sides must give ground this year,
and who concedes may depend on which party senses a political
advantage after the election.  “It’s time to put the politics aside,” said House Speaker
 John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican . “I know we’re in an election
year, but my goodness, raising taxes at this point in this
economy is a very big mistake.”  Obama and congressional Democrats want to let the tax cuts
expire for top earners after they expire Dec. 31, and each side
is accusing the other of holding the country and taxpayers
hostage to get its way.  “We’re asking them to do something that we agree on,”
said Representative  Steny Hoyer  of  Maryland , the second-ranking
Democrat in the House, referring to the tax cuts for all except
the highest earners. “It’s unfortunate that we continue the
pattern of rejecting compromise.”  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said in an e-mailed
statement last night that “we can’t afford another massive tax
break for the wealthiest two percent of Americans. We’ve tried
this approach, and it didn’t grow the economy or strengthen the
middle class.”  Talking Points  Unlike in 2010, when the tax cuts also were set to expire
at year end, Congress has taken pre-election votes. This gives
each side a campaign talking point.  The House is scheduled to vote today on the second part of
the Republican plan -- a fast-track process for a tax code
overhaul in 2013 that would lower tax rates and broaden the tax
base.  If Congress doesn’t act by the end of the year, tax rates
for income,  capital gains , dividends and estates will increase
for all taxpayers. The top income tax rate would increase to
39.6 percent from 35 percent, and the top rate on capital gains
would rise to 23.8 percent from 15 percent.  The tax increase is part of the $607 billion so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and revenue changes in
2013 that the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  says would
probably cause a recession if left unchanged.  On July 25, the Senate voted 51-48 to pass a plan supported
by Obama that would let tax cuts for top earners expire. The
House rejected that approach yesterday on a 170-257 vote.  Familiar Themes  Lawmakers reprised familiar themes about the potential
effects of higher taxes.  Republicans said the Democratic proposal would hurt the
economy with a disproportionate effect on business owners who
pay taxes on their profits through their individual returns.  “The choice is clear: you either want growth or you want
more taxes,” said Representative  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , the
House majority leader. “You either want to endow the folks who
earn the money with the right to keep that money and grow this
economy, or you want to tax those people more and let  Washington 
decide how it’s going to allocate that money.”  Democrats said high-income households can afford to pay
more to help reduce the federal  budget deficit . Over a decade,
the Democrats’ plan would generate at least $900 billion more
money for the government.  Most of the Republican plan’s benefits would go to
millionaires, including “rock stars” and “business tycoons,”
said Representative  Steve Cohen , a Tennessee Democrat.  Spending Money  “Somehow we are to believe that less than 2 percent of the
population is creating the jobs or really supporting the
economy,” said Representative Charles Rangel, a New York
Democrat.  Among the 19 Democrats backing the Republican plan were
Larry Kissell of North Carolina,  Bill Owens  of New York, Gerry Connolly of Virginia and Jim Costa of California. The lone
Republican to vote against his party’s plan was  Timothy Johnson 
of  Illinois .  Democrats tried to draw attention to the Republicans’
decision not to extend refundable tax credits created in the
2009 economic stimulus law that benefit college students and
low-income families. Those at risk of losing the credits may
include some low-income military families, Democrats said.  “Let’s call this bill what it is,” said Representative
Joseph Crowley, a New York Democrat. “It’s the Republicans’ tax
hike on our heroes act.”  Representative  Dave Camp  of Michigan, the Ways and Means
Committee chairman, said those provisions were spending programs
that were part of the “failed” stimulus law.  Estate Tax  Republicans said Congress needs to keep the estate tax from
increasing. The Senate bill wouldn’t address the estate tax, a
decision Democrats in that chamber made because of divisions
within their party. If Congress doesn’t act, the per-person  tax
exemption  for estates would drop to $1 million in 2013 from this
year’s $5.12 million, and the top rate would increase to 55
percent from 35 percent.  The House’s long-term plan for a tax-code overhaul would
cut the top corporate and individual tax rates to 25 percent
from 35 percent, combine the six-bracket system into two and
curtail or eliminate tax breaks.  “We do not need the politics of envy and divisiveness,”
said Representative Blake Farenthold, a Texas Republican. “We
need  tax reform  and this puts us on the path to do it.”  The Republican bill is H.R. 8. The Democratic alternative
is H.R. 15. The Republican tax overhaul process bill is H.R.
6169. The Senate-passed bill is S. 3412.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  