-- U.S. Trade Representative Seeks Renewable-Energy Investigation
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-08-01T19:02:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-s-trade-representative-seeks-renewable-energy-investigation.html
Developments in the renewable-energy
industry, which has been the subject of U.S. trade actions aimed
at products from  China , warrant a fresh review by an independent
agency, the U.S. Trade Representative’s office said.  Environmental and renewable-energy services “have
undergone significant change,” since the the International
Trade Commission’s 2004 and 2005 reviews, Trade Representative
 Ron Kirk  said in a July 30 letter to ITC Chairman Irving Williamson.  While advancements have cut prices and increased demand for
wind and solar goods, “changes in government incentive programs
have created uncertainty regarding the future of the renewable-
energy market,” Kirk said in the letter, posted yesterday on
the ITC website.  The U.S. and China have have identified renewable energy as
a strategically important industry that could provide both jobs
and clean power. The Obama administration has imposed  import
duties  on solar- and wind-energy products from China, while the
Chinese responded with a  World Trade Organization  complaint and
accused the U.S. of “abuse of trade remedy.”  Kirk has asked the ITC to conduct two investigations -- one
each for the environmental and renewable-energy services markets
-- to determine their size, trade barriers and key export and
import markets. The renewable-energy investigation should have
“particular emphasis on  wind energy  (onshore and offshore) and
solar energy,” the letter said.  Wind, Solar  The U.S. Commerce Department on July 27 announced duties of
as much as 73 percent on wind towers from China, in response to
a complaint by U.S. manufacturers including  Broadwind Energy
Inc. (BWEN)  of Naperville, Illinois, which said the goods were being
sold in the American market below production costs,  The agency on May 17 set anti-dumping tariffs of 31 percent
to 250 percent on imports of Chinese solar-energy products,
after a complaint by producers including the U.S. unit of
 SolarWorld AG. (SWV)   The department, in preliminary findings, has also set
duties on clean-energy products to offset government subsidies.  China in May said that renewable-energy policies in
California, Massachusetts,  New Jersey , Ohio and Washington state
violate global trade policies. It also filed a complaint at the
World Trade Organization, alleging that U.S. anti-subsidy duties
undercut $7.3 billion in Chinese products including solar
panels.  Kirk asked that the environmental report be ready within
eight months and the renewable-energy report within 11 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  