-- Treasuries Snap Gain on Economic Data Before Fed Announcement
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-01T17:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-s-treasury-10-year-notes-decline-with-yield-rising-to-1-49-.html
Treasuries snapped a two-day gain as
private reports showed July jobs growth exceeded forecasts and
U.S. manufacturing rose, easing pressure on the  Federal Reserve 
to announce more bond purchases.  U.S. government securities fell along with their German
counterparts after  Italy ’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said his
country doesn’t need to be bailed out, reducing demand for the
safest assets. The Fed will decide against another round of
quantitative easing when it ends a two-day meeting today,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “All eyes are on the Federal Reserve,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities
Inc., an interdealer broker. “They jury is still out until we
get confirmation from the Fed one way or the other and what
language we are going to get if any. The market doesn’t expect
much, but we are still held hostage to policy makers.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.50 percent at 1:43 p.m.  New York 
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75
percent note maturing in May 2022 fell 9/32, or $2.81 per $1,000
face amount, to 102 1/4. The 30-year yield also increased five
basis points to 2.59 percent.  Bond Returns  Treasuries handed investors a 1.1 percent last month,
compared with a 2 percent gain from German bonds, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies.  The  difference  in yields between 10-year notes and TIPS,
which represents traders’ expectations for the rate of inflation
during the life of the securities and is known as the break-even
rate, was 2.13 percentage points, the highest since June 21. It
is down from the 2012 high of 2.45 percentage points on March
20. It touched a 2012 low of 1.9 percentage points on Jan. 3.  Treasury announced plans to sell $72 billion of notes and
bonds next week. It will auction $32 billion of three-year notes
on Aug. 7, $24 billion of 10-year notes the next day and $16
billion of 30-year bonds on Aug. 9.  The Treasury Department also said it is developing a
floating-rate note program that could be operational in a year
or more, while it is preparing for possible negative-rate
bidding.  Floating Rates  “Treasury plans to develop a floating-rate note program to
complement the existing suite of securities issued and to
support our broader debt-management objectives,” the department
said in a statement today in  Washington . “The first FRN auction
is estimated to be at least one year away.”  Companies in the U.S. added 163,000 workers in July,
according to figures from Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey called for an advance of 120,000.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index rose to
49.8 in July from 49.7 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group’s report showed today. Fifty marks the dividing line
between expansion and contraction. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected a reading of 50.2, according to the
median forecast.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will refrain from
starting new bond purchases, 88 percent of economists said
before today’s decision in Washington. Forty-eight percent said
the FOMC will announce the buying at its Sept. 12-13 meeting,
according to the July 25-27 survey of 58 economists.  Bernanke View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on July 17 that policy
makers are “looking for ways to address the weakness in the
economy should more action be needed.” The central bank’s
policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee said in January
that its benchmark  interest rate  will stay at “exceptionally
low levels” at least through late 2014, extending its pledge
from the middle of 2013.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of quantitative easing, or QE,
seeking to cap borrowing costs.  The central bank will buy as much as $2 billion of
Treasuries due from February 2036 to May 2042 tomorrow. The
 purchases  are part of the so-called Operation Twist that swaps
short-term debt in the Fed’s holdings for longer maturities.  “As for QE3, the bar for balance sheet usage is clearly
higher and the Fed would probably love to use language to buy
time,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed, wrote in a note to clients. “The Fed Chairman’s recent
Congressional testimony left strong hints that the Fed is still
not sure of recent weakness is transitory or trend. So why not
wait until next month to have more dots to connect for that
view?”  Europe’s Debt  Spanish bonds rose before a European Central Bank meeting
tomorrow that may end with new measures to contain the region’s
debt crisis.  Italy’s economy doesn’t need a bailout, Monti said in an
interview with Finnish newspaper  Helsingin Sanomat . The country
may need some support as “markets are slow to understand the
measures it has taken and all it has achieved,” the newspaper
reported him as saying.  Potential ECB action “is informing the better tone in
Spanish and Italian markets, which feeds back into the bearish
tone for safe-haven paper such as Treasuries,” said  Richard McGuire , a fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in
 London . “The outlook for Treasuries remains constructive” amid
the global economic slowdown, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  