-- U.S.’s Kristen Armstrong Wins Cycling Gold in Final Race at 38
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-01T15:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-s-s-kristen-armstrong-wins-cycling-gold-in-final-race-at-38.html
The U.S.’s Kristin Armstrong raced
the women’s cycling time trial at the  London  Olympics knowing it
was the last race of her career.  Armstrong beat  Germany ’s Judith Arndt by more than 15
seconds today over a mostly flat 18-mile (29 kilometers) course
that finished at Hampton Court Palace southwest of London. Olga
Zabelinskaya of  Russia  took bronze.  “My mantra was: You have to live with this result whatever
it is,” said Armstrong, 38. “There is a power you have when
you know it’s your last ride.”  Armstrong, who returned to cycling after having a child in
2010, beat Jeannie Longo’s 1996 mark as the oldest Olympic road
cycling champion. It’s the American’s second straight time-trial
gold medal.  She said her 37-minute, 34.82-second ride past thousands of
cheering fans went past in a blur.  “There were very few moments of the course I remember,”
Armstrong told reporters. “I had to drive it, drive it: I knew
if I let off my power for one moment I could have gone from
first to fourth.”  Armstrong, last to start the course, put her head in her
hands when she came to a halt. She sat on a golden throne and
carried her son, Lucas, on the podium in front of the 16th
Century palace of King  Henry VIII .  She said preparing for London had been the “hardest
journey” of her career because of the responsibilities of being
a mother. She also broke a collarbone in the run-up to the
London games.  Armstrong, who gets a $100,000 bonus from USA Cycling for
winning gold, said she will now devote time to mentoring riders
like Evelyn Stevens.  Arndt, 36, said she too plans to end her career. The German
had also won silver in the road race and time trial at the 2004
games.  Weeping Pooley  Britain’s Emma Pooley, the silver medalist at the 2008
Beijing games, wept as she spoke with reporters just after
finishing sixth today.  “I just wasn’t quick enough,” the 5-foot-2 (1.57-meter)
Pooley said as she slumped on her bike. “A lot hangs on this:
British cycling, my coach and a lot of people who have been
helping me.”  Pooley, 29, said there was too much emphasis placed on the
Olympic medal table in Britain.  “I do find the counting medals thing a little bit
depressing,” Pooley said. “The thing that people come to watch
is the story and the competition. We did our best.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at Hampton Court Palace, outside London or
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 