-- U.S. July ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-01T14:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-s-july-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.
July Manufacturing ISM Report On Business®; PMI™ at 49.8%;
New Orders and Inventories Contracting; Production and Employment
Growing;  Supplier Deliveries  Faster
DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various regional
purchasing reports released across the country. The national
report’s information reflects the entire  United States , while the
regional reports contain primarily regional data from their local
vicinities. Also, the information in the regional reports is not
used in calculating the results of the national report.
The information compiled in this report is for the month
of July 2012.
Business Wire
TEMPE, Ariz. -- August 01, 2012
Economic activity in the manufacturing sector contracted in July
for the second time since July 2009; however, the overall economy
grew for the 38th consecutive month, say the nation’s supply executives
in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business®.
The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM, CPSD, chair
of the  Institute for Supply Management ™ Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee. “The PMI registered 49.8 percent, an increase of 0.1
percentage point from June’s reading of 49.7 percent, indicating
contraction in the manufacturing sector for the second consecutive
month, following 34 consecutive months of expansion. The New Orders
Index registered 48 percent, an increase of 0.2 percentage point from
June and indicating contraction in new orders for the second
consecutive month, but at a slightly slower rate. Both the Production
Index and the Employment Index remained in growth territory,
registering 51.3 percent and 52 percent, respectively. The Prices
Index for raw materials registered 39.5 percent, an increase of
2.5 percentage points from the June reading of 37 percent, indicating
lower prices on average for the third consecutive month. A growing
number of comments from the panel this month reflect a slowdown in
their businesses and general concern over increasing economic
uncertainty.”
PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, seven are reporting growth in
July in the following order: Plastics & Rubber Products;  Electrical
Equipment , Appliances & Components; Primary Metals; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; and Furniture & Related Products. The 11 industries
reporting contraction in July -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products;
Textile Mills; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Chemical Products;
Transportation Equipment; Printing & Related Support Activities;
Paper Products; Machinery; and Computer & Electronic Products.
WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …  “Business has been up for the last seven consecutive months --  strong customer orders coming in.” (Machinery)  “Automotive demand remains strong.” (Fabricated Metal Products)  “Resin pricing has bottomed out so customer orders have increased;  it was pent-up demand.” (Plastics & Rubber Products)  “We have noticed a marked slowing in business overall. [We]  have confirmed this with other companies in our industry as  well.” (Wood Products)  “Forecasts remain high, but actual bookings remain flat.”  (Computer & Electronic Products)  “Taking a conservative approach to spending including hiring,  travel and inventory.  U.S. economy  seems stuck -- at best -- with
little to no growth.” (Apparel, Leather & Allied Products)  “Business remains surprisingly strong.” (Primary Metals)  “Continued slowdown in government military sector spending  in advance of the presidential elections has seriously impacted
business performance.” (Transportation Equipment)  “Business is softening, requiring some down production days.”
(Furniture & Related Products)  “General state of business this month is flat, with increasing
economic uncertainty.” (Chemical Products)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price
Corn; Dairy Products;  Natural Gas  (3); Soybean Oil; Steel(b); Steel --
Carbon Sheet(b) (2); Steel -- Hot Rolled; and Wheat.
Commodities Down in Price
Copper (2); Fuel Oil; HDPE (2); Oils (2); Plastic Products (3);
Polyethylene Resin; Polypropylene Resin (2); Rubber; Stainless Steel;
Steel(b) (5); Steel -- Carbon Sheet(b) (2); Steel -- Cold Rolled (2); and
Steel Products.
Commodities in Short Supply
Guar (2) is the only commodity reported in short supply.
Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed is
indicated after each item.
(b) Reported as both up and down in price.
JULY 2012 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES
PMI
Manufacturing contracted in July as the PMI registered 49.8 percent, an
increase of 0.1 percentage point when compared to June’s reading of 49.7
percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates that the manufacturing
economy is generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is
generally contracting.
A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a period of time, generally
indicates an expansion of the overall economy. Therefore, the July PMI
indicates growth for the 38th consecutive month in the overall economy,
but indicates contraction in the manufacturing sector for the second time
since July 2009, when the PMI registered 49.2 percent. Holcomb stated,
“The past relationship between the PMI and the overall economy indicates
that the average PMI for January through July (52.5 percent) corresponds
to a 3.3 percent increase in real gross domestic product (GDP). In
addition, if the PMI for July (49.8 percent) is annualized, it corresponds
to a 2.4 percent increase in real GDP annually.”
New Orders
ISM’s New Orders Index registered 48 percent in July, which is an increase
of 0.2 percentage point when compared to the June reading of 47.8 percent.
This represents a contraction in new orders for the second time since
April 2009, when the New Orders Index registered 46.8 percent. A New
Orders Index above 52.3 percent, over time, is generally consistent with
an increase in the Census Bureau’s series on manufacturing orders (in
constant 2000 dollars).
The three industries reporting growth in new orders in July are: Plastics
& Rubber Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Primary Metals.
The 13 industries reporting a decrease in new orders during July -- listed
in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Wood Products; Textile Mills; Machinery; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Chemical Products; Paper Products; Transportation
Equipment; Computer & Electronic Products; and Fabricated Metal Products.  Production
ISM’s Production Index registered 51.3 percent in July, which is an
increase of 0.3 percentage point when compared to the 51 percent reported
in June. This indicates growth for the 38th consecutive month. An index
above 51.2 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an increase in
the Federal Reserve Board’s Industrial Production figures.
The four industries reporting growth in production during the month of
July are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Primary
Metals; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products. The 10 industries reporting
a decrease in production in July -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Wood Products; Textile Mills; Furniture & Related
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Chemical Products; Machinery; and
Transportation Equipment.  Employment
ISM’s Employment Index registered 52 percent in July, which is 4.6
percentage points lower than the 56.6 percent reported in June. This is
the 34th consecutive month of growth in the Employment Index. An
Employment Index above 50.5 percent, over time, is generally consistent
with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on
manufacturing employment.
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, nine reported growth in employment in
July in the following order: Petroleum & Coal Products; Primary Metals;
Furniture & Related Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Machinery; Fabricated Metal Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Chemical Products; and Computer & Electronic Products. The
four industries reporting a decrease in employment in July are:
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Paper
Products; and Transportation Equipment.  Supplier Deliveries
The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing organizations was
faster in July as the Supplier Deliveries Index registered 48.7 percent,
which is 0.2 percentage point lower than the 48.9 percent reported in
June. This is the sixth consecutive month supplier deliveries have been
faster than the previous month, following 31 consecutive months in which
supplier deliveries slowed. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower
deliveries.
The five industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in July are:
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Paper Products; Primary
Metals; Transportation Equipment; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing. The six
industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in July -- listed in order
-- are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Computer & Electronic Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Machinery;
and Chemical Products. Seven industries reported no change in supplier
deliveries in July compared to June.  Inventories(c)
The Inventories Index registered 49 percent in July, which is 5 percentage
points higher than the 44 percent reported in June. This month’s reading
indicates that respondents are reporting inventories are still
contracting, which has been the case in nine of the last 10 months. An
Inventories Index greater than 42.8 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of Economic Analysis ’ (BEA)
figures on overall manufacturing inventories (in chained 2000 dollars).
The seven industries reporting higher inventories in July -- listed in
order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products; Machinery; Furniture & Related
Products; Paper Products; Computer & Electronic Products; Fabricated Metal
Products; and Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components. The eight
industries reporting decreases in inventories in July -- listed in order -
- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Apparel, Leather &
Allied Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Transportation Equipment;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Chemical Products; and Food,
Beverage & Tobacco Products.  Customers’ Inventories(c)
The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 49.5 percent in July,
which is 1 percentage point higher than in June when the index registered
48.5 percent. Customers’ inventories have registered at or below 50
percent for 40 consecutive months. A reading below 50 percent indicates
customers’ inventories are considered too low.
The six manufacturing industries reporting customers’ inventories as being
too high during July -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Fabricated Metal
Products; Primary Metals; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Computer
& Electronic Products. The seven industries reporting customers’
inventories as too low during July -- listed in order -- are: Plastics &
Rubber Products; Wood Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Paper
Products; Transportation Equipment; Machinery; and Chemical Products.  Prices(c)
The ISM Prices Index registered 39.5 percent in July, which is an increase
of 2.5 percentage points compared to the June reading of 37 percent. This
is the third consecutive month the index has reflected a decrease in the
price of raw materials since December 2011. In July, 11 percent of
respondents reported paying higher prices, 32 percent reported paying
lower prices, and 57 percent of supply executives reported paying the same
prices as in June. A Prices Index above 49.4 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) Index of Manufacturers Prices.
Of the 18 manufacturing industries, four reported paying increased prices
during the month of July: Printing & Related Support Activities; Furniture
& Related Products; Primary Metals; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.
The 11 industries reporting paying lower prices during July -- listed in
order -- are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Petroleum & Coal Products;
Textile Mills; Fabricated Metal Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Machinery; Computer &
Electronic Products; Chemical Products; Transportation Equipment; and
Paper Products.  Prices         %Higher      %Same     %Lower      Net    Index                                                           Jul 2012       11           57        32          -21    39.5 Jun 2012       7            60        33          -26    37.0 May 2012       14           67        19          -5     47.5 Apr 2012       33           56        11          +22    61.0 Backlog of Orders(c)
ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 43 percent in July, which is 1.5
percentage points lower than the 44.5 percent reported in June. Of the 84
percent of respondents who reported their backlog of orders, 13 percent
reported greater backlogs, 27 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 60
percent reported no change from June.
The three industries reporting increased order backlogs in July are:
Primary Metals; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; and
Chemical Products. The 11 industries reporting decreases in order backlogs
during July -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Wood
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Furniture & Related Products;
Transportation Equipment; Computer & Electronic Products; Paper Products;
Machinery; Fabricated Metal Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
and Apparel, Leather & Allied Products.  New Export Orders(c)
ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 46.5 percent in July, which is 1
percentage point lower than the 47.5 percent reported in June, and
represents the second month of contraction in the index since June 2009,
when the index registered 49.5 percent. Prior to this current two-month
period of contraction, the New Export Orders Index had registered 50
percent or above for the past 35 consecutive months.
The four industries reporting growth in new export orders in July are:
Fabricated Metal Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Chemical Products; and Computer & Electronic Products. The eight
industries reporting a decrease in new export orders during July -- listed
in order -- are: Textile Mills; Furniture & Related Products; Paper
Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Machinery; Transportation
Equipment; Primary Metals; and Apparel, Leather & Allied Products. Six
industries reported no change in export orders in July compared to June.  Imports(c)
ISM’s Imports Index registered 50.5 percent in July, which is 3 percentage
points lower than the 53.5 percent reported in June. This month’s reading
reflects eight months of growth following only two months of contraction
in the past 34 months.
The five industries reporting growth in imports during the month of July
are: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Fabricated Metal Products; Transportation Equipment; and Chemical
Products. The six industries reporting a decrease in imports during July -
- listed in order -- are: Paper Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Furniture & Related Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Primary Metals; and Machinery. Seven industries reported no
change in import orders in July compared to June.  (c) The Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Prices, Backlog of Orders,
New Export Orders and Imports Indexes do not meet the accepted criteria
for seasonal adjustments.
Buying Policy
Average commitment lead time for  Capital Expenditures  decreased 9 days to
109 days. Average lead time for Production Materials decreased 3 days to
54 days. Average lead time for Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO)
Supplies decreased 5 days to 26 days.
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of manufacturing
supply managers based on information they have collected within their
respective organizations. ISM makes no representation, other than that
stated within this release, regarding the individual company data
collection procedures. Use of the data is in the public domain and should
be compared to all other economic data sources when used in decision-
making.
Data and Method of Presentation
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is based on data compiled from
purchasing and supply executives nationwide. Membership of the
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is diversified by NAICS, based on
each industry’s contribution to gross domestic product (GDP).
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee responses are divided into the
following NAICS code categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Textile Mills; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal Products; Machinery;
Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Transportation Equipment; Furniture & Related Products; and
Miscellaneous Manufacturing (products such as medical equipment and
supplies, jewelry, sporting goods, toys and office supplies).
Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current month compared
to the previous month. For each of the indicators measured (New Orders,
Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders, Imports, Production, Supplier
Deliveries, Inventories, Customers’ Inventories, Employment and Prices),
this report shows the percentage reporting each response, the net
difference between the number of responses in the positive economic
direction (higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries) and the
negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for Supplier
Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw data and are never
changed. The diffusion index includes the percent of positive responses
plus one-half of those responding the same (considered positive).
The resulting single index number for those meeting the criteria for
seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production, Employment and Supplier
Deliveries) is then seasonally adjusted to allow for the effects of
repetitive intra-year variations resulting primarily from normal
differences in weather conditions, various institutional arrangements, and
differences attributable to non-moveable holidays. All seasonal adjustment
factors are supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject
annually to relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The PMI
is a composite index based on the diffusion indexes of five of the indexes
with equal weights: New Orders (seasonally adjusted), Production
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted), Supplier
Deliveries (seasonally adjusted), and Inventories.
Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators and are
convenient summary measures showing the prevailing direction of change and
the scope of change. A PMI reading above 50 percent indicates that the
manufacturing economy is generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates
that it is generally declining. A PMI in excess of 42.6 percent, over a
period of time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.6 percent, it is generally
declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.6 percent is indicative of
the strength of the expansion or decline. With some of the indicators
within this report, ISM has indicated the departure point between
expansion and decline of comparable government series, as determined by
regression analysis.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® surveys are sent out to
Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the first part of each
month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report on information for the current
month. ISM receives survey responses throughout most of any given month,
with the majority of respondents generally waiting until late in the month
to submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of current
business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for release on the first
business day of the following month.
The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Manufacturing ISM
Report On Business® monthly reports, are listed in the order of most
growth to least growth. For the industries reporting contraction or
decreases, those are listed in the order of the highest level of
contraction/decrease to the least level of contraction/decrease.
Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting the current
month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number of days ahead for which
commitments are made for Production Materials; Capital Expenditures; and
Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-
mouth (five days), 30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a
year or more (360 days), and the weighted average number of days. These
responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally adjusted since
there is no significant seasonal pattern.
The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is published monthly by the
Institute for Supply Management™, the first supply institute in the world.
Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and serve the supply management
profession and is a highly influential and respected association in the
global marketplace. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply management
profession through its standards of excellence, research, promotional
activities and education. This report has been issued by the association
since 1931, except for a four-year interruption during World War II.
The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is
posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first business day of every
month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).
The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® featuring the August 2012
data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Tuesday, September 4, 2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management          http://www.ism.ws  