-- U.S. Ally Azerbaijan to Exclude Iran From Gas Pipeline to Europe
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-08-01T12:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-s-ally-azerbaijan-to-exclude-iran-from-gas-pipeline-to-europe.html
Azerbaijan  plans to exclude Naftiran
Intertrade Co., a partner in the BP Plc-led Shah Deniz natural-
gas development, from a pipeline project to Europe from the
 Caspian region .  “Nico’s participation in the Trans-Anatolia pipeline or
other pipelines is not being considered,” Vaqif Aliyev, head of
State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan’s investments department, said by e-
mail, referring to Naftiran, which is a unit of National Iranian
Oil Co. “It has not been invited to join.”  Nico holds 10 percent of Shah Deniz, which is estimated to
contain 1.2 trillion cubic meters of gas, enough to supply
 demand  in the European Union for about 2 1/2 years. Norway’s
 Statoil ASA (STL) , France’s  Total SA (FP) , Turkiye Petrolleri AO and
Moscow-based OAO Lukoil are Shah Deniz partners with BP and
Socar, as the Azeri company is known.  The U.S. and EU have built ties with Azerbaijan since the
fall of the Soviet Union to diversify energy supplies away from
 Russia  and the  Middle East . Azerbaijan, a mostly Muslim country
with a secular government, has sent troops to support U.S.
forces in Iraq and Afghanistan.  “Let’s see if it is even possible for Nico to stay in the
Shah Deniz consortium,” said Philipp Chladek, an energy analyst
at Bloomberg Industries. It is unlikely any company from Iran
will be able to participate in international projects given
current tensions, he said.  The U.S. and EU are applying sanctions against Iran in an
attempt to force the Persian Gulf to curb its nuclear program.  Azerbaijan and Turkey signed an agreement in June to build
the 2,000 kilometer (1,240 mile) Trans-Anatolia pipeline, or
Tanap, which will deliver at least 10 billion cubic meters of
Azeri gas a year to the EU border through Turkey. The project is
estimated to cost $7 billion.  Socar plans to share its 80 percent of Tanap with Shah
Deniz partners. Turkey’s Boru Hatlari ile Petrol Tasima AS, or
Botas, and Shah Deniz-partner TPAO hold the remaining 20 percent
of the link.  “In independent projects like this, the selection of
shareholders and their stakes are agreed upon mutually by the
partners in accordance with their strategies and interests,”
Aliyev said, without elaborating on the reason for sidelining
 Iran .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  