-- U.S. Midwest May Remain Hot, Dry Through Mid-August
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-01T12:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-s-midwest-may-remain-hot-dry-through-mid-august.html
Much of the Midwest may remain hot
and dry through the middle of August, after a month in which
more than half the U.S. was covered by drought and temperature
records toppled by the thousands.  The Midwest is expected to stay about 5 to 8 degrees
Fahrenheit (2.8 to 4.4 Celsius) above normal through Aug. 15,
according to  Matt Rogers , Commodity Weather Group LLC president.
The area from Iowa south  Arkansas , west to  Nebraska  and  Kansas 
and east to Illinois will probably have below-normal rain
through Aug. 15, said Joel Widenor, CWG co-founder.  “While next week sees some back-and-forth variability, we
still favor a hot-dominated story with the most severe
conditions still over the drought areas of the western Midwest,
Plains and nearby parts of the South,” Rogers said.  In July, 4,368 daily high temperature records were set or
tied across the U.S. or about 2.6 percent of the total possible,
according to  National Climatic Data Center  statistics. A year
ago, 2,755 daily records were set or tied, or 1.5 percent of the
total, according to the center in Asheville,  North Carolina .  As of last week, at least  63.9 percent  of the contiguous
48 states was affected by drought considered moderate or worse.
The parched soil has left corn and soybean crops in the worst
condition since 1988. Ninety percent of topsoil in six Midwest
states was considered short or very short on moisture. In
Missouri and Illinois, 99 percent reached that level.  Widenor said he expects above-normal rain to fall from
Montana to southern Wisconsin from Aug. 6-10 and in Minnesota
from Aug. 11-15. Those showers will probably bypass most of Iowa
and Illinois.  Chicago’s high may reach 91 tomorrow and through to the
weekend, according to the  National Weather Service .  St. Louis 
may reach 102 today and then remain between 100 and the upper
90s for the rest of the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  