-- Senate Deal to Revive Tax Breaks to Be Blocked by Coburn
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-01T19:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/u-s-senate-tax-writers-agree-to-deal-on-reviving-lapsed-breaks.html
Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma
Republican, said he will block a panel vote on an agreement to
revive lapsed tax breaks, including a credit for corporate
research and a benefit for financial-services companies’
overseas operations.  The Senate Finance Committee early today had scheduled a
vote for tomorrow on the $152 billion plan, which would continue
most of the breaks through 2013. Coburn, saying he wanted more
time to review the measure, said he would invoke a rule
requiring 48 hours notice of a committee vote.  The bipartisan proposal doesn’t include several lapsed or
expiring breaks, including the production tax credit for wind,
accelerated depreciation for motorsports tracks, tax breaks for
investment in the  District of Columbia  and a tax credit for
ethanol.  Senators may add some of those provisions into the bill
tomorrow if the committee meeting takes place as scheduled.
Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  said he probably will modify the
proposal before the vote, while declining to say how. He said
after Coburn’s comments that he is trying to reach a consensus.  “It feels good,” Baucus, a Montana Democrat, told
reporters today about the measure. “We reached agreement.
That’s the main thing.”  Bipartisan Deal  The agreement marks a rare moment of bipartisan cooperation
on  tax policy , which sharply divides Republicans and Democrats.
The parties are locked in a stalemate over whether to extend
income-tax cuts for top earners beyond 2012.  The Senate voted 51-48, mostly along party lines, on July
25 for the Democratic plan to let some of those income-tax cuts
lapse. The Republican-led House will vote today to extend income
tax cuts for all levels. The tax breaks, said Baucus and Senator
 Orrin Hatch , the top Republican on the Finance Committee,
provide an opportunity for compromise.  The list of breaks, many of which have their own lobbying
coalitions, include an optional deduction for state sales taxes,
accelerated depreciation for certain restaurants and the ability
for financial-services companies to defer U.S. taxation on
overseas income. Many expired at the end of 2011 and some are
slated to lapse at the end of this year.  Companies that benefit from tax breaks in the package
include  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , General Electric Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Alternative Minimum Tax  The bill would ensure that more taxpayers aren’t subject to
paying the alternative minimum tax for the 2012 tax year. The
levy was designed as a mechanism to prevent top earners from
legally avoiding all taxes. Unless Congress acts, this year it
will affect 31.2 million households, up from 4.3 million in
2011, according to the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan research
group in Washington.  The AMT change makes up most of the $152 billion cost of
the proposal.  Senator  John Thune , a South Dakota Republican and wind-
energy advocate, said he expects a one-year extension of the
wind credit will be added to the bill, which he described as a
work in progress.  “I hope we can get something done and keep it confined to
as narrow a list as possible,” Thune said today. “We’ll see.
It’s kind of evolving, it seems like, by the hour in terms of
what the deal is, and we’re still trying to get the particulars
of it.”  Wind Credit  Baucus will push to include the wind credit in the measure,
said Sean Neary, a spokesman for the chairman.  Baucus said senators are discussing whether to pursue a
one-year extension or a longer-term phased reduction in the
credit.  Turning the committee’s agreement into law will take time.
Congress will leave Washington at the end of the week for a
recess scheduled to last until Sept. 10.  The  House of Representatives  won’t consider the
miscellaneous tax breaks until after the Nov. 6 election, said
Representative Patrick Tiberi, an Ohio Republican on the tax-
writing Ways and Means Committee.  In terms of dollars, the debate over the so-called tax
extenders package is less significant than the broader dispute
over whether to extend the George W. Bush-era income tax cuts,
which expire at the end of 2012.  Hatch of Utah said he hoped that an agreement on the
miscellaneous breaks would build momentum toward a broader
rewrite of the  tax code .  ‘First Step’  “This is a first step toward the ultimate goal of
comprehensive  tax reform  that shows that there is a path to
resolving the challenges we face as a nation,” he said in a
statement.  Democrats had been trying to expand the package beyond what
Republicans call the “traditional” extenders list. They wanted
to revive a program from the 2009 stimulus law that allows
companies to turn renewable-energy tax credits into cash grants.
They also wanted to extend a college tuition tax credit set to
expire at the end of 2012.  “It’s all conditioned on how tightly focused the effort
is,” Senator  Richard Burr , a North Carolina Republican, said
July 30.  Republicans were able to prevent those provisions from
being included in the bill. Republicans conceded on allowing the
language on the alternative minimum tax, which they and
Democrats had previously tied to the expiring income tax cuts.  “I believe strongly in the tuition credit, but AMT’s an
even bigger deal,” Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York 
Democrat, said before the agreement was announced.  Because the alternative minimum tax disallows the deduction
for state and local taxes, it has a disproportionate effect in
high-income states with heavier tax burdens, including
 California , New York,  New Jersey  and  Connecticut .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  