-- UBS Whistle-Blower Birkenfeld Released From U.S. Prison
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-08-01T21:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/ubs-whistle-blower-birkenfeld-released-from-u-s-prison-1-.html
Bradley Birkenfeld, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
banker who blew the whistle on how the bank helped thousands of
Americans evade taxes, was released today from the U.S. prison
in Minersville, Pennsylvania, according to his lawyer.  Birkenfeld, 47, began serving a 40-month sentence in
January 2010 at Schuylkill Federal Correctional Institution, and
received good-time credit that reduced his term, said his
attorney, Stephen M. Kohn. His brother, Douglas, drove him to a
halfway house in New Hampshire, said Kohn.  Birkenfeld told U.S. authorities how UBS bankers came to
the U.S. to woo rich Americans, managed $20 billion of their
assets, and helped them cheat the  Internal Revenue Service . He
pleaded guilty to conspiracy in 2008, a year after reporting the
bank’s conduct to the  Justice Department ,  U.S. Senate , IRS and
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “He’s very happy to be out,” Kohn said. “He’s a fighter
and he wants to continue charging on the Swiss bank scandal.”  Douglas Birkenfeld said in an e-mail today that his brother
wasn’t granting interviews.  Birkenfeld was a banker at Zurich-based UBS for five years.
Birkenfeld is seeking a reward from the IRS of as much as 30
percent of any taxes the agency recovers as a result of his
whistleblowing activities.  UBS avoided prosecution in the U.S. by agreeing to pay $780
million, disclosing data on more than 250 Swiss accounts, and
admitting it helped foster  tax evasion . It later agreed to hand
over data on another 4,450 accounts. Since Birkenfeld’s
disclosures, at least 33,000 Americans have voluntarily
disclosed offshore accounts to the IRS.  The case is U.S. v. Birkenfeld, 08-cr-60099, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 