-- Huntsman CEO Says Textiles, Foam May Offset Pigment Decline
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-01T20:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/huntsman-ceo-says-textiles-foam-may-make-up-for-pigment-decline.html
Huntsman Corp. (HUN)  said improved margins
from polyurethane foam, textile dyes and other chemicals may
make up for declining earnings from titanium dioxide, a white
pigment, during the second half of the year.  Profit from titanium dioxide, known by its chemical
formula, TiO2, will drop by about $350 a ton in the current
quarter from the prior three months because of higher ore costs
and lower pigment prices, Chief Executive Officer Peter Huntsman
said today on a conference call with analysts. Higher margins in
other units, particularly polyurethanes, may make up for the
TiO2 decline, he said.  “You’ll see the non-TiO2 divisions at Huntsman strengthen
over the next couple quarters,” Peter Huntsman said today in a
telephone interview from company headquarters in The Woodlands,
 Texas . “2012 will look a lot like 2011, but TiO2 earnings are
going to be down.”  Huntsman plans to cut costs by $350 million with a focus on
the textile effects unit, the world’s biggest maker of textile
dyes, which should return to profitability next year, he said.
Demand excluding TiO2 is rising and there is little new capacity
being built, he said.  “Our demand globally certainly is better than what the
headlines are blaring-- that markets are falling,” Huntsman
said.  Huntsman rose 4.9 percent to $13.27 at the close in  New
York . The shares have gained 33 percent this year.  ‘Star Performer’  Second-quarter net income rose 8.8 percent to $124 million,
or 52 cents a share, from $114 million, or 48 cents, a year
earlier, Salt Lake City-based Huntsman said today in a
statement. Profit excluding costs for restructuring and a
terminated merger was 58 cents a share, the company said. That
exceeded the 54-cent average of 11 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The star performer, in our view, was the polyurethanes
segment,”  Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic
Global Advisors, said in a report.  Profit in the polyurethane unit, which supplies makers of
insulation, adhesives, coatings and composite wood, climbed 19
percent on higher demand. Pigment earnings rose 16 percent as
higher prices more than made up for lower sales volumes.  TiO2 customers, such as paint makers, will continue to use
up excess inventories through the third quarter, keeping
operating rates at about 80 percent of capacity, compared with
100 percent a year earlier, the CEO said. Huntsman has about 70
days of TiO2 inventory, compared with 100 days for the industry
and a normal level of about 55 days, he said.  Pigments  Pigment destocking should end in the fourth quarter, a year
after it began, leading to higher TiO2 demand and boosting plant
operating rates to about 90 percent by year-end, he said.  “You’ll get back into typical seasonal flow of demand
sometime during the fourth quarter,” Huntsman said. “Through
2013, TiO2 will have recovered to more of its traditional
supply-demand ratio.”  Demand for titanium ore is declining because of high prices
for the pigment feedstock, compressing profit margins for
Huntsman’s suppliers, Chief Financial Officer Kimo Esplin said
in the interview.  “Now would not be a very good time to be an ore
producer,” Peter Huntsman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  