-- Murdoch’s A$2 Billion Pay-TV Bid Cleared by Regulator
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-08-02T06:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/murdoch-s-a-2-billion-pay-tv-bid-cleared-by-regulator.html
News Corp. (NWSA) , the company controlled by
 Rupert Murdoch , gained regulatory approval to buy  Consolidated
Media Holdings Ltd. (CMJ)  in a A$2 billion ($2.1 billion) deal that
may strengthen its hold on pay-television in Australia.  The proposed deal won’t be opposed as it is “unlikely to
lead to a substantial lessening of competition” the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission said in a statement today.
Consolidated Media’s controlling shareholder, billionaire James Packer, has already signaled his approval of News Corp.’s A$3.50
a share cash offer.  The decision gives News Corp. a head start on  Seven Group
Holdings Ltd. (SVW) , the media and construction equipment group
controlled by billionaire  Kerry Stokes , which is also seeking
regulatory clearance to bid. The ACCC said July 24 it would
delay a decision on Seven Group being allowed to make an offer
for Consolidated, which owns a 25 percent stake in Australia’s
biggest pay-TV business Foxtel.  “If the ACCC ultimately decides that both companies could
make this acquisition, then shareholders will be in the happy
situation of having two media moguls slugging it out with open
checkbooks,”  Mark McDonnell , an analyst at BBY Ltd. in Sydney,
said by phone before the announcement.  Minority shareholders with 26 percent of the company
probably won’t make up their minds until the ACCC has ruled on
both offers, McDonnell said.  News Corp. already owns 25 percent of Foxtel while  Telstra
Corp. (TLS) , Australia’s biggest phone company, holds the remaining 50
percent stake.  Stokes Stake  A successful takeover of Consolidated Media would help give
Murdoch more control of his Australian pay-television assets and
provide a stream of fast-growing revenues to the publishing arm
that he hopes to split off from News’s more profitable
entertainment units.  Seven Group controls 24 percent of Consolidated Media and
has a 33 percent share in Australia’s biggest free-to-air
broadcaster  Seven West Media Ltd. (SWM)  Seven Group is “considering
its options” in relation to the offer, the company said June
20.  Consolidated Media rose 0.3 percent to A$3.44 at the close
of Sydney trading, the highest since September 2008.  In addition to its stake in Foxtel, which the ACCC has said
holds a “near-monopoly” on Australian pay-TV, Consolidated
owns half of Fox Sports Australia.  Taking control of Consolidated Media would give News all of
Fox Sports and leave Foxtel a 50-50 joint venture with Telstra.  Echo, Genting  “News Corp. has no interests in other free-to-air or
subscription television entities in Australia,” ACCC Chairman
Rod Sims said in the statement. “The ACCC considered that the
proposed acquisition was unlikely to materially change News
Corp.’s incentives in relation to the supply of content.”  James Packer , with 50 percent of Consolidated Media
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said in a statement
June 20 that News Corp.’s proposed price was fair and that he’d
support the bid “in the absence of a superior cash offer”.  The A$984 million that Packer would receive from the deal
would help him as he jostles for more control of  Echo
Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP)  alongside companies associated with
Malaysian gaming group  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  Each side has about 10
percent of Echo, which operates Sydney’s only casino, and both
are seeking approval from regulators to buy more.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  