-- Turkcell Says Suit Over MTN-Iran Deal Can Proceed in U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-01T23:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/turkcell-says-suit-over-mtn-iran-deal-can-proceed-in-u-s-.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,
Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone operator, asked a U.S. judge to
allow its lawsuit against  South Africa ’s  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  to
proceed, arguing American courts have authority to oversee a
case involving a wireless service deal in Iran.  Turckcell, in a filing today in  Washington , denied that its
lawsuit alleging bribery by MTN Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest
wireless provider, is merely a commercial dispute between two
non-U.S. companies that doesn’t trigger a 1789 law giving the
federal court jurisdiction to consider the case.  “MTN’s mischaracterization of this case as a ‘commercial
dispute’ is either a refusal to acknowledge the allegations in
Turkcell’s complaint, or, far worse, an affirmation of MTN’s
belief that corruption and bribery are acceptable ‘commercial’
strategies,” David Farber, Turkcell’s lawyer, said in the
filing.  Turkcell, which initially was awarded the Iranian mobile-
phone license, sued its Johannesburg-based rival on March 28 for
$4.2 billion in damages. The suit alleges MTN bribed officials,
arranged meetings between Iranian and South African leaders, and
promised  Iran  weapons and United Nations votes in exchange for a
license to provide mobile-phone service in the Islamic Republic.  Internal Memos  The complaint includes numerous alleged internal MTN memos
that detail the company’s efforts to win the Iranian business
after losing the bid to Istanbul-based Turkcell in February
2004.  Turkcell claims MTN violated the Alien Tort Statute,
usually cited in human rights and torture cases. The law gives
U.S. courts jurisdiction in some instances to consider claims by
foreigners for illegal conduct that occurred in another country.  Timothy Coleman , a lawyer for MTN, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the filing.  MTN asked U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  to dismiss the
case, arguing that Turkcell was trying to get paid by a
“nonstate actor” for the Iranian license. The U.S. court “has
no business deciding this dispute,” MTN said in a July 2
filing.  MTN’s promises of International Atomic Energy Agency votes
and arms, and its payment of bribes “to steal Turkcell’s right
to the Iranian GSM license, clearly support Alien Tort Statute
jurisdiction here,” according to Turkcell’s filing.  Corruption, Bribery  “For the last two decades the law of nations has outlawed
corruption and bribery as acceptable ways of doing business,”
Farber of Patton Boggs LLP in Washington, said in today’s
filing.  The U.S.  Supreme Court  is considering a case brought by a
group of Nigerians seeking damages under the Alien Tort Statute,
claiming Royal Dutch Shell Plc helped their government commit
torture and murders in the early 1990s. The company argued that
corporations can’t be sued under the law. Four federal appeals
courts have permitted corporations to be sued under the statute,
the Nigerians argued.  The Supreme Court scheduled arguments in the Nigerian case
for Oct. 1.  The case is  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  v. MTN Group
Ltd, 12-cv-479, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 