-- Vestas Shares Decline on Cash Flow Concern: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-08-01T08:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/vestas-shares-decline-on-cash-flow-concern-copenhagen-mover.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  fell the most
in more than three weeks in Copenhagen trading on concern over
the wind turbines maker’s ability to generate cash.  Vestas fell as much as 8.2 percent, the most since July 9,
making it today’s  biggest loser  in the  OMX Copenhagen 20 Index. (KFX) 
The stock retreated 2.09 kroner, or 7.2 percent, to 26.87 kroner
at 10:23 a.m. in the Danish capital.  Vestas, based in Aarhus,  Denmark , yesterday said its banks
have allowed it to draw on credit lines as cash flow
deteriorated. Today, the average price estimate of analysts
tracking the stock fell to the lowest in eight years after banks
including  Nordea Markets  cut targets, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “Vestas hasn’t come under administration by banks just
yet, but they’re only a few steps away,”  Jacob Pedersen , an
analyst at Sydbank A/S with a neutral recommendation on the
stock, said by phone. “Banks are keeping a very close eye on
them as they’re in breach of covenants.”  The stock rose 12 percent after yesterday’s announcement
because investors bet a share capital increase is now less
likely, said Pedersen, who’s based in Aabenraa, Denmark. Today,
investors are punishing the stock because the underlying news
was “a bombshell” and not in line with the positive tone of
the company’s previous reports, the analyst said.  Nordea today cut its price estimate by 13 percent to 35
kroner, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average
price estimate of 18 analysts tracking the share is now 40.40
kroner, the lowest since June 2004,  according to the data .  Vestas’ free  cash flow  declined by 43 million euros ($53
million) over the second quarter to minus 338 million euros,
according to yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  