-- Vinci Falls as New French Taxes May Dent Earnings: Paris Mover
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-08-01T07:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/vinci-falls-as-new-french-taxes-may-dent-earnings-paris-mover.html
Vinci SA (DG) ,  Europe ’s biggest builder,
fell the most in more than a week after Chief Executive Officer
Xavier Huillard said new taxes planned by the French government
will probably hurt this year’s earnings.  Vinci  slumped  as much as 5.2 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since July 23. The stock was down 3.3 percent at 33.42
euros as of 9:26 a.m. in Paris.  “The new fiscal measures announced recently will probably
slightly impact our earnings,” Huillard said on a conference
call with journalists late yesterday. The government measures
may raise Vinci’s taxes by 10 million euros ($12.3 million) to
50 million euros in 2012, he said.  Vinci targets 2012 operating income and net income “close
to their 2011 levels, before taking into account the new
increase in tax and social charges planned in  France ,” the
company, based in the Paris suburb of Rueil-Malmaison, said in a
statement yesterday.  The Vinci CEO said that Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and
the collapse of municipal lender Dexia SA may undermine public
works in the region and erode traffic on the group’s French toll
roads. He reiterated a forecast for a “slight increase” in
revenue this year, helped by a record backlog, and said he’s
prepared to adjust to a possible deterioration in the global
economy in the second half.  Vinci’s net income fell 3.6 percent in the first half to
784 million euros as the company paid 37 million euros to cover
the introduction of a profit-sharing system and a new tax in
France. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated profit of
776.3 million euros. Adjusted for two charges, net income rose
1 percent to 821 million euros.  Vinci’s revenue climbed 3.6 percent to 17.9 billion euros
in the first half, helped by acquisitions in  Canada  and  India 
and by the drop of the euro against the dollar. Excluding
acquisitions and exchange rate fluctuations, sales rose
1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  