-- Wien, Kovner, Effron, Rubin, Louis Langree, Warby Parker
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-01T19:46:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/wien-kovner-effron-rubin-louis-langree-warby-parker.html
Blackstone Group Vice Chairman  Byron Wien  took a break from his chilled corn lobster bisque last
night to talk about “the big ideas” of the summer.  “ Europe  is going to survive the crisis and there are going
to be lots of opportunities there,” he said during a
fundraising supper for the Mostly Mozart Festival at  Lincoln
Center ’s  Avery Fisher Hall . “The European Union is going to
stay intact, but in the next two years they will restructure.”  As for U.S. politics, Wien, who described himself as a
“disillusioned Obama supporter,” said he’d like to see
presumptive Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  “get
off a plane and say something right.”  Across the room, Blair Effron of Centerview Partners LLC
and former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin , an adviser to
Centerview Partners Holdings LLC, dined together. Anna Benton,
chief investment officer of Axel Capital Management LLC, and
employees of  Morgan Stanley (MS)  the firm sponsoring the festival,
occupied other tables.  Dinner remarks acknowledged the service of the festival’s
music director,  Louis Langree . For the past 10 years the
Frenchman has worked through August, and will become more
Americanized next year when he adds the role of music director
of the Cincinnati Symphony. Lincoln Center’s president, Reynold Levy, gave Langree’s son a Cincinnati Reds baseball cap to
acclimate him to the Midwest city.  Birdsong Indoors  Before the concert, Avery Fisher Hall’s promenade filled
with recorded birdsong. This was a tactic devised by Lincoln
Center’s artistic director, Jane Moss, to bring some of the
experience of an outdoor music festival to this indoor one. The
festival also includes bird walks and a panel discussion on
whether birdsong is music, moderated by  New York Public Radio ’s
John Schaefer.  Bruce Kovner , chairman of Caxton Alternative Management LP
and of the Juilliard School, arrived for the concert, after a
meal of coq au vin at Bar Boulud with a group of friends
including the president of the Juilliard School, Joseph Polisi.
His ear for music also took him to Tanglewood over the weekend.  The gala drew 210 guests and raised $700,000  Glasses Given  Warby Parker Co-Founder and Co-Chief Executive Officer Neil Blumenthal said the company will soon introduce eyeglasses in
rich tones of burgundy, brown and blue, as well as titanium
frames.  Blumenthal’s autumn preview came at a party at  Maison 24  in
Bridgehampton, the exclusive East End retailer of the eyewear
brand that everyone in  Brooklyn  started wearing two years ago,
and now everyone else is wearing.  Warby Parker frames retail for $95, lenses included. The
titanium frames will be more expensive, though “still a quarter
of the price of other brands,” Blumenthal said. The company
donates a pair to someone needy for each pair bought.  “The key thing is the company was started by normal people
trying to treat a problem that normal people have every day,”
Blumenthal said.  Guests ogled Maison 24’s merchandise at the Saturday
gathering, including an $895 Lucite turtle.  A waiter passed a tray of Rickshaw Dumplings, from a food
truck brought in for the occasion.  Maison 24 co-founders Allison Julius and Louis Marra had
cocktail napkins printed for the event, which read “Sip Snack
Schmooze Shop.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on books.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 