-- Wiggins Gets Soccer-Style Support on Way to Fourth Olympic Gold
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-08-01T23:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/wiggins-gets-soccer-style-support-on-way-to-fourth-olympic-gold.html
Bradley Wiggins got soccer-style
crowd support on the way to winning another Olympic gold.  The 32-year-old Londoner beat world champion Tony Martin of
 Germany  by 42 seconds yesterday over the 27-mile (43-kilometer)
men’s time trial course to Hampton Court Palace. Britain’s Chris
Froome was third.  It was Wiggins’ fourth Olympic gold -- the others were in
track cycling -- and seventh overall. His total is a British
best, surpassing rower Steve Redgrave. Spectators chanted his
nickname, “Wiggo,” 10 days after he became the first Briton to
win the  Tour de France .  “You’d have to be deaf not to hear it,” Wiggins told a
news conference. “I will never again experience anything like
that in my sporting career.”  Wiggins, the second-to-last of 37 riders to start the
mainly flat course, finished in 50 minutes, 39.54 seconds at an
average speed of 32.4 miles per hour.  He trailed Martin by 5 seconds after the first 4.5 miles
before building an 11-second advantage over the German after 11
miles. He then went farther ahead as spectators chanted his name
and waved British flags.  Wiggins said he asked his masseur “about five times” to
check that his time was better than Martin’s before raising his
arms in victory. He was awarded the gold medal in a ceremony on
the grounds of Hampton Court Palace, the 16th century residence
of King  Henry VIII .  After the last mountain stage of the Tour de  France  in the
ski resort of Peyragudes in the Pyrenees on July 19, Wiggins had
griped about reporters’ questions about whether there was a
weaker-than-usual field at the race.  “The Tour you are always justifying yourself about
something -- whether it’s your sideburns or the color of your
trousers,” Wiggins said. “The Olympics is very positive all
the time.”  Wiggins said he would celebrate with a few vodka and
tonics. He plans to watch the Olympic track cycling -- in which
he isn’t competing -- before going on vacation.  Froome, a Kenya-born Briton who finished second to Wiggins
at the Tour de France, said he had never experienced such
support in cycling.  “Not just cheering, but shouting our names,” said Froome,
27. “It leaves me with goose bumps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at Hampton Court Palace, outside London or
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 