-- William J. Bott III, Barclays Specialist at NYSE, Dies at 33
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-08-01T22:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/william-j-bott-iii-barclays-specialist-at-nyse-dies-at-33.html
William J. Bott III, a specialist on
the floor of the New York Stock Exchange for  Barclays (BARC)  Plc,
collapsed and died July 31 after playing basketball. He was 33.  Bott, a resident of Hoboken,  New Jersey , dropped to the
sidewalk while leaving a gym in lower  Manhattan  following three
games of basketball after the workday, his uncle, Robert Bott,
said yesterday. He was pronounced dead at New York Downtown
Hospital. A medical examination is planned to determine the
cause.  “Any sport was his kind of a sport,” Robert Bott said of
his nephew, who was known as Bill and favored the  New York
Giants  and  New York Mets . “He loved playing sports, was an
active sports fan all the way around the horn.”  As a  floor specialist , the meeting point for buyers and
sellers in certain stocks, Bott chose a particularly vigorous
field of trading.  “You have to work very, very well under pressure, and you
have to work with many different types of personalities,” his
uncle said. “He had the ability to do all of that, and to work
intelligently under pressure.”  Bott was in charge of day-to-day operations of Barclays’
specialist business, which is known as DMM, for designated
market making.  “Barclays is saddened by the loss of a highly respected
colleague and close friend,”  Mark Lane , a spokesman for
Barclays, said yesterday in an e-mail. “Bill was a longstanding
member of our team, and of the New York Stock Exchange
community. His strong leadership, bright personality and
enthusiasm will be greatly missed.”  Celebrity Host  News photographs captured Bott hosting the singer Usher on
the NYSE floor on Aug. 1, 2011, during festivities celebrating
the 30th anniversary of cable music channel  MTV . Usher rang the
opening bell that morning. Bott’s uncle said celebrity visits
were part of the job.  “He met numerous celebrities, spent time with them and
showed them how the stock exchange works,” he said.  Bott was freshly graduated from the State University of  New
York  at  Albany  when he landed his first position on  Wall Street ,
at LaBranche & Co., in 2001. He started on the job one week
after the Sept. 11 terror attacks but never had second thoughts
about working in lower Manhattan, said his uncle, a former chief
operating officer at Quick & Reilly Inc. who helped Bott land
the job. Robert Bott is now executive director of JPMorgan
Clearing Corp., a unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York.  Bott worked until 2007 at LaBranche, which was acquired by
Cowen Group Inc. for $156 million in stock last year. In 2007 he
joined Dutch stockbroker Van der Moolen Holding NV, which
transferred its  NYSE (NYX)  specialist unit to Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. at the end of that year. Barclays bought Lehman’s brokerage
in 2008.  William Joseph Bott III was born on March 9, 1979, on New
York’s Long Island, where he graduated from Centereach High
School. Survivors include his father, William Jr.; his mother,
Judith D’Arrigo; a sister, Jennifer Scheid, and two brothers,
Thomas and James.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  