-- Worst India Outage Highlights 60 Years of Missed Targets
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-08-01T10:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/worst-india-outage-highlights-60-years-of-missed-targets-energy.html
India ’s worst-ever power crisis is
the legacy of 60 years of missed investment targets and on
current projections fixing the nation’s electricity supply is
still decades away.  The network in  Asia ’s third-largest economy loses 27
percent of the power it carries through dissipation from wires
and theft, while peak supply falls short of demand by an average
of 9 percent, according to India’s  Central Electricity
Authority . Some 300 million people, or one in every four, remain
without links to the grid and the number will still be about 150
million by 2030, according to the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency .  Power was restored in all areas after a blackout yesterday
across the north and east of the country, the second in two
days, left more than 640 million people without electricity. It
forced homes and businesses to switch to back-up supplies,
halted trains and public transport and caused traffic jams.
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  in response will probably speed
approvals for coal mining and power plants, Planning Commission
energy adviser I.A. Khan said in a phone interview, developments
that will take years to build.  “The proximate cause of a power outage on this scale
almost always seems trivial,” said  Michael Parker , an analyst
in  Hong Kong  with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “The blackout
highlights the big underlying issue India faces in terms of
infrastructure quality. To keep the lights on, India needs to
add power capacity, build robust transmission and distribution
systems, ensure fuel supply and transport and reform power
pricing. Most of that is expensive.”  Missed Targets  Power Grid  Corp. of India, the nation’s largest
transmission company, was little changed at 119 rupees at the
close in Mumbai. The  stock  has gained 11 percent in the past
year, compared with 5.8 percent drop in the benchmark  Sensitive
Index. (SENSEX)   India has missed every capacity addition target since 1951,
underscoring the urgency behind Singh’s effort to make $400
billion in investments, or 40 percent of the total spend planned
on infrastructure, over the next five years, according to Power
Secretary P. Uma Shankar, the top bureaucrat in India’s power
ministry.  The world’s second-most populous nation suffers from
frequent power outages that can last as long as 10 hours, amid
summer temperatures of as high as 45 degrees Celsius (113
degrees Fahrenheit) in the capital, New Delhi. Power supply
shortages shave about 1.2 percentage points off the nation’s
annual  growth , according to the Planning Commission.  Excessive Draw Downs  States usually contract power purchases a day in advance,
according to Jayant Deo, managing director of the Indian Energy
Exchange Ltd. Some end up drawing more power than contracted,
and are charged a penalty for the additional purchases. When a
buyer draws more than is due, the frequency at which the grid
operates drops, causing the system to collapse and forcing power
plants connected to it to shut down.  It was excessive draw downs by states in north India which
caused the grid to collapse this week, said R.N. Nayak, chairman
of state-run  Power Grid (PWGR) , which carries half of the electricity
India generates.  Ten north Indian power transmission companies and eight
electricity dispatch centers had already been censured for
drawing more power than their due between Jan. 1 and March 25
and on July 10 the states of  Uttar Pradesh , Rajasthan, Punjab
and Haryana were ordered by the Planning Commission to cease
overdrawals from the grid to maintain its safety. As of July 30,
the overdrawals were continuing, the Commission said.  Price Controls  Coal and natural gas supply shortages and the lowest
monsoon rains in three years have cut electricity generation in
India, even as demand continues to grow, putting additional
stress on the grid. Power stations, including those operated by
 NTPC Ltd. (NTPC)  and billionaire Anil Ambani-controlled  Reliance Power
Ltd. (RPWR) , in north India feed electricity into the grid.  India’s government controls the price of electricity and
the coal used to produce it as it seeks to reduce costs in the
country where about 800 million people live on less than $2 a
day. That crimps utilities’ profitability and investment. The
nation also needs to improve its coal output and transportation,
Bernstein’s Parker said. Prime Minister Singh is seeking $1
trillion in investment in the five years to 2017 to build out an
infrastructure that is currently ranked below Kazakhstan and
 Guatemala  by the  World Economic Forum .  Extra Demand  Power Grid, established in 1989, is setting up a nationwide
grid to integrate the country’s five electrical regions. It
plans to spend 1 trillion rupees ($18 billion) in the next five
years to double capacity, said I.S. Jha, director for projects.  Four states in northern India - Uttar Pradesh, Haryana,
Punjab and Uttarakhand - together drew an average 47.4 million
units of extra power a day from the grid in the week starting
July 10, according to the Central Electricity Regulatory
Commission. That’s equivalent to 6 percent of the electricity
generated in the northern region on July 27, according to
Central Electricity Authority data.  “For long-term solution to such grid indiscipline, it’s
important all utilities bridge their demand-supply gap and
that’s only possible when their financial health allows them to
contract adequate power purchases and pay for it,” said
Debasish Mishra, senior director at  Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu .  Permits for coal mines and land for  power plants  will
probably now be allocated at a swifter pace, the Planning
Commission’s Khan said, helping at least $33 billion of stalled
projects get off the ground.  Generation Capacity  “The concern is more about our generation capacity,” Khan
said. “If states had enough power, they would not overdraw and
bring us to this crisis situation.”  India added about 55,000 megawatts of capacity in the five
years ended March 31, 30 percent less than targeted. The country
has set itself a goal of adding 76,000 megawatts of capacity in
the five years to March 2017.  The nation depends on coal to generate more than half of
its electricity. Supply from  Coal India Ltd. (COAL) , the world’s
biggest producer, lags behind demand, causing power stations to
operate below capacity. Some plants are unable to afford more
expensive imported coal because of India’s domestic price
controls on electricity.  Eighteen of 89 coal-fired power stations in India had
“super-critical” stockpiles, or less than four days of supply,
and 33 had less than seven days, according to Central
Electricity Authority data for July 29. That compares with 14
plants with super-critical stockpiles on July 1.  Hydroelectricity Supply  The shortage of coal has become more acute because the
country’s worst monsoon in three years has hit India’s
hydroelectricity generation. Hydroelectricity supply in June
shrank 5.5 percent from a year earlier, the first year-on-year
decline since 2009, according to the Central Electricity
Authority.  “There is a need to ramp up power capacity on a war
footing,” said Raju V. Kanoria, president of the Federation of
Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “Coal and gas is a prerequisite for
spurring investments in the power sector and reforms that will
help make these fuels available must no longer be held back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  