-- TMX Deal Puts Canada Finance Firms in Charge of Exchange
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-08-01T21:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/tmx-deal-puts-canada-finance-firms-in-charge-of-exchange.html
Some of  Canada ’s biggest financial
institutions gained ownership of the country’s main stock
exchanges, derivatives bourse and securities clearing house
after sealing a C$3.73 billion ($3.71 billion) takeover of the
Toronto Stock Exchange owner.  Maple Group Acquisition Corp., whose 12 members include
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  and
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , yesterday acquired 91 percent of  TMX
Group Inc. (X)  shares from investors for C$50 each in a cash-and-
stock offer. Maple today closed its takeovers of the Canadian
Depository for Securities Ltd. clearing house and exchange
operator Alpha Trading Systems.  Maple plans to buy the rest of TMX stock and integrate the
company with CDS and the bank-owned Alpha, formerly TMX’s
biggest competitor. The Toronto-based company will now need to
look abroad for growth, analysts and investors said.  “Now that they’ve consolidated most of the exchange-traded
world in Canada into one company, how do you outgrow just the
broader Canadian  capital markets ?”  Ed Ditmire , an exchange
analyst with Macquarie Group Ltd. in  New York , said in an
interview. “They’ll have to look internationally for more and
more acquisitions, partnerships or new business ventures.”  Maple’s transactions combine Canada’s main equities markets
-- the Toronto Stock Exchange,  TSX Venture Exchange  and Alpha
Exchange -- with  Montreal ’s derivatives bourse and the country’s
securities clearing services. TMX joins  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ,  Hong
Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd . and  Australia ’s ASX Ltd. among
exchanges that integrate trading and clearing.  ‘Integrated Exchange’  “Having an integrated exchange as a result of combining
the clearing and the trading will allow management to develop
expanded services,”  Luc Bertrand , a Maple director, said in an
interview. “We’re going to have much greater ease in reaching
out to the participants and offering expanded services when it
comes to risk management, better clearing and so forth.”  TMX plans approximately C$20 million of annual savings
starting in 2014 from its combination, Chief Executive Officer
 Thomas Kloet  said in a July 27 earnings call. The company will
record C$24 million of costs from combining overlapping
businesses and consolidating technology. Kloet becomes CEO of
Maple, which will be renamed TMX Group Ltd. on Aug. 10.  The combined TMX may earn C$4.16 a share in 2013 and C$4.80
in 2014, and have a return on equity “in the high single
digits” during the next couple years, RBC Capital Markets
analyst Geoffrey Kwan said in a July 20 note. It may have
adjusted per-share  earnings  of C$3.15 in 2012, Kwan, who rates
TMX a sector perform, said in a July 30 note.  Strong Entity  “I’m pretty happy,”  Jim Hall , chief investment officer of
Mawer Investment Management Ltd., which sold 2.1 million TMX
shares to Maple last week, said in a telephone interview from
Calgary. “This is a really strong entity with really strong
market positions in Canada and opportunity to grow abroad. What
more do you want?”  TMX is “committed” to exploring opportunities to grow
internally and through takeovers, investments and partnerships,
Maple said in a July 20 filing.  “TMX Group is actively engaged in discussions regarding
various potential transactions, some of which, if completed,
would be material,” the company said.  The TMX takeover follows at least $32 billion of scuttled
global deals among bourses in the past two years, including
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s failed October 2010 bid to buy ASX,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Unsolicited Bid  The transaction ends a 15-month effort by some banks and
pension funds to buy TMX. Maple made an unsolicited bid in May
that challenged TMX’s friendly combination with the London Stock
Exchange Group Plc. The LSE deal collapsed in June 2011 after
failing to get enough shareholder support, leaving Maple as the
sole suitor.  TMX set a  shareholders’ meeting  for Sept. 12 to approve the
exchange of remaining TMX shares for Maple stock. Shareholders
will own between 28 and 42 percent of the combined company.  The new company will be majority held by four of Canada’s
six-biggest banks, the country’s four largest pension funds and
four other firms.  Royal Bank of Canada , the country’s largest
lender, didn’t join Maple because it advised LSE last year;  Bank
of Montreal (BMO) , the fourth-biggest bank, isn’t part of Maple
because it is TMX’s adviser.  Global Perceptions  The bank ownership may reinforce global perceptions that
the country’s equity markets lack competition, which could drive
away foreign brokers from trading in Canada, said Renee Colyer,
CEO of consulting firm Forefactor Inc.  “We may become a less-attractive market to any external
parties,” Colyer, former director of research at TSX Group,
said in an interview. “We’ll be perceived more closed.”  TMX exchanges and Alpha combined had 85 percent of the
market for stocks trading in June, based on  statistics  from the
Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada. Chi-X
Canada, an alternative trading system majority owned by  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604) , had 8.4 percent market share.  Maple’s takeover may provide opportunities for the four-
year-old Chi-X Canada platform, Tal Cohen, CEO of Chi-X Global
Holdings LLC, said in an interview.  “Participants are looking to support a market like Chi-X
that not only offers better pricing and better trading
efficiencies, but one that keeps the incumbent exchange -- now
given its size and ownership -- honest,” Cohen said. “At the
end of the day, Maple is good for Canada, but we still think
that competition is important to ensuring that Canada is vital,
not only on a regional but a global stage.”  Laurence Booth, a  University of Toronto  finance professor,
sees Maple’s takeover as going “back to the future”. The
Toronto Stock Exchange was once a private company with seats
held by Canada’s biggest banks until its November 2002
transformation into North America’s first publicly traded
exchange.  “We’ve gone almost full circle, in that the owners of what
will be the new exchange are essentially the biggest
institutions in Canada,” Booth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  