-- Manufacturing Index Sinks ADRs as Suntech Down: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-08-01T20:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/yanzhou-jumps-on-hsbc-rating-as-suntech-tumbles-china-overnight.html
Chinese equities  traded in  New York 
fell for a third day on concern the government’s pledge to boost
growth won’t be enough as the weakest manufacturing data in
eight months add evidence of a slowdown in the Asian economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. lost 0.5 percent to 86.36
yesterday in New York.  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN)  slid the most in
three weeks while  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  rose to a four-week
high after HSBC Holdings Plc rated the stock neutral in a first-
time recommendation.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  lost 36 percent
in a three-day tumble after analysts raised questions about the
world’s biggest solar maker’s ability to refinance debt.  A government report yesterday showed the  Purchasing
Managers ’ Index of manufacturing unexpectedly fell to 50.1 in
July, the weakest in eight months. Leaders of China’s ruling
Communist Party pledged to keep adjusting policies to ensure
stable growth, the official Xinhua News Agency reported July 31.
Six companies on the Bloomberg China-US gauge missed analysts’
sales estimates by an average of 10 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Chinese government has done very little and investors
had expected them to do a lot,” Alexander Muromcew, who manages
$500 million in emerging-market stocks at TIAA-CREF in  San
Francisco , said by phone yesterday. “The markets are in a
malaise, investors are in a real funk and second-quarter
earnings haven’t been anything to get excited about.”  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.3 percent to $34.30,
the highest level since June 19. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
of the biggest U.S. shares declined 0.3 percent to 1,375.32, as
the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to provide additional support for
the economy disappointed investors anticipating a more
definitive sign of further monetary easing.  A separate purchasing managers’ index released yesterday by
HSBC and Markit Economics indicated that manufacturing
contracted at a slower pace in July. The gauge, which covers
more than 420 companies and is weighted more toward smaller
businesses, rose to 49.3 from 48.2 in June, after a preliminary
reading of 49.5 released last week.  Suntech, based in Wuxi of  China ’s Jiangsu province, sank 11
percent to $1.01, after earlier falling below $1 for the first
time since the company’s initial public offering in December
2005.  Suntech Debt  U.S. investors have lost confidence with Suntech after the
company this week said it hadn’t verified the existence of 560
million euros ($689 million) in German bonds pledged as
collateral by an affiliated company, Aaron Chew, an analyst at
Maxim Group LLC in New York, said in a July 31 interview.  Suntech can raise money in China to meet its $541 million
debt obligations and the government may also step in with a
bailout, Liu Wenping, vice president of Chinese investment
research firm Pacific Epoch, said in yesterday’s interview  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the solar-wafer maker that reported four
consecutive quarterly losses, slid 9.9 percent in its fourth day
of rout to $1.28.  Focus Media, a digital advertising company based in
 Shanghai , declined 4.4 percent to $18.91, the biggest daily loss
since July 10.  Yanzhou, China’s fourth-largest producer of coal, jumped
6.3 percent to $15.80, the most since July 3. HSBC set a  price
target  of HK$12.80 for the company’s shares traded in  Hong Kong ,
implying a 4.5 percent gain from the current level. Seventeen
out of 40 analysts recommended buying the stock while seven gave
it a sell, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Dangdang Rises  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , China’s biggest online book
retailer, advanced 4.2 percent to a one-week high of $5.25. The
company started to accept orders of its new electronic reader on
July 26, and aims to ship 10,000 devices within a month,
according to a post it made on Weibo, a Twitter-like service.  The new device will “surely drive growth in sales of
electronic books,” Dangdang Chief Executive Officer Li Guoqing
said in an e-mail interview July 26. The Doucon reader, priced
at 499  yuan  ($78), may not cover production costs of 490 yuan a
unit, and marketing expenses, he said.  ADRs of China Petroleum and Chemical Corp., the biggest oil
refiner in the country known as Sinopec, rose for a fourth day,
adding 0.3 percent to $90.28. The ADRs are trading 0.6 percent
below Hong Kong shares yesterday, from a  discount  of 0.9 percent
a day earlier.  China likely to boost gas and diesel prices this month
after three cuts this year because international crude  oil
prices  to which the nation’s prices are pegged have increased,
Xinhua News Agency said yesterday in a report.  Crude oil for September delivery advanced 1 percent to
settle at $88.91 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
The prices gained 3.7 percent in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  