-- Hyatt Profit Climbs 5.4% on Hotel Demand in U.S. Cities
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-08-01T12:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/hyatt-second-quarter-profit-increases-on-demand-in-u-s-cities.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , the chain
controlled by the Pritzker family, said second-quarter earnings
climbed 5.4 percent amid strong demand in major U.S. cities.  Net income rose to $39 million, or 24 cents a share, from
$37 million, or 22 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based
company said today in a statement. The average of 12  estimates 
in a Bloomberg survey was for earnings of 22 cents a share.  Hyatt is benefiting from steady bookings at its high-end
hotels in “gateway” U.S. cities, said Nikhil Bhalla, a senior
lodging analyst at  FBR & Co. (FBRC)  in Arlington, Virginia. Hotel
occupancy in the top 25 U.S. markets climbed to 69 percent this
year through June, from 66 percent a year earlier, according to
 Smith Travel Research Inc. , based in Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  About 70 percent of Hyatt’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization is from the U.S., “and
that region has held up better than some other parts of the
world,” Bhalla said in a telephone interview before the report.  Second-quarter revenue rose to $1.01 billion from $936
million a year earlier. Revenue per available room, an industry
measure of occupancies and rates, increased 8.7 percent for
full-service hotels in  North America . Overseas, revpar climbed
3.8 percent.  Adjusted earnings, which exclude items such as gains and
losses on marketable securities, fell to $39 million, or 24
cents a share, from $46 million, or 27 cents, a year earlier.
The year-earlier profit included a gain of $12 million, or 7
cents a share, from a tax adjustment against losses in the
company’s foreign operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  