-- Yelp Sales Top Estimates as New Markets Push User Growth
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-08-02T20:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/yelp-second-quarter-sales-top-estimates-on-move-into-new-markets.html
Yelp Inc. (YELP)  shares rose 17 percent
after the online review website reported second-quarter sales
that topped analysts’ estimates, as an expansion into new
regions helped widen its user base.  Revenue rose 67 percent to $32.7 million, the San
Francisco-based company said yesterday in a statement, beating
the average analyst prediction of $30.5 million compiled by
Bloomberg. The net loss was $1.98 million, or 3 cents a share.
Analysts on average were  projecting  a loss of 5 cents.  As rivals Google Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  add local content,
Yelp is spending more on marketing, adding mobile features and
pushing into new countries such as  Denmark . The company also
announced a partnership with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to integrate its local
content into software for the iPhone and iPad, the best-selling
smartphone and tablet, as well as a deal to include local
features in  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing search engine.  “It’s pretty strong revenue growth,” said  Aaron Kessler ,
an analyst at Raymond James & Associates in  San Francisco  who
rates Yelp market perform and doesn’t own the stock. “Mobile is
definitely helping drive traffic.”  Money spent on sales and marketing, the company’s largest
expense, increased 65 percent to $20.3 million in the second
quarter after surging 67 percent in the previous period. Yelp
expanded into eight new markets in the quarter, including
Finland and Norway, bumping total active markets worldwide to
90.  More Reviews  At the same time, more users are coming to the site and
reviewing businesses more often. Reviews increased 54 percent to
more than 30 million, while average monthly unique visitors grew
52 percent to more than 78 million, Yelp said. The company’s
mobile applications were used on 7.2 million unique devices a
month on average.  In last year’s second quarter, the company posted a net
loss of $1.17 million, or 8 cents a share, on sales of $19.6
million. Third-quarter revenue will be $34.5 million to $35.5
million, Yelp said, compared with the average analyst estimate
of $34.3 million.  Shares rose to $22 at the close in  New York . Yelp has risen
47 percent since its March 1 initial public offering.  Yelp was co-founded by  Jeremy Stoppelman  and Russel Simmons
in 2004. Its services will be featured in software coming later
this year from Apple to let mobile users “check in” at local
businesses and broadcast their whereabouts to friends.  While Google and Facebook together may control almost 40
percent of the U.S. online display-advertising market by 2014,
Yelp isn’t  projected  to be in the top five, according to
researcher EMarketer Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  