-- Yields Lowest in 45 Years Still Cheapest Since ’96: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-08-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/yields-lowest-in-45-years-still-cheapest-since-96-muni-credit.html
Tax-exempt municipal bonds are at
their cheapest compared with company debt since at least 1996,
signaling that local-government securities offer value even with
yields close to the lowest since the 1960s.  Corporate bonds, which are taxable, have outpaced city and
state debt as fixed-income buyers sought shelter from financial-
market turmoil. As a result, the  extra yield  investors typically
demand to buy 15-year company bonds instead of similar-maturity
tax-exempts has shrunk to less than 10 percent of the 10-year
average, Bloomberg Fair Valuation Indexes show.  For Charles Breunig, who helps manage $3 billion of munis
at American Family Mutual Insurance, the disappearing yield gap
has been a sign to shift into tax-exempts from taxable munis.  “Tax-exempts offer better protection” if interest rates
start to climb, he said in an interview from Madison,  Wisconsin .
“We want to maximize our relative performance.”  As the extra yield on corporate bonds over tax-exempts has
declined, so has the cushion debt-holders get against a
historically higher default rate for company securities. Only
0.13 percent of municipal bonds rated by Moody’s Investors
Service defaulted from 1970 to 2011, compared with more than 11
percent of company borrowings.  Defaults Down  Defaults are down for local debt as  tax revenue  has
rebounded following the recession that ended in 2009. Forty-two
municipal issuers defaulted for the first time this year through
July 31, below the average of 76 for the same period the past
two years, according to Municipal Market Advisors, a research
firm based in Concord,  Massachusetts .  Interest rates on 20-year general obligations sank to 3.61
percent last week, approaching the 45-year low of 3.6 percent
set in January, according to a Bond Buyer index.  Corporate yields have dropped even faster amid a
Treasuries-led rally. Fifteen-year company bonds rated A yielded
 3.21 percent  as of July 30, down from this year’s high of 4.15
percent in March, Bloomberg Fair Valuation Indexes show.  The company interest rate is about 0.1 percentage point
above munis rated AA-, two steps higher. The spread, which has
fallen from 0.73 percentage point in February, has averaged
about 1.14 percentage points in the past decade. On July 12, the
muni index even yielded 0.05 percentage point above the
corporate benchmark, the cheapest tax-exempts have been since
the company index began in 1996.  Compensation Question  The slimmer yield gap may not make sense, given that
economic growth has slowed, potentially crimping company
profits, while credit-rating downgrades surpass upgrades.
 Standard & Poor’s  lowered the marks for $2.16 trillion of
corporate debt worldwide in the first half of 2012 and raised
$707 billion.  “Given the slowdown in the global economy and tight
spreads, corporate investors should ask themselves if they are
being fully compensated,” said Gary Pollack, who manages $12
billion as head of fixed-income trading at Deutsche Bank AG’s
private-wealth unit in New York. “And if the answer is no, they
should be buying municipals.”  Pollack said he’s directing new cash to munis rather than
corporate debt.  For buyers paying the highest  tax rate , muni yields become
even more attractive. The  3.11 percent  yield on AA- munis
maturing in 15 years is equivalent to a 4.8 percent taxable rate
for investors in the top income bracket.  Similar Yields  In an example of how company and tax-free debt are offering
similar yields,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the
world’s largest computer-services provider, on July 25 sold 10-
year bonds rated AA-, Standard and Poor’s fourth-highest grade,
to yield about 2.05 percent. The same week, Regents of the
 University of California  sold tax-exempts with a similar rating
and maturity to yield 1.97 percent.  City and state debt is also on a pace to beat Treasuries
and corporate bonds for a second-straight year when adjusting
for volatility.  Munis have earned about 3 percent this year through July 30
after accounting for trading swings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Company
securities have earned 2.1 percent by that measure, compared
with about 0.7 percent for Treasuries.  Breunig said he expects muni and corporate yields to revert
to their historical relationship when fixed-income  interest
rates  climb. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury fell to
a record 1.379 percent on July 25.  “You don’t have to give up anything” in terms of yield,
he said. “And you have potentially great outperformance by tax-
exempts going forward in a rising interest-rate environment.”  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to offer
$1.55 billion of subordinate debt starting as soon as Aug. 6,
according to the city’s Office of Management and Budget. The
sale, backed by tax receipts, includes $850 million of tax-
exempt bonds that will go toward financing capital projects and
refunding. The agency also plans to sell $350 million of taxable
bonds, as well as $350 million of tax-exempt, variable-rate
bonds set to price Aug. 28. S&P rates the authority’s
subordinate credit AAA. (Added Aug. 1)  CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY plans to sell about $365
million of revenue bonds as soon as this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A portion of about $17 million will be
taxable. Moody’s rates the debt Aa2, third-highest. (Updated
Aug. 1)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  