-- Tyson Gay Seeks Redemption as He Sprints to Challenge Usain Bolt
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-01T16:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/tyson-gay-seeks-redemption-as-he-sprints-to-challenge-usain-bolt.html
U.S. sprinter Tyson Gay is getting a
shot at redemption in the  London  Olympics.  The 29-year-old has run the 100 faster than any American,
and his time of 9.69 seconds has been bettered only by defending
Olympic champion Usain Bolt.  Bolt eased up to win the gold medal in world-record time at
Beijing four years ago. Gay, a three-time world champion, didn’t
even make the start line.  “There’s a lot of pressure, I’m not going to lie,” Gay
said at a news conference today organized by his sponsor Adidas.
“I really want to redeem myself.”  Gay hurt his hamstring at the U.S. trials before the 2008
Beijing Games. That meant he couldn’t perform in the 200 meters
and arrived without any race training before starting the 100-
meter competition, where he was eliminated in the semifinals,
running 10.05. He won the 100 in the U.S. trials a month earlier
in a wind-assisted 9.68 seconds.  Gay’s chances of adding an Olympic medal to his collection
then evaporated when he and Davis Patton had a mix-up in the
heat stage of the 400-meter relay.  Gay clocked his quickest allowed 100-meter time a year
later at the 2009 world championships, good for second place
behind Bolt. The 25-year-old Jamaican extended his own world
record to 9.58 seconds.  Jamaican Duo  In London, Bolt’s not the only Jamaican sprinter Gay has to
be concerned with. Bolt’s training partner Yohan Blake won the
world championships last year after Bolt was disqualified for
false-starting. At the Jamaican trials Blake, 22, beat Bolt in
both the 100 and 200, clocking a personal best 9.75 seconds in
the shorter race, the fourth-fastest of all time.  Bolt remains the man to beat as far as Gay is concerned.  “He’s the only one who’s been where we’ve never been,”
said Gay, who’s also running the 200 meters. “He’s still one of
the favorites. He knows what it takes.”  Gay’s career has been hampered by injuries. He comes into
the London Games a year after surgery on his hip and expects to
be involved in one of the fastest races in history if he lines
up in the Aug. 5 100-meter final.  “If they run times I’ve never done before, I hope my body
is able to go there,” he said.  For Blake, the Olympics are a new experience. He had just
finished high school and was at home watching Bolt in Beijing
prance around in front of television cameras making his
trademark “lightening” sign.  “I try not to think about that rivalry. I just focus on me
and what I have to do,” Blake told reporters. “For me, I keep
it simple. I want to beat those guys but it’s all about the
execution.”  Not having the Olympic knowhow his rivals, who also include
another former world record-holder Asafa Powell of  Jamaica ,
isn’t a disadvantage, said Blake.  “Everyone’s talking about experience, experience,” he
said. “For me it’s about going out there and getting the job
done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the Olympic Park in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  