-- Zhang’s China Rail Video Sparks Outcry a Year After Crash
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-08-01T11:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-01/zhang-s-china-rail-video-sparks-outcry-a-year-after-crash.html
Three-time Oscar-nominated Chinese
director Zhang Yimou said he was shocked by allegations of
funding violations for a video he helped produce for the rail
ministry, which is trying to burnish its image after a crash
last year killed 40 people.  After a public outcry over the 18.5 million  yuan  ($2.9
million) the ministry paid in 2010 for the five-minute video,
Zhang told state-run Xinhua TV he got an after-tax payment of
2.5 million yuan for the film, which showcases trains and
railways across China. He provided advice and ideas and didn’t
know how the rest of the money was spent, he said.  “If the government decides to take further action against
the misuse of money, I will cooperate fully,” said Zhang, who
directed the Beijing Olympics opening ceremony and films
including “Raise the Red Lantern” and “Hero.”  Revelations about the video have reignited the public
outcry to root out corruption at the ministry that was first
sparked by last year’s fatal crash on  China ’s high-speed rail
network. The National Audit Office disclosed the cost of the
video and called for a probe of the production a month shy of
the one-year anniversary of the crash.  “The promotional video is only a small thing in the
ministry’s operations, but it’s a vivid example of”
mismanagement, said  Zhao Jian , a professor of economics at
Beijing Jiaotong University, which focuses on railways. “The
ministry should investigate it thoroughly to avoid such cases in
the future.”  Two calls to the rail ministry’s media office went
unanswered today. Two calls to Beijing New Picture Film Co., the
production company for seven of Zhang’s movies, also went
unanswered today.  Ousted Minister  Suspicions of corruption at the ministry were prompted in
February last year when then-minister  Liu Zhijun  was ousted from
office for “serious violations” of discipline. The State
Council then said in December, in the findings of its probe into
the July 2011 train crash, that Liu was among those who bear
“primary leadership responsibility” for the accident.  The audit office, as part of its regular examination of the
finances of government agencies, said in a report in June the
awarding of the video contract broke rules because it was done
without a public tender and that the final film “failed to
achieve its goals.” In addition to the anniversary of last
year’s crash, the report also came as China has increased
planned rail investments to shore up economic growth.  The Beijing Youth Daily newspaper published an editorial on
July 29 calling for greater public scrutiny of the rail
ministry. A thorough investigation of the video would be far
better for the ministry’s image than any promotional film, the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  