-- 
Malaysia Releases All 1,697 Held During Protest

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-07-10T04:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/malaysian-police-fire-tear-gas-at-protesters.html
Malaysian police released 1,697
people detained after thousands of opposition-backed activists
defied a government ban to  march  on  Kuala Lumpur ’s Merdeka
Stadium yesterday to demand fair elections.  All those held, including 170 women and children, were set
free either last night or today, a police spokesman said.
Protest leader Ambiga Sreenevasan, chairman of the Coalition for
Clean and Fair Elections, was among those detained, while
opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  suffered a head injury when tear
gas was fired, his daughter Nurul Izzah told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday.  The showdown came amid rising pressure for political change
in parts of  Southeast Asia  and ahead of general elections due in
Malaysia within the next two years. Thai voters this month
ejected a party that used soldiers to disperse opposition
protests in 2010 that led to more than 90 deaths, while
 Singapore ’s ruling party won its narrowest election victory
since independence in May.  “I’m not a very brave man, I ran when they shot tear gases
at me,” Wong Chin Huat, a member of the coalition’s steering
committee, said in an interview. “I’m afraid, but I will walk.
We have to overcome our fear. I believe that I have the right to
walk in any part of the city.”  Major roads into Malaysia’s capital city were  sealed  with
road blocks and barbed wire, train stations closed and buses
diverted, leaving some parts of Kuala Lumpur deserted. Even so,
thousands of people marched in the rain toward Merdeka Stadium,
according to Bloomberg reporters at the scene. Another group
gathered by the 88-floor Petronas Twin Towers, while a third
headed toward a royal palace though failed to hand in a petition
to the king.  Electoral Changes  The lobby group, also known as  Bersih , wanted electoral
changes, such as lengthening campaign periods to at least 21
days and using indelible ink on fingers to prevent people from
voting more than once.  Water cannons were used to disperse crowds in 2007 when
similar protests by same coalition, seeking changes to the
electoral system, drew 40,000 people in Kuala Lumpur.
Yesterday’s rally attracted about 6,000 people, the Star
newspaper reported online, citing Inspector-General of Police
Ismail Omar. Bersih put the figure at 50,000, the Malaysian
Insider said.  Ambiga’s coalition, which says it represents 60 non-
governmental organizations, took to the streets after Prime
Minister Najib Razak’s Cabinet ruled that it couldn’t hold a
rally in a stadium inside the city as it might cause congestion.  Helicopters hovered overhead as water cannons were used by
riot police to deter marchers. Activists started to disperse
after 4 p.m. yesterday.  No Stability  The protesters tried to give the impression  Malaysia  had no
political stability, Najib was cited as saying yesterday by the
official Bernama news service.  Bersih wanted to hold its rally in Merdeka Stadium as it
has historical significance, having been erected for the
country’s declaration of independence from the British in 1957.
It had planned a street rally and decided to move its protest
inside after King Mizan Zainal Abidin advised July 5 on the
potential harm to the country.  The Election Commission is looking into extending the
campaign period and plans to use biometric fingerprinting
instead of indelible ink, Election Commission Chairman Abdul
Aziz Mohd Yusof said in a television interview with TV3 and
Bernama on July 2. International observers may also be invited,
he said.  Government Transformation  “The prime minister has been very long on his economic and
government transformation, but a bit short on the democratic
transformation and on human rights,” Ibrahim Suffian, a
political analyst at the Selangor-based Merdeka Center for
Opinion Research said in an interview.  Najib’s government unveiled economic and government
transformation plans last year, aimed at boosting investment and
improving efficiency and transparency. It identified $444
billion of private sector-led projects to champion in the
current decade to help the Southeast Asian nation achieve its
aim of attaining high-income status by 2020.  Malaysia’s policies favoring the country’s ethnic-Malay
majority have held the economy back by spurring a brain drain
and limiting foreign spending, the  World Bank  said in a report
on April 28.  Defied Ban  Police  obtained court orders on July 7 barring 91 people,
including leaders of three separate planned protests, from
entering the capital yesterday, according to notices published
in the New Straits Times newspaper. The people named in the
court order included Bersih’s chairman as well as the heads of
two Malay rights groups opposed to the coalition which had
threatened to hold rival rallies.  Ambiga and some other Bersih leaders defied the ban to hold
a media briefing at a Kuala Lumpur hotel, also attended by
People’s Justice Party leader Anwar. They were blocked by police
and tear gas fired as they tried to join a crowd trying to march
toward the stadium.  Anwar, 62, was hospitalized for treatment to a bruise on
his head and a cut leg as he fell when police fired tear gas at
protesters, Malaysiakini reported online, citing the opposition
leader. His bodyguard was “severely” injured by a tear gas
canister, daughter Nurul Izzah said.  Rival Rallies  Tian Chua, vice president of Anwar’s party, was among those
a Bloomberg reporter saw detained by police. People’s Justice
Party deputy president Azmin Ali was also arrested, along with
three leaders of the opposition Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party, the
Star said.  Two Malay rights groups, Perkasa and UMNO Youth, which is
an arm of Najib’s ruling party, the United Malays Nasional
Organisation, threatened to hold rival rallies yesterday should
Bersih go ahead with street protests. UMNO Youth leader Khairy
Jamaluddin was also detained, the Star reported.  The authorities rejected applications to use stadiums
within Kuala Lumpur by all three groups, Home Minister
Hishammuddin Hussein said on July 8.  Yesterday’s gathering “was not the end, it is but one more
step in the long walk for clean and fair elections in
Malaysia,” Berish said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  