-- 
Malaysian Police Fire Tear Gas at Protesters

-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 
2011-07-09T14:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/malaysian-police-fire-tear-gas-as-protesters-defy-kuala-lumpur-rally-ban.html
Malaysian police fired tear gas and
rounded up protest leaders as thousands of opposition-backed
activists defied a government ban to  march  on  Kuala Lumpur ’s
Merdeka Stadium today to demand fair elections.  Some 1,667 people, including 167 women and children, were
arrested around the city by 6:40 p.m. local time, according to a
police website. Protest leader Ambiga Sreenevasan, chairman of
the Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections, was among those
detained, while opposition leader  Anwar Ibrahim  suffered a head
injury when tear gas was fired, his daughter Nurul Izzah told
reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.  The showdown comes amid rising pressure for political
change in parts of  Southeast Asia  and ahead of general elections
due in Malaysia within the next two years. Thai voters this week
elected to throw out a party that used soldiers to disperse
opposition protests last year that led to more than 90 deaths,
while  Singapore ’s ruling party won its narrowest election
victory since independence in May.  “I’m not a very brave man, I ran when they shot tear gases
at me,” Wong Chin Huat, a member of the coalition’s steering
committee, said in an interview. “I’m afraid, but I will walk.
We have to overcome our fear. I believe that I have the right to
walk in any part of the city.”  Barbed Wire  Major roads into Malaysia’s capital city were  sealed  with
road blocks and barbed wire, train stations closed and buses
diverted, leaving some parts of Kuala Lumpur deserted. Even so,
thousands of people marched in the rain toward Merdeka Stadium,
according to Bloomberg reporters at the scene. Another group was
seen headed toward a royal palace wanting to hand a petition to
the king, while a third gathered by the 88-floor Petronas Twin
Towers.  The lobby group, also known as  Bersih , wants electoral
changes, such as lengthening campaign periods to at least 21
days and using indelible ink on fingers to prevent people from
voting more than once.  Water cannons were used to disperse crowds in 2007 when
similar protests by Bersih, seeking changes to the electoral
system, drew 40,000 people in Kuala Lumpur. Today’s rally
attracted about 6,000 people, the Star newspaper reported online,
citing Inspector-General of Police Ismail Omar. All those
detained were scheduled to be released by 9:30 p.m., the Star
said, city police CID chief Ku Chin Wah.  Ambiga’s coalition, which says it represents 60 non-
governmental organizations, took to the streets after Prime
Minister Najib Razak’s Cabinet ruled that it couldn’t hold a
rally in a stadium inside the city as it might cause congestion.  Crowds Disperse  Helicopters hovered overhead as riot police with water
cannons stood by. Activists started to disperse after 4 p.m.  The protesters tried to give the impression  Malaysia  had no
political stability, Prime Minister Najib Razak was cited as
saying today by the official Bernama news service.  Bersih wanted to hold its rally in Merdeka Stadium as it
has historical significance, having been erected for the
country’s declaration of independence from the British in 1957.
It had planned a street rally and decided to move its protest
inside after King Mizan Zainal Abidin advised July 5 on the
potential harm to the country.  The Election Commission is looking into extending the
campaign period and plans to use biometric fingerprinting
instead of indelible ink, Election Commission Chairman Abdul
Aziz Mohd Yusof said in a television interview with TV3 and
Bernama on July 2. International observers may also be invited,
he said.  Government Transformation  “The prime minister has been very long on his economic and
government transformation, but a bit short on the democratic
transformation and on human rights,” Ibrahim Suffian, a
political analyst at the Selangor-based Merdeka Center for
Opinion Research said in an interview.  Najib’s government unveiled economic and government
transformation plans last year, aimed at boosting investment and
improving efficiency and transparency. It identified $444
billion of private sector-led projects to champion in the
current decade to help the Southeast Asian nation achieve its
aim of attaining high-income status by 2020.  Malaysia’s policies favoring the country’s ethnic-Malay
majority have held the economy back by spurring a brain drain
and limiting foreign spending, the  World Bank  said in a report
on April 28.  Defied Ban  Police  obtained court orders on July 7 barring 91 people,
including leaders of three separate planned protests, from
entering the capital today, according to notices published in
the New Straits Times newspaper. The people named in the court
order included Bersih’s chairman as well as the heads of two
Malay rights groups opposed to the coalition which had
threatened to hold rival rallies.  Ambiga and some other Bersih leaders defied the ban to hold
a media briefing at a Kuala Lumpur hotel, also attended by
opposition People’s Justice Party leader Anwar. They were
blocked by police and tear gas fired as they tried to join a
crowd trying to march toward the stadium.  Anwar was taken to hospital for treatment, his daughter
said, without revealing the extent of his head injury. His
bodyguard was “severely” injured by a tear gas canister, Nurul
Izzah said.  Tian Chua, vice president of Anwar’s party, was among those
a Bloomberg reporter saw detained by police. People’s Justice
Party deputy president Azmin Ali was also arrested, along with
three leaders of the opposition Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party, the
Star said.  Two Malay rights groups, Perkasa and UMNO Youth, which is
an arm of Najib’s ruling party, the United Malays Nasional
Organisation, threatened to hold rival rallies today should
Bersih go ahead with street protests. UMNO Youth leader Khairy
Jamaluddin was also detained, the Star reported.  The authorities rejected applications to use stadiums
within Kuala Lumpur by all three groups, Home Minister
Hishammuddin Hussein said on July 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  