-- 
Berlusconi’s Fininvest Ordered to Pay CIR Over $770 Million, Will Appeal

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-07-09T14:21:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/berlusconi-s-fininvest-ordered-to-pay-cir-over-770-million-will-appeal.html
Fininvest SpA, the investment company
of Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , was ordered to pay
Compagnie Industriali Riunite SpA more than 540 million euros
($770 million) by an Italian court. Fininvest said it will
appeal.  The company will also have to pay interest and CIR’s court
expenses, an appeals court in Milan decided, according to the
text of the ruling released today and obtained by Bloomberg
News. The decision is effective immediately, the court said.  Marina Berlusconi, the premier’s daughter and Fininvest
president, called the decision a “bitter defeat for justice”
and “the umpteenth scandalous episode of frantic aggression
that has gone on for years against my father, by all means and
on all fronts, including entrepreneurial and economic.”
Fininvest will appeal the ruling, she said in an e-mailed
statement.  Fininvest in October 2009 was ordered to pay 750 million
euros to CIR for bribing a judge during a takeover battle for
publisher  Arnoldo Mondadori Editore SpA (MN)  dating back to 1991.
Fininvest, which said at the time the ruling was “profoundly
unjust,” appealed and won a suspension of the court ruling,
which allowed the company to delay payment while its appeal went
through the courts.  In December 2009, Fininvest provided an 806 million-euro
bank guarantee, including interest and “ancillary costs” to
cover the damages owed to CIR.  Bank Guarantee  The guarantee was provided by a group of banks including
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Banca Monte dei Paschi di
Siena SpA (BMPS)  and  Banca Popolare di Sondrio SCARL (BPSO) , Ansa news agency
reported at the time. Compensation will be paid if Fininvest
loses the appeal.  With today’s ruling the court ordered Fininvest to pay a
“fine amounting to twice the current value of the stake” the
company holds in Mondadori, Marina Berlusconi said in the
statement. “We shouldn’t pay a single euro,” she said.  Mondadori, 50.1 percent owned by Fininvest, has a market
capitalization of 610 million euros, according to Bloomberg
data.  The appeals court said separately that Silvio Berlusconi
should be considered co-responsible for the civil charges tied
to the bribery ruling, Ansa reported.  The civil charges in the current Milan case date back to
the period between 1986 and 1991, when Silvio Berlusconi was
building his media empire. He began accumulating shares in
Mondadori in the 1980s in a bid to wrest control of  Italy ’s
biggest publisher from financier Carlo De Benedetti.  Bribery Confirmation  “The ruling confirms once again that Mondadori was
subtracted from CIR through the bribery of Judge Vittorio Metta,
which was organized on behalf of and in the interest of
Fininvest,” Milan-based CIR said in an e-mailed statement. CIR
added the ruling “affects a business story and has nothing to
do with the current political situation.”  According to the Italian law, Fininvest may now request a
court to suspend the payment to CIR only on the ground of a
“serious and irreparable damage” to the company’s finances.  “The ruling does not put Fininvest’s survival at risk, but
certainly puts its finances under stress and will have a serious
impact on this year’s earnings,” said Emanuele Vizzini, who
helps manage about $1 billion at Investitori SGR in Milan. He
owns shares in Berlusconi’s media company  Mediaset SpA (MS)  and
 Mediolanum SpA (MED) , a financial-services company partly owned by the
politician.  Dropped Clause  Berlusconi on July 5 said his government dropped a clause
from Italy’s new budget law that would have helped closely held
Fininvest to delay the damages to CIR, following the ruling. The
premier said he eliminated the loophole because of “shameful
polemics” from the opposition, according to an e-mailed
statement by his office.  The clause would have allowed convicted parties in civil
cases to put off paying fines in excess of 20 million euros
until a final verdict is reached.  Silvio Berlusconi told reporters July 7 in  Rome  that his
holding company doesn’t need to be saved by any special laws and
that Fininvest will “save itself.” He added that the clause
was “a fair and balanced rule” and may be added again in the
final version of the government’s austerity law following debate
in parliament.  Silvio Berlusconi entered politics in 1994. Before then he
controlled Fininvest directly. Marina, his oldest daughter, is
also chairman of Mondadori.  CIR, whose honorary chairman is De Benedetti, controls
businesses including publisher  Gruppo Editoriale L’Espresso SpA (ES) ,
power generator Sorgenia SpA and auto-parts company Sogefi SpA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  