-- 
Betty Ford, First Lady, Drug-Treatment Pioneer, Dies at 93

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   L a u r a   T i l l m a n
-- 
2011-07-09T04:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/betty-ford-first-lady-drug-treatment-pioneer-dies-at-93.html
Betty Ford, the outspoken U.S. first
lady whose candid revelations about her struggles with breast
cancer and drug and alcohol abuse helped spur awareness of
issues few Americans had openly discussed before, died yesterday.
She was 93 and lived in Rancho Mirage,  California .  Ford “distinguished herself through her courage and
compassion,” President  Barack Obama  said in a statement. She
was “a powerful advocate for women’s health and women’s
rights” who also “helped reduce the social stigma surrounding
alcoholism and inspired thousands to seek much-needed
treatment,” Obama said.  No details of Ford’s death were immediately available. Her
husband, Gerald Ford, U.S. president from August 1974 to January
1977, died in 2006 at age 93.  A former dancer and fashion model, Betty Ford shocked the
nation in 1974 when she was diagnosed with breast cancer and
openly discussed her mastectomy. Eight years later, after
disclosing an addiction to pills and alcohol, she co-founded the
 Betty Ford Center , one of the first facilities for treatment of
chemical dependency geared specifically to women.  Her decision to talk about her cancer publicly prompted
thousands of women to call their doctors to schedule mammograms
and learn about breast self-examination. In the week after her
surgery, 27 clinics reported a four- to 10-fold increase in
cancer-prevention inquiries, according to the  American Cancer
Society .  ‘Patterns and Purposes’  “I believe we are all here to help each other and that our
individual lives have patterns and purposes,” Ford said in a
1975 speech to the cancer society. “My illness turned out to
have a very special purpose -- helping save other lives -- and I
am grateful for what I was able to do.”  Ford’s legacy “will live on in people around the country
whose lives are longer and better because of her work,” former
President  Bill Clinton , and his wife, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , said in a statement.  Time magazine in 2009  included Ford  on a list of “Top 10
Colorful First Spouses,” noting her willingness to discuss sex
and her affinity for dancing in the halls of the White House. On
her husband’s last full day in office, she fulfilled a wish to
dance on the Cabinet Room table, a  moment captured  by White
House photographer David Hume Kennerly.  ‘Courageous Candor’  In a statement last night, former President  Jimmy Carter ,
who defeated Gerald Ford in the 1976 election, praised Betty
Ford’s “courageous candor,” which he said “helped forge a new
era of openness” in the aftermath of the  Watergate  scandal that
toppled the presidency of  Richard Nixon .  Gerald Ford , who became
Nixon’s vice president in 1973, assumed the presidency after
Nixon resigned in disgrace.  “Betty Ford helped restore the public’s faith in the
presidency as an institution by creating an atmosphere of
honesty,” said Edith Mayo, who created a Smithsonian
Institution exhibit called  “First Ladies: Political Role and
Public Image.”   Ford co-founded the Betty Ford Center in Rancho Mirage in
1982 with longtime friend Leonard Firestone, who served as U.S.
ambassador to  Belgium  under Nixon and Ford. The center reserves
50 percent of its space for women.  The scenic facility near  Palm Springs  has treated more than
90,000 patients, including celebrities such as Kelsey Grammer
and  Elizabeth Taylor .  In 2006, Ford established the  Betty Ford Institute , which
operates independently of the treatment center, to translate
scientific findings into more effective research practices,
educate health-care professionals about addiction, and advocate
for better access to addiction treatment and prevention.  ‘Contemporary and Realistic’  “Betty Ford made the role of first lady a contemporary and
realistic position,” said historian Carl Sferrazza Anthony, who
has written two books about U.S. presidential wives. “She
humanized it.”  Occasionally rankling political advisers and taking stands
that differed from those of her husband and fellow Republicans,
she spoke out in favor of the proposed Equal Rights Amendment
and backed the  Supreme Court ’s 1973 Roe v. Wade decision
affirming a woman’s right to have an abortion without
restrictions during the first trimester of pregnancy.  Candid Interviews  In a “60 Minutes” interview in 1997, Ford disclosed that
she had had a facelift. Earlier, in a  1975 interview  with the
same CBS News program, she’d said that she would likely try
marijuana if she were a teenager and would support her daughter,
then 18, if she chose to have premarital sex. CBS called it one
of the most candid interviews in the show’s history.  Gerald Ford was supportive of his wife’s outspokenness.
Though he sometimes joked about losing votes due to her comments,
he told  “60 Minutes”  that he resisted pressure from members of
his Cabinet to force the first lady into the background.  “I’ve never, to my best recollection, told her to say
things differently or to have a different point of view
publicly,” the former president said. “In the first place, I
knew she wouldn’t abide by my recommendations.”  Elizabeth Ann “Betty” Bloomer was born in  Chicago  on
April 8, 1918, to William and Hortense Bloomer. She was raised
in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan .  She studied dance at the  Bennington School of the Dance  in
 Vermont  before moving to  New York  to join Martha Graham’s
company. Her friendship with the renowned choreographer would
continue until Graham’s death in 1991.  While in New York, she supported herself as a fashion model
for the John Robert Powers agency, according to her  official
White House biography .  Back to Michigan  In 1941, Ford returned to Grand Rapids. There she began
working as a fashion coordinator at a local department store.
She also formed her own dance troupe and taught disabled
children the value of rhythm and movement. She would later use
her position as first lady to advocate for children with
disabilities, the arts and women’s issues.  At 24, she married William Warren, whom she had known since
childhood. They were divorced after five years.  She met Gerald Ford, a lawyer and former collegiate
football star, in 1947. They were married the next year, two
weeks before he was first elected to Congress.  “I was very unprepared to be a political wife, but I
didn’t worry because I really didn’t think he was going to
win,” she later said.  The couple had three sons, Michael, John and Steven, and a
daughter, Susan.  Gerald Ford represented Michigan in the U.S. House of
Representatives from 1949 until 1973, when Nixon picked him as
vice president to replace Spiro T. Agnew, who had stepped down
amid bribery charges.  Cancer Found  Only six weeks after her husband became president, doctors
found a malignant lump in her breast. She underwent a radical
mastectomy, meaning the entire breast was removed as well as
underarm lymph nodes and chest wall muscles under the breast.  During her recovery, she invited reporters into her
hospital room to photograph her in her bathrobe. When the public
showed their support by sending flowers, her husband said she
would instead prefer donations to the  American Cancer Society .  Breast cancer  is currently the second-leading cause of
cancer-related deaths among U.S. women. When caught early, the
survival rate is more than 90 percent. Former first lady Nancy Reagan, who had a mastectomy in 1987, yesterday called Ford “an
inspiration to so many through her efforts to educate women
about breast cancer.”  Dependency, Treatment  After Gerald Ford lost to Carter in 1976, he and Betty
moved to Rancho Mirage.  Her painful battle with cancer and the stress of her highly
visible public role culminated in a dependency on painkilling
drugs and alcohol.  In 1978, she sought treatment at Bethesda Naval Hospital in
Bethesda,  Maryland . Four years later, again seeking to use the
lessons learned from her own tribulations for public good, she
founded the Betty Ford Center to treat chemical dependency.  Ford chronicled her life through the White House years in a
1978 autobiography,  “The Times of My Life.”  Her second book,
 “Betty: A Glad Awakening,”  was published in 1987. It recounts
her recovery from chemical dependency.  She was presented with the Presidential Medal of Freedom,
the country’s highest civilian honor, by President  George H.W.
Bush  in November 1991. In October 1999 she and her husband were
awarded the  Congressional Gold Medal  for “dedicated public
service and outstanding humanitarian contributions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  