-- 
Big Companies ‘A Bit Wary’ on Technology Spending, HP Chief Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-09T12:42:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/big-companies-a-bit-wary-on-technology-spending-hp-chief-says.html
Large corporations are exercising
caution about large-scale information technology spending amid
concerns about global economic growth and fiscal uncertainty,
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive Officer  Leo Apotheker  said.  While technology upgrades are under way at many companies,
“everybody’s a bit cautious in an environment like this,”
Apotheker said today on the sidelines of the Rencontres
Economiques conference in Aix-en-Provence, France. “People are
still a bit wary.”  Providers of computer hardware and services are benefiting
unevenly from a rebound in technology spending. HP’s rival
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  reported a surprise decline in hardware sales last
month. Still, IT spending by companies and governments in the
U.S. is expected to grow 5.6 percent this year, about double the
estimated rate of growth in gross domestic product, according to
market researcher IDC.  Apotheker, who took over HP last November after leaving SAP
AG, is looking to slice costs and spur sales after cutting $1
billion from the company’s annual revenue projection in May.
Under its new CEO, HP is shifting toward cloud-based services
and new devices like tablet computers to reduce reliance on
traditional personal computers. In May, he warned employees to
expect “another tough quarter” in the July period and urged
managers to cut expenses.  HP is continuing discussions with other hardware
manufacturers on licensing its WebOS mobile operating system for
their devices, Apotheker said today, and isn’t concerned such
agreements could cannibalize sales of its own TouchPad tablet.
That device went on sale July 1.  Samsung Electronics Co., the maker of devices based on
Google Inc.’s Android software including the Galaxy Tab and
Nexus smartphone, is in talks to use WebOS in future devices,
three people with knowledge of the discussions said earlier this
year. Apotheker declined to identify the company’s potential
partners in licensing the software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Aix-en-Provence,  France  at   mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  