-- 
Brazil Changes Short Dollar Position Rules to Weaken Real

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-09T01:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/brazil-changes-short-dollar-position-rules-to-weaken-real-1-.html
Brazil ’s  central bank  changed
currency market rules to curb bets that the real will appreciate
against the dollar, according to an e-mailed statement.  Brazil will  require  that banks make non-interest bearing
deposits with the central bank equivalent to 60 percent of their
short dollar positions exceeding $1 billion dollars, the bank
said. The rule, which banks will have five days to implement,
amends a regulation introduced in January that required banks to
pay deposits on short positions above $3 billion. A short
position is a bet that the price will fall.  Brazil is seeking to improve the working of the currency
spot market and reduce short dollar positions that reached $14.7
billion in June, the central bank said.  The central bank announced the measure a day after Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said more measures may be needed to
defend Brazil from what he’s called a global “currency war.”  The real rose to as high as 1.5524 per dollar this week,
its strongest level since 1999, as investors increased demand
for higher-yielding assets amid easing concern over  Greece ’s
debt crisis. Brazil’s government has repeatedly complained that
a stronger currency harms its exporters while rich nations boost
their own exports by devaluing their currencies.  The central bank seeks to limit the real’s appreciation by
making it more expensive to hold short positions on the dollar,
said  Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in  New York .  ‘Distortions’  “It will create a lot of distortions,” Volpon said in a
phone interview. “Markets could be a little volatile for a few
days.”  The measure is unlikely to be effective since Brazil’s
 interest rates  are so enticing that investors will find ways to
bring money into the country, Volpon said.  The real has gained 48 percent against the dollar since the
end of 2008, the most among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Policy makers raised interest rates at their last four
meetings, to 12.25 percent, and traders are betting they will
raise rates twice more this year, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures.  The real weakened 0.6 percent to 1.5625 per  U.S. dollar 
today.  In October, Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases. On March 29, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration increased to 6 percent a tax on new
corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks. A few days
later, she applied the higher tax to renewed, renegotiated, or
transferred loans of up to two years in length. Companies
previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans of up to 90 days and
zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  “The currency war continues because the recovery in
advanced countries has led to expansionary monetary policies,”
Mantega told reporters in Paris yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  