-- 
Brazil Central Bank Acts to Curb Short Dollar Positions, End Real’s Rally

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-09T05:33:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/brazil-acts-to-curb-short-dollar-positions-and-weaken-real.html
Brazil  took further action to end a
rally in the real yesterday, a day after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said that a global currency war is still on.  Latin America ’s largest economy will  require  that banks
make non-interest bearing deposits with the central bank
equivalent to 60 percent of short dollar positions that exceed
$1 billion dollars or their capital base, whichever is smaller,
the central bank said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The rule, which banks will have five working days to
implement, amends a regulation introduced in January that
required banks to pay deposits on short positions above $3
billion. A short position is a bet that the price will fall.  Brazil is seeking to improve the working of the currency
spot market and reduce bets that the real will strengthen which
reached $14.7 billion in June, the central bank said. June’s
long real positions were up from $9.3 billion in May and the
highest since December.  The real rose to as high as 1.5524 per dollar this week,
the strongest level since 1999, as investors increased demand
for higher-yielding assets amid easing concern over  Greece ’s
debt crisis. Brazil’s government has repeatedly complained that
a stronger currency harms its exporters while rich nations boost
their own exports by devaluing their currencies.  The central bank seeks to limit the real’s appreciation by
making it more expensive to hold short positions on the dollar,
 Tony Volpon , a Latin America strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in  New York , said in a phone interview yesterday.  ‘Distortions’  “It will create a lot of distortions,” Volpon said.
“Markets could be a little volatile for a few days.”  The measure is unlikely to be effective since Brazil’s
interest rates are so enticing that investors will find ways to
bring money into the country, Volpon said.  The real has gained 48 percent against the dollar since the
end of 2008, the most among 25 emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Policy makers raised  interest rates  at their last four
meetings, to 12.25 percent, and traders are betting they will
raise rates twice more this year, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures.  The real weakened 0.6 percent to 1.5625 per  U.S. dollar 
yesterday.  In October, Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax on foreign
investors’ fixed-income purchases. On March 29, President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration increased to 6 percent a tax on new
corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks. A few days later,
she applied the higher tax to renewed, renegotiated, or
transferred loans of as long as two years in length. Companies
previously paid a 5.38 percent tax on loans of up to 90 days and
zero tax when the operation exceeded three months.  “The currency war continues because the recovery in
advanced countries has led to expansionary monetary policies,”
Mantega told reporters in Paris on July 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  