-- 
Canadian Dollar Falls on U.S. Jobs Weakness, European Debt Crisis Concern

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-07-09T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/canadian-dollar-falls-on-u-s-jobs-weakness-european-debt-crisis-concern.html
Canada ’s dollar declined against its
U.S. counterpart and most other major currencies on speculation
the U.S. economic recovery will slow in coming months and amid
heightened concern the European debt crisis may spread.  The Canadian dollar, also known as the loonie, fell against
12 of its 16 most-traded peers. It declined 0.4 percent against
the greenback, with most of the drop coming yesterday after the
U.S. added fewer jobs than forecast in June and the  unemployment
rate  climbed. Another American report, released the previous day
by ADP Employer Services, had spurred optimism by showing U.S.
companies exceeded hiring forecasts last month. Canada is
projected to post its fourth straight monthly trade deficit when
the government issues it may report on June 12.  “Markets were thrown a head fake by the ADP numbers on
Thursday,” said  Shane Enright , executive director at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit, by phone
from Toronto. Yesterday’s report was “disappointing, and when
we get weak data out of the U.S., Canada always gets tarred with
the same brush.”  The Canadian currency weakened 0.4 percent to 96.27 cents
per  U.S. dollar  yesterday in Toronto, from 95.85 cents on July
1. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0388.  Jobs Miss  The increase in U.S. payrolls followed a 25,000 gain that
was less than half the rise initially estimated, Labor
Department data showed yesterday in  Washington . The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey called for a June gain of
105,000. The unemployment rate rose to 9.2 percent, the highest
level this year.  “No matter how you cut it, the nonfarm payrolls report was
ugly,” said  David Tulk , chief Canada macro strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit in Toronto, in a note
to clients. “The best thing one can say about this report is
that it is slowly disappearing into the rear-view mirror and
with a cyclical upturn expected in the months ahead, we should
see a corresponding, albeit gradual, improvement in employment.”  The Fed has held its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to
support the economy.  The loonie yesterday also touched the strongest level since
May after a government report showed Canada’s employers added
more jobs last month than economists forecast.  Canada Employs  Canada’s economy created 28,400 jobs in June after boosting
payrolls by a net 22,300 positions in the previous month,
Statistics Canada reported yesterday. The median forecast of 27
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 15,000.
The jobless rate held at 7.4 percent.  “The Canadian currency is going to be in play,” said Lane Newman, director of foreign exchange at ING Groep NV in New
York. Canada’s economy “will not be able to shrug off the weak
numbers that we’re seeing in the U.S.”  The loonie weakened July 6 after  China  raised benchmark
 interest rates  for the third time this year as inflation
accelerated to the fastest pace since July 2008, damping demand
for riskier assets.  Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds fell 10 basis
points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 1.5 percent, pushing the
price of the 2 percent note due in August 2013 up 20 cents to
C$101.01.  Canada sold C$3.5 billion ($3.6 billion) of five-year debt,
drawing an average yield of 2.309 percent on July 6. The
government received bids of C$8.7 billion for the 2.75 percent
securities maturing in September 2016, according to a statement
on the Bank of Canada’s website.  Bond Returns  Canada’s government bonds have returned 2.7 percent this
year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index. The
Canadian dollar has gained 3.7 percent against its U.S.
counterpart in the period.  The nation will posted a May trade deficit of C$800
million, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
of 20 economists before the July 12 report from  Statistics
Canada . Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  warned last month
that the nation’s exporters face “challenges” due to the
“persistently strong” Canadian dollar and the “relatively poor
productivity performance” of the economy.  Developments in  Europe  also weighed on the Canadian dollar.
Investors sought to avoid riskier assets after Moody’s Investors
Service slashed  Portugal ’s credit rating on July 5 to Ba2, below
investment grade. Portugal is the second euro region country,
after  Greece , to have a junk rating.  ‘More Dented’  “Risk sentiment is a little more dented these days,” said
Enright at CIBC. “The market wants to be pro-risk, but there
are still a few headwinds out there for that trade. The European
story could overhang the market and be a drag for a while.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
July 7 he will ease Portugal’s access to emergency funds as
officials battle both faster inflation and the debt crisis. ECB
officials this week increased the benchmark interest rate by 25
basis points to 1.5 percent, the highest since March 2009.  Crude oil futures rose 1.7 percent for the week to $96.54 a
barrel in  New York . Crude is Canada’s largest export. Copper
futures gained 2.5 percent this week and have climbed 46 percent
in the past year. Canada derives about half its export revenue
from raw materials.  Canada’s dollar has weakened 1.7 percent this year versus
the currencies of nine other developed nations in the fourth-
worst performance, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The greenback has fallen 5.6 percent, the yen
is off 5 percent and sterling is down 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  