-- 
China Inflation Surging Past 6% Leaves Wen With ‘Delicate’ Balancing Act

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-09T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/china-inflation-surging-past-6-leaves-wen-with-delicate-balancing-act.html
China ’s inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in three years, highlighting the challenge for
policy makers of sustaining growth while taming prices.  The  consumer price index  increased 6.4 percent in June, the
National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday, exceeding the 6.2
percent median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The world’s second-biggest economy is already cooling after
the government curbed lending by boosting lenders’ reserve
requirements to a record and raising  interest rates  five times
since September, most recently on July 6. A deeper-than-
anticipated slowdown in China would curtail a global expansion
imperiled by a potential default by  Greece  and signs the U.S.
recovery is faltering.  China “is in a delicate position right now,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist for Action Economics Ltd. who
previously worked at the U.S. Federal Reserve. The government
“wants to remain vigilant on inflation, but they don’t want to
slam on the brakes too hard,” Cohen said.  Inflation was mainly driven by a 14 percent gain in food
costs and also pushed up by an unfavorable base for comparison a
year earlier, an effect that will diminish in the second half.
Pork, a Chinese staple, rose 57 percent.  Signs that the economy is cooling include a slide in a 
manufacturing gauge to a 28-month low in June. China’s expansion 
may have slowed to 9.3 percent in the second quarter from a year 
earlier after a 9.7 percent increase in the first three months, 
according to a Bloomberg News survey. That report is due July 13.  Producer Prices  Producer prices rose 7.1 percent in June from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said yesterday, compared with 6.8
percent in May and the 6.9 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. Consumer-price inflation compared with
5.5 percent in May.  Non-food consumer prices climbed 3 percent, the biggest
gain since at least 2005, yesterday’s report showed. Housing-
related costs rose 6.2 percent.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent from May, while food costs
gained 0.9 percent month-to-month and producer prices were
unchanged, the report showed.  Yesterday’s announcement of inflation data was brought
forward from July 15 as the statistics bureau moved to cut the
risk of leaks.  Wen’s View  Last month, Wen said that China’s economic situation will
remain “the world’s best” if growth is about 8 percent or 9
percent and inflation is below 5 percent. He cautioned that,
combined with corruption, rising prices can have an “impact on
the stability of a political power and the peacefulness of a
society.”  Another interest-rate increase is likely if consumer
inflation is above 6 percent for more than two months, said Ding Shuang, a senior economist at Citigroup Inc. in  Hong Kong  who
previously worked at China’s central bank. He expects inflation
to slow after July.  UBS AG said that the central bank may add to this week’s
quarter-point rate increase if inflation is as high next month.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said the chance of another rate
increase this year is “very small” with inflation likely to
have peaked.  The People’s Bank of China has raised the one-year lending
rate to 6.56 percent and the one-year deposit rate to 3.5
percent. The nation’s biggest banks are required to set aside
21.5 percent of deposits as reserves, locking up cash that could
fuel inflation.  ‘Soft Landing’  “The need to control domestic inflation has complicated
the Chinese government’s attempts to engineer a soft landing for
the economy,”  Jing Ulrich , JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s chairman of
global markets for China, said in a research note yesterday.
“Aggressive liquidity tightening will likely mitigate
inflationary pressure, but also risks stifling economic growth,
inducing what some observers have feared could be a ‘hard
landing.’”  Shanghai taxi fares rose yesterday, adding to price
increases by companies from  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to Starbucks Corp.
While Wen said last month that he sees inflation as
“controllable,” he also acknowledged that the government’s 4
percent target for the full year may be out of reach.  Rising food costs aren’t confined to China. Global prices
rose 39 percent in June from a year earlier, according to the
 Food and Agriculture Organization  of the  United Nations .  “China’s inflation pressures remain strong,” said Liu Li- Gang, who formerly worked for the  World Bank  and is chief China
economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Hong
Kong. The central bank is likely to raise interest rates again
by the end of September, as “very high” producer-price
inflation “implies that China’s inflation is unlikely to peak
this month,” he said.  --Paul Panckhurst, Sophie Leung. Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  Jim McDonald   To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  