-- 
China Inflation Surging to Fastest in 3 Years Weakens Case for Rate Pause

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-09T06:03:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/china-inflation-surging-to-fastest-in-3-years-weakens-case-for-rate-pause.html
China ’s inflation rose to a three-
year high of 6.4 percent in June, a level that some analysts
said may represent the peak for 2011 as price gains moderate in
the second half.  The pace exceeded the 6.2 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 19 economists. Producer prices were
unchanged from the previous month, a report on the statistics
bureau website showed today.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  aims to tame inflation without choking
off an expansion that is already slowing as export orders weaken
and monetary tightening takes effect. An unexpected increase in
U.S. unemployment and a threatened default by  Greece  have
underscored the world’s reliance on China, the fastest-growing
major economy.  “The need to control domestic inflation has complicated
the Chinese government’s attempts to engineer a soft landing for
the economy,” said  Jing Ulrich , Hong Kong-based chairman of
global markets for China at JPMorgan Chase & Co. June “will
likely mark the peak in the latest inflation upturn.”  Producer prices gained 7.1 percent from a year earlier, the
statistics bureau report showed. That compared with the median
estimate of 6.9 percent in a Bloomberg survey.  Today’s data came three days after the central bank
announced the nation’s fifth interest-rate increase since mid-
October. The Shanghai Composite Index has fallen 0.4 percent
this year on concern that efforts to cool inflation will damp
profits and growth in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Pork Costs Soar  Inflation was mainly driven by a 14 percent gain in food
costs, the biggest increase in three years, and also pushed up
by an unfavorable base for comparison a year earlier, an effect
that will diminish in the second half. Pork, a Chinese staple,
rose 57 percent. Non-food prices climbed 3 percent, the biggest
gain since at least 2005.  The government may keep  interest rates  on hold for the rest
of the year, while boosting bank reserve requirements already at
record levels and selling bills to drain cash from the financial
system, Ulrich said.  Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent from May, the most in four
months, after central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
yesterday that policy makers are more focused on month-on-month
numbers than yearly figures.  Shanghai taxi fares jumped today, adding to price increases
by companies from  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  to Starbucks Corp. While Wen
said last month that inflation is “controllable,” he also
acknowledged that the government’s 4 percent target for the full
year may be out of reach.  Outlook for Rates  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said today that the chance of
the central bank adding to this week’s quarter-point rate
increase this year is “very small” with inflation likely to
have peaked. Societe Generale SA sees benchmark borrowing costs
staying on hold as reserve requirements rise.  UBS AG said that the central bank may raise rates if
inflation is as high next month, while Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. predicted an increase this quarter as the
pace of inflation continues to outstrip returns on  bank deposits .  Signs that the economy is cooling include a slide in a
manufacturing gauge to a 28-month low in June. Investors are
focused on China’s growth after U.S. job growth plummeted since
April and as officials in  Europe  try to avert a debt default by
Greece.  China’s Expansion  China’s expansion may have slowed to 9.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier after a 9.7 percent increase
in the first three months of this year, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. That data is due July 13.  Goldman Sachs estimates gross domestic product rose 8
percent from the previous quarter on a seasonally adjusted and
annualized basis, compared with its 9 percent estimate for the
previous three months.  Inflation and corruption can have an “impact on the
stability of a political power and the peacefulness of a
society,” Wen said in  London  last month. He pledged in March to
rein in “exorbitant” house price increases in some cities that
have fueled public discontent.  Global food costs are also part of the challenge, with
prices rising 39 percent in June from a year earlier, according
to the  Food and Agriculture Organization  of the  United Nations .  “I don’t think policies should loosen,” Cui Li, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. who
previously worked at the  International Monetary Fund , said
before today’s data. “We may have to wait until August for
inflation to peak.”  China’s key one-year lending rate is 6.56 percent and the
one-year deposit rate is 3.5 percent.  --Sophie Leung, with assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Ken McCallum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in  Hong Kong  at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  