-- 
Derek Jeter Has Two Home Games to Reach 3,000 Career Hits Before Road Trip

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/derek-jeter-has-two-home-games-to-reach-3-000-career-hits-before-road-trip.html
Derek Jeter  was looking at three home
games to get the two hits needed to reach the 3,000 milestone
until the  Tampa Bay Rays  voted not to make up last night's rain
out in a doubleheader today.  If the 37-year-old shortstop fails to become the 28th
player in Major League Baseball history and the first Yankee to
reach the milestone this weekend at Yankee Stadium, he will
probably end his quest on the team’s eight-day road trip after
the All-Star break.  Jeter is 6 for 25 (.240) against pitcher David Price who is
starting for the Rays today and 17 for 54 (.315) against  James Shields , scheduled to pitch tomorrow in the teams’ final game
before the July 12 All-Star Game.  The teams could have added a nightcap today; instead the
Rays voted for Sept. 22 when they had a day off after their two-
game series in  New York . The Yankees (51-35) are one game behind
the leading  Boston Red Sox , while the Rays (49-39) in third
place are four games back in the five-team American League East.  “The initial thought was they wanted to play a
doubleheader tomorrow,” Rays’ third baseman Evan Longoria told
the  Associated Press . “I think we all know why they’d like to
get these three games in and obviously they’re rooting for Derek
to get his 3,000th hit here in this series, I mean, we’d like to
see him do it, too.”  Girardi Favored Doubleheader  The Rays would have been playing a Yankees team without
 Alex Rodriguez , who was due for an MRI on his sore right knee,
and  Nick Swisher , who is nursing a sore left quadriceps. Jeter
and Rodriguez also pulled out of the All-Star game and will be
replaced by Detroit Tigers shortstop Jhonny Peralta and Boston
Red Sox third baseman Kevin Youkilis.  Without his stars, Yankee manager  Joe Girardi  still wanted
to get the three games played.  “Whether I’m frustrated or not, it doesn’t matter,”
Girardi told the AP. “It was important to us, it was important
to our fans.”  Rays manager Joe Maddon said he preferred the later date
when the players wouldn’t be so run down and the teams could
play with expanded rosters in September.  Jeter’s journey to join the ranks of Pete Rose, Cal Ripken
and Paul Molitor was interrupted at 2,994 hits on June 13 when
he strained his calf muscle. The next day he was placed on the
disabled list and didn’t return to the team’s active roster
until July 4.  When the Yankees return from the All-Star break, they
travel to Toronto and Tampa,  Florida , from July 14-21.  Fans with paid tickets for last night’s game may use them
for the Sept. 22 game or exchange them for any regular season
game at Yankee Stadium within 12 months.  For those interested in seeing the weekend series, the
Yankees advise there are only an “extremely limited” number of
tickets remaining for the games, both of which start at 1:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  