-- 
Derek Jeter Ends Quest for 3,000 With Home Run Against Rays

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/derek-jeter-becomes-first-yankee-28th-player-with-3-000-hits.html
Derek Jeter  overcame a leg injury,
thunderstorms and a yearlong homerless streak at Yankee Stadium
to complete his quest yesterday for 3,000 hits.  The  New York Yankees ’ captain sent a 3-2 pitch into the
left-field seats to reach the milestone, becoming the first to
do it with baseball’s most successful franchise and the 28th in
Major League Baseball history.  The milestone hit, Jeter’s second on his way to a 5-for-5
performance, came off the Tampa Bay Rays’ All-Star left-hander
David Price during the third inning yesterday.  “Hitting a home run is the last thing I ever thought
about,” Jeter, who drove in the winning run in New York’s 5-4
victory over the Rays, said in an interview with the YES Network.
“The most important thing is we were able to win and I’m happy
to contribute.”  Jeter joins Wade Boggs as the only players to hit a home
run for their 3,000th hits. Jeter had gone 286 at-bats without a
home run at his home park since an inside-the-park feat on July
22, 2010, against  Kansas City .  “It is a monumental achievement, and Derek has climbed the
mountain,” Boggs said in a statement. “It won’t be too long
now before we are on the veranda in Cooperstown at the Otesaga
Hotel celebrating his induction to the Hall of Fame.”  Of the previous 27 players with 3,000 hits, 24 are in the
National Baseball Hall of Fame. Pete Rose is banned for gambling
on baseball, Rafael Palmeiro has been linked to steroids and
Craig Biggio isn’t yet eligible, having played within the past
five seasons.  First Since Biggio  The Yankees’ shortstop  is the first major-leaguer since
Biggio in 2007 to reach the mark, and the fourth in the past
decade. Jeter and Biggio also collected at least five hits
during the game in which they accomplished the feat.  “Derek has always played with a relentless, team-first
attitude and that mind-set has helped sustain this
organization’s objective of fielding championship-caliber teams
year after year,” said  Hal Steinbrenner , Yankees’ general
managing partner, in a statement. “It’s only fitting that he
reach 3,000 hits during a victory against one of our American
League rivals.”  Jeter, who elevated his batting average to .270 from .257,
moved into 27th place for all-time hits at 3,003, three ahead of
the late Pittsburgh Pirates outfielder Roberto Clemente and four
shy of Al Kaline of the  Detroit Tigers . Pete Rose holds the
major-league record of 4,256 hits. Jeter, Kaline and Clemente
are among the 11 players to hit 3,000 with the same club.  Ball Returned  Jeter’s 3,000th hit ball was caught by 23-year-old
Christian Lopez of Highland Mills, New York, who gave the ball
back to Jeter, the 16th player to reach the milestone in his
home stadium.  In return, Lopez received four front-row seats for today’s
game; four season tickets for the remaining games in 2011,
including postseason; and three bats and balls and two jerseys
signed by Jeter. The ball could have fetched as much $250,000,
said Doug Allen, president of  Chicago ’s Legendary auctions.  “Jeter is an icon, he deserved this,” Lopez, who attended
St. Lawrence University in Canton,  New York , and sells mobile
phones, said in a televised interview. “He’s worked so hard for
it. I’m not really a person to take something away from him.”  Jeter’s first major-league hit was a single off pitcher Tim Belcher of the  Seattle  Mariners on May 30, 1995. He won the
American League’s Rookie of the Year award in 1996 and has
a .313 career batting average.  Quest Delays  Jeter’s chase for 3,000 hits was delayed for three weeks
when he strained a calf muscle on June 12, the first time he has
been on the disabled list since 2003. He returned to the active
roster July 4.  “To have the most hits for the most prestigious franchise
in all of sports is pretty special,” said Paul Molitor, who hit
his 3,000th on Sept. 16, 1996, with  Minnesota  at Kansas City.
“If Derek stays healthy, he has a good chance to rack up a lot
more hits.”  He had an unscheduled day of rest on July 8 when
thunderstorms forced the Yankees to postpone their home game
against the Rays.  Tampa Bay  refused to agree to a doubleheader
yesterday that would have given Jeter another game to reach
3,000 before the Yankees went on an eight-game road trip after
the All-Star break.  The leader among active players in hits, Jeter signed a
three-year contract extension in December that’s worth between
$15 million and $17 million annually. The deal came after Jeter
hit .270 last year, his lowest batting average for a full season.  ‘Complete Package’  “I love what I see of Derek Jeter,” said Robin Yount, who
tallied his 3,000th hit on Sept. 9, 1992, with the Milwaukee
Brewers against  Cleveland . “He is the complete package: a
leader, clutch player, and lots of success on baseball’s biggest
stage, New York. Being the complete package is something every
player dreams of.”  Upon his return from the disabled list, Jeter went 0-for-4
in his first game, against Cleveland. The next night, he
collected two hits against the Indians to move within four of
3,000, and ticket prices for the Yankees’ next home stand
doubled on resale sites. In the last game of the Cleveland
series, he hit a double to move within three of 3,000.  The Yankees opened a four-game home stand with the Rays on
July 7 and Jeter led off the bottom of the first inning with his
480th career double. He followed with four ground outs as the
Yankees lost 5-1 before the rainout.  Rodriguez Next  Washington Nationals catcher Ivan Rodriguez is the next
closest active player to 3,000, with 2,842 hits through July 8.  Ichiro Suzuki of Seattle has more than 3,600 hits in his
professional career, getting 1,278 in  Japan  before joining the
Mariners.  Jeter’s hit total doesn’t include the 185 he’s accumulated
in 14 postseasons.  For more than a decade, Jeter has been the face of the
Yankees. It is a franchise that from the 1920s through the 1960s
produced  Babe Ruth , who made the home run a common part of
baseball;  Lou Gehrig , who played in a then-record 2,130 games in
a row;  Joe DiMaggio , who hit in a record 56 straight games; and
 Mickey Mantle , a three-time American League Most Valuable Player.  Jeter has played during baseball’s steroid era, with his
name never linked to drugs. His space in the tabloids has been
limited to relationships with singer Mariah Carey and his
fiancée, model and actress  Minka Kelly .  Face of Yankees  When the team closed out the old Yankee Stadium in
September 2008, Jeter manned the microphone during the ceremony.
In 2010, in the new $1.5 billion Yankee Stadium across the
street, he spoke from the field again at ceremonies marking the
death of owner  George Steinbrenner .  “This was the only team I ever wanted to play for,” Jeter
said after signing his new deal with the Yankees in December.
He’s under contract through 2013 and is set to make $15 million
this year, $16 million in 2012 and $17 million in the final year
of the deal.  Jeter’s endorsement deals include  Nike Inc. (NKE) , PepsiCo Inc.’s
Gatorade brand and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s Gillette unit.  Sports
Illustrated  put his annual income from payroll and sponsorships
at $23 million, 22nd among North American athletes.  Jeter’s Hit Documented  Jeter was named the greatest New York athlete in history in
a Siena College Research Institute Sports Poll in March, beating
out Ruth with 14 percent of the vote.  Jeter’s march to 3,000 hits will be the subject of an MLB-
produced documentary on Time Warner Inc.’s HBO Sports. Cameras
followed Jeter at home and at the ballpark, compiling hundreds
of hours of film for the one-hour special.  Jeter is the first major leaguer to reach 3,000 hits while
playing shortstop as his only defensive position.  Honus Wagner was at shortstop when he became the third
member of the 3,000-hit club in 1914, though he also made starts
in the outfield and other infield positions. Former All-Star
shortstops Yount and Cal Ripken Jr. changed positions before
getting to 3,000 hits, Yount moving to center field and Ripken
to third base.  “This is just the end result of Derek playing as well as
he has,” Ripken, 50, said in a July 5 telephone interview.
“You think of Derek as a clutch performer, as a winner and
someone who’s out there each and every day and is going to end
up at around 200 hits at the end of the season. It’s a
celebration of your whole career.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  