-- 
Derek Jeter’s Quest for 3,000 Hits Delayed by Rain at Yankee Stadium

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-09T01:14:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/derek-jeter-s-quest-for-3-000-hits-delayed-by-rain-at-yankee-stadium.html
Derek Jeter  got an unexpected day of
rest for his injured calf muscle as thunderstorms forced
postponement of tonight’s game against the  Tampa Bay Rays  on the
same day the shortstop withdrew from the All-Star Game.  Jeter enters tomorrow’s game two hits shy of 3,000. If the
37-year-old fails to become the 28th player in Major League
Baseball history and the first Yankee to reach the milestone
this weekend at Yankee Stadium, he will probably end his quest
on the team’s eight-day road trip after the All-Star break.  The Yankees’ captain and teammate  Alex Rodriguez , who was
due for an MRI on his sore right knee, pulled out of the July 12
All-Star game to take care of their injuries, the team said in a
news release.  Jeter’s His journey to join the ranks of Pete Rose, Cal Ripken and Paul Molitor was interrupted at 2,994 hits on June 13
when he strained his calf muscle. The next day he was placed on
the disabled list and didn’t return to the team’s active roster
until July 4.  Jeter has two more home games against the Rays this weekend
to reach the 3,000 milestone. Tonight’s game was rescheduled for
Sept. 22. When the team returns from the All-Star break, the
Yankees travel to Toronto and Tampa,  Florida , from July 14-21.  Fans with paid tickets for tonight’s game may use them for
the Sept. 22 game or exchange them for any regular season game
at Yankee Stadium within 12 months.  For those interested in seeing the weekend series, the
Yankees advise there are only an “extremely limited” number of
tickets remaining for the games, both of which start at 1:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  