-- 
Euro Drops Most in Almost Month on Concern European Debt Crisis Worsening

-- B y   J o e   R a g a z z o   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-07-09T04:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/euro-drops-most-in-almost-month-on-concern-european-debt-crisis-worsening.html
The euro fell the most in almost a
month against the dollar as Moody’s Investors Service cut
 Portugal ’s government bond rating to junk and European banks
faced more stringent stress tests.  The Swiss franc rose this week against all of its major
counterparts as Europe’s debt crisis spurred demand for a
refuge. The dollar fell against the yen for the first time in
three weeks after the U.S. payrolls report showed employers
added the fewest jobs in nine months. President Barack Obama
prepared to meet with congressional leaders tomorrow in a rare
Sunday meeting on cutting deficits and raising the debt limit.  “The headline event for this week was the four-notch
downgrade to Portuguese debt by Moody’s,” said Ravi Bharadwaj,
a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global Business
Payments, a currency-exchange network. “It seems like a lose-
lose situation for the euro-dollar right now.”  The 17-nation euro fell 1.8 percent to $1.4265, from
$1.4526 on July 1, after touching $1.4206 yesterday, the lowest
since June 27. The drop in the currency is the biggest since the
five days ended June 10, when it fell 2 percent. The euro slid 2
percent to 115.03 yen, from 117.42. The dollar slumped 0.2
percent to 80.64 yen, from 80.83.  The Swedish krona was the biggest loser against the dollar,
depreciating 1.9 percent to 6.3832. The krona rallied 3.7
percent last week before the Riksbank’s meeting on July 5, when
policy makers increased the benchmark repurchase rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 2 percent.  Weaker Aussie  Australia ’s dollar slipped 0.1 percent to $1.0755 as  China ,
the biggest buyer of the South Pacific nation’s raw materials,
raised benchmark interest rates to cool growth. The  Reserve Bank 
of Australia held its cash target rate at 4.75 percent.  New Zealand’s currency rallied to another record,
increasing 1.3 percent to 83.79, the highest since the currency
was freely floated in 1985.  The yen and Swiss franc got a boost yesterday after the
U.S. Labor Department reported that payrolls expanded by 18,000
in June after a revised increase of 25,000 in the previous
month. The median forecast of 85 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for 105,000 more jobs. The  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly increased to 9.2 percent, the highest level this
year.  “This a huge splash of cold water onto the markets with
what we’ve seen with the jobs report,”  Mark McCormick , a New
York-based currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.
“The  U.S. economy  is still experiencing sluggish growth. It
just shows how bad the mini-slowdown we’ve had has been.”  Swiss Refuge  The franc, which benefits in times of turmoil from
Switzerland’s role as a stable, neutral financial center,
appreciated 3.2 percent to 1.1933 against the euro. The franc
rallied to a record 1.1806 versus the shared currency June 24.  Results of the second round of European stress tests will
be released July 15, the European Banking Association said
yesterday. Banks that fail this year’s tests may need to present
plans for making up their capital shortfall by the end of
September, according to an internal European Union document.  Moody’s cut Portugal’s credit rating four levels to Ba2
from Baa1, below investment grade. Portugal joined Greece as the
only nations in the euro regions to have junk ratings.  Banks in Italy, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA (ISP) , tumbled in Milan yesterday as the contagion from Europe’s
debt crisis threatened to spread to the region’s third-biggest
economy. The volatility spurred Bank of Italy Governor  Mario Draghi  said he’s certain that the country’s lenders will pass
European stress tests.  ECB Rate Decision  The cost of insuring against default on Portuguese, Irish
and Greek government debt rose yesterday to records. Contracts
on Portugal climbed 38 basis points to 1,016, signaling a 58
percent probability of default within five years, according to
CMA prices in  London .  Implied volatility on one-month options for the euro-dollar
 exchange rate  rose 1.6 percent this week to 11.66 percent,
increasing four out of five days.  The euro rose against the dollar on July 7, when the
 European Central Bank  raised the benchmark interest rate by a
quarter-percentage point to 1.5 percent and signaled further
increases.  “Our monetary policy stance remains accommodative,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at a press conference in
Frankfurt, also saying that the central bank will loosen
collateral rules for Portuguese bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Ragazzo in New York at 
 jragazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  