-- 
Europe Needs Options to Cut Greek Debt-Service Costs, Sweden’s Borg Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 
2011-07-09T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/europe-needs-options-to-cut-greeke-debt-service-costs-sweden-s-borg-says.html
The European Union needs to look for
ways of reducing  Greece ’s debt servicing costs, Swedish Finance
Minister Anders Borg said, suggesting a shift in focus as the
bloc begins considering additional aid for the country.  More than a year after the EU and the  International
Monetary Fund  extended Greece 110 billion euros ($157 billion)
in aid, they’re considering options for additional support as
the country’s borrowing costs and indebtedness continue to grow.  The yield on two-year Greek notes rose to a euro-era record
of more than 30 percent last week. The nation’s debt burden will
rise to 158 percent of GDP this year from 143 percent in 2010,
according to EU forecasts.  “If the Greeks are now delivering, and if they can stick
to that plan and continue to perform in a way that is building
credibility, that is shifting the balance of discussion,” Borg
said yesterday in an interview in Aix-en-Provence,  France .  “They are at a very, very high debt level, so if we are
going to see them return to the market, we have to do something
about restoring debt service,” he said, adding that reducing
 interest rates  and debt guarantees are among options that need
to be considered.  Greek Bonds  European finance ministers gather in Brussels on Monday,
July 11, to discuss a possible package, though an agreement
probably won’t be reached before early in the European autumn,
Borg said. Any effort to draw support for Greece from banks,
insurers and other investors should also be judged on how it
improves debt sustainability, he said.  Financial firms are discussing a proposal from French banks
to roll over 70 percent of bonds maturing by mid-2014 into new
30-year Greek debt backed by AAA-rated collateral. EU leaders
want creditors to voluntarily roll over about 30 billion euros
of Greek bonds to support loans by the bloc and the IMF.  Standard & Poor’s  said last week that the French plan would
be considered a “selective default,” prompting  Germany  to
revive a proposal to simply lengthen the maturity of Greek debt.  “It’s not clear that the French plan meets the idea of
reducing debt service costs on the  Greek economy ,” Borg said.
Whatever happens, Greece “cannot go to a default situation”
and there must be “no  credit event ,” he said.  Italian Tensions  Europe is trying to draw a line under a debt crisis that
Greece sparked more than a year ago and that threatens the 12-
year-old monetary union. Ireland and Portugal sought emergency
aid totaling 146 billion euros after the initial bailout of
Greece in May 2010 and investors remain concerned about some
bigger euro nations including Spain and  Italy .  The yield on 10-year Italian bonds rose to a nine-year high
July 8 on concern tensions between Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  and Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  may derail
government plans to reduce the  budget deficit . Tremonti said
July 8 that he moved out of a Rome apartment provided by Marco
Milanese, a former aide and member of parliament, whose arrest
is sought by prosecutors in Naples. He had a “long and cordial
working lunch” with Berlusconi, the leader’s office said.  Italy is the euro area’s biggest bond market, with 1.8
trillion euros of outstanding debt as of Dec. 31, compared with
1.1 trillion euros of German debt outstanding on March 31,
according to the nations’ debt agencies.  “Italy has had very high sustainability of debt thanks to
its domestic financing,” Borg said. “The political situation
is obviously introducing some uncertainty.”  Borg also said that the turmoil in  Europe  isn’t likely to
end any time soon and that governments need time. “I don’t
think that we can expect it to go away in the next few weeks or
months,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Aix-en-Provence, France at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net 
Caroline Connan in Aix-en-Provence, France at   cconnan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 