-- 
Gilts Rise as BOE Holds Rate at 0.5%; Pound Gains Versus Euro

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-07-09T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/gilts-rise-as-boe-holds-rate-at-0-5-pound-gains-versus-euro.html
U.K. 10-year gilts rose the most in
12 weeks, lowering yields to the least this month, after the
Bank of England kept its benchmark interest rate at a record low
while turmoil in  Europe  stoked demand for safety.  Sterling strengthened against the euro for the first week
in three as signs the euro-region’s debt crisis is worsening
boosted buying of alternatives to the shared European currency.
The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee on July 7 left its key
rate at 0.5 percent and maintained its bond-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($322 billion), as predicted by all economists in
Bloomberg surveys.  “Gilts are doing well because of the safe-haven aspect,
but the overarching theme is that there isn’t going to be
monetary-policy tightening for some time,” said  Simon Derrick ,
chief currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon Corp. in
London. “Sterling is clearly in a better position than the
euro, which is really being weighed down by the sovereign-debt
crisis.”  Ten-year gilt yields sank 20 basis points in the week to
3.19 percent as of 5:28 p.m. yesterday in  London , after reaching
3.18 percent, the least since June 28. Yields on two-year notes
fell seven basis points in the week to 0.75 percent.  Sterling gained 1.8 percent this week to 88.81 pence per
euro. The pound fell 0.4 percent to $1.6017, after falling to as
low as $1.5932 yesterday, the weakest intraday level since June
28. It lost 0.5 percent to 129.44 yen.  Interest-Rate Bets  Britain’s currency has weakened 2.6 percent this year
against a basket of nine developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, as worsening
economic growth limits the central bank’s ability to raise
rates. U.K. economic growth slowed to a virtual standstill in
the second quarter, falling to 0.1 percent in the three months
to the end of June, the National Institute of Economic and
Social Research said in an e-mailed statement on July 7.  Investors are now betting that the  Bank of England  won’t
raise borrowing costs until after June next year, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc on forward contracts for the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, show. As recently as
February, the data indicated traders were betting on a rate
increase this May.  Gilts may fall next week as a report shows the inflation
rate stayed at the highest since October 2008. Consumer prices
gained 4.5 percent in the year to June, according to the median
estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  