-- 
Greece Gets Approval for $4.6 Billion IMF Disbursement Under Joint Bailout

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-07-09T10:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/greece-gets-approval-for-4-6-billion-imf-disbursement-under-joint-bailout.html
Greece  won approval from the
 International Monetary Fund  for a 3.2 billion-euro ($4.6
billion) payment under a joint loan with the European Union,
buying policy makers time to craft a second rescue package and
avert the first sovereign default in the euro region.  Greek commitments made to secure the loan are “delivering
important results,” IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said yesterday in statement from  Washington . Still, “a durable
fiscal adjustment is needed, lest the deficit get entrenched at
an unsustainably high level, and productivity-enhancing reforms
should be accelerated, lest growth fail to recover.”  The decision follows last week’s authorization by European
finance ministers to unblock 8.7 billion euros as talks continue
on how to include banks and insurers in a new package for
Greece, which can’t return to international financial markets
next year because of surging borrowing costs. The option of
involving the private sector has been criticized by the  European
Central Bank  because it could trigger a partial default.  “Greece’s debt sustainability hinges critically on timely
and vigorous implementation of the adjustment program, with no
margin for slippage, and continued support from European
partners and private sector involvement,” Lagarde said.  The IMF, whose loan to Greece under the initial joint 110-
billion-euro package is the second-highest in fund history,
hasn’t publicly discussed its participation in a second bailout.  Instead officials such as  John Lipsky , acting managing
director until Lagarde took the helm this week, focused on the
measures needed for the disbursement approved yesterday. That
included sale of government assets and assurances that the
financing gap left by Greece’s inability to return to markets
next year will be filled.  Political Cover  The Greek parliament’s passage of new budget cuts last week
gave euro-area governments political cover to release the funds.  Prospects for turning the savings legislation into reality
are clouded by a lack of opposition support and public hostility
that boiled over into battles between rioters and teargas-
spraying police outside the parliament in  Athens  last week.  Lagarde said the government’s plan to sell 50 billion euros
of assets by 2015 is a “critical step” in reducing debt and
spurring growth.  While the target “is very ambitious, the establishment of
an independent privatization agency should help realize
transparent and timely implementation,” she said.  Repay Debt  Greece secured a bailout package in May 2010, seven months
after the country raised its budget-deficit estimate to almost
13 percent of gross domestic product, three times higher than
earlier forecast and four times the EU ceiling. Investor concern
about Greece’s ability to repay its debt has roiled markets and
caused contagion in other euro-area countries, forcing Ireland
and  Portugal  into seeking rescues as well.  Greek debt, already at a European record of 142.8 percent
of gross domestic product, is set to rise to 166.1 percent next
year, the EU forecasts. The effort to cut a  budget deficit  that
is about 10 percent of GDP has deepened a third year of
recession.  The twin disbursements will help Greece roll over about 4
billion euros of bills maturing July 15 to July 22, plus about 3
billion euros of coupon payments in the month, according to
Bloomberg calculations. A bigger test looms Aug. 20 when 6.6
billion euros of bonds come due.  Greece, said by the IMF to be “on track” in February,
veered off course in April with the disclosure of a higher-than-
planned 2010 deficit, forcing Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
government to wring extra savings out of this year’s budget.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  