-- 
J&J Unit Agrees to $85 Million Fine for Misbranding Drug

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-09-14T21:25:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/j-j-s-scios-unit-charged-in-misbranding-of-natrecor-drug-1-.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Scios unit
agreed to pay an $85 million fine and plead guilty to
misbranding the heart drug Natrecor, the U.S. said.  Scios was charged in July with misbranding the medicine
because its labeling lacked adequate directions for use. Under a
plea agreement reached after months of negotiation with
prosecutors, Scios will be placed under organizational probation
for three years in addition to paying the fine, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Jonathan Schmidt said in a filing today in federal
court in San Francisco. A hearing is scheduled for Sept. 28.  The U.S. agreed not to prosecute Scios or Johnson & Johnson
for other offenses related to the marketing and sale of
Natrecor, according to the filing. That exemption doesn’t apply
to False Claims Act liability, according to the filing.  The  Justice Department  charged Scios Inc. with a “single
misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act” and
the agreement is “pending approval by the court,” Shaun
Mickus, a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based Johnson
& Johnson, said in an e-mailed statement. He declined to comment
further.  Natrecor, given intravenously, was one of the first drugs
for congestive heart failure when it was approved in 2001, and
in 2004 it generated $230 million in revenue. Sales plummeted to
less than $100 million in 2006 after reviews of its use in less
than 1,000 patients tied the medicine to worsening kidney
function and higher death rates.  Study Last Year  A Johnson & Johnson study reported last year at the American
Heart Association meeting in  Chicago  found the drug to be safe,
and that it slightly improved shortness of breath, a symptom of
worsening heart failure. The benefit, though, didn’t last, the
study found.  The plea agreement doesn’t release Johnson & Johnson from
claims brought by the Justice Department in a separate pending
civil suit, according to today’s filing.  In that False Claims Act case, the U.S. alleges Johnson &
Johnson illegally marketed Natrecor for off-label “serial
outpatient infusions” not approved by the  Food and Drug
Administration . The practice led to the submission of false
claims, costing the government-run health insurance program
Medicare “substantial amounts,” according to the complaint,
which was filed in federal court in San Francisco.  Last month, Johnson & Johnson reached an agreement to
settle a misdemeanor federal criminal charge related to
marketing of its antipsychotic drug Risperdal, according to a
regulatory filing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Scios, 11-cr-461, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).
The civil case is Strom v. Scios, 05-3004, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 