-- 
Japan Upsets Germany at World Cup; France Advances in Shootout

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-09T22:32:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/japan-upsets-germany-at-world-cup-france-advances-in-shootout.html
Two-time defending champion  Germany 
was beaten by Japan 1-0 in extra time in the quarterfinals of
soccer’s Women’s  World Cup , while France advanced in a penalty
shootout against England.  Karina Maruyama scored in the 108th minute last night to
give Japan the win in Wolfsburg, Germany. The victory sends the
Japanese to the semifinals for the first time and ended a nine-
match winless streak against European teams at the World Cup.  Germany lost for the first time in 15 World Cup games,
dating back to a 3-2 defeat to the U.S. in the 1999
quarterfinals. That was the only other time the hosts failed to
reach the semifinals.  Japan will face either Sweden or  Australia , who meet today,
on July 13 in Frankfurt.  France beat England 4-3 in a shootout in Frankfurt to claim
its first semifinal place. France will play two-time winner U.S.
or Brazil, who also play today, on July 13 in Moenchengladbach.  “I’ve got no preference about whether we play Brazil or
United States,” France’s Camille Abily said in comments on the
World Cup website. “The most important thing for us is that we
won’t be watching their game tomorrow from back home in
France.”  France dominated play with a 33-7 shot advantage but didn’t
score until Elise Bussaglia’s goal in the 88th minute tied the
game. Jill Scott gave  England  the lead in the 59th minute.  After neither team scored in 30 extra minutes, the game
went to penalties.  England got the early edge as Karen Bardsley stopped Abily
on the first attempt. England’s Claire Rafferty shot wide with
the score 3-3 and Eugenie Le Sommer scored for France. English
captain Faye White then hit the crossbar, sending France into
the last four.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 