-- 
News of the World Publishes Final Issue After Phone-Hacking

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-10T15:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/news-corp-s-news-of-the-world-publishes-final-edition-after-phone-hacking.html
The News of the World, the U.K.
tabloid that has run stories about celebrities, sex scandals and
murders since the Victorian era, published its final edition
after  News Corp. (NWSA)  decided to shut it amid phone-hacking claims.  The headline of today’s edition, laid over a collage of
many of the newspaper’s more noted front pages from its history,
was “Thank You & Goodbye.” In the top right corner were the
words “The world’s greatest newspaper, 1843-2011.” On page 3,
the headline said, “We recorded history and we’ve made
history.”  “This is not where we wanted to be and it’s not where we
deserve to be,” editor Colin Myler told reporters on leaving
the News International headquarters in London’s Wapping
neighborhood late yesterday, holding the issue’s front and back
pages. “Now in the best traditions of Fleet Street, we’re going
to the pub,” he said, referring to the historic address of the
British press.  The News of the World, which was published on Sundays and
cost 1 pound ($1.61), maintained a reputation for sensational
stories since its founding. In the years after World War II the
newspaper, owned by Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. since 1969, sold
about 8 million copies a week. It still had Britain’s largest
Sunday circulation, with sales of 2.7 million in May.  Goodman, Mulcaire  The sensational scoops that made the tabloid so popular
also led to its downfall. The phone-hacking scandal started in
2007 when the News of the World’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman  and  Glenn Mulcaire , a private investigator, were jailed
for illegally accessing voice mails to get stories.  Allegations last week that messages left on a murdered
schoolgirl’s mobile phone were also intercepted caused a public
outcry that prompted Prime Minister  David Cameron  to launch an
independent inquiry into the matter and may imperil Murdoch’s
plan to buy cable-television provider British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. Murdoch arrived at the company’s London offices
today, Sky News reported.  The final edition’s editorial stated:  “We praised high standards, we demanded high standards
but, as we are now only too painfully aware, for a period of a
few years up to 2006 some who worked for us, or in our name,
fell shamefully short of those standards.  “Quite simply, we lost our way.  “Phones were hacked, and for that this newspaper is truly
sorry.”  Dad’s Sunday Read  Rachel Mason, a 53-year-old caterer in  London , reminisced
about the paper’s history in her childhood home.  “It’s a shame personally, because when I was much younger,
I remember it would be my dad’s Sunday read,” Mason said. “It
was the only paper he read.”  News Corp. announced its decision to close the News of the
World on July 7 as the hacking allegations escalated. Companies
including Ford Motor Co., Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Wal-Mart
Inc.’s Asda chain said they would withdraw advertising.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Rebekah Brooks, chief executive officer of News
International and editor of the tabloid from 2000 to 2003, said
Friday the company will try to find jobs for as many of the
paper’s 200 employees as possible. News Corp. left open the
possibility of introducing a new Sunday tabloid.  Brooks has said she had no knowledge of hacking during her
time as editor of News of the World.  Coulson Arrest  Former News of the World editor  Andy Coulson , who resigned
as Cameron’s press chief in January, was arrested on Friday and
questioned as part of the probe. He quit as editor of the News
of the World in 2007, saying he had no knowledge of the phone-
hacking.  “Wrongdoers turned a good newsroom bad and this was not
understood or adequately pursued,” said  James Murdoch , chairman
of News International and Rupert Murdoch’s son, in a letter to
employees announcing the closure. “I acknowledge that we have
made mistakes, I hope you and everyone inside and outside the
company will acknowledge that we are doing our utmost to fix
them, atone for them, and make sure they never happen again.”  While the paper ran the motto “All human life is there,”
below its masthead, its coverage earned it the popular nickname,
“News of the Screws.”  George Orwell summed up the attraction of the newspaper in
the mid-20th century in his essay “Decline of the English
Murder.”  Blissful Circumstances  “It is Sunday afternoon, preferably before the war,” he
wrote. “The wife is already asleep in the armchair, and the
children have been sent out for a nice long walk. You put your
feet up on the sofa, settle your spectacles on your nose, and
open the News of the World. In these blissful circumstances,
what is it that you want to read about? Naturally, about a
murder.”  In 2009, the paper was sued by lawmaker Nigel Griffiths for
allegedly hacking into his computer to gain access to photos the
member of Parliament took during a sexual liaison in his office
with a woman who wasn’t his wife. The front-page story featured
pictures of Griffiths in his underwear.  In recent years, the newspaper has concentrated on coverage
of celebrities and on sting operations, such as those by
undercover investigative reporter Mazher Mahmood, the so-called
Fake Sheik, who portrayed a wealthy Arab offering business deals
to prominent individuals, then published their revelations.  Max Mosley  One of the newspaper’s most prominent recent stories was
published in 2008. Max Mosley, then the head of Formula One auto
racing’s ruling body, was awarded 60,000 pounds in a privacy
case after it published a story saying that a videotaped sex
party Mosley participated in had a Nazi theme.  Another story forced the novelist and politician Jeffrey Archer to resign over payments to a prostitute in 1986. He sued
another paper for libel over the story and won. In 1999 the News
of the World revealed he’d asked a friend to lie for him during
the case, and in 2001 Archer was jailed for perjury.  In 2002, under the headline “Harry’s Drugs Shame,” the
paper revealed Prince William’s younger brother had smoked dope.  “It’ll leave a big hole in the press,” said Derek Cook, a
50-year-old construction worker. “It was always on the edge,
the cusp of having a crack at someone.”  The News of the World was the first national British title
to have a woman editor, Wendy Henry, in 1987. Brooks, 43, began
her rise through the Murdoch titles there, having joined
initially as a secretary.  Dressed as Cleaner  In 1994 she dressed up as a cleaner to sneak into the
company’s printing presses and take an early copy of the Sunday
Times, which was serializing a biography of Prince Charles.  Rupert Murdoch  also bought another British daily, The Sun,
in 1969 and turned it into a downmarket tabloid.  Peter Chippindale and Chris Horrie’s history of The Sun
newspaper, “Stick It Up Your Punter,” describes how the News
of the World became Murdoch’s first foray in the British market.  When he made his initial offer for the money-losing title
in 1968, he had to arrive at the home of owner Sir William Carr
early because Carr “was a drunkard and customarily unfit to do
business after 10:30 a.m.,” according to the book.  Having gained control, Murdoch “plunged into every aspect
of the business. He worked from a desk commandeered from a
secretary, sneering at Sir William’s priceless antique
furniture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  