-- 
NFL Mediator Sets Meeting for Owners, Players for July 19; Encourages Talk

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-09T22:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/nfl-mediator-sets-meeting-for-owners-players-for-july-19-encourages-talk.html
The federal magistrate judge
mediating the labor dispute between National Football League
players and owners will hold another session with the sides on
July 19.  Judge Arthur J. Boylan called for the meeting in
 Minneapolis  before starting his vacation today, according to
the court docket. He told both sides to continue to meet on
their own “in an effort to define and narrow the difference
between their respective settlement positions.”  Negotiators for the owners and players are close to
agreeing on how to divide a projected $9.3 billion in revenue,
two weeks before training camps are scheduled to open,
according to two people with knowledge of the talks.  The sides have worked on an agreement that may give
players just less than half of the league’s revenue, according
to the people. Players got about 60 percent under the old
agreement, after owners deducted $1 billion for such costs as
the NFL Network.  “We’re gonna break for the weekend and get back to work
next week,” said  DeMaurice Smith , executive director of the
 NFL Players Association , after talks recessed yesterday in  New
York . “We continue to work hard to get something done. I know
our fans want us to get something done as quickly as
possible.”  Losses at Stake  Completing a new collective bargaining agreement next week
may help the U.S.’s most popular sport avoid missing one or
more rounds of preseason games, which NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello 
says are worth about $200 million in revenue each week. Owners
locked out players four months ago, and yesterday, a federal
appeals court upheld the lockout, saying a lower court had
erred in blocking the action.  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and Smith rejoined
negotiations this week after lawyers for both sides worked on
language for a new deal, said the people, who were granted
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly
about the talks.  Players led by quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and
 Peyton Manning  sued the NFL on March 11 after negotiations on a
collective-bargaining agreement collapsed and the athletes
dissolved their union. The lockout followed at midnight.  Training camps for the  St. Louis Rams  and  Chicago Bears 
are scheduled to open July 22, with the teams slated to play
the first preseason game on Aug. 7 in Canton, Ohio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  