-- 
Obama: Debt Talks ‘Rare’ Chance for Bipartisan Deal

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-07-09T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/obama-says-debt-talks-are-rare-chance-for-bipartisan-agreement.html
President  Barack Obama  said wrangling
between Republican and Democratic lawmakers over a deficit-
reduction deal provides a chance for a bipartisan approach to
the nation’s biggest economic problems.  “We have an extraordinary -- and extraordinarily rare --
opportunity to move forward in a way that makes sure our
government lives within its means, that puts our economy on a
sounder footing for the future, and that still invests in the
things we need to prosper in the years to come,” Obama said in
his weekly radio and Internet address.  The president has invited congressional leaders --including
House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican; House Democratic
leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California; Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat; and Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  -- to a White House meeting tomorrow.  During that session he will try to break a partisan impasse
over whether to include cuts in entitlement programs and tax
increases in a deficit-slashing deal to pave the way for a vote
in Congress to increase the government’s $14.3 trillion debt
limit.  The Treasury Department has said that the ceiling must be
raised before Aug. 2 to avoid a default on the nation’s
financial obligations.  In remarks broadcast today, the president said that during
a July 6 town hall hosted by Twitter Inc., he fielded several
questions asking when Republicans and Democrats will “come
together on behalf of the people who elected them.” That
question, he said, “goes to the heart of the debate” over the
debt talks.  Some Agreement  “The good news is, we agree on some big things,” he said.
“We agree that we simply cannot afford to default on our
national obligations for the first time in our history; that we
need to uphold the full faith and credit of the  United States of
America .”  Obama said he believes in a “balanced approach” --
reviewing spending on domestic and defense programs, closing tax
loopholes and deductions for the wealthiest taxpayers, and
addressing entitlement programs.  The  Labor Department  reported yesterday that the
 unemployment rate  in June unexpectedly climbed to 9.2 percent,
the highest this year. Employers added 18,000 jobs, the weakest
growth since September 2010. Payroll growth for May also was
revised downward, to 25,000.  Obama said this “fragile” recovery makes a strong case
for “getting our fiscal house in order” so that Congress can
focus on ways to create jobs. He urged Congress to expand
funding for infrastructure projects and overhaul the patent
system to pave the way for job growth.  ‘Greater Confidence’  Finding a bipartisan solution to  deficit reduction  and
raising the debt ceiling will help build “greater confidence”
in businesses, he said.  The president said he is “hopeful that we will rise to the
moment, and seize this opportunity, on behalf of all Americans,
and the future we hold in common.”  In the Republicans’ weekly  address , U.S. Representative
Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington said that the president’s
effort to create jobs has failed.  “The Obama administration promised its ‘stimulus’ would
keep unemployment below 8 percent,” said Rodgers, the vice-
chairwoman of the House Republican Conference. “Two and a half
years later, the unemployment rate is more than 9 percent and
still rising.”  Republican Jobs Plan  She said uncertainty about the debt limit, energy prices
and “burdensome mandates coming down from  Washington ” are
harming the economy. A  Republican blueprint  to boost jobs, which
includes legislation that would expand domestic energy
production and a budget plan, should be taken up in the
Democratic-controlled Senate, Rodgers said.  “The Democrats who run Washington don’t have a jobs plan;
they have a spending agenda,” she said.  Republicans’ insistence that there be no increase in the
debt ceiling without “serious spending cuts and reforms” is a
signal of their concern for the state of the nation’s future
fiscal health, she said.  “To be truly serious, these cuts should exceed the amount
by which President Obama wants the debt limit increased,” said
Rodgers. “And there can be no job-crushing tax hikes on
families and small businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  