-- 
Al-Qaeda’s Defeat Is ‘Within Reach,’ Panetta Says on Visit to Afghanistan

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-09T21:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/panetta-lands-in-kabul-saying-al-qaeda-defeat-is-within-reach-.html
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta ,
predicting that “strategically defeating” al-Qaeda is within
reach, is scheduled to meet with Afghan security officials and
American troops on his second day in Afghanistan today.  Panetta is making his first visit as defense secretary with
a focus on how to withdraw the 33,000 forces President Barack Obama ordered removed by September 2012 without losing recent
gains against the Taliban.  A successful handover of security responsibility to the
Afghans hinges on the capability of their own security forces,
Panetta said yesterday. He said he told President  Hamid Karzai 
in their meeting last night that the U.S. will continue to help
Afghanistan develop the forces and prevent backsliding.  “Our goal here is to ensure  Afghanistan  is stable in the
future and can secure, defend and govern itself so that it can
never again become a safe haven for al-Qaeda or its militant
allies,” Panetta said. In his last job as director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, Panetta oversaw the Navy SEALs
operation in May that killed al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden.  The U.S. is negotiating a long-term agreement with
Afghanistan to cement strategic ties while planning to withdraw
10,000 troops this year and 23,000 more next year, with the
expectation to hand over security control nationwide to the
Afghans at the end of 2014.  Continued pressure on al-Qaeda, the Taliban and other
affiliates around the  Middle East  and North Africa would defeat
the international terrorist group, Panetta told reporters before
landing in Kabul yesterday. He said the goal is “within
reach.”  “Now is the moment, following what happened with bin
Laden, to put maximum pressure on them,” Panetta said. “If we
continue this effort, we can really cripple al-Qaeda as a threat
to” the U.S.  Petraeus on Al-Qaeda  Army General David Petraeus, who is stepping down as
commander of the 48-nation military coalition in Afghanistan,
told reporters traveling with Panetta during a briefing in Kabul
yesterday. He will take over Panetta’s old job as CIA director
in September and will be succeeded in Afghanistan later this
month by Lieutenant General  John Allen .  Petraeus said estimates show 50 to 100 members of al-Qaeda
remain in Afghanistan, with some also linked to other militant
groups. Most are located in the mountains of Kunar and Nuristan
provinces in the east, where there are few Afghan security
forces, he said.  The coalition has conducted missions recently to disrupt
their operations and has longer-term plans to secure the area
with local forces, Petraeus said.  ‘Strategic Dismantling’  The combination of that pressure and the squeeze on al-
Qaeda in Yemen and elsewhere creates “a real prospect” for
“strategic dismantling or strategic defeat,” he said.  Panetta said he urged the president in a one-on-one meeting
yesterday, followed by dinner, to discuss disagreements
privately.  After Karzai recently criticized the U.S. as an occupying
force pursuing its own interests, U.S. Ambassador  Karl Eikenberry  told students in the western city of Herat that
“hurtful and inappropriate” comments by “some of your
leaders” undermine support in the U.S. for its aid and military
role in Afghanistan.  George Washington   When Karzai asked how the U.S. managed to build a
professional and apolitical military, Panetta said that began
with George Washington “making very clear that that’s the way
that we ought to operate.”  “I said it would be well if you would do the same thing as
president of this country,” said Panetta, a California Democrat
who served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1977 to
1993.  In a late briefing with reporters after his dinner with
Karzai, the new defense chief said the remaining force of about
70,000 would stay in Afghanistan until the end of 2014.  Asked a second time, he reiterated that “We’re going to
have 70,000 there through 2014 and obviously as we get to 2014,
we’ll develop a plan as to how we reduce that force at that
time.”  President  Barack Obama , in announcing the beginning of the
withdrawal on June 22 said the remaining troops would “continue
coming home at a steady pace as Afghan security forces move into
the lead.”  Panetta’s spokesman clarified the defense chief’s comments
after today’s briefing.  “There will be a drawdown between 2012 and 2014 of the
70,000 troops that remain,” said Doug Wilson, assistant
secretary of defense for public affairs, who is traveling with
Panetta. “What the secretary wanted to make clear was that a
plan is still to be developed as to how we’re going to do
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Kabul at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  