-- 
Treasuries Gain as Jobs Data, European Debt Turmoil Spur Demand for Safety

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-09T04:00:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/treasuries-gain-as-jobs-data-european-debt-turmoil-spur-demand-for-safety.html
Treasuries climbed, pushing five-year
note yields to the biggest weekly loss in more than a year, as
investors sought safety amid European sovereign-debt turmoil and
data showing the lowest U.S. job gains in nine months.  Benchmark 10-year note yields dropped the most in almost
three months as the U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly rose to
the highest level in 2011. China raised  interest rates  for the
third time this year, spurring concern growth will slow. The
Treasury will auction $66 billion in notes and bonds next week
as the Aug. 2 debt-ceiling deadline looms.  “Concerns coming from overseas have been exacerbated by
concerns at home after the jobs report, and Treasuries have
rallied,” said Larry Milstein, managing director of government
and agency debt trading in New York at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a
fixed-income broker and dealer for institutional investors. “It
seemed like we were coming through the economic rough patch, but
this certainly takes the legs out of that hope.”  Yields on the five-year note tumbled 20 basis points, the
most since the five days ended May 7, 2010, to 1.58 percent in
 New York , from 1.78 percent on July 1, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 1.5 percent security due in June 2016
gained 31/32, or $9.69 per $1,000 face amount, to 99 5/8.  The benchmark 10-year note yield dropped 16 basis points,
or 0.16 percentage point, the most since the week ended April
15, to 3.03 percent. Two-year yields slid eight basis points,
also the biggest drop since April 15, to 0.39 percent.  Treasuries erased early losses yesterday after Labor
Department data showed U.S. payrolls rose by 18,000 positions
last month, versus a 105,000 gain forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. The jobless rate rose to 9.2 percent, from 9.1 percent.  Weakest Since 2010  May’s employment gain was revised to 25,000 jobs, less than
half the advance initially estimated. Private hiring, which
excludes government agencies, rose by 57,000 jobs, the weakest
since May 2010. ADP Employer Services said on July 7 companies
added 157,000 jobs in June.  The payrolls report “forces all the bond bears back to
the drawing board,” said  George Goncalves , head of interest-
rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of 20 primary dealers
that trade Treasuries with the  Federal Reserve . “This confirms
that the data will remain soft and weak.”  President  Barack Obama  said in a televised appearance at
the White House after the report the U.S. still has “a big hole
to fill” in replacing jobs lost in the recession.  Debt-Ceiling Talks  The data may add urgency to talks tomorrow, when Obama and
Republican and Democratic congressional leaders will try again
to agree on cutting deficits and raising the government’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling. The Treasury says an accord is needed by
Aug. 2 to avert a default on  U.S. debt .  “There’s not much confidence that there’s a working plan
to get the economy back on track, or confidence that there’s
progress on the debt ceiling,” said  Anthony Cronin , a Treasury
trader at the primary dealer Societe Generale SA in New York.  U.S. lawmakers are likely to raise the nation’s debt limit
by $1 trillion as part of a compromise that would include an
equal amount in budget cuts, according to Citigroup Inc.  An agreement of that size would have “negligible” market
impact because monthly government expenditures are about $107
billion, New York-based Citigroup Global Markets strategist
Neela Gollapudi wrote in a research note yesterday to clients.  As the deadline approaches, the U.S. will sell $32 billion
of three-year notes on July 12, $21 billion of 10-year debt on
the following day and $13 billion of 30-year bonds on July 14.
The sizes are unchanged from the June sales of the securities.  Fed Efforts  The Fed has held its target for overnight lending between
banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 to support the
economy. It completed a $600 billion bond-purchase program in
June to stimulate growth and continues to reinvest maturing bond
proceeds into the market.  Treasuries rallied for two days, with 10-year notes ending
a five-day rout, after Moody’s Investors Service cut  Portugal ’s
credit rating on July 5 to Ba2, or junk. The move stemmed partly
from “the growing risk that Portugal will require a second
round of official financing before it can return to the private
market,” Moody’s said.  The Iberian nation followed Greece and Ireland in seeking a
bailout from the European Union. Treasuries fell last week as
Greek lawmakers approved an austerity plan to win more aid.  Three-month Treasury bill rates dropped below zero this
week for the first time since 2008. They reached negative 0.0051
percent before trading at 0.0203 percent yesterday.  ‘Not Going Away’  “People came to the conclusion that this situation in
 Europe  is not going away any time soon,” said  Charles Comiskey ,
head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New York.  China  raised rates to combat inflation. Its one-year
deposit rate rose to 3.5 percent from 3.25 percent, the People’s
Bank of China said on its website. The one-year lending rate
will increase to 6.56 percent from 6.31 percent.  “The China story is obviously a component to the nerves in
the market,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker.  Treasuries have returned 0.7 percent in July after falling
0.3 percent in June, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Treasury Master index. The  S&P 500  has gained 1.8
percent this month after falling 1.7 percent in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  