-- 
Saudi Shares Fluctuate on Low Volumes; Samba Gains, Mobily Drops

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-07-09T14:36:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/saudi-shares-fluctuate-on-low-volumes-samba-gains-mobily-drops.html
Saudi Arabian shares swung between
gains and losses amid low volumes as companies reported second-
quarter earnings and crude oil dropped after a report yesterday
showed the U.S. added fewer jobs than estimated.  Samba Financial Group , Saudi Arabia’s second-largest
publicly traded lender, and  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, led gains, while Etihad
Etisalat Co., the phone company known as Mobily, and Saudi
Cement Co. led losses.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  ended higher 0.24 percent to
6,628.30 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, reversing an earlier
0.2 percent drop. The trading volume was 106 million stocks,
compared with a six-month daily average of 212 million shares.  “Market volatility is expected given the announcement
phase we are currently in” and “results are so far positive,”
said John Sfakianakis, the Riyadh-based chief economist at
Banque Saudi Fransi.  Crude oil futures fell 2.5 percent to $96.20 a barrel on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  after the Labor Department said
U.S. employers added the fewest workers in nine months and the
 unemployment rate  rose to the highest level this year. Saudi
Arabia holds one-fifth of the world’s proven oil reserves.  Samba rose 1.5 percent, the largest gain in a week, to
50.75 riyals. Sabic strengthened 0.5 percent to 106 riyals, its
highest price since July 3.  “The market is balancing out between overbought and
oversold stocks; buying on dips and locking-in gains,” said
Asim Bukhtiar, an equity analyst at Riyad Capital.  Almarai Co., Saudi Arabia’s largest food producer by market
value, fell 0.3 percent to 96.50 riyals after it said second-
quarter profit climbed 1.8 percent, missing analyst estimates.
Mobily dropped 1.4 percent, the biggest decline in five weeks,
to 54.75 riyals.  Saudi Cement (SACCO)  dropped 2.7 percent to 62 riyals.  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  