-- 
Shari Redstone Says U.S. Has Too Many Cinemas, ‘Thousands’ Should Close

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-09T01:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/shari-redstone-says-u-s-has-too-many-cinemas-thousands-should-close.html
Shari Redstone, president of  National
Amusements  Inc., said the U.S. has too many movie screens and
the industry would be healthier if “thousands fewer” were
operating.  The cinema industry’s best prospects for growth are in
international markets, including  South America , where consumers
have fewer opportunities to see films in modern theaters,
Redstone said at the Variety Venture Capital & New Media Summit
in Beverly Hills,  California .  Revenue from National Amusements’ 75 screens in Argentina
has increased 56 percent this year, and sales from 121 screens
in Brazil are up 15 percent, said Redstone, the daughter of
Sumner Redstone. The company plans to build more theaters in the
region to take advantage of demand, she said. National
Amusements, based in Norwood, Massachusetts, operates more than
950 screens worldwide, according to its website.  “The U.S. is over-screened,” Redstone, 57, said. “I
don’t see the number of screens diminishing as much as they
should.”  Exhibitors in the U.S. operate 39,533 screens at 5,740
theaters, according to the  National Association of Theatre
Owners . Fewer screens would boost profit margins for operators,
said Redstone, whose family controls  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B)  and  CBS Corp. (CBS)   “Fewer theaters would make the financial model work
better,” she said in an interview after her remarks. She
declined to provide a specific number.  Smaller Window  Cinema owners are threatened by studio plans to shorten the
time between a movie’s theatrical run and its move to video-on-
demand, Redstone said in an interview.  Typically, studios wait four months from a film’s release
in theaters before selling the movie for viewing at home.
Experiments that shorten the time frame, including earlier
releases in DVD and VOD, have failed to make up for an overall
decline in studios’ home-video revenue, Redstone said.  “The ultimate value of a movie is determined by how well
it plays in theaters,” she said. “If we don’t protect that
window, it’s going to go down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  