-- 
Steve Garvey Fired by Los Angeles Dodgers After Offers to Buy MLB Team

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-09T05:47:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/steve-garvey-fired-amid-bid-to-buy-los-angeles-dodgers-yahoo-sports-says.html
Steve Garvey, the former first
baseman for the  Los Angeles Dodgers , was fired by the team amid
his attempts to seek support to buy out owner  Frank McCourt .  Garvey, 62, worked for the Dodger’s community relations
department. He said he abided by the rules set forth by the club
in regards to his offer to buy the Major League Baseball team.  “I was always clear with management as to the exploratory
ownership group I’ve put together,” Garvey said in an e-mail.
“In fact, I twice offered a significant cash infusion to help
the team.”  Garvey was putting together an investment group, including
former Dodgers pitcher Orel Hershiser.  “I met with team officials on multiple occasions, and was
given parameters of what was appropriate for me to say regarding
my investment group,” Garvey said. “I feel I stayed within
those parameters.”  Dodgers spokesman Josh Rawitch declined to comment on
Garvey’s dismissal, saying in an e-mail, “Unfortunately, we
cannot comment on personnel matters.”  Garvey, whose affiliation with the Dodgers goes back 55
years when he was a batboy at the age of seven, said “nothing
can change my allegiance to this franchise.”  “If management doesn’t want me to be an employee, I can
respect that,” Garvey said. “But no one can take away the fact
that I am and always will be a Dodger.”  Garvey batted .301 with 211 home runs and 992 runs batted
in for the Dodgers from 1969-1982, He played on four World
Series teams.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy June 27. Concerned about
the team’s financial stability, MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  had
assigned Thomas Schieffer, former president of the  Texas Rangers ,
to oversee the day-to-day operations of the team.  McCourt, who was embroiled in a divorce court battle, has
said he wasn’t interested in selling the team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  