-- 
Payrolls Grow at Slowest Pace in Nine Months as Unemployment Rate Climbs

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-07-09T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/u-s-payrolls-grow-at-slowest-pace-in-nine-months-as-jobless-rate-climbs.html
The U.S.  unemployment rate  rose for a
third straight month in June, hiring slowed and earnings
stagnated, pointing to an economy lacking momentum entering the
second half of the year.  The 9.2 percent jobless rate in June was the highest this
year, Labor Department figures showed yesterday. Employers added
18,000 workers to payrolls, the fewest in nine months and less
than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists.  Companies may be hesitant to hire because they lack clarity
on future taxes and  government spending  as President  Barack Obama  negotiates budget cuts with Congress and the U.S. reaches
the limit of its borrowing authority. Stocks fell yesterday as
the report called into question  Federal Reserve  projections the
economy will improve during the remainder of the year.  “Businesses are back to being super cautious again,” said
 Nariman Behravesh , chief economist at IHS Inc. in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . “They’re still very worried about how this debt
ceiling thing gets resolved.”  Obama yesterday said Congress can quickly help create jobs
by extending a payroll tax cut, hiring construction workers for
infrastructure projects, approving pending trade agreements and
passing a measure to streamline patent procedures.  Speaking at the White House in Washington, Obama said the
report shows “we still have a long way to go and a lot of work
to do to give people the security and opportunity they
deserve.”  Debt Ceiling  Obama and eight congressional leaders from both parties
will try again tomorrow to find a compromise on cutting deficits
and raising the $14.3 trillion borrowing limit.  “The sooner that the markets know that the debt limit
ceiling will have been raised and that we have a serious plan to
deal with our debt and deficit, the sooner that we give our
businesses the certainty that they will need” to hire, Obama
said.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said a
“misguided” $814 billion stimulus package, combined with
business regulations and a mounting national debt “continue to
hold back private-sector  job creation  in our country.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.7 percent to
1,343.8 at the 4 p.m. close yesterday in  New York . The yield on
the benchmark 10-year note dropped to 3.02 percent from 3.14
percent a day earlier.  Economists’ Forecasts  The increase in payrolls compared with a median forecast of
105,000 in the Bloomberg survey. Estimates of 85 economists
ranged from increases of 40,000 to 175,000. The unemployment
rate was forecast to hold at 9.1 percent.  “We still believe that a number of temporary factors point
to a pickup in GDP growth during the second half of 2011,”
 David Greenlaw , chief financial economist at Morgan Stanley,
said in a note to clients. “But the extent of that improvement
now seems likely to be somewhat less than previously thought
given the fading support for income and production evident in
the jobs figures.”  Fed officials have said the slowdown in economic growth in
the first and second quarters partly reflected temporary
developments. Manufacturers were hurt by supply disruptions in
the aftermath of the earthquake in  Japan , while a surge in
gasoline expenses limited spending by American consumers on
other items.  ‘Improving Slowly’  “The labor market is improving slowly,” Jenny Lin, senior
U.S. economist at Ford Motor Co., said on a teleconference with
analysts on July 1. The temporary restraints on the economy
“are reversing now and set the stage for some improved readings
in the months ahead.”  Billionaire  Warren Buffett  said he is wagering on continued
economic expansion and “would bet very heavily against” a
second recession.  Even so, “how fast the recovery will come, I don’t know,”
Buffett, chairman and chief executive officer of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., told Bloomberg Television’s Betty Liu on the “In
the Loop” program yesterday.  Unemployment rose even as the labor force participation
rate, the percentage of working age population either working or
looking for a job, declined to 64.1 percent, the lowest since
March 1984.  Private hiring, which excludes government agencies, rose
57,000 last month, the smallest gain since May 2010. Government
payrolls declined for an eighth straight month, and construction
jobs fell. Factory payrolls climbed 6,000 in June, while the
gain at service-providers was the smallest since September.  Average hourly earnings dropped 1 cent to $22.99, while the
average work week for all workers decreased to 34.3 hours.  The so-called underemployment rate -- which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking -- increased to 16.2
percent, the highest this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  