-- 
U.S. Fishing Tours Accused of Running Child Sex Trips in Brazil

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/u-s-fishing-tours-accused-of-running-child-sex-trips-in-brazil.html
Sex with minors, not just fishing,
was part of the tour in  Brazil ’s Amazon, according to filings in
a lawsuit brought against a Georgia man that state he is under
investigation by the U.S. Justice Department.  Richard W. Schair, who ran fishing tours to Brazil for U.S.
customers, filed papers in federal court July 7 in an effort to
delay a lawsuit. The papers refer to investigations by both U.S.
and Brazilian authorities. In the lawsuit filed in federal court
in Gainesville, Georgia, the plaintiffs said he used alcohol,
drugs and promises of money to lure girls aboard a fishing boat,
the Amazon Santana.  “Once the girls were on the boat, they were coerced into
performing sex acts with Schair and his customers,” states the
June 14 lawsuit against Schair by four unidentified Brazilian
women who said they were victims of sex trafficking involving
his fishing tours. The plaintiffs said the “impoverished”
girls, one of them age 12 at the time, were exploited by the
U.S. tourists.  Telephone messages and e-mails to Justice Department
spokesman  Matthew Miller  and the Brazilian Embassy in  Washington 
weren’t immediately returned.  The documents filed by Schair included a June 25 subpoena
for him to appear before a federal grand jury in Florida that
requested travel records from Schair, his Wet-A-Line Tours LLC
and his ex-wife, Amelia Karr, who was president of the fishing
operation. They also included a Dec. 16 Justice Department
letter to Karr, asking for her cooperation in a case linking her
with “child sex tourism in Brazil.”  Numerous Images  Documents from Brazilian prosecutors, translated into
English from Portuguese, filed by Schair, state there is
photographic and video evidence that includes “numerous images
of Brazilian women in sexual poses within the vessels and in the
company of foreign tourists” between 2005 and 2007.  Schair presented U.S. and Brazilian documents as evidence
that he’s under federal criminal investigation, and said that
the existence of the criminal case legally justifies putting off
the related civil case.  Schair, who is also listed as president and chief executive
officer of Gainesville, Georgia-based real estate firm Schair &
Associates Inc., didn’t immediately return a telephone call and
e-mail message seeking comment. Schair’s motion to stay didn’t
contain a denial of the charges.  His filing in the U.S. District Court in the Northern
District of  Georgia  was aimed toward staying the lawsuit by the
Brazilian women. New York-based human-rights group Equality Now
said it initiated the lawsuit, which it said represented the
first time victims have used the Trafficking Victims Protection
Act to seek damages from sex tours.  Clear Message  “We hope it sends a loud and clear message to all sex tour
operators in the  United States  that sex trafficking victims
anywhere can bring a case against those who exploit them by
pressing for damages in the U.S.,” said Taina Bien-Aimé, the
group’s executive director, in a June 14 statement. Equality Now
officials couldn’t be reached for comment today on Schair’s
court filing.  Calls to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s  Florida 
office and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District
of Florida requesting confirmation of a criminal case weren’t
immediately returned.  An online advertisement for Wet-A-Line says it
“specializes in safely putting YOU in exotic locations for
fishing trips and vacations to  Mexico  and Brazil’s Amazon
Rainforest.”  Earlier, Schair filed a libel lawsuit against MSNBC.com unit
Newsvine Inc. after the media site published reports linking him
to Brazilian sex tourism. He voluntarily dismissed the case in
2009, according to court records.  The New York Times reported the Justice Department
investigation against Schair earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 