-- 
Yemen’s Saleh Plans July 17 Return, Arabiya Says; Seven Syrians Are Killed

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-09T22:09:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-09/wounded-yemeni-president-saleh-returning-july-17-arabiya-says.html
Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh
will return to his country on July 17, according to an
unidentified official cited by  Al Arabiya  television, which also
reported from Syria that seven people were killed at a funeral
near Damascus.  The Yemeni president’s return from a Saudi Arabian hospital
after being attacked last month would occur on the 33rd
anniversary of his taking office. The official told Al Arabiya
that Saleh chose that date to send a message that he’s still the
legitimate president of Yemen until September 2013.  Saleh said last week that he had eight operations and all
were successful. He left his deputy, Abed Rabbo Mansur Hadi, in
charge. State media has said the president sends messages to
heads of state and has discussed a plan for the transition of
power proposed by the six nations of the Gulf Cooperation
Council.  As word of Saleh’s possible return was reported, Yemeni
forces shelled Al-Rawdha district north of Taiz, where two
people were killed and two wounded, Al Arabiya reported.  In  Syria , seven mourners were shot to death at a funeral
yesterday in Damascus’ Al-Damir suburb, Al Arabiya said, citing
witnesses.  Meanwhile, the president of the National Organization for
Human Rights in Syria declined to attend a Damascus meeting with
the Syrian regime, according to a statement on the group’s
website.  “If the regime ordered not to shoot at protesters as it
claimed, these orders haven’t been translated on the ground, so
what is the point to talk with a regime that can’t control
things?”  Ammar Qurabi  said. “If the regime ordered to kill and
torture protesters, there will be no dialogue with murderers.”  Ordered to Shoot  Syria’s security forces have been ordered to shoot at
protesters,  Human Rights Watch  said, citing interviews with
eight soldiers and four members of security agencies who
defected after anti-government protests began in March.  The New York-based organization said yesterday that those
interviewed participated in and witnessed the shooting of
protesters in several cities, including Damascus. The shootings
were ordered by their superiors, Human Rights Watch said, citing
the defectors.  “The testimony of these defectors provides further
evidence that the killing of protesters was no accident but a
result of a deliberate policy by senior figures in Syria to use
deadly force to disperse protesters,” said Sarah Leah Whitson,
Middle East director for Human Rights Watch, in a statement.  Ambassador’s Visit  On July 7, the U.S. ambassador to Syria,  Robert Ford , met
with residents in Hama, a center of anti-regime activity, in a
gesture of support for the 500,000 people rallying for the end
of rule of President Bashar al-Assad under threat from
government forces. Hundreds of protesters gathered yesterday in
front of the U.S. embassy in Damascus to demonstrate against
Ford’s visit, the official Syrian Arab News Agency reported.  In  Egypt , the trial of suspects accused of killing
protesters and those involved in corruption will be expedited,
Prime Minister Essam Sharaf said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  The statement came the day after Egyptian demonstrators to
demand the justice system hold trials more quickly of those
former officials and policemen accused of killings during the
uprising that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  five months ago.
Thousands had poured into central Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , a focus
of the protests against Mubarak’s regime.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  