-- A Harvard Doctor’s Startup Trains Hospitals to Rehab Cancer Survivors
-- B y   J o h n   T o z z i
-- 2011-12-16T21:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/a-harvard-doctor-s-startup-trains-hospitals-to-rehab-cancer-survivors.html
     Sandra Wade, a Florida social worker, was diagnosed with
an incurable form of  breast cancer  a decade ago. Two surgeries
and years of chemotherapy left Wade, 61, with a damaged
heart, chronic swelling in her left arm, spinal
arthritis, nerve damage and fatigue, among other problems.
“They didn’t send me home well,” she says. “They sent me home
sicker than I began.”  Survivors of strokes, heart attacks and traumatic
injuries routinely get rehabilitation to improve their
strength, energy and functioning. For cancer patients, it’s a
rarity. It wasn’t always this way. “We used to have better
cancer rehabilitation than we do now,” says Dr. Catherine
Alfano, a program director at the Office of Cancer
Survivorship at the  National Cancer Institute . Before the
1980s, when most cancer treatment involved long hospital
stays, survivors would get rehab before being discharged. As
treatments improved and outpatient care became more
common, Alfano says, “those programs kind of disappeared to a
large extent.”  Now the medical world is recognizing that the 12 million
cancer survivors in the U.S. can benefit from more
comprehensive rehab. Six years ago the  Institute of Medicine 
called for giving every survivor a “care plan” to manage the
lasting consequences of treatment, and this year the American
College of Surgeons made such post-treatment attention to
quality of life a requirement for its 1,500 accredited
hospitals. Dr. Julie Silver, a Harvard Medical School rehab
physician who survived breast cancer herself, is one of the
pioneers trying to make rehabilitation a standard part of
cancer care.  Silver co-founded Oncology Rehab Partners in 2009 to help
hospitals and rehab centers tailor rehab programs to cancer
patients. “There’s rehab for everything,” she says, “except
cancer.” Silver and her business partner Diane Stokes
developed a program to certify cancer rehab that has been
adopted by dozens of institutions, including Johns Hopkins
Hospital, over the past two years. The Survivorship Training
and Rehab program, or STAR, offers online training to
oncologists, primary care doctors, nurses, therapists and
other practitioners, as well as nonmedical staff such as
social workers and administrators. In October, several
hospitals and rehab clinics in  Rhode Island  jointly got
certified in the STAR program in an effort to make its
certified rehab available across the state.  The STAR program’s goal is to teach doctors how rehab can
help cancer patients and to teach rehab professionals about
the unique needs of cancer survivors. After training, Oncology
Rehab Partners helps health care providers create systems for
referring, evaluating and rehabilitating cancer survivors.  Today, many doctors send cancer patients to fitness
classes, yoga or massage therapists to soothe the effects of
treatment. Unlike rehab, such nonmedical care isn’t generally
covered by insurance. Silver says many survivors need more
customized help, including physical, occupational and speech
therapy, to regain their abilities and transition back into
work and family life.  For example, many survivors of head and neck cancers stop
driving because they have difficulty turning their heads.
Physical therapy can improve their neck motion, allowing them
to drive again and, often, to go back to work. Others may have
trouble speaking or swallowing that speech therapy can
relieve. Oncologists may not recognize their needs, however.
“People are told this is your new normal, accept this,” Silver
says, “when in fact that may not be their new normal if they
had appropriate rehabilitation services.”  Institutions pay $10,000 to $44,000 for certification.
(Individuals, such as solo physical therapists, can also get
certified for $2,000.) Over time, Oncology Rehab Partners will
measure the programs’ success by looking at patient
satisfaction and improvements as part of a recertification
process that will cost $5,000 to $10,000. The seven-employee
company, based in Northborough, Mass., expects revenue of more
than $2 million in 2012, up from about $500,000 this
year, says Stokes.  Physical therapist Sherry Spencer Brown was part of a
15-person team that brought the STAR program to Hawthorn
Medical Associates, a 75-doctor practice in North
Dartmouth, Mass. The training helped Brown learn more about
the consequences of chemo and radiation, while her colleagues
in Hawthorn’s cancer center learned how rehab could help
survivors recover after treatment. “We all came from a
different perspective and different clinical strengths and got
to learn about other areas that we’re not as well-versed in,”
says Brown.  Silver developed the STAR program after her own breast
cancer treatment in 2003 left her too weak to go back to work.
She got her strength back over two years, drawing on her own
expertise as a rehab physician and working with a personal
trainer. The experience awakened her to the problem many
cancer survivors face: After debilitating treatment, they have
no road back to anything like the life they knew before being
diagnosed.  The health system “literally drops people off as medical
refugees to navigate this labyrinth on their own,” says
Rebecca Kirch, director of quality of life and survivorship at
the  American Cancer Society . Doctors are so focused on curing
the disease that patients’ pain and the effects of chemo and
other treatments take a back seat. “There’s very little
training in medical school and beyond that addresses the
symptoms, the side effects, the late effects [that can
manifest years after treatment] and the rehabilitation needs,”
she says.  Even at top-rated cancer centers, comprehensive rehab is
a relatively new focus. At  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center  in  New York , rehabilitation until 10 years ago largely
centered around lymphedema, or swelling of the limbs that’s a
common result of breast cancer treatment, says Dr. Michael
Stubblefield, the center’s chief of rehabilitation medicine.
In the decade since, Sloan-Kettering’s outpatient rehab team
has grown from two therapists to 18, and its focus has
broadened. Still, most big hospitals don’t have a doctor like
Stubblefield in charge of cancer rehab. “There’s still a very
small number of us who are really doing this full time,” he
says.  Wade, the Florida social worker, never got a rehab
referral from her oncologist. Instead, after seeing an ad in
her local paper, she began a STAR-certified cancer
rehabilitation program at Jupiter Medical Center, a few miles
from her North Palm Beach home. Physical therapists helped
reduce the swelling in her arm and worked on exercises to
improve her strength and steady her gait. Now, Wade says, “for
the first time in many, many years, I can go up and down a
flight of stairs without losing my breath.”  She says she hopes to become well enough to work a few
hours a day next year. She’s devoting her energy to advocating
for better quality-of-life care, including rehab, for people
with cancer. “There’s too many chronically ill cancer patients
that are suffering unnecessarily,” she says.  To contact the reporter on this story: John Tozzi at
 jtozzi2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick
Leiber at  nleiber@bloomberg.net 
