-- Accused White House Shooter Is Held Competent to Stand Trial by D.C. Judge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-16T17:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/accused-white-house-shooter-is-held-competent-to-stand-trial-by-d-c-judge.html
An  Idaho  man accused of shooting at
the White House in an attempt to assassinate President  Barack Obama  was declared mentally fit to stand trial.  U.S. Magistrate Judge John Facciola in  Washington  today
rejected a government request that Oscar Ramiro Ortega-Hernandez
undergo a 30-day psychological exam, ruling that he hasn’t seen
“any evidence” to overrule an earlier assessment that Ortega-
Hernandez understands the legal process and the charges against
him. The judge scheduled a detention hearing for Dec. 19.  “Delusional thinking does not compel a decision of
incompetence,” Facciola said at the end of a 1 1/2-hour
hearing. The judge said if Ortega-Hernandez’s mental state
changes, prosecutors can file another request for an exam.  Prosecutors said a 50-minute November mental health exam in
the court’s cellblock that found Ortega-Hernandez to be
competent wasn’t thorough and didn’t take into account
statements he allegedly made in a videotape that authorities
said he planned to submit to the Oprah Winfrey Network.  The statements include Ortega-Hernandez’s claim that the
government puts fluoride in products to “dumb down” Americans
and that smoking marijuana is the key to world peace.  Prosecutors said in court papers they wanted a full
psychiatric or psychological screening “given the serious
nature of the criminal charges” and the “likelihood that
mental health issues may arise.” They didn’t argue that Ortega-
Hernandez was incompetent.  Defense Position  Lawyers for Ortega-Hernandez urged the court to reject the
government’s request for another examination, arguing that their
client has “exhibited no signs of any mental impairment” and
is actively assisting in his defense.  “I have no concerns about Mr. Ortega-Hernandez’s
competency,” David Bos, an assistant federal public defender,
told Facciola.  In court papers and in court, the defense accused
prosecutors of misconstruing the competency inquiry as a prelude
to an insanity defense, which hasn’t been raised.  Today’s hearing included testimony from Elizabeth
Teegarden, the D.C. Mental Health Department doctor who
evaluated Ortega-Hernandez last month. She said he denied making
or refused to discuss statements in the criminal complaint from
witnesses who claim he talked about his hatred for Obama.  “There certainly may be some mental health issues here,”
Teegarden said. “I didn’t see any during my 50-minute exam.”  Rifle Fire  Ortega-Hernandez, 21, is accused of firing a semi-automatic
rifle at the White House on Nov. 11 in an attempt to kill Obama.
He was arrested at a hotel near  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania , on Nov.
16 after a task force of federal and local law enforcement
officers searched for him.  Prosecutors said in court filings that Ortega-Hernandez
drove to Washington with an assault rifle and other weapons
after telling people in his home state of Idaho that he
“needed” to assassinate the president.  Ortega-Hernandez fired shots from a street less than
800 yards from the White House just after 9 p.m. in Washington,
prosecutors said. Obama had left for a trip to Hawaii and  Asia .  The attempted assassination charge carries a maximum
penalty of life in prison.  Prosecutors said in court filings that ballistic tests
confirmed that two bullets and one bullet jacket recovered from
the grounds of the White House were fired from the rifle found
in Ortega-Hernandez’s car.  Ortega-Hernandez’s fingerprints were the only ones found on
the magazines for the assault rifle, prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Ortega-Hernandez, 11-00883, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 