-- Agreement on EU-Wide Patent Unlikely This Year, Poland Says
-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 2011-12-16T14:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/agreement-on-eu-wide-patent-unlikely-this-year-poland-says.html
Agreement on the European Union’s
first region-wide patent system is unlikely this year because of
the “contentious issue” of where to locate the court, the
Polish presidency of the EU said.  “Essentially the whole package is negotiated, it’s
final,” Mikolaj Dowgielewicz,  Poland ’s European-affairs
minister, told reporters today in Brussels. “Nevertheless, due
to the resistance to compromise of one or two member states, we
will not decide this year on the seat of the court.”  Attempts to reach an agreement on an EU patent system since
2000 have  faltered  over language issues. The EU has 23 official
languages and numerous compromise proposals have failed to
satisfy political demands or risked increasing translation costs
for companies.  While governments from all but two of the 27 EU nations
have agreed on the basic structure of the patent system, discord
remains “on all points” concerning the creation of a court,
Pierre Delsaux, deputy director general in EU Internal Markets
Commissioner  Michel Barnier ’s department, said on Dec. 7.  “This is an issue where we have just hit the wall,”
Dowgielewicz said today. “One or two member states are simply
not prepared to make a compromise.”  In March, 25 EU nations agreed to move forward with a
common patent system.  Italy  and  Spain  opted out of the plans
because they objected to the language proposals. Italy, which
now has a new government led by Prime Minister  Mario Monti , is
considering joining, according to Delsaux.  “It would be positive if Italy and Spain decide to join the
European patent,” Dowgielewicz said, noting that the issue is
not in the EU presidency’s hands. Poland’s six-month tenure at
the helm of the EU ends at the end of December, when Denmark
takes over the presidency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden Brussels at +322.285.4300 or
 Jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  