-- Thai Royalists Say U.S. Ambassador Must ‘Get Out’ Over King Law Criticism
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2011-12-16T11:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/thai-royalists-to-protest-against-u-s-un-criticism-of-king-insult-law.html
Hundreds of Thai royalists called
for U.S. Ambassador Kristie Kenney to “get out” of the country
after a State Department official questioned the conviction of
an American for insulting  King Bhumibol Adulyadej .  Siam Samakkhi, which means United Siam, submitted letters
to the UN and U.S. today urging them to avoid commenting on the
lese-majeste law, group member Tul Sitthisomwong said. About 200
members of the organization, waving royal flags and holding
pictures of King Bhumibol, shouted “Kristie get out!” in front
of the embassy in Bangkok today.  “Each country has the right to limit rights or discussion
in order to protect national security and peace,” Tul said in
an interview. “To keep peace and good contacts between the U.S.
and  Thailand , they should avoid interfering in the Thai justice
system.”  Increased debate over the lese-majeste law threatens to
rekindle political discord that has led to street violence over
the past three years in  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy.
About 100 activists denounced the law on Dec. 10 in a protest in
Bangkok, online news outlet Prachatai reported.  King Bhumibol, who turned 84 earlier this month, took the
throne in 1946 and serves as head of state. Thailand’s
 constitution  says the king “shall be enthroned in a position of
revered worship and shall not be violated.”  U.S. citizen Joe Gordon, who was born in Thailand and also
goes by the name Lerpong Wichaikhammat, received a 2 1/2-year
prison sentence on Dec. 8 for translating an unauthorized
biography of King Bhumibol and posting it on a website. Two
weeks earlier, Ampol Tangnoppakul, 61, received a 20-year jail
term for sending four  text messages  that defamed Queen Sirikit.  ‘Chilling Effect’  The lese-majeste law mandates jail sentences as long as 15
years for defaming, insulting or threatening the king, queen,
heir apparent or regent. The UN human rights office last week
said the law had a “ chilling effect ” on free speech and called
for it to be amended.  State Department spokesman Mark Toner  said  Dec. 8 the U.S.
is “troubled by the outcome” of Gordon’s case. The European
Union delegation in Thailand said Nov. 28 it was “deeply
concerned” about Ampol’s sentence and urged Thai authorities to
uphold freedom of expression.  “The United States government has the utmost respect for
the Thai monarchy, the royal family and Thai culture,” the U.S.
Embassy said today on its  website . “We respect Thai laws and do
not take sides in Thailand’s internal affairs. We support
freedom of expression around the world and consider it a
fundamental human right.”  Facebook Debate  A posting yesterday on the U.S. embassy’s  Facebook account 
received more than 3,300 comments from users debating the lese-
majeste law, with some circulating violent images directed at
Kenney. The embassy asked users to refrain “from using language
that is profane or abusive.”  Tul said he was “disappointed” with the threats of
violence on Facebook, adding that supporters of the lese-majeste
law “should ask the U.S. government politely and give another
point of view.”  Protesters today carried signs that said “Kristie Kenney
Shut Up” and “If You Not Accept Please Get Out.” The group
sang the national anthem and a song praising the king before
departing after about 45 minutes.  The “protest was peaceful” Kenney posted on her  Twitter
account  and “included respectful conversation with Embassy
staff.”  No Amendments  Tul warned of a “conspiracy” aimed at changing the lese-
majeste law and said his group would continue to resist efforts
to amend it.  “Attacking 112 is just the first step,” Tul said,
referring to the lese-majeste law, which falls under Article 112
of Thailand’s criminal code. “If there is no 112 then they will
move to get rid of the monarchy from Thailand completely.”  The number of lese-majeste cases before the lower courts
increased to 478 last year from 33 in 2005, a year before the
coup that ousted former Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra ,
according to statistics compiled by David Streckfuss, an
academic based in northeast Thailand who has written a book on
the laws.  “We are concerned about the ongoing trials and harsh
sentencing of people convicted of lese majeste in Thailand,”
Ravina Shamdasani, Geneva-based spokeswoman of the UN High
Commissioner for Human Rights, said in a Dec. 9  statement .
“Such harsh criminal sanctions are neither necessary nor
proportionate and violate the country’s international human
rights obligations.”  Block Websites  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister, took
power on Aug. 9 after her Pheu Thai party won a majority in July
elections. Deputy Prime Minister Chalerm Yoobamrung said Dec. 14
the government would spend 400 million baht ($12.7 million) to
purchase legal intercept technology that can block websites that
insult the monarchy.  King Bhumibol ’s picture is hung in the majority of Thai
homes and a royal anthem praising him is played before movies in
theaters across the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  