-- Airlines Fail to Overturn Obama Rule on Union Elections
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2011-12-16T19:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/airlines-challenge-to-obama-rule-on-union-elections-fails-at-appeals-court.html
An airline industry challenge to a
government rule that makes union organizing easier was rejected
by a U.S. appeals court, leaving a voting system in place that
in 2010 upended 75 years of practice.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington today, upholding a
lower court decision, said that the National Mediation Board
acted legally in changing the rule for representation elections
to require the union to win a majority of votes cast rather than
a majority of those eligible to vote. Previously, abstentions
were effectively counted as votes against forming a union.  The board’s approval of the rule in June 2010 was a victory
for transportation labor unions after President  Barack Obama 
took office and gave the board a 2-1 Democratic majority. The
AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation, requested the change
in September 2009.  “Nothing in the section clearly and unambiguously requires
that a majority must participate in order to have a valid
election,” Judge David Tatel wrote for the 2-1 majority.  The board, which referees relations between labor and
management at railroad and airline companies under the 1926
 Railway Labor Act , changed the rule last year in a 2-1 vote,
with the only Republican member dissenting.  FAA Funding  The rule change has been the main sticking point preventing
Congress from enacting long-term legislation to allow the
 Federal Aviation Administration  to operate.  The Republican-controlled House included a provision in its
version of the FAA bill that would have overturned the board
rule. Democrats in the Senate have objected to that measure.  Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia Democrat who
chairs the Commerce Committee, has said in news conferences that
the issue of the mediation board was behind the impasse last
summer that led to a two-week partial shutdown of the FAA.  The Air Transport Association of America Inc.’s challenge
to the rule in federal court in  Washington  argued that the board
acted arbitrarily and ignored requirements of the 1926 Railway
Labor Act. The Chamber of Commerce, along with five employees of
Delta Air Lines Inc. who claimed the ruled violated their First
Amendment rights, joined as plaintiffs. The lower court ruled
against them without a trial.  “We continue to believe, as 75 years of labor law has
consistently held, that the majority of those to be represented
should have a voice in the union election process, and we will
work cooperatively with the NMB to address our concerns,” the
airlines Washington trade group said in an e-mailed statement.  The  Communications Workers of America , which represents
railroad dispatchers and flight attendants, called on Congress
to pass an FAA bill in the wake of the ruling.  ‘Settles This Issue’  “This ruling settles this issue once and for all:
Republicans cannot continue to block the upgrades and job
benefits of the FAA over a provision that has the force of law,
fairness, and common sense behind it,” the union said in an e-
mailed statement.  Delta declined to comment on the decision, referring
questions to the Airlines for America trade group, said Delta
spokeswoman  Gina Laughlin .  While the change also affects rail-union elections, about
90 percent of employees at the major U.S. railroads are already
represented by unions, according to the  Association of American
Railroads .  In contrast, several major air carriers either have
employees that are not unionized or are in the midst of union
campaigns.  Union Victories  The rule hasn’t resulted in any major airline union
victories. An attempt by the  Association of Flight Attendants 
last year to organize Delta Air Line Inc.’s 20,000 flight
attendants fell short. The board last month rejected the union’s
claims of election interference.  The change was proposed after the Obama administration
named former flight-attendants’ union leader Linda Puchala to
the board in May 2009, replacing a Republican and former
Northwest Airlines lobbyist and giving Democrats a majority.  In bringing suit, the  Air Transport Association , now called
Airlines for America, which represents the carriers, had argued
that the Railway Labor Act allows a union to be certified only
with a majority of all eligible voters.  The board cited evidence that employees fail to vote for a
variety of reasons, including travel, illness or “apathy” and
used political elections as analogy to justify the new rule. In
the case of politics, non-voters are assumed to acquiesce in the
judgment of the majority of participating voters, the board
argued.  ‘Traditional of Forums’  “The board’s rule allows employees to exercise that right
through the most traditional of forums -- an election,” the
appeals court said. “The fact that a majority of eligible
voters decides to abstain -- i.e., not exercise its right --
hardly suggests that the majority was deprived of its right.”  In her dissent, Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson said the
board’s action further politicized its role by elevating its
rule-making function over its role as unbiased mediator. She
disagreed with the majority’s contention that without the new
rule, an indifferent majority could prevent the resolution of a
contest.  “The issue is who determines the representative: the
majority of those who vote for a representative with majority
participation or the majority of those who vote for a
representative without majority participation,” Henderson wrote
in a 14-page dissent.  The law declares “loud and clear” that the majority must
participate in determining a union representative, she wrote.  The case is Air Transport Association of America, Inc. v.
 National Mediation Board , 10-5253, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  