-- Taiwan Dollar Completes Weekly Drop, Bonds Gain as Growth Slows
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2011-12-16T08:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/taiwan-dollar-set-for-weekly-drop-bonds-gain-as-growth-slows.html
Taiwan ’s dollar had a second weekly
decline amid speculation policy makers are intervening to weaken
the currency to protect exporters and support growth. Bonds
advanced.  Central bank Governor Perng Fai-nan pledged last month to
“maintain order” in the  exchange rate , in response to
questions from lawmakers in parliament. Foreign funds sold $180
million more of the island’s stocks than they bought in the
first four days of this week, exchange data show. The currency
snapped a three-day loss today after a report showed jobless
claims in the U.S. fell to the lowest level since May 2008.  “Much of the weakness is driven by central bank policy
that is deliberately weakening the currency,” said Andy Ji, a
Singapore-based currency strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia . “That has been going on for quite a while.”  The  Taiwan dollar  fell 0.4 percent this week to NT$30.369
against its U.S. counterpart in Taipei, according to Taipei
Forex Inc. It was little changed today. The local dollar has
gained 0.5 percent this quarter. The island’s benchmark  Taiex (TWSE) 
stock index dropped 1.6 percent this week.  The number of applications for unemployment payments in the
U.S. dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 in the week ended Dec. 10, a
lower total than was forecast by any of 47 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, according to government figures released
yesterday.  Taiwan’s exports rose the least in more than two years in
November as shipments to  Europe  slumped and faltering global
growth curbed Chinese and U.S. demand. Overseas sales climbed
1.3 percent from a year earlier, compared with an 11.7 percent
pace in October, official data show.  Bonds rose this week. The yield on the 1.25 percent
government security due September 2021 fell about one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.25 percent, prices from
Gretai Securities Market show. The rate held steady today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  