-- Taliban-Inspired Sect Adopts Silent Killings in Nigeria, Police Say
-- B y   M u s t a p h a   M u h a m m a d
-- 2011-12-16T12:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/taliban-inspired-sect-adopts-silent-killings-police-say.html
A militant Islamic sect in  Nigeria 
increased serial killings in its northeastern stronghold, with
20 people shot dead in the past month as a security crackdown
caused a drop in bomb attacks, police said.  “Though explosions have been managed and reduced to the
minimum, we are worried about silent killings in the last one
month,” Simeon Midenda, Borno police commissioner, said in an
interview in the state capital, Maiduguri, on Dec. 14. “I can’t
give you the exact figures of the victims but no fewer than 20
died in the last one month.  Authorities in  Africa ’s most populous country of more than
160 million people blame the Boko Haram sect, which draws
inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for a surge in
violent attacks this year, including suicide bombings and armed
assaults on government buildings, police stations and banks in
the north and Abuja, the capital. The sect claimed
responsibility for the Aug. 26 suicide car-bombing of the United
Nations building in Abuja that killed 24 people.  At least 425 people, including 70 policemen, have died in
attacks by the sect this year, according to New York-based  Human
Rights Watch . Victims have been attacked on the streets, at
weddings, in churches and mosques in Maiduguri and other
northeastern cities, the police said.  A major difficulty faced by the police and other security
agencies is that people are not providing enough information,
according to Midenda. Even witnesses have been reluctant to
‘‘voluntarily give vital information,” to security forces, he
said.  Nigeria, Africa’s top oil producer is roughly split between
a mainly Muslim north and a predominantly Christian south. More
than 14,000 people died in ethnic and religious clashes in the
West African nation between 1999 and 2009, according to the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mustapha Muhammad in Kano at 
 mmuhammad5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  