-- American, US Airways Fare Worst for Hassle
-- B y   A l e x   M c I n t y r e   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/american-us-airways-coach-fliers-fare-worst-in-hassle-rankings.html
Coach passengers on  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s
 American Airlines  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  jets have the
greatest risk of hassles such as late or canceled flights,
packed planes and higher fees.  Those two carriers and  United Airlines (UAL) , a predecessor of
United Continental Holdings Inc., fared the worst in a Bloomberg
Rankings analysis of operating performance and service charges.
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , which doesn’t have fees to check bags,
and  Frontier Airlines  posted the highest scores.  The analysis covered expenses such as luggage charges and
rebooking fees as well as operating data like scrubbed flights
and the percentage of filled seats. Cancellations are up in 2011
after East Coast storms and a new U.S. rule to end long tarmac
waiting times, and a cut in flights means fewer empty seats.  “Airlines are really beginning to fill airplanes like they
never have before, and Americans don’t deal well with a lack of
personal space,” said Charles Leocha, director of  Consumer
Travel Alliance , a Washington-based nonprofit group. “That and
the complexity of fees have led to the degrading of the flying
experience.”  The list evaluated the largest 10 U.S. carriers, as
identified by passenger traffic on domestic flights. Regional
airlines such as American’s American Eagle and  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) ’s Comair were excluded.  Lowest Scores  Southwest is the biggest discount airline and ranked second
on the list for U.S. traffic, while Indianapolis-based  Republic
Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET) ’s Frontier was the smallest in the group.
On a scale of one to 100, with 100 the best score, Dallas-based
Southwest and Frontier logged 73.2 and 61.6 points.  The lowest scores were 31.2 for American, whose parent AMR
is now in bankruptcy; 32.5 for US Airways; and 33.6 for United.
All three have hubs subject to winter tie-ups, with American and
United flying from  Chicago  and New York and US Airways from
Philadelphia.  The cancellation rate for the 10 carriers Bloomberg ranked
was 1.56 percent for the year ended in September, compared with
1.13 percent for the same period in 2006.  United was evaluated separately from Continental Airlines
Inc., its 2010 merger partner in forming United Continental,
because the airlines didn’t win U.S. approval to fly as one
carrier until Nov. 30. Also assessed separately were Southwest
and its May 2011 acquisition, AirTran Holdings Inc.  Many travelers are exempt from the fees covered in the
Bloomberg rankings, because airlines often waive the costs for
passengers with elite frequent-flier status, first- and
business-class tickets, or certain co-branded credit cards.  Few Bag Fees  On American, only 25 percent of domestic passengers pay a
checked-bag fee, said  Tim Smith , a spokesman for the Fort Worth,
Texas-based airline.  American’s performance also has improved in recent years,
with “more than half” of its disruptions due to circumstances
outside its control such as weather or air-traffic delays, Smith
said.  US Airways ’ on-time performance rose 21 percent from 2007
to 2010, while baggage handling improved by 70 percent and
customer satisfaction jumped 51 percent, Michelle Mohr, a
spokeswoman for the Tempe, Arizona-based carrier, said in an e-
mail. The figures were based on the airline’s own data.  A pilot work slowdown that hurt results earlier this year
has been corrected, placing US Airways’ operational performance
on par or ahead of peers most months this year, she said.  Seat cutbacks since 2008 have in effect  erased a decade of
growth , according to Airlines for America, a Washington-based
trade group. That has dragged industry capacity relative to U.S.
Gross Domestic Product to the  lowest level since 1979 , according
to data compiled by the trade group. American and Delta are
among the airlines expecting more cuts in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex McIntyre in  New York  at 
 amcintyre10@bloomberg.net .
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Meisler at   lmeisler@bloomberg.net  