-- Apax Said Halfway to Raising $12 Billion Fund as Washington State Invests
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2011-12-16T11:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/apax-said-to-be-halfway-to-raising-fund-as-washington-invests.html
Apax Partners LLP, the British
private equity firm that purchased U.S. wound-care company
Kinetic Concepts Inc. last month, has amassed about half of the
9 billion euros ($11.7 billion) it is seeking for its latest
fund, three people with knowledge of the plans said.  The firm, headed by Martin Halusa, has told investors it
plans to announce a so-called first close as soon as next month,
allowing it to start spending the money, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans are private.
 Washington State Investment Board  yesterday approved a $300
million commitment to the pool, almost twice the amount it
committed to Apax’s previous fund, according to Liz Mendizabal,
a spokeswoman for the  pension plan .  The Washington state pension plan’s board recommended the
investment “in part, on the firm’s strong and experienced team,
long-term track record, focused investment strategy, proactive
deal sourcing and global presence,” according to minutes of the
meeting sent by Mendizabal.  Apax, started three decades ago as a venture capital firm,
joins competitors including BC Partners Ltd.,  Sweden ’s EQT
Partners AB and Cinven Ltd. in trying to raise money as
investors cut back commitments to European leveraged buyouts.
One in five investors, or limited partners, intends to reduce
its holdings in European funds because of the sovereign-debt
crisis, according to a Dec. 12 survey by Coller Capital Ltd.  New Look  Apax hasn’t been immune to the European debt crisis, with
investments including British discount retailer New Look Group
Ltd. suffering from the economic slump. The clothing retailer,
which postponed an initial public offering last year, posted a
40 percent drop in profit in the year through March.  Apax VII, the firm’s previous pool raised in 2007, had
generated an 8.1 percent net internal rate of return as at the
end of June, according to WSIB’s  website . A spokesman for
London-based Apax declined to comment on fundraising.  Private-equity firms, which are seeking to raise $711
billion globally, raised 46 percent less in the third quarter
than in the previous quarter as the European debt crisis
deepened, according to London-based research firm  Preqin Ltd. 
Meanwhile, the value of takeovers announced by private equity
firms dropped 40 percent to $85 billion from the previous
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Apax has over the past two years sold a 10 percent stake in
the firm to sovereign-wealth funds China Investment Corp.,
Australia’s Future Fund and Government of Singapore Investment
Corp.  Fund Fees  The firm will charge investors 1.5 percent of the size of
the fund in management fees. It will also keep 20 percent of the
profit after generating a minimum annual return of 8 percent,
according to documents used to market the pool to investors.
Apax employees will invest 400 million euros in the latest fund,
called Apax VIII, the documents show.  Buyout firms such as Apax typically use loans secured on
the targets they acquire to finance more than half of the
purchase price and cash from their own funds for the rest. The
firms seek to improve performance at the companies they acquire
or expand them before selling them within about five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  