-- Apollo Global Agrees to Acquire Taminco From CVC Capital for $1.4 Billion
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2011-12-16T10:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/apollo-global-agrees-to-acquire-taminco-from-cvc-capital-for-1-4-billion.html
Apollo Global Management LLC , the
private-equity firm started by  Leon Black , agreed to buy a
Belgian chemical producer from CVC Capital Partners Ltd. for
about 1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion).  The purchase of Taminco Group Holdings is expected to close
in the first half of next year, New York-based Apollo said in a
statement today. The firm outbid Bain Capital LLC and Pamplona
Capital Advisors Ltd. for the company, people with knowledge of
the talks said earlier yesterday.  The agreement ends a prolonged exit by CVC from  Taminco ,
which the London-based private-equity firm bought for 800
million euros in 2007. The  fund manager  canceled an initial
public offering in February 2010, citing market volatility, and
couldn’t reach a sale agreement with synthetic rubber maker
 Lanxess AG (LXS)  this year. CVC, which is investing a 10.8 billion-
euro European buyout fund, is set to make more than twice its
initial investment in the sale, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the talks are private.  “Taminco is a superior chemical company with an impressive
portfolio of products, strong relationships with its customers,
a talented management team, and highly skilled employees,”
Scott Kleinman, lead partner of Apollo’s private-equity unit,
said in the statement.  Taminco’s Sales Rise  Taminco, based in Ghent, Belgium, takes ammonia and blends
it with alcohol to make amines that can be reacted with other
chemicals to make derivatives for pharmaceuticals, foods, crop
chemicals and solvents. It’s a consolidated market, with  BASF SE (BAS) 
of Germany as the other major supplier of amine derivatives.  Sales increased to 715 million euros last year from 625
million euros in 2007, while earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization rose to 159 million euros from 110
million euros, CVC said in an e-mailed statement today.  CVC announced yesterday that it has teamed up with Johor
Corp. to bid at least $1.6 billion for KFC Holdings (Malaysia)
and parent QSR Brands Bhd. in a deal that would hand it control
of more than 900 fast-food outlets, including KFC and  Pizza Hut ,
in  Southeast Asia  and  India .  CVC and Taminco were advised by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Allen & Overy LLP, Ernst & Young LLP,
Arthur D Little Inc. and URS Corp., CVC said. Apollo will raise
debt financing for the Taminco buyout from banks led by
Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG, Nomura Holdings Inc. and
UBS AG, according to two people with knowledge of the deal.  Buyout firms such as Apollo typically use loans secured on
the targets they acquire to finance more than half of the
purchase price and cash from their own funds for the rest. The
firms seek to improve performance at the companies they acquire
or expand them before selling them within about five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  