-- Apollo to Buy Stone Tower Capital, Adding $17 Billion in Credit Assets
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2011-12-16T21:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/apollo-to-buy-stone-tower-capital-adding-17-billion-in-credit-assets.html
Apollo Global Management LLC , the
private-equity firm started by  Leon Black , agreed to buy Stone
Tower Capital LLC, adding $17 billion in credit assets and
making  capital markets  its biggest business unit. Terms weren’t
disclosed.  Stone Tower , based in New York, invests in corporate loans,
bonds and asset-backed securities for institutions such as
government and corporate pensions and university endowments. The
transaction will bring Apollo’s assets under management to $82
billion, of which $39 billion will be in capital markets, the
firm said today in a statement.  Private-equity companies are seeking to become more
diversified asset managers after the financial crisis sapped
investor appetite for leveraged buyouts.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
the world’s largest private-equity firm, became the biggest
manager of collateralized loan obligations after buying Dublin-
based Harbourmaster Capital Management Ltd. in October.
Washington-based  Carlyle Group , the second-largest private-
equity firm, agreed in January to buy Dutch money manager
AlpInvest Partners NV to expand its asset-management business.  “The strategic benefits are significant to our business,
particularly amid the cyclical volatility and secular changes
which we believe are creating voids in the marketplace that our
combined platform can now effectively fill,” James Zelter, head
of Apollo’s capital markets business, said in the statement.  Apollo in July agreed to buy Gulf Stream Asset Management
LLC, a Charlotte, North Carolina-based manager of corporate-
credit assets. That acquisition added more than $3 billion of
assets under management to Apollo’s capital-markets business.  Shares Decline  Apollo fell 6.4 percent to close at $11.76 in  New York . The
stock has declined 38 percent since its March 29 initial public
offering, when Apollo sold shares at $19 each.  Michael Levitt, Stone Tower’s chief executive officer, will
join Apollo as vice chairman of its credit management business,
Apollo said in the statement. The firms expect to complete the
transaction in the first quarter.  Apollo today also agreed to buy Taminco Group Holdings, a
Belgian chemical producer, from London-based private-equity firm
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. for about 1.1 billion euros ($1.4
billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  