-- Apple, Samsung Face Hurdles in Patent Suits, Judge Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2011-12-16T17:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/apple-samsung-face-hurdles-in-patent-suits-judge.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , which sued each other in a German court over technology
used in tablets and mobile phones, both face hurdles in showing
the patents they assert cover the methods used, a judge said.  Samsung sued Apple over mathematical coding procedures in
processors. Apple sued Samsung over features for unlocking touch
screens. Each may have trouble showing the other is violating
the patents, Presiding Judge Andreas Voss in Mannheim,  Germany ,
said today at two hearings.  “What you call an ingenious mathematical solution doesn’t
seem to be reflected in the patent,” Voss told Samsung’s
lawyers. To Apple’s he said, “Your patent speaks of a displayed
pre-determined path on the touch screen, but where’s that
displayed in the Samsung devices?”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , and Samsung, the
world’s largest maker of mobile phones, are clashing in German
courts over smartphone devices. Apple, the world’s largest
technology company, won a temporary ruling earlier this year
banning sales ban of its competitor’s Galaxy 10.1 tablet,
invoking a design right.  Both will also meet next week when a Dusseldorf appeals
court hears the Galaxy 10.1 tablet case. A lower court is
scheduled to hear another suit by Apple seeking a ban on sales
of a Galaxy tablet model.  Qualcomm Processors  Samsung told the court today that it didn’t want its suit
to extend to  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  processors. Apple reacted by asking
the court to consider that move as dropping part of the suit.
The court hasn’t decided on that motion.  Earlier today Samsung expanded its suit by introducing two
additional patents into the case. The court decided to handle
them separately as two additional cases.  Apple may not be in violation of Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung’s patents because its devices read numbers from a table
to get the same coding effects, Voss said, adding that the
Samsung patent speaks about “generating” a code.  Apple’s patent protects screen saver designs that are used
to unlock devices. Voss said the patent requires that the design
follow a path that is displayed. Holding up a Samsung Tablet 1,
the judge said the device uses two triangles that need to be
connected by a swipe and no pre-determined path for that is
displayed.  “Apple argues that those two points are the start and the
finish so they are determining such a path,” he said. “Well,
that’s like pointing from the parking lot at the start of a
hiking trial to the top of a mountain and saying: now you know
your hiking path, because you know the start and finish.”  The court scheduled a ruling in Samsung’s suit for March 2
and in Apple’s suit for Feb. 17.  Today’s cases are LG Mannheim 7 O 326/11 (Samsung v. Apple)
and 7 0 247/11 (Apple v. Samsung).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Mannheim
vi   kmatussek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 