-- Bets on Canada Real Estate Yield Biggest Profits From Takeovers: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2011-12-16T21:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/arbs-bet-on-canada-properties-for-north-america-s-biggest-return-real-m-a.html
For the biggest takeover profits in
 North America , investors are betting on Canadian real estate.  Canmarc Real Estate Investment Trust of Montreal closed
yesterday 4.1 percent above a C$15.30-a-share hostile bid from
 Cominar Real Estate Investment Trust (CUF-U)  after rejecting the offer.
The gap between the  shares  and the proposal indicates traders
who profit from acquisitions are wagering on a steeper price
increase than any other pending deal in North America greater
than $1 billion that includes cash, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  With office vacancies in Canada at half the U.S. rate,
Canmarc’s office buildings may lure rival bids from property
trusts including  Dundee (D-U)  and Whiterock, according to Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce. Its 84  retail properties  may also
interest  RioCan (REI-U)  or Crombie, said Canaccord Genuity Inc. Canmarc
could command as much as a 30 percent premium to its net asset
value, according to Canaccord, equal to about C$17.71 a share,
based on the average of five analysts’ estimates for the value
of its underlying assets compiled by SNL Financial.  “Clearly the market is pricing in a higher bid,” Alex Avery, a Toronto-based analyst at CIBC, said in a telephone
interview. “With a very strong demand for property and a
scarcity of portfolios available for sale, it’s not unreasonable
to expect a slightly larger premium. It’s logical that at the
very least they would pursue alternatives.”  ‘Opportunistic’ Bid  Cominar,  Quebec  province’s largest commercial-property
owner, offered on Nov. 28 to buy the 85 percent of Canmarc that
it doesn’t already own for C$15.30 a share in cash. Shareholders
may also choose 0.7054 share of Cominar for each Canmarc share,
up to 16 million Cominar shares. The deal valued Canmarc at
almost C$1.6 billion ($1.55 billion) including C$713 million of
net debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Canmarc’s board rejected the “opportunistic” bid and said
shareholders should expect a “substantial” premium, according
to a Dec. 13 statement. It also adopted a so-called poison pill
to help prevent unwanted takeovers and allow time to “explore
and surface all other strategic alternatives.”  Michel Dallaire, chief executive officer of Quebec City-
based Cominar, said a day later he was “highly confident” that
investors would accept the bid, which he noted is the only offer
on the table, according to a statement.  Dallaire didn’t return a voicemail left with his assistant.
Melanie Tardif, a spokeswoman for Canmarc, said in a phone
interview that the company appointed a committee to look at all
alternatives with the goal of ensuring that unit holders are
fully compensated. She declined to comment on whether the
company has been approached by other potential bidders.  ‘A Steal’  While Cominar’s proposal was 15 percent higher than
Canmarc’s 20-day  stock  trading average, the bid values the
property trust at only a 12 percent premium to its average net
asset value of C$13.62 a share, based on five analysts’
estimates compiled by research firm SNL.  Canadian property trusts have typically been acquired at a
15 percent to 30 percent premium to analysts’ consensus net
asset value, according to Shant Poladian, an analyst at
Canaccord in Toronto.  “It’s a steal,” Poladian said in a phone interview. “It
was a premium to Canmarc’s share price, but it wasn’t a premium
to the types of valuations that we saw across the rest of
Canadian commercial REITs.”  Canmarc owns 115 properties and 67 percent of its real
estate is in Quebec, according to its website. Cominar, with
about a third of its leasable space in  Quebec City , is trying to
get a hold of Canmarc’s buildings such as the  CN Central Station
Complex  in downtown  Montreal  and a 50 percent stake in Scotia
Centre, a 42-story  office tower  in Calgary.  Higher Bids  Even after climbing  33 percent  since its initial public
offering in May 2010, Canmarc traded at a 2.5 percent discount
to the estimated value of its underlying real estate as of Nov.
25, before the offer was disclosed.  To give Canmarc “full credit” for its diversified
portfolio amid a rising Canadian real estate market, the price
may reach C$19.50 a share, based on his estimated net asset
value of C$15.10, said Canaccord’s Poladian. CIBC’s Avery is
projecting the takeover price could increase to C$16.50, about a
22 percent premium to his estimated asset value of C$13.50.  Since the transaction was announced, Canmarc’s shares had
gained  20 percent  through yesterday. The stock fell 8 cents to
C$15.93 yesterday, 4.1 percent higher than the value of the cash
offer. No other pending deal in North America greater than $1
billion including cash payment was trading further above its
offer price, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rival Bidders  Canmarc gained 2.1 percent to C$16.26 today, the highest
level since the deal was announced and 6.3 percent more than the
bid. Cominar rose 0.8 percent to C$22.03.  “It’s trading through because there’s an expectation, for
sure, in the market that there are other bids being prepared and
that it’s a portfolio that will be attractive to a variety of
bidders,” Heather Kirk, an analyst with National Bank Financial
in Toronto, said in a phone interview.  Property trusts bidding on separate pieces of Canmarc’s
holdings may deliver the best return for investors, said CIBC’s
Avery. Canmarc’s 2.9 million square feet of  office space  may
attract Toronto-based  Whiterock (WRK-U)  Real Estate Investment Trust,
 Artis Real Estate Investment Trust (AX-U)  of Winnipeg, Manitoba, or
Toronto-based Dundee Real Estate Investment Trust, said Avery
and Canaccord’s Poladian.  While Toronto-based RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust or
 Crombie Real Estate Investment Trust (CRR-U)  of Stellarton,  Nova Scotia ,
may consider offers for the 4.2 million square feet of retail
property, Canmarc’s entire portfolio may also draw bids from
pension funds or life-insurance companies, said Poladian.  ‘Think Twice’  Kursat Kacira, Whiterock’s chief financial officer,
declined to comment on whether the company is interested in
Canmarc. Representatives for Artis, Dundee, RioCan and Crombie
didn’t return phone calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Cominar has an advantage over potential outside bidders
because it already ranks as Canmarc’s  second-biggest shareholder 
with a 15 percent stake,  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-
based merger arbitrage strategist for Tullett Prebon Plc, said
in a phone interview.  “It may make a white knight suitor think twice,” Shah
said. “The chances are higher that Cominar has to increase its
offer” to as much as C$17 a share to win over investors, he
said.  The real estate market in  Canada  has been “exceptionally
good” because there wasn’t overbuilding, making Canmarc’s
assets more valuable than the current bid, said Canaccord’s
Poladian.  Canadian Real Estate  The U.S. office vacancy rate in the third quarter was 16.2
percent, down from 16.7 percent a year earlier, according to
 CBRE Econometric Advisors , a unit of Los Angeles-based CBRE
Group Inc. The rate for Canada declined to 8.1 percent from 9.9
percent, CBRE said.  “Commercial real estate remained healthy and office demand
picked up while new supply didn’t keep pace, so the fundamentals
have been really good,” Poladian said. “There’s a good chance
that, because it’s a high-quality asset, there’d be a reasonable
amount of competition” for Canmarc, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 