-- Army Contracting Suffers ‘Pervasive Instability,’ Lawmakers Say
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2011-12-16T20:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/army-contracting-suffers-pervasive-instability-lawmakers-say.html
The U.S. Army must improve the way
it buys weapons systems to avoid the “pervasive instability”
that’s overtaken its procurement, lawmakers said.  The Army made modifications to six of its top 10
acquisition programs after the House and Senate appropriations
committees reviewed the fiscal 2012 budget request. The
resulting “programmatic perturbations” caused more than $1
billion in excess funding, according to the report accompanying
the defense appropriations bill.  In addition, the Army informed congressional defense
committees of more than $309 million in excess funding from
program cancellations and asked to transfer more than $282
million to 10 systems, according to the report.  “This magnitude of change in funding across a multitude of
programs, identified after submitting the budget only ten months
prior, indicates a pervasive instability in Army programs,” the
document states.  While “ten years of continuous war can force out-of-cycle
changes, the Army’s acquisition challenges precede the post-
September 11, 2001, war efforts,” the report says.  The Army from 1995 through 2009 spent $32 billion on 22
weapons programs that were eventually canceled, according to a
 report  released earlier this year and written by Gilbert Decker,
former Army acquisition executive, and Louis Wagner, former head
of Army Material Command.  The track record “indicates a lack of focus and discipline
in the requirements generation process that must be corrected,”
the report states.  Canceled Radios  The Army on Oct. 13 canceled the Joint Tactical Radio
System’s Ground Mobile Radios because of cost growth. It was the
most expensive part of the system at $19.5 billion and was
developed by an industry team led by Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)   Future Combat Systems, a program estimated to cost $159
billion before being canceled in 2009, was “irrevocably
damaged” by an unrealistic schedule that drove poor systems
engineering, Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s acting top weapons
buyer, said last month.  The Army has begun vetting program requirements for
technical maturity and affordability before awarding contracts,
“but the conferees are concerned that this is a short-term
correction to a larger institutional problem,” the report
states.  The lawmakers praised the Army for organizing so-called
network integration evaluations, semi-annual exercises designed
to test new communications equipment in simulated combat
environments, even as they questioned the service’s ability to
formulate realistic requirements.  “The evaluations are causing the Army to reevaluate,
restructure, and even terminate several programs that began
years ago with established requirements,” the report states.  The report urges Army Secretary John McHugh to adopt
recommendations from the Decker-Wagner report and to take a
similar look at the requirements-generation process.  “Improvement must begin with clearly documented, stable,
and affordable requirements,” the report states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  