-- Harrods, Starbucks Triumph as Chef Hartnett Eats 13 Mince Pies
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/harrods-starbucks-win-as-michelin-chef-angela-hartnett-eats-13-mince-pies.html
Harrods and  Starbucks  mince pies,
the two most expensive among 13 varieties tested, triumphed when
chef  Angela Hartnett  conducted Bloomberg’s annual taste test.  “I like my mother’s best,” says the chef, who will head
the VIP catering operation at the 2012  Olympic Games  and is also
taking part in a charity  mince-pie auction  that ends tonight.  “The pastry’s got to be cooked nice and crisp, and you
need a nice ratio of filling to pastry,” she says. “A lot of
these look like they were made with sweet pastry and sugar on
top. That’s not my palate and I don’t like the filling too
pureed.”  Here’s Hartnett’s verdict -- with marks out of 10 -- from
the tasting in her Mayfair restaurant, Murano. The price per pie
is in parentheses and the scores are out of 10:  Harrods Puff Pastry (1.50 pounds): “There’s a hell of a
lot of puff pastry and the filling itself looks quite nice. You
can really see the nuts and stuff. I’d eat that one above all of
them at the moment, purely from a taste point of view that it’s
made with puff pastry so it’s not sweet. You think that looks
posh? I’d have thought that looks like a big Cornish pasty. You
could take that to a football match when you see Arsenal. It’s
Harrods? Crikey. I hope I’ll get a free hamper.” 8/10.  Starbucks  All-Butter (1.55 pounds): “It looks like a
proper mince pie. The pastry’s good and crumbly. It’s well
cooked. You can see all the raisins and stuff. The filling’s
lovely. It’s not sweet. You can really taste the fruit. I like
that one.” (Hartnett placed this second.) 7/10.  Co-Operative Truly Irresistible All-Butter (25 pence):
“This looks quite pretty. It’s quite nice, actually: not overly
sweet. The fruit’s all there. The pastry’s good.” 7/10.  Pret a Manger Home-Made (99 pence): “It’s pretty. It’s not
bad, actually. That’s made with traditional pastry. It’s not
sweet pastry. There’s orange in there, which I like.” 7/10.  Waitrose All Butter (42 pence): “The filling’s not bad in
this one. The pastry’s good. There’s lots of orange and lemon in
that one. I quite like it.” 7/10.  Duchy Originals from Waitrose (66 pence): “You can tell
it’s not homemade but it looks OK. A lot of these have that gap
of air, whereas if your mum makes them they’re full to the
limit. I’m not so keen on the filling: It’s slightly sweeter,
slightly richer. The pastry’s better.” 6/10.  EAT  Christmas (99 pence): “It’s a decent shortbread pastry
and they haven’t overly sweetened it. There’s a little bit of
icing sugar but not too much.” 6/10.  Lidl Deluxe with Brandy (28 pence): “There’s obviously
quite a lot of butter in there because the pastry’s quite
yellow. The filling looks nice as well. You can see the fruit’s
not mushed up. It tastes a bit artificial. Maybe it’s a lot of
alcohol in there. It’s not bad.” 6/10.  Selfridges  White Christmas (1 pound): “This is quite
pretty, quite delicate, but you can see the filling’s all mushy.
I don’t like the pastry much.” 6/10.  Tesco (TSCO)  Finest Deep Filled with Courvoisier VS Cognac (42
pence): “There’s quite a few that are very generic. They could
have been made at the same place. This is better than some of
them.” 6/10.  Fortnum & Mason  Traditional (1.49 pounds): “This one looks
really nice and homemade. It’s quite a crumbly pastry and a lot
of pastry there, though it’s too thick and the filling is mushy.
You can’t see any nuts there. It’s all pureed. It’s a shame
because it looked lovely.” 5/10.  Marks & Spencer (MKS)  All Butter Deep Filled (38 pence): “This
doesn’t stand out. We’re eating all of these cold and I think
there’s nothing better than a warm mince pie.” 5/10.  Sainsbury’s (SBRY)  Taste the Difference Brandy Rich (42 pence or
29 pence if you buy two packs): “This is another generic. The
pastry’s OK, filling’s OK, but I wouldn’t take it home to my mum
and say, ‘Hey Mum, this is the best mince pie.’” 5/10.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines at  rvines@bloomberg.net  or
Richardvines on  http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 