-- Asian Currencies Strengthen, Paring Weekly Declines, on U.S. Jobs Data
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2011-12-16T21:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/asian-currencies-strengthen-paring-weekly-declines-on-u-s-jobs-data.html
Asian currencies strengthened,
paring weekly declines, after a government report showed jobless
claims in the U.S. fell to the lowest level since 2008, buoying
the region’s export outlook.  India ’s rupee led gains as the  Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia
Dollar Index  rose 0.4 percent yesterday, trimming the week’s
drop to 0.4 percent. The number of applications for unemployment
payments in the U.S. dropped to 366,000 in the week ended Dec.
10, lower than was forecast by any of 47 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. India announced measures to curb speculation in the
currency market, while Fitch Ratings upgraded Indonesia’s credit
ranking to investment grade of BBB-.  “The U.S. data supported some risk-taking sentiment, but
we’re still walking on thin ice as bad news from  Europe  may come
out anytime,” said Lee Jung Hyun, a Seoul-based currency dealer
at Industrial Bank of Korea.  The rupee jumped 1.7 percent to 52.7450 per dollar in
 Mumbai , the biggest gain since May 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Philippine peso rose 0.7 percent to
43.830, paring this week’s loss to 0.5 percent. China’s yuan
climbed 0.4 percent to 6.3484 and was up 0.3 percent for the
week. The South Korean won strengthened 0.4 percent to 1,158.73,
trimming its weekly drop to 1 percent.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks gained 0.8 percent
yesterday and was down 2.4 percent for the week.  Christine Lagarde , the managing director of the  International Monetary
Fund , said on Dec. 15 Europe’s debt crisis is growing to the
point where it won’t be solved by one group of countries.  Decisive Measures  The rupee strengthened as much as 2.7 percent yesterday
after the  Reserve Bank  of India said companies can’t enter into
multiple forward contracts to cover a single overseas
transaction. It pared gains as the monetary authority, which has
raised  interest rates  13 times since the start of 2010 to cool
inflation, kept them unchanged at a policy review in Mumbai.  “The RBI has taken decisive measures to reduce onshore
speculation against the rupee,” said Olivier Desbarres, head of
foreign-exchange strategy for Asia-Pacific ex-Japan at Barclays
Capital in Singapore. “These measures have certainly caught the
market’s attention and it reduces the chances of a rapid
weakening of the rupee.”  Indonesia ’s rupiah gained 0.6 percent to 9,035 and was up
0.5 percent for the week after the upgrade, which was announced
late Dec. 15. The currency advanced as much as 0.9 percent
earlier, touching a one-week high.  “The country will now attract a broader range of investors,
giving the government and corporates more funding sources,”
said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a currency strategist at Malayan
Banking Bhd. in Singapore. It should make the rupiah stronger,
he said.  China Easing Curbs  The yuan strengthened the most in two months as signs
credit curbs are easing bolstered optimism policy makers will
avoid a sharp slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.
The People’s Bank of  China  set its daily reference rate 0.1
percent stronger at 6.3352 per dollar, after fixing it weaker
for three days.  “The fixing was firmer and at market open there was solid
dollar offer interest, in particular by Chinese banks,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “Improved sentiment in global markets is helping
as is news that China is easing curbs in the property sector
which will limit downside risks to growth.”  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.4 percent
yesterday to 3.1778 per dollar and was down 0.8 percent for the
week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Taiwan’s dollar
was little changed at NT$30.369 and dropped 0.4 percent this
week.  Thailand ’s baht was up 0.1 percent at 31.34 and declined
1.3 percent this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  