-- Asian Stocks Drop for Second Week on Economy, Europe Debt Crisis Concerns
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2011-12-16T23:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/asian-stocks-drop-for-second-week-on-economy-europe-debt-crisis-concerns.html
Asian stocks fell, sending a
regional index to its sixth weekly drop in seven weeks, as signs
of slowing growth in  China  and  Japan  and concern that  Europe ’s
debt crisis is worsening overshadowed improving U.S. data.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender, fell 2 percent
in  Hong Kong . Komatsu Ltd., a maker of construction equipment
that gets about 23 percent of sales from China, sank 7.8 percent
on a report the mainland’s manufacturing may contract for a
second month. Olympus Corp. plunged after restated earnings
showed the camera-maker inflated assets by $1.3 billion.  “There’s a potential for further downside in this
market,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based  fund manager  at
Schroders Plc, which oversees about $326 billion of assets
globally. “The magnitude of this crisis compared to the one in
2008 is bigger as it includes sovereign risks as well. Policy
makers have probably exhausted their fiscal and monetary policy
options and they are running out of bullets.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 2.3 percent to 112.45 this
week after Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings warned
that Europe faces lower credit ratings as it struggles to
contain its debt crisis. Italy sold 3 billion euros of five-year
notes on Dec. 14 with a yield of 6.47, the most since May 1997.  China’s Manufacturing  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 3.9 percent, extending
losses for a sixth week. Chinese manufacturing may contract for
a second month, according to a survey released Dec. 15 by HSBC
and Markit Economics. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 1.6
percent.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  decreased 1.6 percent this
week after the Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey showed sentiment
among the nation’s largest manufacturers deteriorated more than
economists expected. South Korea’s Kospi Index dropped 1.9
percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 slid 1 percent.  The MSCI Asian gauge declined 18.3 percent this year
through yesterday, dragging valuations of shares in the gauge to
12.6 times estimated earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Power producers led declines this year as Tokyo Electric
Power Co., whose Fukushima Dai-Ichi power plant is at the center
of the worst nuclear accident in 25 years, plunged 88 percent.
Steelmakers have dragged materials companies lower amid slumping
demand and as soaring Japanese and Australian currencies made
their products less competitive.  Financial  stocks (MXAP)  dropped this week on speculation a
worsening European crisis will hurt banks’ earnings.
International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde 
said this week that Europe’s crisis is “escalating.”  HSBC, StanChart  HSBC dropped 2 percent to HK$58.85 in Hong Kong.  Standard
Chartered Plc (2888) , a London-based bank that gets more than half of
revenue in the Asia Pacific, fell 2.9 percent to HK$167.30.
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest publicly
traded lender, decreased 3.8 percent to 329 yen.  Exporters to China declined on concern shipments will fall
amid slowing growth in the world’s second-largest economy. 
Komatsu (6301)  sank 7.8 percent to 1,827 yen. Fanuc Corp., a maker of
industrial robots, dropped 3.6 percent to 12,230 yen. BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company that counts
China as its biggest market, lost 1.9 percent to A$35.19.  Chinese lenders pared weekly losses on Dec. 16 amid
speculation the government will ease lending curbs to prevent
the economy from further slowing. Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China Ltd., the nation’s largest lender, lost 1.1 percent to
HK$4.65 this week, after falling as much as 4 percent. Rival
China Construction Bank Corp. fell 1.6 percent to HK$5.45.  Tankan Survey  Japanese machinery makers also dropped after the Bank of
Japan’s Tankan survey released on Dec. 15 showed sentiment among
the nation’s largest manufacturers deteriorated more than
economists expected.  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , a maker of home appliances
and power plants, slipped 4.2 percent to 323 yen. Hitachi Ltd.,
which makes products ranging from consumer electronics to
nuclear reactors, fell 4 percent to 407 yen.  Olympus slumped 17 percent to 1,004 yen, the most on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index, after restating earnings to avoid
automatic delisting from the Tokyo Stock Exchange in the wake of
an accounting scandal. The earnings reports triggered a
downgrade of its debt to one level above junk.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  