-- Stocks in U.S. Rise as Energy Rally Pares Weekly Loss; Treasuries Advance
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2011-12-16T21:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/asia-stocks-rise-first-time-in-four-days-on-u-s-jobs-as-gold-aussie-gain.html
U.S. stocks advanced, paring a
weekly loss, as gains in energy and financial companies helped
the market overcome  Fitch Ratings  lowering  France ’s outlook and
putting Spain and  Italy  under review. Treasuries advanced, and
the dollar trimmed losses against the euro.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.3 percent to
1,219.66 at 4 p.m. New York time after advancing as much as 1.3
percent. It dropped 2.8 percent this week. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lost 2.42 points, or less than 0.1 percent,
to 11,866.39 today. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes decreased
six basis points to 1.85 percent. The euro rose 0.2 percent to
$1.3035 after strengthening as much as 0.5 percent to $1.3084.  Optimism over the European crisis fizzled after Fitch cut
France’s ratings outlook to negative and said it may downgrade
 Spain , Italy, Belgium, Slovenia, Ireland and Cyprus by the end
of January. After the close of trading, Moody’s Investors
Service reduced Belgium’s grade. The  S&P 500  has lost 3 percent
since Dec. 31 after being up for the year on nine days since
Oct. 27. The index is trading below its 200- and 50-day
averages, a bearish sign to some traders.  “We’re seeing a market in which there’s very little long-
term investor interest,”  David Kelly , who helps oversee $394
billion as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New
York, said in a telephone interview. “The problem is that sort
of feeds the battlefield to people who are just trying to trade
the market as opposed to invest in companies. It’s been much
more of a trading market than a measure of people’s willingness
to invest in the long run.”  Fitch said a “comprehensive” solution to the euro zone’s
crisis is “technically and politically beyond reach.”  Juncker, Bundesbank  Gains in stocks were propelled earlier by optimism the
European Union will meet a Dec. 19 deadline for funding a
crisis-fighting package. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads a group of finance ministers from the region, said the EU
should meet the goal for arranging loans to the  International
Monetary Fund .  An hour after Juncker’s comments, the Bundesbank said it
won’t rush to a decision on the loans, which are to be provided
by EU national central banks.  “Going into a weekend, people take money off the table for
fear of not knowing what’s going to happen, chiefly in  Europe ,”
Peter Tuz, who helps manage about $800 million as president of
Chase Investment Counsel Corp. in Charlottesville, Virginia,
said in a telephone interview.  VIX Drops  Stocks rallied as the options-market indicator known as the
VIX showed investors are paying less for protection from equity
losses. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, dropped to 24.29, or 5.5 percent below its 200-day average.
The difference is the widest since July 8, before S&P cut the
U.S. government’s credit rating and yields on European
government debt surged,  roiling (VIX)  markets and driving the VIX to a
two-year high of 48.  Energy stocks gained the most among 10 S&P 500 industries,
climbing 0.9 percent. Banks jumped 1.2 percent as a group. Home
Depot Inc. advanced 2.5 percent to lead gains in the Dow, which
erased a 99.37-point rally. Dow losses were led by International
Business Machines Corp. and United Technologies Corp., which
slipped at least 1.5 percent.  Spanish and Italian notes rose, leading gains in euro-area
debt, on speculation banks bought the securities to use as
collateral when the  European Central Bank  starts offering three-
year loans next week.  Spain’s two-year yields dropped to a four-month low of 3.10
percent after the nation sold almost double its initial maximum
target of securities at an auction yesterday. Italian notes
extended a third weekly gain, with two-year yields falling to
5.34 percent, as Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government won a
confidence vote. French and Belgian bonds advanced.  Copper futures gained 2 percent, the most in two weeks.
Crude oil futures slumped 0.4 percent. The fuel dropped 5.9
percent this week, the most since the period ended Sept. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  