-- Atlanta Falcons Boost NFL Playoff Chances With 41-14 Victory Over Jaguars
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2011-12-16T05:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/atlanta-falcons-boost-nfl-playoff-chances-with-41-14-victory-over-jaguars.html
The  Atlanta Falcons  beat the
Jacksonville Jaguars 41-14 to boost their chances of a third
National Football League playoffs appearance in four years.  Roddy White caught two touchdown passes from quarterback
Matt Ryan, who threw for three scores at the Georgia Dome in
Atlanta last night as the Falcons improved to 9-5 to secure
their fourth straight winning season. John Abraham had 3 1/2
sacks on Jaguars quarterback Blaine Gabbert, forcing two fumbles
that led to scores.  “We’re confident in what we have,” Ryan, who completed 19
of 26 passes for 224 yards, told the NFL Network in a televised
interview. “If we play our best football, we’re able to go out
there and play against anybody.”  The Falcons scored 24 straight second-half points to beat
the Carolina Panthers 31-23 on Dec. 11. Their playoff prospects
were further enhanced later that day when the  Chicago Bears  lost
in overtime to the  Denver Broncos  to drop to 7-6 for the season.  Atlanta currently occupies one of the two wild-card playoff
spots in the National Football Conference, which go to the teams
with the best records among non-division winners. Division
leaders Green Bay (13-0) and New Orleans and San Francisco (both
10-3) lead the NFC, followed by Atlanta. The Detroit Lions (8-
5), who hold the other wild-card place under the current
results, face the  Oakland Raiders  in two days.  Giants, Cowboys  The  New York Giants  are 7-6, the same as the  Dallas Cowboys 
in the NFC East. The Giants beat the Cowboys on Dec. 11 and
finish the season against Dallas on Jan. 1 at MetLife Stadium in
East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Julio Jones, Michael Turner and Corey Peters also scored
for the Falcons, who led 41-0 before the Jaguars got touchdowns
from Zach Potter and Chastin West.  Atlanta next visits the NFC South-rival Saints, who have
won all six home games this season, before completing the
regular season at home against the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , who
have lost seven straight games.  Detroit is at home Dec. 24 against the San Diego Chargers,
who have won their past two games after ending an 0-6 run,
before visiting  Green Bay . The Packers are on a 19-game unbeaten
streak, two shy of the NFL record set by the  New England
Patriots  in 2003-04.  Jacksonville drops to 4-10 with its fourth defeat in five
games. NFL team owners yesterday unanimously approved the sale
of the Jaguars to Shahid Khan, the Pakistan-born owner of auto-
parts maker Flex-N-Gate Corp. Khan said he will keep the team in
the northeast Florida city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 