-- Austrian Franc Mortgages May Have $7 Billion Gap, Central Bank Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2011-12-16T15:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/austrian-franc-mortgages-may-have-7-billion-gap-on-maturity.html
Austrians with Swiss franc-
denominated mortgages are facing a widening gap between their
repayment obligation on maturity and the investment vehicles
used to accrue their savings, the nation’s central bank said.  The shortfall between the savings vehicles’ projected funds
on maturity and the principal due widened to 5.4 billion euros
($7 billion) as of June, up from 4.5 billion euros at the end of
2008, the central bank said in its half-yearly  Financial
Stability Report  released today. That’s due to the rise of the
franc versus the euro and because the vehicles’ investments
suffer from weak financial markets, the central bank said,
adding that the gap probably has widened further since June.  Austria is unique among euro-area countries in that its
households have borrowed 41.2 billion euros ($53.7 billion) in
foreign currencies, mostly in francs and for mortgages, a
practice that was stopped by regulators in 2009. Three in four
borrowers also pay only their interest in monthly installments,
while the principal is due at maturity and is covered by the
investment vehicle, most of which are based on mutual funds. The
vehicles are known as Tilgungstraeger, or “repayment funds.”  “We have regularly warned about this twin risk for 10
years,” said  Andreas Ittner , the central bank director
responsible for banking supervision. “Those warnings weren’t
taken seriously. We’re now in a situation where both the
 exchange rate  and the value of the investment vehicle are going
against the borrower.”  The funding gap is calculated as the difference between the
loans’ principal due on maturity and the projected savings at
the time, using data collected in a survey of Austrian lenders,
the central bank said. Most of the loans begin to mature in the
years from 2020, it said.  Austrian banks including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI)  exported foreign currency lending to
eastern European countries including Hungary, Romania and
 Croatia , where their subsidiaries are among the biggest lenders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  