-- Congress Poised to Keep U.S. Government Operating With $1 Trillion Budget
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/lawmakers-set-to-pass-omnibus-budget-measure-to-avert-shutdown.html
The  U.S. Senate  is poised to
complete congressional passage of a $1 trillion spending bill to
avert a U.S. government shutdown as leaders reached a proposed
agreement to prevent a  payroll -tax cut from expiring.  The House voted 296-121 for the spending measure yesterday,
sending it to the Senate. It would replace a stopgap plan that
kept federal agencies operating through the work week. With much
of the government closed for the weekend, agencies won’t be
affected even though the Senate didn’t plan to complete work on
the legislation until today, Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said on
the eve of the planned vote.  Lawmakers hailed the budget plan as a rare bipartisan
compromise on spending in a year otherwise dominated by partisan
and inconclusive debates over the  budget deficit .  “After weeks of arduous negotiations on this package with
our Senate counterparts, we’ve struck a fair, bipartisan
compromise,” House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, said. “No party got everything
they wanted.”  The spending panel’s top Democrat endorsed the plan,
calling it the sort of compromise demanded by divided
government.  “It reflects the fact that neither party can pass this
bill on its own in either the House or the Senate,” said
Representative Norm Dicks, a Washington Democrat.  Eighty-six  House Republicans   voted  against the bill; 149
Democrats supported it.  Funding Government Operations  At issue is a 1,200-page measure funding the day-to-day
operations of hundreds of government programs across 10 Cabinet
agencies. The bill had been snarled in a dispute over how to
extend a  payroll-tax  cut into 2012 as well as expanded
 unemployment  benefits, which also would expire at year’s end
without further legislation.  Democratic and Republican leaders in the Senate said last
night they had agreed in principle to a plan to extend the
payroll tax cut through February.  “It’s an agreement I can recommend to my conference,”
said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican. He said the Senate plans to vote on the agreement,
which also extends jobless benefits, this morning.  Last-Minute Changes  On the separate spending bill, lawmakers made some last-
minute changes, including killing provisions targeting President
 Barack Obama ’s Cuba policies. Republicans had included language
blocking his decision to loosen restrictions on travel and
sending money to the Communist country.  Florida Republicans such as Senator Marco Rubio blasted the
decision, saying it would only shore up the Cuban government.
“It limits access to hard currency to a really tyrannical
regime,” said Rubio. Representative Mario Diaz-Balart said it
would “sell out the long-suffering Cuban people to appease the
ruthless Castro dictatorship.”  Representative Jose Serrano, a New York Democrat, said
“the U.S. government should not be in the business of
restricting travel to any country, no matter what the issues we
have with their government.” He said, “It is surreal to think
that five decades after he took power,  Fidel Castro  is still a
driving force in our national conversation.”  1,200-Page Bill  Some House members complained Republicans gave them two
days to review the 1,200-page bill and didn’t release more than
1,000 pages of additional explanatory documents until late in
the week.  “Not one of us has read every page in this bill,” said
Representative  Steny Hoyer , the chamber’s second-ranking
Democrat. Representative Jeff Flake, an Arizona Republican,
said, “We’ll be discovering for months to come what’s actually
in it.”  Though lawmakers were unable this year to cut entitlement
programs or raise taxes to reduce the budget deficit, they
agreed to cut the roughly 40 percent of the federal budget that
must be approved each year by Congress.  “Make no mistake -- there are real cuts here,” said
Representative Rosa DeLauro, the ranking Democrat on the
appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over education,
health care and labor programs.  Pell Grants   The bill cuts funding for Pell grants, which help 10
million Americans from low-income families attend college.
Though the legislation maintains the current $5,550 maximum
grant, it tightens eligibility standards by requiring recipients
to have either a high-school diploma, GED or be homeschooled.  It cuts the maximum number of semesters students may
receive grants to 12 from the current 18. Those changes may
affect 250,000 Americans, according to a preliminary estimate by
the American Council on Education, a  Washington  group that
advocates for colleges and universities.  The bill also eliminates the six-month grace period
students receive after they leave school during which they don’t
have to pay interest on their  student loans .  The administration’s Race to the Top program, which awards
competitive grants to schools, would be reduced by 20 percent.  Foreign aid would decline, with the U.S. Agency for
International Development’s budget cut by 17 percent, according
to the Republicans’ summary. The Environmental Protection Agency
would be cut by 3 percent, on top of reductions approved earlier
this year. The Government Accountability Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, would see a 6 percent reduction.
The  Internal Revenue Service  would be cut by 2 percent.  Environmental Regulations  Democrats fended off a number of Republican initiatives,
including proposals taking aim at environmental regulations and
cutting federal funding for Planned Parenthood and NPR, the
syndicator of public  radio stations .  Republicans prevailed with language barring public funding
of abortions in Washington, D.C. They also killed a Democratic
proposal to increase the security fees charged to airline
passengers. Airlines are charging more for checked baggage,
Democrats complained, which was prompting more travelers to
bring carry-on luggage and increasing the workload for the
government’s security screeners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  