-- Bank Failures Cost U.S. $88 Billion
-- B y   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/bank-failures-cost-88-billion-while-u-s-regulators-enforce-in-the-dark.html
Using a secret enforcement tool,
federal regulators in 2005 tried to limit the growth of Vineyard
Bank, which was making commercial real estate loans in  Southern
California  at almost double the rate of its peers.  The limit was a secret even to new regulators who took over
the bank’s supervision in 2006 and never found out about it,
according to a report prepared by the U.S. Treasury Department’s
Office of Inspector General in July 2010. Vineyard, based in
Corona, California, kept growing.  Its loans eventually soured and it failed in 2009, costing
the fund that insures customers’ deposits an estimated $470
million. More than 400 such failures since 2007 have cost the
fund, which is fed by banks and backstopped by taxpayers, an
estimated $88 billion. That volume shows the need for more
transparency in bank regulation, which is largely conducted in
the dark, said Paul Atkins, a former Republican commissioner at
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Transparency is vital,” said Atkins, the managing
director at Patomak Partners LLC, a financial services
consulting firm in  Washington . “It helps make regulators
accountable and helps taxpayers better judge what their
liabilities might be.”  At least 1,400 times last year, federal examiners told a
bank to fix a problem that could imperil its health, according
to data from the three agencies that regulate banks. The
agencies didn’t reveal the names of the troubled banks or the
nature and severity of their concerns. That information is kept
from investors, customers and the public unless securities laws
force the bank itself to disclose.  Preventing Bank Runs  Such secrecy is needed to prevent panic that might result
in bank runs or investor sell-offs, making problems far worse,
said representatives of the  Federal Reserve , the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., all of which regulate banks and financial institutions.  “Ninety-five percent of the corrective action we want to
get from an institution, we get seamlessly and efficiently, and
sometimes it involves nothing more than a bank examiner
whispering in the ear of a compliance officer,” said Dan Stipano, deputy chief counsel at the OCC. “That kind of thing
unfortunately for us is invisible and not necessarily
measurable. You don’t see scalps on the wall.”  Informal regulatory approaches also mean the public can’t
see when regulators do a poor job, said  Viral Acharya , an author
of several books on financial regulation who teaches at New York
University’s Stern School of Business.  “The regulators should be accountable, and they should at
least face some risk of disrepute in case of mistakes and
oversights in the process,” Acharya said.  Not as Forceful  Examiners weren’t always as tough as they needed to be from
2006 through the third quarter of 2010, according to a  June
report  by the Government Accountability Office, an investigative
arm of Congress. “Regulators generally were successful in
identifying early warning signs of bank distress, but the
presence and timeliness of subsequent enforcement actions were
often inconsistent,” according to the report.  Enforcement has gotten tougher since the 2008 credit
crisis, said Ralph “Chip” MacDonald III, a partner at the
Jones Day law firm in Atlanta who represents banks.  “Regulators are doing a good job, they are pretty much on
top of their game,” MacDonald said. “The bias is toward acting
quicker, as opposed to holding off.”  Inspectors General  Most public oversight of bank examiners takes the form of
post-mortem reviews: Inspectors general for the three regulatory
agencies are required by law to audit any bank failure that
costs the FDIC’s insurance fund more than $200 million. While
that fund has a $100 billion line of credit with the  U.S.
Treasury , the FDIC can increase assessments on banks to keep it
solvent.  Regulators’ main job is to ensure lenders’ safety and
soundness through on-site examinations that involve looking
through their books, assessing the risk they’ve taken on and
monitoring their capital reserves. Examiners also gauge the
acumen of the firms’ management teams. The largest banks have
examiners on premises full time. Some banks are also reviewed by
state authorities.  The Fed supervised 829 state member banks last year, along
with more than 5,000 bank holding companies. The OCC oversees
about 1,400 national banks, 631 federal savings associations and
48 branches of foreign banks. The FDIC regulates 4,715
institutions.  Public Enforcement Tools  All three generally employ the same enforcement tools.
Public options include cease-and-desist orders, settlements in
which banks agree to make changes. If banks don’t agree,
regulators can file administrative charges. More urgent cases
get a “Prompt Corrective Action” directive, a notice that a
bank is likely to fail unless it takes immediate steps to fix
problems. Banks can also face civil fines or have their charters
revoked, among other public actions.  Non-public enforcement methods include so-called commitment
letters, in which the firm agrees to make changes at the
regulator’s request and “memorandums of understanding” between
banks and their supervisors. Examiners can also require a bank’s
board of directors to adopt resolutions detailing problems to be
fixed. Each of these agreements is secret, voluntary and not
enforceable through a judicial process or with sanctions.  In Vineyard Bank’s case, the FDIC and  California  state
regulators required its board to adopt a 2005 resolution capping
the bank’s growth at 25 percent a year, according to the
Treasury inspector general’s report on Vineyard’s failure.  New Business Plan  That December, the bank applied for a national charter, and
then went under the OCC’s jurisdiction in May 2006. The new
regulators approved a Vineyard business plan that allowed for
total asset growth of 33 percent growth in the first year. They
also gave Vineyard the second-highest health rating.  The OCC examiners never found the board resolution capping
growth at 25 percent, according to the report.  “It was surprising to us” that they didn’t find the
resolution, said Donald Benson, an audit director at the
inspector general’s office. The resolution was mentioned at
least three times in minutes of Vineyard board meetings, and the
OCC had access to those documents, according to the report.  OCC regulators took no formal or informal action against
Vineyard until July 2008, when they required the bank to
increase its capital levels in a public order, according to the
July 2010 inspector general’s review.  ‘Too Severe’  “By then, the bank’s problems had become too large and too
severe to resolve,” the report said. In 2007,  commercial real
estate loans  represented 626 percent of Vineyard’s total
capital, while the median for its peer banks was 381 percent,
according to the report.  OCC spokesman Robert Garsson and FDIC spokesman  David Barr 
declined to comment on Vineyard.  Norman Morales, who was president of Vineyard Bank until
2008, couldn’t be reached for comment. In June, he  agreed  to pay
a $25,000 fine to settle the OCC’s allegations that he’d had the
bank pay for some of his personal expenses. Morales didn’t admit
or deny wrongdoing. Glen Terry, who was appointed Vineyard’s
president less than a year before the bank closed, declined to
comment.  In most cases, informal actions succeed in getting banks to
comply with regulators’ directives, said Serena Owens, an
associate director for risk management and supervision at the
FDIC.  “By definition, the problems addressed by an informal
action do not pose a serious risk warranting a formal,
enforceable order containing a corrective program,” Owens said.  Discretion on Disclosure  Regulators have discretion on whether to disclose informal
enforcement actions, said Thomas Vartanian, a partner at the law
firm Dechert LLP in Washington who advises financial-services
companies on regulatory and enforcement matters.  “Federal banking agencies can disclose pretty much what
they want, subject to trade secret and other narrow supervisory
exclusions,” Vartanian said.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act required the Fed to impose enhanced
standards for capital, liquidity and risk management for banks
with assets of more than $50 billion and non-bank financial
companies deemed systemically important. While the law also
empowered the Fed to require “enhanced public disclosures”
from financial institutions, officials haven’t yet described any
plans for doing so on enforcement matters.  Undisclosed CAMELS  Regulators for all three federal agencies gauge the health
of banks with ratings known as CAMELS -- for capital adequacy,
asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity
to market risk. Typically, these ratings, which range from 1,
the best, to 5, aren’t disclosed, since downgrades might spur
panic among depositors and investors.  In the absence of transparency, the agencies’ standards for
setting CAMELS ratings can diverge. During an FDIC board meeting
called at 10 p.m. on Nov. 23, 2008, members were told that
unless they helped rescue  Citigroup Inc. (C) , its national banks
might not have enough cash to do business the next morning,
according to  FDIC documents  obtained through the Freedom of
Information Act by the public interest group Judicial Watch.  At the time, the OCC gave Citigroup’s banking subsidiary a
liquidity rating of 3, according to minutes of the meeting.  Then-FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  asked why the rating was
that high “when the OCC was on the verge of having to close”
Citigroup’s national banks. Then-Comptroller of the Currency
John C. Dugan responded that the rating was already taking into
account the government help that the board was discussing that
night.  ‘Government Assistance’  “Director Dugan said he thought the ability to contemplate
government assistance enabling an institution to achieve
adequate liquidity had been the standard,” according to the
minutes. Bair said that wasn’t the standard for FDIC regulators,
the minutes show.  Dugan, now head of law firm Covington & Burling’s financial
institutions practice in Washington, said he stands by his
remarks as reflected in the board minutes. Disclosing CAMELS
ratings would risk increasing doubts about banks’ safety and
soundness without increasing the quality of supervision, he
said. Bair, now a senior adviser to the Pew Charitable Trusts,
declined to comment.  “Citi is a fundamentally different company today than it
was before the crisis,” said Jon Diat, a spokesman for the New
York-based bank. It had $447 billion in cash and available-for-
sale securities on Sept. 30, he said.  Taxpayer Bailouts  The largest banks, including Citigroup, retain “an
implicit call on taxpayer-funded bailouts,” said NYU’s Acharya.
For that reason, their health ratings ought to be published,
after a delay, so taxpayers can judge regulators’ work, he said.  “What I find hard to accept is that currently we don’t
make supervisory reports public, even with a lag,” he said. “I
don’t see any good justification for that.”  Regulators are already held responsible when their
supervision doesn’t work, said  Scott Alvarez , the general
counsel for the Fed’s Board of Governors.  “We will be accountable if one of these institutions gets
in trouble,” he said. “But everything they do wrong isn’t
leading them to failure.”  Lesser missteps don’t require formal action, and examiners
need mechanisms for “informal give and take” with banks,
Alvarez said.  That sort of approach didn’t work for Irwin Union Bank and
Trust Co. of Columbus,  Indiana , which received a series of
informal enforcement orders from the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2007 and 2008, according to
an inspector general’s report. Indiana state examiners closed
Irwin Union on Sept. 18, 2009; the FDIC estimates the failure
cost its insurance fund $872 million.  ‘Early Warning Signs’  Fed examiners “identified key weaknesses, early warning
signs and red flags” at the lender and “missed multiple
opportunities to take more forceful supervisory action that may
have reduced the loss,” the report said.  A chart in the report shows that Irwin Union’s reliance on
brokered deposits, which are less stable than retail deposits,
rose to about 35 percent of all deposits in 2008, up from less
than 15 percent in 2003. The banking group’s total assets grew
to $6.2 billion in 2005, up from $3 billion in 2001. As of Aug.
31, 2008, 84 percent of Irwin Union Bank’s total loan portfolio
was in commercial real estate loans, according to the report.  William Miller, the former chairman and chief executive
officer of Irwin Financial Corp., didn’t respond to telephone
calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Excessive Risk-Taking’  “The report indicates that excessive risk-taking at IUBT
was blatant, imprudent and risk-management capabilities did not
keep pace,” said  Mark Williams , an executive-in-residence at
 Boston University  and a former Fed bank examiner. “These are
obvious warning signs that early examinations should have picked
up.”  While Fed regulators raised concerns about Irwin Union’s
funding structure as early as 2003, they issued no formal orders
until 2008, about a year before it failed. That agreement asked
the financial group’s board to strengthen oversight, and sought
plans to improve capital and liquidity. The Fed followed with a
cease-and-desist order three days before Irwin Union closed.  The inspector general’s  criticisms  of individual cases in
no way diminish the effectiveness of non-public enforcement,
said Alvarez, the Fed board’s general counsel.  “A large amount of the time these informal actions are
very successful in getting folks to remedy their problems,” he
said.  Subprime Lending  One Irwin Union business offered loans of as much as 125
percent of a home’s value “regardless of whether Irwin Home
Equity had the first or second lien position on the property,”
the report said. Some of the loans were offered to subprime
borrowers and applicants who weren’t asked for income
verification, the report said.  Examiners found in 2002 that Irwin Union Bank and Trust was
buying almost all of the loan production of Irwin Mortgage
Corp., even though federal regulations restrict purchases to 50
percent -- another “red flag,” according to the report. The
bank’s management “failed to comply” with a section of the
Federal Reserve Act that limits such transactions, the inspector
general’s report said. It’s unclear why the bank wasn’t cited.  “Violations of regulations do not necessarily result in
enforcement actions,” said Vartanian, the lawyer with Dechert
LLP. “There can be alternative remediation that satisfies
regulators.”  Asked why there was no formal enforcement regarding that
and other issues, Doug Tillett, a Chicago Fed spokesman, said
“informal supervisory actions have proven to be successful in
prompting a financial institution’s board of directors to
address problems from within the organization.”  ‘Formal and Informal’  “Supervisory authorities benefit from having both formal
and informal methods to apply to various situations and
enforcement actions,” Tillett said in an e-mailed statement.  Congress should keep regulators from ducking
accountability, said U.S. Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas
Republican who is vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee.  “We shouldn’t give them a safe haven where they can hide
these quasi-enforcement actions,” Brady said. “Given a choice,
transparency is always better.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net ;
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  