-- Barry Bonds Judge Didn’t Jail Two Other Athletes in Sport-Drugs Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/barry-bonds-judge-didn-t-jail-two-other-athletes-in-sport-drugs-probe.html
Barry Bonds , Major League Baseball’s
career home-run record holder convicted of obstructing a U.S. 
probe of steroid use in professional sports, faces sentencing by 
a judge who chose not to jail two athletes for similar offenses.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco today
will weigh the government’s request for a 15-month prison
sentence against a U.S. Probation Office recommendation that the
former slugger serve probation and no jail time. Bonds’s
attorneys are also asking for probation.  Bonds, 47, the former  San Francisco Giants  left fielder who
avoided conviction on whether he lied about taking performance-
enhancing drugs, is unlikely to get prison because Illston
hasn’t sent any athletes convicted in the eight-year long
steroids probe to jail, said Marcellus McRae, a criminal-defense
attorney at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP in  Los Angeles .  “She is not constrained because of the sentences she gave
in other cases but you do look at the judge’s prior sentences,”
said McRae, a former federal prosecutor. “He shouldn’t be made
a scapegoat, as if the only way we can justify all the expense
and time spent on the steroids investigation is to sentence him
to jail.”  In 2008, Illston sentenced Tammy Thomas, a world-class
track cyclist banned from the sport for using performance-
enhancing drugs, to six months’ home confinement and five years’
probation for obstructing justice and lying about taking
steroids.  Dana Stubblefield, the first National Football League
player charged in the steroids probe, was sentenced by Illston
to two years’ probation in 2009 for lying about taking the
muscle-building substances.  Marion Jones   Trevor Graham, who coached sprinter Marion Jones, was given
a year of home confinement by the judge for lying to federal
agents about his contacts with a steroids supplier.  Jones, the record-breaking sprinter and 2000 Olympics
medal-winner who confessed she used steroids after years of
public denial, was sentenced by a federal judge in  New York  to
six months in prison for lying in two federal grand jury
investigations.  Illston has presided over most of the criminal cases in
federal court in San Francisco related to Bay Area Laboratory
Cooperative, or Balco, the  California  lab at the center of a
federal probe into the use performance-enhancing drugs among
athletes. She sentenced Victor Conte, Balco’s founder, to four
months in prison after he pleaded guilty to distributing
anabolic steroids to athletes.  ‘The Clear’  Patrick Arnold, an Illinois chemist who created the
undetectable steroid known as “The Clear,” was given three
months in prison by Illston. She sentenced  Greg Anderson ,
Bonds’s former trainer, to prison after he pleaded guilty to
steroid distribution. She also sent Anderson to jail after
finding him in contempt of court for refusing to testify about 
his dealings with Bonds.  Bonds was found guilty of obstruction in April for what
prosecutors called his evasive response in 2003 before a federal
grand jury. Asked if Anderson ever gave him anything that
required a syringe for injection, Bonds didn’t immediately say
yes or no and in a 146-word response spoke about being a
“celebrity child” who didn’t “get into other people’s
business.”  Grand Jury  Trial jurors couldn’t reach a unanimous decision on whether 
Bonds lied when he told the grand jury he didn’t knowingly take
steroids or take human growth hormone. Illston declared a
mistrial on those charges.  Bonds’s attorneys said at trial that he truthfully
testified that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because the drugs were
new at the time and Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  Prosecutors, in a Dec. 8 filing in federal court in  San
Francisco , said they disagreed with a pre-sentencing report that
recommended Bonds serve two years’ probation, pay a $4,000 fine
and perform 250 hours of community service. Non-binding federal
sentencing guidelines call for a prison term of 15 to 21 months,
prosecutors said. Bonds also hasn’t taken responsibility for his
crime, they said.  “Bonds’s pervasive efforts to testify falsely, to mislead
the grand jury, to dodge questions, and to simply refuse to
answer questions in the grand jury makes his conduct worthy of a
significant jail sentence,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Matt Parrella said in the court filing.  Judge’s Considerations  Illston could break her no-jail streak if she decides that
aggravating circumstances, such as Bonds’s level of
sophistication or the nature of his conduct, justify a tougher
sentence, McRae said.  “There’s also something called equality before the law,
which means he shouldn’t be treated differently because he’s
rich and famous,” McRae said yesterday in a phone interview.
“The potential impact on his Hall of Fame prospects and the
amount of time he’s been out of baseball shows there has already
been significant collateral damage to him.”  Lawyers for Bonds argued in a Dec. 6 court filing that his
“history of good works,” including charitable and civic
contributions, and other factors justify a sentence of
probation.  Bonds hasn’t played  Major League Baseball  since 2007, the
last of his 15 seasons with the Giants. He broke Henry Aaron’s
record of 755 career home runs that August. Three months later,
Bonds was indicted.  He has 10 days after his sentencing to notify a federal
appeals court in San Francisco if he intends to challenge his
conviction. Illston may decide today when Bonds should begin
serving his sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  