-- Barry Bonds Gets Two Years Probation for Obstructing Sports Steroids Probe
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/barry-bonds-gets-two-years-probation-for-obstruction-in-mlb-steroids-probe.html
Barry Bonds , Major League Baseball’s
career home-run record holder, was spared jail time and instead
ordered to serve two years of probation for obstructing a U.S.
probe of steroid use in professional sports.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco also
required the former San Francisco Giants outfielder to spend 30
days in home confinement with a location monitoring device, pay
a $4,000 fine and serve 250 hours of community service. She put
the sentence on hold after lawyers for Bonds said they will
appeal his conviction.  Bonds deserved a lighter sentence than the 15 months to 21
months prison term his conduct could have warranted because
other athletes convicted in the steroids probe had received only
probation and Bonds’s conduct was out of character, Illston
said.  “It is an aberration in his life,” she said at the
sentencing hearing yesterday.  Bonds, who hasn’t played  Major League Baseball  since 2007,
declined Illston’s offer to address her before he was sentenced.
Outside the courtroom, a smiling Bonds hugged family members and
friends. He didn’t appear at a news conference held by his
attorneys outside the courthouse.  Prosecutor’s Request  Prosecutors had asked Illston to send Bonds to prison for
15 months. The judge agreed with Bonds’s lawyer and the U.S.
Probation Office’s recommendation that the former slugger serve
probation and no jail time.  Bonds, 47, was found guilty of obstruction in April for
what prosecutors called his evasive response in 2003 before a
federal grand jury. Asked if his trainer,  Greg Anderson , ever
gave him anything that required a syringe for injection, Bonds
didn’t immediately say yes or no. In a 146-word response, he
spoke about being a “celebrity child” who didn’t “get into
other people’s business.” In the end, he answered, “No.”  Bonds’s conduct “strikes at the core of our system where
truthfulness and forthrightness matter greatly,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Matt Parrella said at the hearing.  He called probation
a “slap on the wrist” and the $4,000 fine and home confinement
“laughable for a man with a 50,000 square foot home.”  Sentence Recommendation  Parrella challenged the probation office’s determination
that the conduct that led to Bonds’s conviction was an
aberration, saying he had lied for years about taking steroids
and cheated on his wives with two mistresses.  “He wasn’t convicted for that,” Illston responded.
Parrella declined to comment after the sentencing hearing.  Allen Ruby, Bonds’s lead trial attorney, wouldn’t directly
respond to questions about whether he and his client were
pleased with the sentence.  “It depends on your view of whether justice was done,”
Ruby said at a news conference outside the courthouse. “You
might be able to guess what we think, but we’re not talking.”  No one has ever been convicted for taking 75 seconds to
answer a question before a grand jury, said Dennis Riordan, the
attorney who will head Bonds’s appeal. That’s how much time
elapsed before Bonds directly answered the question he was asked
in 2003, said Riordan after the hearing.  Trial jurors couldn’t reach a unanimous decision on whether
Bonds lied when he told the grand jury he didn’t knowingly take
steroids or take human growth hormone. Illston declared a
mistrial on those charges.  Trial Testimony  Bonds’s attorneys said at trial that he truthfully
testified that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because the drugs were
new at the time and Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  Illston has presided over most of the criminal cases in
federal court in  San Francisco  related to Bay Area Laboratory
Cooperative, or Balco, the  California  lab at the center of a
federal probe into the use performance-enhancing drugs among
athletes. She sentenced Victor Conte, Balco’s founder, to four
months in prison after he pleaded guilty to distributing
anabolic steroids to athletes.  Patrick Arnold, an Illinois chemist who created the
undetectable steroid known as “The Clear,” was given three
months in prison by Illston. She sentenced Bonds’s former
trainer Anderson to prison after he pleaded guilty to steroids
distribution. She also sent Anderson to jail after finding him
in contempt of court for refusing to testify about his dealings
with Bonds.  Two athletes and one coach were given probation by Illston.  Track Cyclist  In 2008, she sentenced Tammy Thomas, a world-class track
cyclist banned from the sport for using performance-enhancing
drugs, to six months’ home confinement and five years’ probation
for obstructing justice and lying about taking steroids.  Dana Stubblefield, the first National Football League
player charged in the steroids probe, was sentenced by Illston
to two years’ probation in 2009 for lying about taking the
muscle-building substances.  Trevor Graham, who coached sprinter  Marion Jones , was given
a year of home confinement by the judge for lying to federal
agents about his contacts with a steroids supplier.  Jones, the record-breaking sprinter and 2000 Olympics
medal-winner who confessed she used steroids after years of
public denial, was sentenced by a federal judge in  New York  to
six months in prison for lying in two federal grand jury
investigations.  Bonds, who played for the Giants for 15 seasons, broke
Henry Aaron’s record of 755 career home runs in August 2007.
Three months later, Bonds was indicted.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  