-- Beach Boys Will Reunite for New Album, 50-Date Tour in April
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2011-12-16T19:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/beach-boys-announce-50th-anniversary-tour-on-group-s-website.html
The  Beach Boys , the Southern
California surf band known for the 1960s hit song “Good
Vibrations,” plans to reunite for a new album and international
tour next year.  Brian Wilson , Mike Love, Al Jardine, Bruce Johnston and
David Marks will record the new album and participate in a 50-
date tour starting in April at the New Orleans Jazz & Heritage
Festival, EMI Group’s Capitol Records said in a statement today.
The band, inducted in 1988 to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame,
has albums that include “Surfin’ Safari” and “Pet Sounds.”  The Beach Boys joins other high-profile acts, including
 Bruce Springsteen  and the E Street Band, in announcing new
albums and tours for 2012. The surviving Beach Boys members --
Dennis Wilson died in 1983 and Carl Wilson passed in 1998 --
have recorded several songs for their album, and Capitol Records
plans a greatest-hits collection and a box set to commemorate
the group’s 50th anniversary, according to the statement.  “I miss the boys,” Wilson, 69, said in the statement.
“It will be a thrill for me to make a new record and be on
stage with them again.”  The album is being produced by Wilson, and Love is the
executive producer, according to the statement.  Citigroup Inc. announced last month it was selling EMI in
pieces for $4.1 billion. The bank had seized London-based EMI
this year after the music company’s owner failed to meet debt
covenants.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group  agreed to buy
EMI’s recorded music business that includes Capitol Records. A
Sony Corp.-led investor group is buying EMI’s publishing unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  