-- Sina Falls to 15-Month Low as City Tightens Blog Use Rules
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2011-12-16T17:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/beijing-internet-clampdown-sends-sina-to-15-month-low-in-new-york-trading.html
Sina Corp ., owner of the Twitter-
like Weibo service in China, plunged to a 15-month low after the
company said that Beijing’s municipal government will force
microblog users to verify their identifies.  Sina , China’s biggest Internet portal, sank 4.5 percent to
$50.41 at 12:20 p.m. in New York. It earlier lost as much as 11
percent to $46.86, the lowest intraday price since September
2010. While Sina is based in  Shanghai , the Weibo unit is based
in Beijing, so the new regulations would apply to all users.  The new rules, effective today, ban users from setting up
accounts with aliases and sending public messages containing
state secrets or information that could harm national security.
Sina is “evaluating the impact” the changes may have on the
Weibo operation, the company said in a statement.  Chinese officials have pressured microblog services to
strengthen supervision after a fatal rail crash in July sparked
an outburst of criticism of the government on the Internet. Sina
has blocked references to Wukan, a village in South  China ’s
Guangdong province where armed police are engaged in a standoff
with villagers after the death in police custody of a local
butcher sparked protests this week.  Microblogs , which are used to publish short messages on the
Internet, have at least 300 million registered users in China.
Sina’s Weibo accounted for 66 percent of the market in August,
according to a Sept. 15 report by BOCOM International. China had
485 million  Internet users  at the end of June, more than the
combined populations of the U.S. and  Japan .  Weibo’s Value  “Sina’s  valuation  incorporated the value of Weibo a lot,”
said Echo He, a senior China analyst at Maxim Group LLC in  New
York , in a telephone interview. “This news probably will hurt
the value of Weibo in the eyes of potential advertisers and game
developers because they do prize Weibo’s large market reach and
the time frequent users spend on it. If Weibo’s appeal declines,
it definitely affects Sina’s value.”  Sina  posted a net loss of $336 million in the third
quarter, its largest as a public company, after doubling
marketing expenses and engineering costs for Weibo. Sina will
continue to “vigorously” invest in the service, and making
money from it isn’t the company’s priority “at the current
stage,” Chief Executive Officer Charles Chao said on a
conference call with analysts Nov. 9.  Criticism of the government spread across Weibo after two
high-speed trains collided in the eastern city of Wenzhou in
July, killing 40 people. Users questioned the government’s
handling of the crash and spread commentary and photos of the
accident at odds with the official version of events.  ‘Healthy’ Environment  The government will punish microblogs that spread lies or
rumors as it seeks a “healthy, orderly microblogging
environment,” Xinhua reported in October, citing  Wang Chen ,
director general of the State Internet Information Office.
Microblogs should promote science, culture and morality and
shouldn’t carry “illegal information,” it said then.  Sina said in the statement today that Beijing government’s
rules won’t force users to change account names, and won’t
affect people who only use the service to read others’ messages.
The rules are applicable to microblogging service providers
within the Beijing municipality and their users.  Other cities may implement similar rules because it’s the
central government’s intention to tighten the regulation on
mircroblogs, according to Maxim’s He. The regulation hurts Sina
more than its competitors because of its popularity, He said.
The analyst added that she may lower her $45 price target for
Sina once she can quantify the impact of the new rule.  Tencent, Sohu  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , based in Shenzhen, is the second-
biggest operator of microblogs with a 25 percent share,
according to BOCOM International. Beijing-based  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ,
owner of the country’s fifth-most visited website, also offers
similar services. Tencent rose 1.7 percent to $19.48 in New
York, while Sohu added 2.7 percent to $47.62.  The news isn’t the “worst case scenario” for Sina as
investors had already anticipated the tightening of government
regulations, according to Adam Krejcik, an analyst at  Roth
Capital Partners .  “Following months of speculation we believe Sina’s
management is relatively prepared and also believe the actual
reporting of this news, versus numerous rumors, is better for
the market,” Krejcik wrote in a note to clients. “We do not
believe this signals the end of Weibo in China.”  Krejcik has a “buy” rating for Sina with a price target
of $110.  Sina’s shares have lost 27 percent this year as rising
costs and increasing competition squeeze profits.  Two telephone calls to the Internet information office at
the Beijing city government weren’t answered today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  