-- Belgium’s Rating Reduced Two Grades to Aa3 by Moody’s on Contagion Concern
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2011-12-16T22:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/belgium-s-rating-reduced-two-grades-to-aa3-by-moody-s-on-contagion-concern.html
Belgium ’s credit rating was cut two
levels to Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, which said rising
borrowing costs, slowing growth and liabilities arising from
 Dexia SA (DEXB) ’s breakup threaten to inflate the euro area’s fifth-
highest debt load.  Moody’s lowered Belgium’s debt rating to the fourth-highest
investment grade, from Aa1, with a negative outlook, the ratings
company said today in a statement. The action follows  Standard &
Poor’s  one-step downgrade of Belgium to AA on Nov. 25.  Fitch
Ratings  put Belgium’s AA+ rating on review for a downgrade
today.  “An immediate and major challenge facing the new
government is the impact of weaker growth on the country’s
fiscal consolidation efforts and the resulting need for
additional measures to meet the medium-term deficit and debt
reduction targets,” Moody’s said in the statement today.  Fewer euro-area nations ranked below AAA are expected to
retain high ratings as they face a “profound loss” of
confidence in their debt that will probably persist, Moody’s
said on Oct. 5. Three weeks later, it extended that warning to
all European sovereign ratings, including the top-rated
countries, as the region’s debt crisis continued to escalate.  Belgian  borrowing costs  touched the highest level in 11
years in November, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond
closing at 5.86 percent before S&P’s downgrade on Nov. 25. They
started surging almost two months earlier as the caretaker
government bought Dexia SA’s Belgian banking unit for 4 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) and agreed to guarantee as much as 54.5
billion euros of the crisis-hit lender’s liabilities for as long
as 10 years.  Growth Declines  Belgium’s economy, the sixth-largest in the euro region,
contracted for the first time in more than two years in the
third quarter, heaping pressure on Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo
as he tries to cut the deficit in a bid to stave off contagion
from the European debt turmoil.  Gross domestic product  declined  0.1 percent from the prior
three-month period as exports shrank for a second consecutive
quarter and  consumer spending  fell 0.2 percent, the National
Bank said on Dec. 7.  Di Rupo’s government, which was sworn in by the king on
Dec. 6, has pledged 11.3 billion euros in spending cuts and tax
increases to pare the  budget deficit  to 2.8 percent of GDP next
year, as demanded by the European Union. The 2012 budget was
drawn up assuming the economy would expand 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  