-- Belgium’s Rating Reduced Two Grades to Aa3 by Moody’s on Contagion Concern
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2011-12-17T12:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/belgium-s-rating-reduced-to-aa3-by-moody-s.html
Belgium ’s credit rating was cut two
steps by Moody’s Investors Service, which said rising borrowing
costs, slowing growth and liabilities from  Dexia SA’s breakup (DEXB) 
threaten to inflate the euro area’s fifth-highest debt load.  Moody’s lowered Belgium’s debt rating to Aa3, the fourth-
highest investment grade, from Aa1, with a negative outlook, the
ratings company said yesterday. The action follows  Standard &
Poor’s  one-step downgrade of Belgium to AA on Nov. 25. Fitch
Ratings yesterday put the nation’s AA+ rating on review for a
possible reduction.  The downgrade comes a week after European leaders, in their
latest attempt to end the debt crisis now in its third year,
agreed to forge a tighter fiscal union as the main thrust of
their efforts, even as the  European Central Bank  resisted
investor calls to step up its bond-buying program. Fitch also
lowered  France ’s rating outlook yesterday and put the grades of
nations including Spain and  Italy  on review, citing  Europe ’s
failure to find a “comprehensive solution” to the turmoil.  “The funding environment is an additional risk that we
have in this environment,”  Alexander Kockerbeck , a senior
credit officer at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview from
 Frankfurt . “The risk is that things can change relatively
quickly in the funding market as we have seen in the recent
past.”  Borrowing Costs  Belgian  borrowing costs  touched the highest level in 11
years in November, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond
closing at 5.86 percent before S&P’s downgrade on Nov. 25. They
started surging almost two months earlier as the caretaker
government bought Dexia’s Belgian banking unit for 4 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) and agreed to guarantee as much as 54.5
billion euros of the crisis-hit lender’s liabilities for as long
as 10 years.  The yield on the 4.25 percent securities due September 2021
was little changed yesterday at 4.26 percent. That’s 240 basis
points, or 2.4 percentage points, more than German bunds of
similar maturity.  Belgium’s economy , the sixth-largest in the euro region,
contracted for the first time in more than two years in the
third quarter, adding pressure on Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo as
he tries to cut the deficit in a bid to stave off contagion from
the European debt turmoil. Gross domestic product  declined  0.1
percent from the prior three-month period as exports shrank for
a second consecutive quarter and  consumer spending  fell 0.2
percent, the  National Bank of Belgium  said on Dec. 7.  Budget Deficit  Di Rupo’s government, which was sworn in on Dec. 6, has
pledged 11.3 billion euros in spending cuts and tax increases to
pare the  budget deficit  to 2.8 percent of GDP next year, as
demanded by the European Union.  “This ambition must absolutely be achieved,” Belgian
Finance Minister Steven Vanackere told RTBF radio after the
Moody’s downgrade. The government’s 2012 budget was drawn up
assuming the economy would expand 0.8 percent.  Belgium forecasts its borrowing needs will fall 16 percent
in 2012 after this year’s requirement was boosted by the rescue
of Dexia and a higher budget deficit. The nation’s debt agency
projected on Dec. 12 that the gross borrowing requirement will
amount to 38.6 billion euros next year, down from an estimated
borrowing need for 2011 of 46 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  