-- Bendigo & Adelaide to Buy Bank of Cyprus’s Australian Unit
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2011-12-16T09:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/bendigo-adelaide-to-buy-bank-of-cyprus-s-australian-business.html
Bendigo & Adelaide Bank (BEN)  Ltd., a
regional lender, agreed to buy  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOCY) ’s Australian
unit for A$130 million ($129 million), expanding its reach into
the local Greek and Cypriot communities.  The Bendigo, Australia-based bank will sell A$120 million
of shares at A$8.45 apiece to fund the acquisition, it said in a
statement today. Trading of the lender’s stock, which closed in
Sydney yesterday at A$9, has been halted until Dec. 19 for an
announcement of the results of the sale.  Bank of Cyprus  Australia  Ltd. has 14 branches in New South
Wales, Australia’s most populous state, as well as Victoria and
 South Australia , according to Bendigo & Adelaide. The Hellenic
lender’s unit has interest-bearing assets of A$1.4 billion. The
acquisition is due to be completed by the end of February, 2012,
subject to regulatory approval.  “BOCAL is an attractive business with a strong capital and
liquidity position,” Mike Hurt, Bendigo & Adelaide group
managing director, said in the statement. “It is predominantly
funded by retail deposits, maintains a conservative risk profile
with 99 percent of the loan book secured against property, and
has an excellent credit history.”  The sale of its Australian unit is in line with plans by
the Bank of Cyprus to strengthen its capital position and its
liquid funds, the Nicosia-based bank said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “A positive impact of around 77 million euros ($100
million) is expected on the Bank of Cyprus’ capital buffer as
calculated in the capital exercise carried out by the European
Banking Authority and the Central Bank of Cyprus,” according to
the statement.  Cyprus’ largest lender needs to raise 1.56 billion euros to
meet capital rules set by the European Banking Authority. The
regulator has ordered European banks to reach a 9 percent target
for core Tier 1 capital after marking their holding of sovereign
debt to market prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  