-- Berlin Heart Wins U.S. Approval of Pump for Children Awaiting Transplant
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-12-16T18:22:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/berlin-heart-wins-u-s-approval-of-pump-for-children-awaiting-transplant.html
Berlin Heart GmbH , a closely held
German device maker, said it won U.S. regulatory approval for
the first heart pump used to help children survive as they await
a transplant.  The product, known as a ventricular assist device, does the
work of a normal heart in children with congenital or other
cardiovascular defects that prevent their own from circulating
enough blood to fuel the body. The device, named Excor, is
already approved in Europe and  Canada , the company said today in
a statement.  The system serves as bridge to a transplant, keeping the
children alive and their organs functioning while they wait for
a donor heart. While adults can receive similar products sold by
Framingham, Massachusetts-based  HeartWare International Inc. (HTWR)  and
Pleasanton, California-based  Thoratec Corp. (THOR) , the device known as
the Berlin Heart is the only one approved for children.  “This is a landmark event for children suffering from
terminal heart failure,” said Charles Fraser Jr., head of
congenital heart surgery at Texas Children’s Hospital and
professor of surgery and pediatrics at Baylor College of
Medicine in Houston. “The medical community is now able to
offer this lifesaving device to support desperate children who
would not otherwise survive while awaiting a heart transplant.”  The Berlin Heart was  tested  in 48 children across the U.S.
starting in November 2007, the first-ever pediatric trial of a
mechanical heart pump. A Food and Drug Administration advisory
panel recommended approval in July.  Few Treatment Options  Children with heart failure have few other treatment
options. While an instrument similar to a heart-lung bypass
machine can work for a few weeks, the children must be sedated.
The Berlin Heart enables them to be alert and active.  FDA approval allows patients immediate access to the heart
pump, rather than requiring them to apply for compassionate use
of the device that can take a week or longer.  “Having to wait to get compassionate care approval can be
the difference between whether a kid lives or dies,” said Traci
Reichman, the mother of 9-year-old Lane Eberhardt, who received
a Berlin Heart on May 3, 2010. “If it’s readily available, it
makes a huge difference.”  Little Help  Lane was born with critical  aortic stenosis , a narrowing of
the key artery that obstructed his blood flow. He underwent
numerous treatments to expand, repair and replace the valve,
without success, Reichman said in a telephone interview.  Lane was admitted to the hospital at the  Cleveland Clinic 
on Feb. 4, 2010, and given medication to help his heart function
while he waited for a transplant. By late April, he weighed 35
pounds and doctors said he had only days to live if they didn’t
intervene. It took a week to get FDA approval for compassionate
use of the Berlin Heart, and his doctor sat beside his bed the
night before his implant to make sure he survived to surgery.  “He laid in a fetal position most of the time prior to the
machine being attached to his heart because he was in so much
pain,” she said. “He became a normal kid with a small
attachment. For eight months, that machine did everything for
him, until we got a call that we had a donor.”  He underwent a heart transplant on Dec. 22, almost a year
ago. Now Lane is up to 75 pounds, back in school and playing
baseball, she said. This year, he’s trying wrestling.  Patient Success  More than 800 kids ranging in age from newborns to
teenagers worldwide have received the heart pump implants,
according to company documents. While the device is supposed to
work as a bridge to transplant, some children have recovered
enough after receiving a Berlin Heart that they are able to have
the pump removed and their own heart takes over the workload.  Until now, the device could be implanted only at fewer than
a dozen children’s hospitals in the country that participated in
its clinical trials, said Robert Stewart, chair of pediatric
thoracic and cardiovascular surgery at the Cleveland Clinic’s
Children’s Hospital. Doctors had to call the company and write
the FDA letters for permission before the approval, he said in a
telephone interview.  “There were individuals who could benefit but didn’t get
it because of the hurdles,” said Stewart, estimating that 150
to 200 children are waiting for treatment. “These are
relatively small numbers compared to the thousands of adult
cases in the  United States , but it will mean a huge difference
for those individuals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  