-- Best Shows of 2011 Razzed Mormons, Spies, Nerds: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/best-shows-of-2011-razzed-mormons-spies-nerds-jeremy-gerard.html
New York  theater in 2011 was
dominated by scary headlines for “Spider-Man: Turn Off The
Dark” and awards for “The Book of Mormon,” both well-
deserved. And there were many notable revivals, the best among
them “The Normal Heart” and “Follies,” not to mention a
folio’s worth of Bill Shakespeare.  As many memorable shows were
presented off-Broadway as on. The best of the year, in
alphabetical order:  “Blood and Gifts”  Peripatetic author J.T. Rogers offered the rare play as
absorbed with politics (in this case, U.S. covert operations in
Afghanistan and  Pakistan  in the 1980s) as with personal
relationships. The line between them is effectively -- and
unforgettably -- blurred in this tale of spooks, warlords and
weaponry. (Mitzi E. Newhouse)  “Chinglish”  David Henry Hwang’s comedy finds a U.S. businessman
learning, mostly through trial and hilarious error, how to do
business in booming  China . (Longacre)  “Completeness”  Like Tom Stoppard (and Shaw, for that matter), playwright
Itamar Moses can get tangled up in his own cleverness.
“Completeness” was a smart comedy about nerdy grad students
grappling with identity, computer science, molecular biology and
sex. Rarely in that order. (Closed)  “Jerusalem”  Jez Butterworth’s joyride of a play featured  Mark Rylance ’s
unforgettable performance as “Rooster” Byron, former daredevil
and current substance-abusing civic gadfly with a soft spot for
wayward teens. (Closed)  “Other Desert Cities”  Jon Robin Baitz’s funny, intense look at a Southern
California family torn apart by the suicide of an elder son
moved from off-Broadway to the Booth, in the process supplying a
smashing Broadway debut for Rachel Griffiths. (Booth)  “Stick Fly”  Broadway newcomer Lydia R. Diamond’s family drama neatly
counterbalanced the Baitz play with a look at a black upper-
class family whose secrets unfurl during a long, rollicking
weekend at the matriarchal manse on  Martha’s Vineyard . (Cort)  “Sweet and Sad”  Few playwrights have dealt with 9/11 and its aftermath as
subtly and movingly as Richard Nelson. Set on the 10th
anniversary of the attacks, “Sweet and Sad” presented a family
gathering in New York’s Hudson Valley -- removed, but not
really, from the events downriver a decade before. (Closed)  “The Blue Flower”  I called this enthralling show the best new American
musical since “Spring Awakening.” It told the story of Max,
based on the German artist  Max Beckmann , and three other
interconnected people, beginning in pre-WWI Berlin and ending on
Central Park West in the 1950s. Jim Bauer’s eclectic score was
lush and memorable, as was Will Pomerantz’s ingenious production
at Second Stage. (Closed)  “The Book of Mormon”  Tuneful, brash and blithely blasphemous, this musical from
the creators of “ South Park ” and the composer of “Avenue Q”
puts Mormonism and “The  Lion King ” through the meat grinder.
Book now for 2015. (Eugene O’Neill)  “Venus in Fur”  The prolific David Ives finds comedy in the oddest places;
in this case, a grim rehearsal studio where a young actress has
come to audition for the role of a head-tripping, aristocratic
dominatrix. Roles reverse enough times to keep your head
spinning -- except that you won’t be able to take your eyes off
Nina Arianda, delivering the bravura performance of the season.
(Friedman thru Dec. 18; Lyceum beginning Feb. 7.)  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 