-- BMW to Set Up Brazil Plant to Sustain Deliveries
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2011-12-16T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/bmw-to-set-up-brazil-plant-to-sustain-deliveries.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the
world’s largest maker of  luxury vehicles , will set up a factory
in Brazil to help sustain global sales growth following record
deliveries in 2011.  BMW is deciding on a site for the plant, which will
contribute to the company’s push to increase sales to 2 million
cars by 2020 from 1.6 million this year, Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Reithofer  told reporters at a briefing near the
carmaker’s Munich headquarters.  The manufacturer, which will introduce a new version of its
best-selling 3-Series sedan in February, anticipates that sales
will grow in the U.S.,  China  and Europe next year, unless the
global economy falters, he said.  “We are better prepared for a potential crisis” than
during the 2009 recession because of lower production costs and
a better financial cushion, Reithofer said at the briefing
yesterday. He reiterated that  profit  in 2011 will “rise
significantly” to a record and that automotive earnings before
interest and taxes will amount to at least 10 percent of sales.  BMW has been considering building a factory in  Brazil  for
months as it seeks to balance growth and avoid over-reliance on
a single market. The maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce vehicles
aims to defend its worldwide luxury-car lead from  Volkswagen
AG ’s Audi and  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz, which have both vowed
to take the top spot.  Car Glut  The expansion comes amid a growing car glut in Europe as
most automakers continue churning vehicles in the face of
slumping sales and growing concern that the sovereign-debt
crisis is causing an economic slowdown. Overcapacity in the
region may surge 41 percent to 2.92 million vehicles next year,
according to forecasts from research group IHS Automotive.  Reithofer said he’s expecting “slight” growth in  Europe 
next year, fueled by demand in the region’s north. The company
is “optimistic” about sales in the U.S. and foresees growth in
China in the first half of next year, he said. The euro is
unlikely to break up because of the sovereign-debt crisis, the
CEO said.  BMW is keeping its factories’ Christmas breaks as short as
possible to meet demand, shutting most plants only for the week
between Christmas and New Year’s Day. At the same time, the
company is on standby to lower production in case demand falls.
Frank-Peter Arndt, BMW’s production chief, said in October that
the carmaker can reduce output by 20 percent to 30 percent if
necessary.  BMW won’t give up the Rolls-Royce brand, Reithofer said.
Daimler said last month that it will shut down the super-luxury
Maybach division to end almost a decade of losses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  