-- Sunken Treasure, Flaming Shots, Absinthe Drip: Top Booze Books
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/booze-books-on-sunken-treasure-eggnog-shots-smokey-bandit-absinthe-drip.html
There are all kinds of drinkers and,
fortunately, all kinds of drinking books. Here’s my list for
this holiday season.  The Entertainer  Wow your friends with a soon-to-be-classic cocktail from
“ Cocktails and Amuse-Bouches: For Her and For Him ” by  Daniel Boulud  and Xavier Herit (Assouline, $50). Each book in the two-
volume set contains recipes for 20 drinks and 10 appetizers.  Who among us females wouldn’t love a festive Strawberry and
Pearls? This margarita-like cocktail is made with Herradura
tequila and served with strawberry-and-Cointreau “pearls”
formed in a calcium bath with the help of a magnetic agitator.  For the men -- and a tad more easily prepared -- is a
Smokey Bandit with Mezcal, orange Curacao and eight drops of
jalapeno juice wrested from the pepper with an extractor.  The food recipes, like Tempura Squash Blossoms and Turkish
Lamb Meatballs, make from 20 to 80 hors d’oeuvres each and most
don’t require special equipment. The typeface is distracting,
but the books are a great gift for the ambitious host.  The Budding Bar Owner  “ The PDT Cocktail Book ” by Jim Meehan (Sterling Epicure,
$24.95). This book is so detailed you could use it to open a
franchise of its  namesake  East Village cocktail lounge, Please
Don’t Tell. You might want to: It was recently named World’s
Best Bar by industry magazine Drinks International.  Meehan, PDT’s managing partner and chef de booze, includes
more than 300 drinks, the bar layout, an equipment list and a
recipe for  David Chang ’s Momofuku Napa Cabbage Kimchi (which is
served on hot dogs at the bar).  I liked Chris Gall’s illustrations, especially the Statue
of Liberty holding a  Manhattan  garnished with brandied cherries
and a well-endowed Tinker Bell overseeing an absinthe drip.  The Beer Snob  “ Brewed Awakening ” by Joshua M. Bernstein (Sterling
Epicure, $24.95) is the story of craft beer. What makes this
book exceptional is its design and attention to detail,
including a dust-jacket map of lagers and ales, sidebars with
labels and tasting notes and a guide to food pairings.  There’s information about special releases such as Kate the
Great,  Portsmouth Brewery ’s Russian imperial stout (they only
make 900 bottles and sell it all in one day). Home brews,
seasonal brews and gluten-free brews are discussed in-depth.  There are homebrew competitions to enter, like  Stone
Brewing’s March Madness , Craft Beer Weeks to attend, like
 Alaska ’s in January, and types to try, like Session lager from
 Full Sail Brewing Co.  or Torpedo Extra IPA from  Sierra Nevada .
This book should become the handbook of the beer snob.  The Historian  Pour a glass of your favorite brown spirit and settle in
for “ Barrels and Drams: The History of Whisk(e)y in Jiggers and
Shots ,” edited by William M. Dowd (Sterling Epicure, $18.95).  This collection of essays introduces us to whiskey and
heroes worldwide. We’re educated on what to collect, where to
hide it, how to make a blend and the horror of drinking whiskey
from plastic.  F. Paul Pacult tells the story of Scotsman George Smith,
born in 1792, who became distiller of The Glenlivet. Peter Krass
informs us that after the Civil War, Jack Daniel of  Tennessee 
was an orphan with expansion plans.  Jim Leggett follows the voyage of  Al Capone ’s 100-year-old
bootleg Sandy Mac Scotch as it’s dug up from the bottom of the
Detroit River by a treasure hunter and makes its way home to
Glasgow to be sold at auction by Christie’s.  Hit It Hard  Sometimes a shot is called for. One year, I was charged
with making Jell-O shots for the Pal’s Lounge Mardi Gras parade
in  New Orleans . They would have been beautifully layered had I
read Chapter 6 in “ Holiday Shots ” by Lindsay Herman and
Devorah Lev-Tov (Cider Mill Press, $12.95).  This book’s holiday theme makes it a great stocking
stuffer, but most of the 80 recipes can be enjoyed year round --
eggnog shots excluded.  Difficulty and potency ratings are included for each slug,
and there’s a chapter on flaming shots with tips like “Invest
in a fire extinguisher. Please.” When dealing with a drink
recently set ablaze, I use a straw.  ( Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 