-- French Take Aim at Britain as Credit-Downgrade Concerns in Paris Increase
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2011-12-17T10:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/britain-again-a-villain-for-french-as-downgrade-from-aaa-rating-approaches.html
French officials deflected concern
about a looming cut in the country’s AAA credit rating by
lashing out at Britain.  “It’s better to be French than British, economically
speaking,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said in an
interview yesterday on  Europe  1 radio, following verbal jabs
against the U.K. by Prime Minister  Francois Fillon  and  Christian Noyer , the governor of the Bank of France. British Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg  called the remarks “unacceptable” and
asked for steps “to calm the rhetoric.”  With the French economy sinking into recession amid the
euro-area credit crunch, the officials’ comments serve two
purposes, according to Paul Vallet, a professor of international
relations at Paris’ Sciences-Po university: prepare public
opinion for a possible rating cut and convince voters in an
election year that President Nicolas Sarkozy is an effective
crisis manager.  “There’s a lot of political posturing going on with the
elections,” said Vallet. “They have to convince public opinion
they are responding to the crisis and that it’s much worse
elsewhere.”  Sarkozy trails his Socialist Party challenger  Francois Hollande  by six points before May’s presidential election,
according to a Harris Interactive poll published Dec. 15.  “There is a search for scapegoats across Europe,” said
Vallet. “In the U.K. they are shifting blame to the Germans,
and the Germans are blaming everyone.”  Summit Rebuff  The French criticism followed a Dec. 9 European Union
summit. Britain was alone among the bloc’s 27 nations to reject
a treaty on tightening fiscal cooperation after Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s bid to shield London-based financial
institutions from future EU bank regulations was rebuffed.
Sarkozy called Britain’s demands “unacceptable.”  The British haven’t been shy with opinions on their
neighbor across the channel. On Nov. 14, British Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  told the Evening Standard that the
“markets are now even asking questions about France” and said
it had been much slower than Britain to address its  budget
deficit . Just four days earlier, former U.K. Prime Minister
Gordon Brown said “France is in danger of being picked off by
the markets in the coming weeks and months.”  Franco-British Spats  The Franco-British spat at the EU is far from the first for
the countries that have had a prickly relationship for hundreds
of years. France twice vetoed Britain’s application to join what
was then the Common Market before relenting in 1973.  Margaret Thatcher  and  Francois Mitterrand  clashed
throughout the 1980s about the EU’s budget. The bloc’s nascent
attempts to create a common foreign policy were shredded by  Tony Blair ’s and Jacques Chirac’s opposing views on the Iraq War.  The two countries are now pitted against each other on the
question of cutting the cost of the EU’s Common Agricultural
Policy, while Britain opposes French and German plans to create
a European financial-transaction tax.  Britain points to the bond markets as an endorsement of
austerity policies that have stifled growth while isolating the
U.K. from the concerns weighing on the euro area.  “We have a credible plan” to cut our debt, Vickie Sheriff, a spokeswoman for Cameron said in  London . “That is
reflected in the bond yield. A lot of people are commenting on
the euro-zone crisis and the issues around it.”  ‘Credible Plan’  French 10-year bonds yield about 3 percent, the highest of
the six top-rated euro-area countries. The U.K. borrows for 10
years at about 2 percent, a rate that’s kept down by a Bank of
England bond-buying program that’s potentially equal to a
quarter of Britain’s outstanding government debt. The  European
Central Bank  has balked at broadening its bond-buying program.  France ’s deficit will be 5.8 percent of economic output in
2011 compared with Britain’s 9.4 percent. Its government debt is
85.4 percent of economic output in France, the most of any top-
rated euro nation, compared with 84 percent across the Channel.  “We are all in the same boat,” said Philippe D’Arvisenet,
chief global economist at BNP Paribas SA in Paris.  In the third quarter, the British economy grew 0.5 percent
and the French economy 0.4 percent, according to Eurostat.
France’s Insee statistical institute says France is entering a
recession that will last until early next year, with output
shrinking 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter of this year and
another 0.1 percent in the first quarter of 2012.  Slowing Growth  Britain faces a 0.5 percent contraction in the fourth
quarter and 0.4 percent growth in the first quarter, according
to the  Office for Budget Responsibility . The National Institute
for Economic and Social Research said Nov. 3 there’s a 50
percent chance that Britain slips back into recession.  The  unemployment rate  for 2011 will be 9.8 percent in
France and 7.9 percent in Britain, Eurostat said in November.
France’s inflation rate was 2.7 percent in November, compared
with 4.8 percent in Britain.  Moody’s Investors Service said on Dec. 12 it will review
the ratings of all euro countries after the summit failed to
produce “decisive policy measures” to end the debt turmoil.
 Standard & Poor’s  placed the ratings of 15 euro nations,
including France and Germany, on review for possible downgrade
on Dec. 5. Neither company has announced any actions on the
U.K.’s top rating.  Fitch Ratings  last night reaffirmed its triple-A rating on
France while changing the outlook to “negative.”  Not Justified  Noyer, the Bank of France governor, said a downgrade of
France “doesn’t strike me as justified based on economic
fundamentals.” He told Le Telegramme, a newspaper based in
Brittany, “they should start by downgrading the U.K., which has
a bigger deficit, as much debt, more inflation, weaker growth
and where bank lending is collapsing.”  During a visit to Brazil this week, French PM Fillon said,
“our British friends have a deficit and debt that are higher,
which I don’t think the rating agencies have recognized.”  Fillon called Clegg yesterday from  Rio de Janeiro  to tell
him credit-rating companies were his intended target, according
to a statement from the British deputy PM.  In an interview this week with the newspaper Le Monde,
Sarkozy said “there are now clearly two Europes, one that
pushes for greater solidarity between its members and for
regulation, and one that’s attached solely to the logic of a
single market.”  Still, the EU needs Britain, he said, and “would be
greatly impoverished by its departure, which happily for the
moment is not in the cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.com  