-- Bundesbank Sees No ‘Urgent Need’ for Final Decision on European IMF Loans
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-12-16T15:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/bundesbank-sees-no-urgent-need-for-imf-crisis-loan-decision-by-dec-19.html
The Bundesbank said it sees no
urgent need for a decision on a loan to the  International
Monetary Fund , suggesting the Dec. 19 deadline set by European
Union leaders may be missed.  “We don’t see an urgent need for a final decision,” a
spokesman for the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said by telephone.
“We want to evaluate the whole situation.”  EU leaders decided at a Dec. 9 summit to channel an
additional 200 billion euros ($261 billion) in loans to the IMF
so that it has the resources to help fight the euro region’s
debt crisis. Central banks from the 17 euro nations would
provide 150 billion euros and 50 billion euros would come from
EU members outside the currency bloc. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann has said the German central bank is ready to contribute
as much as 45 billion euros if certain conditions are met.  The Bundesbank wants large countries outside the euro
region and the EU to take part in the loan to avoid accusations
that euro-area central banks are merely funding governments via
the IMF, something that would be contrary to the euro’s founding
treaty. It’s important that there is a “fair distribution of
the burden amongst the IMF members,” Weidmann said earlier this
week. The U.S. has said it won’t participate.  The Bundesbank has not yet received a response from German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  to a Dec. 9 letter that set
out its conditions for the loan, the spokesman said.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, today expressed confidence that the
deadline for agreement on the loan would be met. Juncker also
said he hadn’t spoken with Weidmann about it.  The euro rose on Juncker’s comments, only to give up those
gains when the Bundesbank said it won’t rush to a decision. The
currency traded at $1.3032 at 4:10 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  