-- Buy Turkish Five-Year CDS or Sell Liras, RBS Analysts Say
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 2011-12-16T14:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/buy-turkish-five-year-cds-or-sell-liras-rbs-analysts-say-1-.html
Investors should buy Turkish five-
year credit default swaps or sell liras, Royal Bank of  Scotland 
Group Plc said, citing a record current account deficit,
external financing needs of more than $200 billion next year and
accelerating inflation.  The central bank is more focused on delivering growth than
low  inflation , Royal Bank of Scotland said in an e-mailed report
today in its 2012 outlook for central and eastern  Europe , the
 Middle East  and  Africa .  “Either domestic demand has to slow dramatically, (the
‘‘hard’’ landing), or the currency has to correct, possibly to
2.1 liras per dollar, or both,” said analysts including Tim Ash, head of global emerging market strategy and Demetrios Efstathiou, chief of strategy for the region.  Turkey’s five-year CDS, which pays buyers should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements,
rose 0.3 percent to 290.750 yesterday. An increase in the price
of CDS corresponds with an increase in investor perception of
risk. The lira fell 0.1 percent to 1.8799 per dollar at 4:22
p.m. in Istanbul today.  Inflation, Rates  There is no problem with  Turkey ’s current account deficit
after the authorities took steps to tackle it, Economy Minister
Zafer Caglayan said in Geneva,  Switzerland  yesterday, according
to state-run Anatolia news agency. The central bank’s priority
is inflation and it stands ready to tighten monetary policy
further to contain price rises, governor Erdem Basci said on
Dec. 12. Meanwhile the economy is on course to meet a 4 percent
growth target for next year, he said.  The central bank has cut the  benchmark one-week lending
rate  three times over the past year to a record low of 5.75
percent, then announced it would lend to banks at rates between
5.75 percent and 12.5 percent to help squeeze liquidity.
Economic growth slowed to 8.2 percent in the third quarter, a
pace exceeded only by  China , from 8.8 percent in the previous
three months, the statistics agency said this week.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in a Dec. 7 report
that the central bank should increase the benchmark rate and the
economy now risks a sharp slowdown.  The  current-account gap  in October was $4.2 billion, taking
the 12-month cumulative deficit to $78.6 billion. That’s about
10 percent of gross domestic product. Inflation accelerated to
9.5 percent in November from 7.7 percent the previous month,
more than double a record low of 4 percent in March.  The country’s long-term prospects look “very strong” with
its “favorable demographics, an entrepreneurial culture, a
strong manfacturing base and diversified export structure,”
Efstathiou and Ash said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aydan Eksin at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net  