-- Buyers Prize Glitziest London Hotels as $25 Cocktails Flow
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2011-12-16T14:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/buyers-prize-glitziest-london-hotels-as-europe-s-economic-slump-passes-by.html
It’s Friday night at Claridge’s
Hotel in central  London  and harried-looking bartenders are
rushing to serve customers piled three-deep at the bar. Property
investors are lining up too, not for the 16-pound ($25) mojitos
and 27-pound glasses of Laurent Perrier Brut Rose champagne, but
for the luxury hotels that can command such prices during an
economic slowdown.  A site on Leicester Square in the U.K. capital that already
has planning permission for a 245-bedroom hotel has attracted
more than 15 bidders, according to a person familiar with the
matter. More than a dozen parties expressed interest in a W
Hotel on the same square before a Qatari investor bought it in
September. That month, the billionaire brothers David and
Frederick Barclay purchased 800 million euros ($1.1 billion) of
debt tied to Maybourne Hotels Group, the owner of Claridge’s.  London’s luxury hotel market is defying  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis and Britain’s sputtering economy as wealthy visitors
from abroad drive record sales and occupancy rates and boost
values. A lack of supply, as well as the prestige of owning a
name like the Ritz or the Connaught, is sparking construction
and persuading investors to pay more than they would for other
types of real estate.  The city has had “a pretty good ride, helped by the
weakening pound and by its status as a world-class city and
financial and business center,” said Konstanze Auernheimer,
marketing and analysis director for researcher STR Global.
“It’s attracting a great amount of leisure as well as business
guests.”  Rebound from Crisis  Values of luxury and trophy hotels have rebounded by 5
percent to 10 percent after dropping about 15 percent to 20
percent in the financial crisis, said Sally Kendall, a senior
analyst for hotels at property broker  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)  Most of
the increase has come this year, she said. By contrast, some of
the most expensive U.K. hotels outside the capital have fallen
more than 50 percent since 2008 and are continuing to decline,
said Jane Lees, a director at CBRE’s hotels division.  The Ritz Hotel, owned by the Barclay brothers, is worth
more than 625 million pounds, or 4.6 million pounds per room,
based on “several unsolicited approaches from prospective
purchasers for the sale of the hotel,” the owners said in a
statement filed to Companies House on Sept. 30. Last year, the
Ritz had its highest-ever sales at 31.3 million pounds,
according to the documents.  “In broad terms, if you were to put a really high-end
hotel on the market in London you’d be looking to clear
something like 2 million pounds a room,” said Russell Kett,
managing director of the London office of hotel consultant HVS.  Leicester Square  The 192-bedroom  W Hotel  on Leicester Square, which also
includes the European flagship store of Mars Inc.’s M&M’s, was
bought for about 200 million pounds by Qatar’s Sheikh Faisal Bin Qassim Al Thani’s Al Faisal Holding Company.  Ireland’s National Asset Management Agency is selling its
Leicester Square site after it put previous owner Steamboat
Developments Ltd. into receivership. As well as the hotel, there
is planning permission for 33 apartments, four restaurants and a
two-screen cinema on the site. The person who disclosed the bids
for the asset asked not to be named because the information is
private. NAMA spokesman  Ray Gordon  declined to comment.  The prices indicate that investors either expect a
significant improvement in hotel income or they’re willing to
settle for smaller returns than they would expect for any other
type of property, CBRE’s Kendall said in an interview.  Growing Returns  Total return, a combination of rental growth and rising
values, was 12.4 percent for hotel buyers over the four years
through 2010, compared with a 6.9 percent decline in U.K.
commercial property values, according to London-based Investment
Property Databank Ltd. It doesn’t report London hotels
separately. Total return for all U.K. hotels was 14.9 percent
last year, more than double the European average of 6.9 percent.  Revenue per available room, known as revpar, for luxury
hotels in the capital rose to 205 pounds in the January through
October, a 25 percent increase from the same period two years
earlier, researcher  STR Global  said. Revpar increased for all
London hotels by an average 22 percent.  High prices and returns are attracting buyers like the
Barclay brothers, the Telegraph Media Group Ltd. owners who
bought the Maybourne Group debt in September from NAMA. The pair
plans to invest about 130 million pounds in the company, which
also owns the Connaught and the Berkeley hotels, as they try to
gain control, the London-based Times reported on Dec. 4.  Buying Debt  “There were a number of parties interested in acquiring
the loans and effectively the Barclay brothers made us an offer
to acquire it, unexpectedly at par,” NAMA Chief Executive
Officer  Brendan McDonagh  said in an interview in October.
“Obviously they had their homework done.”  Paddy McKillen , who owns 36 percent of Maybourne, is suing
the Barclays and related investment companies over the
acquisition.  “Mr. McKillen has no intention of selling his stake in
Maybourne,” said his spokeswoman, Breda Keena. “He is the
largest shareholder and is actively seeking to increase his
stake. The hotels are performing exceptionally well and
exceeding targets.”  Revpar at Maybourne’s hotels rose 17.8 percent to 423
pounds last year “driven mainly by the continued ramp up of the
Connaught’s performance and strong profitability driven
primarily by average room rate growth at Claridge’s,” owner
Coroin Ltd. said on Oct. 7.  Pay to Stay  A night in the basic rooms at the Dorchester or the
Connaught on Dec. 20 costs 318 pounds including tax. On the same
night, the Savoy is offering a third night free if guests book
two nights in a suite. Prices start at 882 pounds per night
including tax.  The Dorchester, owned by the Brunei Investment Agency, had
record occupancy and room rates last year it said in accounts
filed with Companies House on Oct. 5. After tax profit rose 37
percent to 15.9 million pounds, the highest ever.  A guest at The Lanesborough near  Buckingham Palace  recently
paid 3,000 pounds for a Cohiba ‘Behike’ cigar made by the
personal roller to former Cuban President  Fidel Castro , said bar
manager Giuseppe Ruo.  Very little of London’s luxury hotel property tends to come
on the market in any year, boosting competition for what’s
available. That may change over the next few years, when new
developments will be completed.  Most of the current stock is owned by overseas families,
many of whom are under no pressure to sell. A Kuwaiti investor
bought the Sanderson and St. Martins Lane hotels for 192 million
pounds from a joint venture between  Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  and
Walton Street Capital on Nov. 23.  Indian, German Owners  India’s  Sahara Group , owner of assets from TV channels to
real estate, bought the Grosvenor House hotel on  Park Lane  for
470 million pounds last year and is also looking at other deals,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Last month,  MWB
Group Holdings (MWB)  sold its Malmaison hotel on Charterhouse Square
close to the financial district to funds managed by DEKA
Immobilien GmBH. The deal was part of a wider sale-and-leaseback
of part of its hotel portfolio and the exact price paid for the
Charterhouse Square hotel was not disclosed by DEKA in a
statement in Nov. 21.  Those who can’t buy now are looking to build, said Mark
Shea, a director at real-estate adviser Davis Langdon. There is
little appetite for developing mid-market hotels in London
because most of the growth is at the top and bottom ends, he
said.  High-End Returns  “New-build developments need the high-end luxury hotel
offer to drive the required returns and values to make schemes
viable,” he said. “The London hotel market is generally
focused on extremes -- the high-end luxury and budget offers.
Mid-scale hotel development is generally seen as difficult.”  The Shard, the highest tower in Western Europe, will
include a  Shangri-La (69)  hotel when it opens in 2013. Qatari Diar is
one of the backers of the project on the south bank of the River
Thames. The Firmdale Ham Yard Hotel in the Soho district is due
to open next year as is a Knightsbridge hotel by retailer
 Bulgari (BUL) , an affiliate of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA. (MC)   A Four Seasons Hotel will open in 2015, developed by Heron
International Ltd., and Frogmore Property Group is building an
80-bedroom boutique hotel targeting the luxury market and due to
open next year. Grosvenor Group Ltd., owned by the family trust
of Britain’s Duke of Westminster, and  Derwent London (DLN)  plan to
develop a new luxury hotel as part of a development overlooking
Hyde Park.  Others are expanding into neighboring buildings. The
Westbury Hotel on Conduit Street in Mayfair received permission
on Dec. 14 to add 31 bedrooms by converting part of a
neighboring building.  No Room Glut  Though the developments and expansions will increase the
number of high-end rooms available in the city, they may not be
enough to hurt values or revenue.  “The trophy end of it is a fairly rarified end, but even
so, it’s not a large number of rooms to put into that pot,”
said Jonathan Langston, managing director at consultant Tri
Hospitality. “I’ve not held with this fact that new luxury
supply is going to dilute performance.”  The improvement for London luxury hotels goes against the
trend for short-term accommodation to suffer disproportionately
in an economic downturn, said Gerard Nolan of broker Gerard
Nolan & Partners, who has been involved in the sale of more than
350 hotels in the city during his career.  Easy to Cut Back  “It’s a very easy commodity for us to cut back on, it’s
easy for us to say that we haven’t got as much money as we had
and we cut back on going on that extra holiday,” he said.  The luxury market was buoyed by the closure of the Four
Seasons on Park Lane and the Savoy, managed by  Fairmont Hotels &
Resorts Inc ., for refurbishment, said Auernheimer of STR Global.
Both have now re-opened.  The Lanesborough opened a suite priced at 14,000 pounds a
night in May and has had 45 percent occupancy at the full rate
since then, general manager Geoffrey Gelardi said in an
interview. Guests are mainly from North and South America,
Russia and the  Middle East , he said.  The Lanesborough, part of  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide (HOT) ’s St. Regis brand, has seen revpar growth of 3-4
percent this year, compared with about 9 percent last year,
Gelardi said. Asian visitors, particularly from  China , now make
up 10 to 11 percent of the hotel’s guests, up from 4 percent in
2007, while Americans have fallen to 45 percent from 60 percent,
which is “definitely a Lehman Brothers effect,” he said.  “London is almost a different country as far as the hotel
business is concerned,” said Kett. “You’ve got strong demand
for the capital but you haven’t got that repeated around the
country, so it’s not like the U.K. hotel industry has recovered
to the same extent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 