-- HTC Loss in Patent Case Against Apple to Be Reviewed by U.S.
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2011-12-16T22:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/htc-loss-in-patent-case-against-apple-to-be-reviewed-by-u-s-.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ’s loss in its patent-
infringement case against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will be partially reviewed,
the U.S. International Trade Commission said.  A judge at the trade commission had rejected in October
HTC’s claims that the Apple iPhone, iPod Touch and iPad tablet
were infringing four patents. The six-member agency, which can
block imports of products that violate U.S. patents rights, said
in a  notice  today it would take a closer look at the judge’s
non-infringement finding for one of the patents. The remaining
three won’t be reviewed.  The case was filed in retaliation for a complaint Apple
lodged against HTC in March 2010 that is scheduled to be ruled
on Dec. 19. The cases are part of a broader fight in which
technology companies, including Apple, HTC, Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. and Microsoft Corp., are
vying for an increased share of the smartphone market.  Apple and Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC each have two ITC cases
pending against each other. The  case today , filed in May 2010,
 accused  Apple of infringing patents related to managing a
phone’s power supply, protecting data and storing contacts.  “Competition is healthy, but competitors should create
their own original technology, not steal ours,” said  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple.  HTC declined to comment on the case.  Phone Features  The patent that will be subject of the review, which HTC
received in 2006 based on internal research, relates to a way to
control how the phone switches between modes of operation to
manage power supply. The commission is scheduled to issue a
final decision on the case on Feb. 17.  The commission said there was no violation of three other
HTC patents, including one for a method to protect data from
being lost when the phone doesn’t have enough power.  The other two relate to ways to store, access and use
contact information in a phone’s address book. HTC acquired
those two patents in 2009, about a year before Apple filed its
first complaint, according to information on the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office’s website.  The HTC case against Apple is In the Matter of Portable
Electronic Devices, 337-721, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  