-- Cablevision COO Rutledge’s Resignation Spurs Talk Company May Go Private
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2011-12-16T21:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/cablevision-coo-rutledge-s-resignation-spurs-talk-company-may-go-private.html
Cablevision Systems Corp. may try to
go private or seek a buyer following the resignation of Chief
Operating Officer Tom Rutledge, analysts said.  Rutledge announced his exit yesterday, effective later this
month. The loss of what Sanford C. Bernstein’s  Craig Moffett 
calls “the hands-down best executive in the cable business”
led to downgrades of Cablevision shares by Bank of America
Corp., Miller Tabak & Co. and ISI Group. Cablevision fell 8.5
percent to $12.75 at the  New York  close after falling as much as
17 percent earlier in the day.  Cablevision, the fifth-largest U.S. cable operator, has
declined 51 percent since spinning off AMC Networks Inc. on June
30. If the shares don’t recover, Chief Executive Officer James Dolan and his father, Chairman and founder Charles Dolan, may
try again to take Cablevision private, said  Vijay Jayant , an ISI
Group analyst in New York.  “If the stock remains depressed for a protracted period,
the Dolan family may explore the prospect, once again, of trying
to take Cablevision private,” said Jayant, who cut his  rating (CVC) 
to “hold” from “buy.”  Cablevision’s longstanding policy is not to comment on
rumors and speculation, said Kim Kerns, a spokeswoman for the
Bethpage, New York-based company.  Dolan Buyout  The Dolans have twice attempted and failed in the past six
years to buy out other shareholders. In 2005, the family
withdrew a $7.9 billion offer to take Cablevision private after
failing to reach an agreement with directors in four months of
talks.  The family tried again in 2007, offering $10.6 billion to
shareholders, or $36.26 a share, only to be rejected by
investors who thought the offer undervalued the company.  Cablevision’s market value today is about $3.63 billion.
The Dolan family controls Cablevision through Class B shares
that have 10 votes each. The company had 3.26 million video
customers as of the third quarter, according to filings.  The company has transformed itself since 2007, acquiring
Bresnan Communications LLC to gain cable assets in the U.S.
Northwest for $1.37 billion last year and spinning off AMC
Networks and Madison Square Garden in the past two years.  Jayant said Cablevision investors would likely only accept
an offer of $25 to $30 a share for a buyout, more than double
the current price.  Tighter Credit  Cablevision may be less able to finance a deal today than
in 2007 or 2005 because of tighter credit markets for leveraged
deals, said  David Joyce , an analyst at New York-based Miller
Tabak & Co., who downgraded the shares to “neutral” after
previously recommending their purchase.  While Joyce would “never say never” to the Dolans making
a third run at their company, a strategic acquisition by  Time
Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is more likely, he said.  “Time Warner Cable has a lot of free  cash flow , a lot of
cash on hand, so I think that would be a higher probability,”
Joyce said.  Alex Dudley , a Time Warner Cable spokesman, declined to
comment on acquisition discussions.  Time Warner Cable owns systems in  New York City , bordering
Cablevision’s greater New York-area region.  Going private won’t solve Cablevision’s problems of rising
programming costs and competition with Verizon Communications
Inc.’s FiOS, said  Chris Marangi , a  fund manager  at Gamco
Investors Inc. in Rye, New York. Gamco is Cablevision’s fifth-
largest shareholder, with 3.9 percent of Cablevision’s Class A
shares. The company also has high residential cable-TV
penetration, limiting future growth.  Best to Combine  “The best way to address Cablevision’s issues is to
combine with a larger operator,” Marangi said.  An acquisition would also save on programming costs,
Marangi said. Time Warner Cable, St. Louis-based  Charter
Communications Inc. (CHTR)  and Philadelphia-based  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  are all
possible acquirers for Cablevision, he said.  In 2005, Time Warner Cable CEO Glenn Britt said Cablevision
“would be an attractive acquisition at the right price.”
Rutledge’s departure removes an obstacle for Britt, said
Moffett, because the two “were known not to get along.”
Rutledge worked at Time Warner Cable until 2001 before leaving
for Cablevision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  