-- California Approves Rules Restricting Use of High-Carbon Crude
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2011-12-16T23:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/california-approves-rules-restricting-use-of-high-carbon-crude.html
California passed rules discouraging
the state’s refiners, including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ,
from processing types of crude that release more carbon when
produced and delivered, such as output from Canada’s oil sands.  The regulation, approved as a change to the state’s low-
carbon fuel standard, assigns “carbon-intensity” values to
about 250 types of crude oil, favoring those that take less
energy to produce and transport. Next year, companies will have
to cut their carbon scores on a statewide average and
potentially on a refinery-by-refinery basis.  Refineries have fought high-carbon crude regulation since
the state approved it in 2009, saying the rules are anti-
competitive and compound other costly measures under the low-
carbon fuel standard and the state’s cap-and-trade program.  The standard, the first of its kind in the country, seeks
to cut the carbon-intensity of transportation fuels 10 percent
by 2020.  “The mission of these rules is to use less of that carbon-
intensive stuff,” Dave Clegern, a spokesman for the state
 California  Air Resources Board, said in a telephone interview
from Sacramento. “This will hopefully help us keep a wide
variety of crudes available but create deficits with the dirtier
kinds.”  While the air board estimates that higher-carbon crudes are
a small part of California’s refining mix, imports from outside
Alaska and Central California have been climbing since 1999,
state Energy Commission figures show.  Alaskan Crude  Crude-oil production in Alaska has  declined every year 
since 2002. California oil production has  fallen  for the last 13
years. Alaska has historically been the largest source of non-
Californian oil in the state.  The percentage of non-Alaskan oil  imported  to California
refiners made up almost half of the crude processed in the state
last year, according to the energy commission.  The air board’s new rules “are in anticipation of a time
when more might come in,”  Stanley Young , a board spokesman in
 Sacramento , said in a telephone interview.  The regulation will raise the costs of refining in
California and eventually boost retail gasoline and diesel
prices,  David Hackett , president of energy consultant Stillwater
Associates in  Irvine , California, said in a telephone interview.  “After Alaska, you’d rather get the rest from Canada next
door than from Saudi Arabia halfway around the world,” Hackett
said. “But these rules make it so you can’t use that dirty
Canadian stuff.”  Refiner Opposition  The Western States Petroleum Association, which represents
California’s major refiners including  BP Plc (BP/) , Chevron and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Tesoro, is lobbying the air board to change the
rules in a way that doesn’t differentiate between crude types.  The individual scoring imposes “a very limiting,
inflexible provision” for refineries that are designed to run
off heavy oil, Catherine Reheis-Boyd, the group’s president,
said in a telephone interview from Sacramento.  “This one I scratch my head at,” Reheis-Boyd said.
“ Canada  has been very clear that they will develop oil sands
and put them on boats to  China  and  India , and it’ll be burned in
much less-efficient refineries than we have here in California.
So the rule doesn’t achieve any of the goals it wants to
anyway.”  The association is fighting against provisions in the fuel
standard that forces refiners to blend increasingly more low-
carbon biofuels into gasoline. Biofuels, particularly sugar cane
and cellulosic ethanol, required to meet the standard will
surpass supplies in 2015, a report commissioned by the
association shows.  The Air Resources Board “likes to go out and make these
rosy projections,” Scott Folwarkow, a governmental affairs
director for Valero, said in a telephone interview from
Sacramento. “They’ve got all these different scenarios they
think might work, but in reality, they throw caution to the wind
and hope to address deficiencies at a later time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  