-- Cameron to Pay BP $250 Million in Gulf Oil Spill Settlement
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2011-12-16T21:17:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/cameron-to-pay-bp-250-million-in-gulf-oil-spill-settlement.html
Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , the maker
of the blowout preventer on  BP Plc ’s Macondo well that caused the
worst offshore U.S. oil spill, will pay $250 million to settle all
claims in the accident.  BP will fully indemnify Cameron against all damage claims,
though not for fines or penalties, the companies said in separate
statements today. London-based BP will apply the money to the $20
billion fund for spill victims that it set up last year, the
company said.  Cameron, based in Houston, is the fourth company to reach a
settlement with BP over the spill. Cement contractor  Halliburton
Co. (HAL)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that
burned and sank, have yet to agree on a payout ahead of the Feb.
27 New Orleans trial that will determine liability for the
disaster.  “Today’s settlement allows BP and Cameron to put our legal
issues behind us and move forward to improve safety in the
drilling industry,” BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said in
a statement.  Cameron climbed 6 percent to $47.55 at the close in  New York .
BP fell less than 1 percent in London to close at 446.65 pence.  The Macondo accident killed 11 workers and triggered a spill
that the government says gushed almost 5 million barrels of oil
into the  Gulf of Mexico . It led to hundreds of lawsuits against BP
and its partners and contractors, including multiple claims
brought by vessel captains, residents and others exposed to
chemicals and oil during the cleanup.  “This agreement with BP is the right action, as it removes
uncertainty facing Cameron in the litigation associated with the
Deepwater Horizon event,” Cameron CEO Jack Moore said in the
statement. Cameron expects insurers to fund at least $170 million
of the settlement and it will take a charge for the rest in the
fourth quarter.  BP said it has so far paid out about $7.5 billion to
individuals, businesses and government entities for damages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  