-- Canada to Implement Wheat Board Law Regardless of Court Ruling, Ritz Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2011-12-16T21:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/canada-would-ignore-court-injunction-on-wheat-board-legislation-ritz-says.html
The Canadian government will
implement newly passed legislation abolishing the  Canadian Wheat
Board ’s marketing monopoly regardless of whether a court grants
an injunction against it, Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz said.  The  bill  allows farmers in the country’s main growing
region to sell to any buyer of wheat and barley for delivery
after Aug. 1, ending a system in place since 1943 under which
farmers were required to sell through the board. The law took
effect yesterday after passing Canada’s Senate and receiving
royal assent.  The wheat board and former members of its board of
directors asked a provincial court Dec. 14 for an injunction to
stop the law from being implemented. The request followed a Dec.
7 Federal Court  ruling  that Ritz breached a part of the previous
law that required the government to hold a vote among farmers
before changing the board’s marketing system.  The Conservative government has appealed the ruling, and
Ritz said today the government wouldn’t be deterred by a court
injunction, if one is granted. “I don’t worry about any legal
cloud,” he told reporters on a conference call from Balgonie,
Saskatchewan.  “In the absence of any ruling that says otherwise, Western
farmers have marketing freedom and our government remains
focused on ensuring that it remains law,” Ritz said in a
statement e-mailed by his office.  Spur Investment  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s Conservative government has
argued that an open market will spur investment and innovation
in the grain industry. Canada is the fourth-biggest wheat
exporter in the world.  Harper said today he doesn’t expect the court to grant an
injunction blocking the law. “Parliament is certainly within
its right to pass such legislation even if the wheat board
doesn’t agree with it,” he said at a news conference in
Toronto.  The government has “a strong mandate from western Canadian
farmers to reform the wheat board,” Harper said. “Farmers have
demanded that choice for a couple of generations now
and we passed legislation in that regard.”  The uncertainty about the legislation’s status risks
causing “confusion and chaos in the marketplace,” said  Ralph Goodale , a lawmaker for the opposition  Liberal Party  who
represents a Saskatchewan district. “Because he’s proceeded in
a way that ignores the rules, he runs the risk of creating
losses for farmers.”  Voluntary Change  The wheat board can continue to operate as a voluntary
marketing option for farmers under the law, and the government
has said it will continue to guarantee the board’s debt and
assist it with transition costs.  The wheat board “has been preparing for this change for
many months, developing both pool and cash programs for farmers
for the upcoming crop year,” Ian White, the board’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement on the agency’s website.
The board will soon announce details of its programs for the
crop year that begins in August 2012, he added.  Viterra Inc. (VT) , a Saskatchewan-based grain-handling firm,
will begin offering bids today to Western Canadian farmers for
their wheat, durum and barley, the company’s chief executive
officer, Mayo Schmidt, said in a statement. The changes to the
wheat board will create new contracting opportunities and risk-
management tools, the company said.  ‘Market-Share Game’  The wheat board will be under pressure from private
companies to maintain its share of the grain-handling market,
Brenda Tjaden Lepp, co-founder and chief analyst at Winnipeg-
based agricultural advisory firm FarmLink Marketing Solutions,
said in an interview. “They’re in the market-share game now,”
she said.  Firms such as Viterra, which are offering forward
contracts, could face difficulties if the law is changed, she
added.  The government will conduct an audit of the board’s books
to assess the agency’s financial shape and determine what assets
can be used to offset its costs, said Ritz.  The Winnipeg Free Press newspaper  reported  on its website
that former wheat board chairman Allen Oberg and other former
farmer-elected directors were continuing their legal challenge
of the bill. Oberg didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
message and other former directors didn’t immediately respond to
e-mails.  The wheat board, which had the farmer-elected directors
removed and is being overseen by five government appointees, has
discontinued its application for an injunction, spokeswoman
Maureen Fitzhenry said in an e-mail today.  ‘Rule of Law’  A section of the law that previously governed the wheat
board said the government must hold a vote among farmers before
adding or removing any type of grain from the board’s marketing
system. Federal Court Justice Douglas Campbell said in his Dec.
7 decision that Ritz’s conduct in introducing the new bill was
“an affront to the rule of law.”  The board’s jurisdiction in Western Canada includes
Manitoba,  Alberta , Saskatchewan and parts of British Columbia.
The board conducted its own plebiscite in September, in which 62
percent of wheat farmers and 51 percent of barley growers voted
to retain the monopoly.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 Wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  