-- Canada October International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2011-12-16T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/canada-october-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada 's international transactions report for October
released by  Statistics Canada .  Foreign investment in Canadian securities slowed in
October with non-residents adding $2.0 billion to their
holdings, compared with an average acquisition of $9.2
billion over the previous three months. Canadian investors
acquired foreign securities at a slightly higher pace than
in the previous three months, with purchases of $2.2
billion.  Foreign portfolio investment in Canadian securities  Foreign acquisition of Canadian debt securities slows  Non-residents added $1.2 billion of Canadian bonds to
their holdings in October, led by the first investment in
federal bonds in five months. Acquisitions of $4.2 billion
of Canadian dollar denominated federal debt securities
were focused on medium-term maturities. This investment
was partially offset by retirements of Canadian private
corporate bonds and provincial bonds, mostly foreign
currency denominated instruments. Short- and long-term
 interest rates  in Canada increased in October after three
straight months of decline.  In the Canadian money market, non-resident acquisitions
slowed to $615 million in October. This followed a $7.2
billion purchase in September, primarily accounted for by
investment in Federal Treasury bills. Non-residents added
another $1.1 billion to their holdings of federal paper
over the month, but this was partially offset by
retirements of non-financial corporate paper.  Non-resident purchases of Canadian equities also down  Foreign investors added Canadian corporate shares to
their portfolios for a sixth consecutive month in October,
though at a slower pace. The $196 million acquisition was
the lowest monthly foreign investment in these instruments
in six months. Activity in October was evenly split
between purchases of new equities and acquisitions of
existing shares on the secondary market. Canadian stock
prices were up 5.4% in October, following seven months of
decline.  Canadian investors increase their holdings of foreign
bonds  Canadians acquired $1.1 billion of foreign bonds in
October, led by investment in US Treasury notes with short-
term maturities. This was the second consecutive month,
and the third time in 2011, that residents invested in US
 government bonds . Canadian investors also added US
corporate bonds and bonds from other countries to their
holdings in October, as the differential between long- and
short-term interest rates in the  United States  widened for
the first time in four months.  Canadian investors continue to add foreign stocks to their
holdings  Canadians invested in foreign stock markets for a 10th
straight month in October, adding $1.1 billion of foreign
corporate shares to their portfolios. These purchases were
led by a $1.4 billion acquisition of non-US foreign
stocks, the largest such investment since June 2010.
However, this activity was moderated by the first
divestment in US equities since December 2010. Stock
prices in most world equity markets increased in October,
led by European exchanges. The Canadian dollar rose above
parity with the  U.S. dollar  at month-end.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  