-- Cash Crisis Returns to Haunt English Soccer Club as Banker Owner in Court
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-12-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/cash-crisis-returns-to-haunt-english-soccer-club-as-banker-owner-in-court.html
Fans of Portsmouth thought their
luck had turned when  Vladimir Antonov  bought the English soccer
club. The Russian banker pumped millions of pounds into the team
that a year earlier became the first ever from the Premier
League to seek  bankruptcy protection .  Now Portsmouth, which was demoted in May 2010 to the
second-tier, is in crisis once again. It’s facing another cash
shortage and is looking for its fifth owner in less than two
years. Antonov is fighting extradition to  Lithuania  where he and
a business partner are facing fraud and embezzlement charges
linked to about $1.6 billion missing from banks he controlled
there and in  Latvia . The 36-year-old denies any wrongdoing.  “The thoughts of the Portsmouth fans in general is ‘Oh no
here we go again. Why us?’” Ken Malley, vice-chairman of
 Pompey’s supporters trust , said in a telephone interview. “It
just seems to go on and on, doesn’t it?”  While the arrival of a wealthy Russian owner echoed the
hopes of Chelsea after its purchase by  Roman Abramovich  in 2003,
Portsmouth is now back where it was a year ago.  Convers Sports Initiatives Plc , or CSI, the U.K.-based
investment vehicle used by Antonov to buy Portsmouth, entered
administration, a form of bankruptcy protection, on Nov. 29 when
it defaulted on an interest payment owed to former owner Balram Chainrai. Hong Kong-based Chainrai sold the club to Antonov for
17.2 million pounds on June 1, according to the sales agreement.  Chainrai seized the club in February 2010 when its former
Saudi owners also defaulted on a loan to his company Portpin,
Chainrai said in interviews at the time. He declined to comment
on current events when contacted by Bloomberg.  Still Afloat  The  soccer club  itself hasn’t entered administration this
time because it’s still able to pay its bills, CSI’s
administrator Andrew Andronikou said in a telephone interview.  Antonov, who is scheduled to appear in court in  London 
today, loaned the team 10.2 million pounds ($15.8 million),
according to a mortgage document.  “For the short term it’s okay but in the New Year it will
need additional working capital and for that reason we need to
find a buyer for it,” Andronikou said. He ran the club when it
last fell into bankruptcy.  The 113-year-old team’s fans have watched from the
sidelines as it went from winning the 2008 F.A. Cup, its first
major trophy in 58 years, to losing a roster of international
stars including  England  strikers  Peter Crouch  and  Jermain Defoe 
and ultimately demotion from the elite Premier League after
being hit with a nine-point penalty.  Points Risk  Another bout of administration would yield a further
penalty and with it the likelihood of dropping another rung down
the English soccer’s standings. Three points is equal to one
win. Pompey, which is 16th in the 24-team Championship division,
plays archrival and league leader Southampton in two days.  In Portsmouth, a blue-collar city where about one in 10
people works at a naval dockyard on England’s south coast, the
fall from grace has hurt.  “The club is a very, very important part of the city,”
said Malley, who’s watched games at Fratton Park for 57 of his
67 years. “Football is one of the main things here.”  Chainrai agreed to CSI’s request to defer the payment for
the club for two years and imposed an interest rate of about 8
percent on the new owners, said Andronikou. The sale was
completed after Chainrai received a bank guarantee from Bankas
Snoras AB, Antonov’s collapsed Lithuanian bank.  Winning Approval  Fans like Malley are upset that Antonov was able to pass
the  Football League’s  so-called Owners and Directors test, a
requirement for all prospective buyers of clubs.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority in 2008 rejected an
attempt by Snoras to open up in Britain, saying it wouldn’t deal
with the regulator in an “open and co-operative way.”  “The League will now continue discussions with the club
regarding the administration of its parent company and update
the board at its next meeting,” the Football League said after
a Dec. 8 meeting. Roman Dubov, a director of CSI, said the
Football League spent “at least one to two months” to check
Antonov’s credentials and found nothing wrong.  Chris Akers, a Portsmouth director who joined CSI on Sept.
14, said the group had bought as many as 10 companies, including
one which owns the broadcast rights to the  World Rally
Championship  for about 30 million pounds.  All the purchases were funded by Antonov, who is now CSI’s
major creditor, according to Andronikou. Portsmouth’s debts were
more than 100 million pounds and the team needed to enter into a
deal with creditors to prevent it from going out of business.
Andronikou said total debts, including those to past creditors,
total about 25 million pounds.  Antonov “was never passionate about football,” Akers said
in an interview. “I know of the pre-season and the current
season games, I think he’s been to two.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  