-- CDR Financial’s Rubin Asks Appeals Court for Delay of Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-12-16T20:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/cdr-financial-s-rubin-asks-appeals-court-for-delay-of-trial-1-.html
CDR Financial Products Inc.’s David
Rubin asked an appeals court to delay a trial scheduled for next
month because of his wife’s terminal illness, after a lower-
court judge rejected the request.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in New York last week
denied Rubin’s request for a postponement in the trial, which is
to take two months starting Jan. 9. Marrero also denied a
request that Rubin be tried separately from two codefendants.  Rubin, the founder of  Beverly Hills , California-based CDR,
and two other employees are charged along with the company as
part of an investigation into bid- and auction-rigging in the
municipal  bond market . Rubin, the firm’s former chief financial
officer, took kickbacks for running sham auctions for the
investments, prosecutors said. All pleaded not guilty.  “The trial continuance sought by this petition arises from
an impending family tragedy that will have an inevitable but
very unfortunate end,” Rubin’s lawyer, Bradley Simon, said
today in a petition to the Manhattan-based Court of Appeals.  Rubin, who lives in  California , says his wife is in the
final stages of aggressive pancreatic cancer. The couple have
seven children, the youngest 2 1/2, he said.  “Some reasonable continuance is appropriate,” the defense
lawyer said. “Mr. Rubin plainly cannot abandon his wife and
family for two months at this critical time.”  Terminal Cancer  Rubin won’t be able to participate in his defense because
he will be helping care for his wife, Simon said. If the trial
proceeds while he is dealing with family matters, he will be
tried in absentia, the lawyer said.  “The continuance will not prejudice the rights of any
party or make a difference in the outcome of the trial,” Simon
wrote. “Its grant will bring a dose of humanity to the
administration of justice and safeguard petitioner David Rubin’s
‘clear and indisputable’ Fifth and Sixth Amendment
constitutional rights to be present and participate meaningfully
in his own defense at his criminal trial,”  The case is U.S. v. Rubin, 1:09-cr-01058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 