-- Chavez Rolls Back Seizures as Shortages Hurt Re-Election Bid
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2011-12-16T17:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/chavez-rolls-back-seizures-as-shortages-hurt-bid-for-third-term.html
Venezuela’s President  Hugo Chavez  is
enlisting  Mexico ’s  Gruma SAB , French retailer Casino and other
international companies to boost supplies of milk, corn flour
and cement as shortages threaten to dent his bid for re-election
in 2012.  Chavez, a self-declared Marxist, is rolling back policies
that have allowed him to expand control over the economy. He is
forging alliances with corporations he previously accused of
price-gouging, such as  Casino Guichard Perrachon SA (CO) , based in
Saint-Etienne, and Gruma, Mexico’s largest corn flour maker.  “The government has realized that 100 percent
expropriations don’t work and that’s why they’re looking to work
with the private sector,” said Luis Vicente Leon, president of
Caracas-based pollster Datanalisis, in a phone interview. “For
the government, it’s the best of both worlds.”  Since taking office in 1999, Chavez has seized assets of
1,045 companies, according to Venezuelan manufacturing
association Conindustria. The nationalizations have cost the
government at least $9.9 billion in compensation paid to
companies, while claims for another $20 billion are under
dispute at international courts, said Jose Luis Saboin, an
economist at Caracas-based research company Ecoanalitica.  Earlier this month, Chavez and Gruma agreed to form joint
ventures to produce corn flour, rice, pasta and oatmeal. Last
year, Chavez seized one of the Monterrey-based company’s local
units.  ‘Flexible Model’  “In the past, socialist models that nationalized
everything were forced to later ease their policies,” the 57-
year-old Chavez said Aug. 1 on state television. “We’re moving
towards a flexible model, our historic creation.”  Calls to Gruma’s press department by Bloomberg News weren’t
returned.  Cali, Colombia-based  Forsa SA , which produces aluminum
molding for construction, last month agreed to form a joint
venture with Chavez to produce materials for his housing
projects.  Chavez also invited Cemex SAB, the largest cement maker in
the Americas, to re-invest in the country after paying the
Monterrey-based company $600 million this month to resolve a
three-year dispute over compensation for assets he had seized in
2008.  Shortages are being aggravated by 27 percent inflation
that’s the highest of 78 economies tracked by Bloomberg, and a
slow recovery from a year-and-a-half recession. Foreign direct
investment has plunged 75 percent to $1.2 billion in 2010 from
$5 billion in 1998, according to the central bank.  In the first nine months of this year, gross domestic
product grew 3.8 percent, according to the government.  Borrowing Costs  Venezuela  has the highest borrowing costs of major
emerging-market countries. Investors demand a yield of 1,276
basis points, or 12.76 percentage points, more than U.S.
Treasury bills to hold the government’s debt, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Steel and cement producers are among the companies that
have pared output this year, delaying Chavez’s hallmark program
to build homes for the poor, while supermarket shelves are
missing staple foods at a time when the former tank commander is
canvassing for votes.  Milk is one item difficult to obtain. Angela Mera, a 51-
year-old house cleaner, said she hasn’t found powdered milk for
two months in the three supermarkets near her home in the
Caracas working-class neighborhood of El Valle. Cooking oil is
also in short supply, while the only coffee she has was brought
by a friend from  Colombia , she said in a Dec. 15 interview.  “Even my friends who work at supermarkets sometimes can’t
get hold of products,” she said.  Past Hostility  The recent accords with private business show Chavez has
become aware of the failings of many state enterprises, Leon
said. They also mark an end to past hostility to foreign
companies.  In January 2010, Chavez seized a chain of 41 stores partly
owned by Casino on accusations of price gouging following a 50
percent devaluation of the bolivar. “You must respect our
house,” he said at the time. Ten months later he agreed to pay
Casino $690 million for an 80 percent stake in the company’s
local supermarkets.  Casino retained the other 20 percent and is “providing
operational support to and developing co-operation with the new
state-controlled entity,” Casino spokesman Frederic Croccel
said in an e-mailed response to questions. He declined to
comment on how the relationship with the Venezuelan government
works.  Some Protection  For foreign companies, partnering with Chavez provides some
protection from further meddling, Leon said. It also allows them
to retain a “foot in the door” in the anticipation of an
improvement in the investment climate if the opposition holds
onto a lead in polls and unseats Chavez in next year’s
presidential election, he said.  “It’s a commercial operation without the risk of being the
sole owner in a country where the state can do what it likes,”
Leon said.  Venezuela’s Information Ministry didn’t immediately return
an e-mail seeking comment on Chavez’s nationalization policy.  Chavez’s last nationalization of a publicly traded U.S.
company was in October 2010 when he seized a unit of glass
container manufacturer  Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI)  The Perrysburg, Ohio-
based company filed for arbitration in September after posting a
$335 million charge from writing off the takeover.  Rusoro Mining Ltd. (RML) , a Vancouver-based miner that operated
two prospects in Venezuela, is currently in talks to form a
joint venture with the state after Chavez nationalized the gold
industry in August.  Production Plunging  The policy shift comes as nationalized companies flounder
under inexperienced management and fail to attain production
targets, said Richard Obuchi, a professor in public policy at
the Institute of Superior Administrative Studies business school
in Caracas.  Output at  Siderurgica del Orinoco  has dropped 35 percent
since 2009, when Chavez acquired Venezuela’s biggest steelmaker
from Luxembourg-based Ternium SA for $1.97 billion, union leader
Jose Jimenez said Sept. 23.  Steel rods are key to Chavez’s plan to eradicate a housing
deficit. Chavez on Dec. 11 said the project would build 50,000
fewer homes next year than the initial goal of 200,000.  Henrique Capriles Radonski, a front runner to win an
opposition presidential primary scheduled for February, said
nationalizations have sapped productive industries.  “There’s an excess of government intervention in
everything,” Capriles, Governor of Miranda state, said Dec. 12.  Agricultural Output  Boosting agricultural production to slow inflation and
replenish food stocks is another part of Chavez’s electoral
strategy. Food processors, stores and more than 2.5 million
hectares (6 million acres) of farm land and ranches have been
seized during his administration.  While forming partnerships with the private sector may cut
the financial burden for the government, Chavez is unlikely to
drift far from his radical course, Saboin said.  “While Chavez may adapt the format for nationalizations,
if he wins another term he will continue to increase his hold
over the economy and won’t cut back on nationalizations any more
than he needs to,” Saboin said. “Pragmatism is the order of
the day, but only in the areas where it’s required.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  