-- Citigroup, Chevron, JPMorgan, BoA, BP, Knauf in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-12-16T11:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/chevron-jpmorgan-boa-bp-knauf-pfizer-in-court-news.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission appealed a federal judge’s decision to reject its
proposed $285 million settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The appeal, filed yesterday in the U.S. Court of Appeals in
 New York , challenged U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s rejection
last month of the settlement, which involved claims that
Citigroup misled investors in a $1 billion financial product
linked to risky mortgages.  “We believe the district court committed legal error by
announcing a new and unprecedented standard that inadvertently
harms investors by depriving them of substantial, certain and
immediate benefits,” SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami 
said yesterday in a statement.  Rakoff criticized the agency’s practice of resolving cases
without requiring the subject of the allegations to admit
wrongdoing. In his ruling, Rakoff said the settlement didn’t
provide him with “any proven or admitted facts” to inform his
judgment.  Khuzami said the judge’s decision “is at odds with decades
of court decisions that have upheld similar settlements.”.
Rakoff’s approach “could in practical terms press the SEC to
trial in many more instances, likely resulting in fewer cases
overall and less money being returned to investors,” he said in
the statement.  The SEC said a settlement such as the one struck with
Citigroup “puts money back in the pockets of harmed investors
without years of courtroom delay and without the twin risks of
losing at trial or winning but recovering less than the
settlement amount -- risks that always exist no matter how
strong the evidence.”  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said the
New York-based bank disagrees with the court’s rejection of the
settlement. The agreement “fully complies with long-established
legal standards,” she said.  If the case went to trial, she said, “we would present
substantial factual and legal defenses to the charges.”  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-cv-07387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Chevron Oil Spill Spurs Lawsuit to Freeze 17% of Brazil’s Rigs  The Brazilian prosecutor who filed a lawsuit against
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  said he’s seeking a
“permanent” ban on the companies’ operations in the South
American nation after an oil spill last month.  The lawsuit has been assigned to a federal judge and there
is no timeline yet for a possible ruling, Eduardo Santos, the
federal prosecutor in Campos, in Rio de Janeiro state, told
reporters yesterday. Santos, who is suing Chevron and Transocean
for 20 billion reais ($10.8 billion), said previous fines in the
millions of reais against other companies haven’t been enough in
preventing such accidents.  “Brazil has to change the paradigm from millions to
billions,” Santos said  The case imperils Brazil’s plan to boost crude output
because Transocean operates 10 of the 61 rigs working in the
country and it would be hard to replace them in a tight market
for oil equipment, said Judson Bailey, an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. Brazilian oil production growth has slowed after the country
increased safety requirements following the spill at  BP Plc ’s
Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico  last year.  “The rig market is pretty tight, so if Transocean were
banned, the oil companies wouldn’t be happy at all,” Bailey
said in a phone interview from Houston. “Chevron and  Petrobras (PETR4) 
can’t get a rig elsewhere, so it messes with the state-owned oil
company.”  Chevron, based in San Ramon, California, and Transocean,
based in Vernier, Switzerland, said Dec. 14 that they haven’t
been notified and are cooperating with authorities.  Chevron has come under increased scrutiny in Brazil after
3,000 barrels of oil leaked last month from an oil field in deep
waters of the Campos Basin. The company underestimated the
amount of pressure at an oil deposit it was exploring, and crude
leaked from the reservoir for about eight days, George Buck, the
head of Chevron for Brazil, said on Nov. 20.  In the next few weeks, prosecutors will probably file a
criminal lawsuit against Chevron for alleged environmental
crime, said Romulo Sampaio, a law professor at Brazil’s Getulio Vargas Foundation.  For more, click here.  Allen Stanford Amnesia Claim ‘Not Credible,’ Prosecutors Say  R. Allen Stanford may be faking amnesia and should be tried
in January as scheduled on charges he led a $7 billion
investment fraud, prosecutors said, citing a prison medical
evaluation.  Stanford’s scores on medical and neuropsychological tests
“were sufficiently low as to evidence that he either was not
trying or was faking,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Gregg Costa
said, citing a doctor’s report. The prosecutor, in the proposed
court order filed yesterday, asked U.S. District Judge David
Hittner in Houston to find Stanford competent to stand trial.  A doctor who evaluated the defendant at a federal prison in
Butner, North Carolina, “concluded that Stanford’s performance
indicated that he was ‘blatantly simulating cognitive
defects/known to be malingering,’” Costa said.  Stanford, 61, has been imprisoned as a flight risk since
his June 2009 indictment on charges of defrauding investors
through a scheme built on allegedly bogus certificates of
deposit at Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd.  Hittner delayed the trial, which had been set for last
January, after three doctors testified that Stanford was
incapable of assisting in his defense. They said Stanford had
become addicted to anxiety drugs prescribed in prison and could
be suffering lingering effects of a head injury suffered in a
2009 inmate assault.  Ali Fazel, Stanford’s lead criminal-defense attorney, urged
Hittner in a separate court filing to reject the Butner medical
evaluation and continue delaying Stanford’s trial. Fazel asked
the judge to rely on the testimony of experts Stanford’s defense
team plans to present at a competency hearing next week in
Houston.  Prosecutors claim Stanford skimmed more than $1 billion of
investor funds to finance a lavish lifestyle that included a
fleet of jets and yachts, several mansions and a private
Caribbean island, as well as financial support for women with
whom he has had children.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  Ex-Cuomo Aide Said to Be Among Possible Foreclosure Monitors  A former aide to New York Governor Andrew Cuomo is among
candidates being considered to ensure that banks including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  comply with any
settlement of a nationwide foreclosure probe, a person familiar
with the matter said.  Steven M. Cohen, who was the governor’s secretary, is one
potential foreclosure monitor, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because the negotiations are secret.
That person said North Carolina Commissioner of Banks Joseph A.
Smith Jr. is also a candidate, as did a second person who asked
not to be identified.  Selection of a monitor is one of the final issues to be
worked out between the banks and state and federal officials,
said the people. Selection of the monitor is a key issue for the
regulators because success of the agreement will largely depend
on his or her work, one of the people said.  Another candidate is Nicolas P. Retsinas, a former
assistant secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, one of the people said.  All 50 states last year said they were investigating bank
foreclosure practices following disclosures that the companies
were using faulty documents in seizing homes. State and federal
officials leading the talks are seeking an agreement that
provides mortgage relief to homeowners and sets standards for
foreclosure practices.  The monitor would ensure compliance with any agreement with
mortgage servicers, according to a settlement proposal offered
to the banks in March. In addition to JPMorgan and Bank of
America, Citigroup Inc.,  Ally Financial Inc.  and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  are participating in the negotiations.  Cohen declined to comment on whether he was a candidate for
the monitor post. Smith declined to comment on any nomination to
monitor the foreclosure agreement. Retsinas didn’t return a call
seeking comment on the monitor position.  For more, click here.  BP, TNK Billionaires Seek to Defeat Oil-Company Theft Claims  BP Plc  and its billionaire partners in Russian oil venture
TNK-BP asked a New York judge to throw out claims against them
seeking more than $1 billion in damages over the alleged theft
of an oil company.  The lawsuit by Norex Petroleum Ltd. stems from more than a
decade of litigation in  Russia  and the U.S. over Yugraneft,
which owns an oil field in Western Siberia. Norex claims its
controlling stake in Yugraneft was stolen through corruption and
armed force and that BP and its partners profited off the scheme
at Norex’s expense.  BP and the other defendants in the lawsuit, including
billionaires Leonard Blavatnik and Victor Vekselberg, asked New
York State Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten in Manhattan
yesterday to dismiss the complaint. Norex has fought in Russian
and U.S. courts over Yugraneft and lost, they argue.  “Norex cannot use this court as an appellate court to
overturn prior litigation decisions and outcomes,” said Owen
Pell, an attorney at White & Case LLP who argued for dismissal.
“They litigated all these issues in Russia.”  Norex says that in 2001, militiamen wearing fatigues and
armed with AK-47 assault rifles, forcibly entered Yugraneft’s
corporate offices, telling employees that TNK had assumed
ownership of the company, according to the Norex complaint. The
men were acting at the direction of Blavatnik, Vekselberg and
Alfa Group, Norex said.  “The assertions in Norex’s lawsuit are not only untrue,
they are simply a tired rehash of the same preposterous claims
they have been recycling for the past 12 years in both U.S. and
Russian courts,” Mike Sitrick, a spokesman for Blavatnik, said
in an e-mailed statement. Previous lawsuits have been dismissed,
and “we are confident plaintiff’s latest attempt will suffer
the same fate,” he said.  Representatives of  TNK-BP (TNBP)  and Alfa Group couldn’t be
reached for comment.  The case is Norex Petroleum Ltd. v. Blavatnik,
650591-2011, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Trials  Ex-Primary Global Executive Fleishman Seeks Home Detention  James Fleishman, the former Primary Global Research LLC
executive convicted of conspiracy as part of a U.S. crackdown on
insider trading of consultants and fund managers, asked for a
sentence of 12 months’ home detention.  Fleishman, 42, of Santa Clara, California, is to be
sentenced Dec. 21 by U.S. District Judge Jed S. Rakoff in
Manhattan. He asked for detention rather than prison in a court
filing Dec. 14 by his lawyer, Ethan A. Balogh  “Mr. Fleishman does not present as a rogue employee,
secretly stealing his employer’s property for personal gain at
the expense of his employer, but instead as a man who worked for
essentially what became a rogue enterprise in which a legitimate
business model was structured in a way that misappropriation of
third-party information was likely to occur,” Balogh said in
court papers.  Company management “sought to shield itself from
liability” when employees or consultants passed confidential
information, the attorney wrote.  Fleishman was convicted in September of two conspiracy
charges for a scheme to obtain and pass confidential information
from technology company employees moonlighting as consultants
for Mountain View, California-based Primary Global, a so-called
expert-networking firm.  Fleishman faces as long as 20 years in prison on the most
serious count, according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Chinese Drywall Maker to Pay $800 Million to Settle Suits  Knauf Plasterboard Tianjin Co., a Chinese drywall maker,
agreed to pay at least $800 million to settle homeowner claims
that faulty building materials contaminated their homes with
corrosive sulfur fumes, plaintiffs’ lawyers said.  Knauf agreed to resolve claims involving about 4,500
properties that contain the tainted drywall, lawyers for
property owners said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
Homeowners said the faulty wallboard emits gases that corrode
copper coils and electrical and plumbing equipment.  “KPT has agreed to provide thousands of families the
opportunity to recover losses caused by KPT drywall,”  Russ
Herman , a New Orleans-based lawyer representing property owners,
said in the statement.  The accord was announced yesterday before U.S. District
Judge  Eldon Fallon  in New Orleans, who is overseeing about
12,000 suits filed over the contaminated drywall that have been
consolidated for pretrial evidence gathering. KPT is a
subsidiary of Iphofen, Germany-based Knauf International, owned
by  Knauf Group .  The $800 million figure “is wildly speculative and
premature given the settlement terms,” Greg Wallance, a KPT
lawyer, said yesterday at a press conference. “We are confident
the figure will be considerably lower.”  The agreement didn’t contain a minimum or maximum number on
the cost of repairing homes with the faulty drywall, Steven
Glickstein, another company lawyer, said in a telephone
interview.  The amount of the settlement will range from $800 million
to $1 billion, depending on the number of homeowners who can
prove they had KPT drywall, Herman said yesterday at a press
conference.  KPT payments won’t reach that level, Wallance said. Many
plaintiffs don’t have KPT drywall in their homes and actual
costs for remediation “will be controlled through a competitive
bidding process,” he said. “Those who select a cash option
will receive a discounted settlement value.”  The consolidated case is In re Chinese-Manufactured Drywall
Products Liability Litigation, 2:09-md-02047, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Madoff’s Former Controller to Plead Guilty, U.S. Tells Court  Bernard Madoff’s ex-controller, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz, is
expected to plead guilty to criminal charges stemming from her
former boss’s Ponzi scheme, the U.S. said in a court filing.  Cotellessa-Pitz, who hasn’t been charged yet, will admit to
falsifying documents to aid Madoff’s fraud and to deceiving U.S.
regulators, as part of a cooperation agreement with the
government, assistant U.S. attorneys Lisa Baroni and Julian
Moore told a federal judge in a letter yesterday.  Cotellessa-Pitz will plead guilty to four counts of
conspiracy, falsifying books and records of a broker-dealer,
falsifying books and records of an investment adviser and making
false filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
the prosecutors said. The charges carry as long as 50 years in
prison, according to the letter to U.S District Judge Laura
Taylor Swain.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to fraud charges, is serving 150
years in prison for the largest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.
Investors lost about $20 billion in principal, the U.S. trustee
liquidating Madoff’s securities business has said.  David Rody, a lawyer for Cotellessa-Pitz, didn’t respond to
voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking comment on the letter.  The criminal case is U.S. v. O’Hara, No. 10-CR-228, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
bankruptcy claim is Picard v. Cotellessa-Pitz, 10-4213, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Bayer’s $750 Million Modified-Rice Settlement Now Binding  A  Bayer AG (BAYN)  unit said a $750 million settlement with U.S.
rice farmers who sued after their crops became tainted by a
genetically modified strain is binding now that the requisite
number of growers has accepted the deal.  First announced in July, the agreement ended scores of
cases filed against  Bayer CropScience  by growers in Arkansas,
Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri and Texas.  “A sufficient number of now-verified registrations for the
settlement program have been filed by growers to represent 85
percent of U.S. long-grain rice acreage, a threshold point
established for the agreements to become binding,” Bayer
CropScience said yesterday in a  statement .  Bayer CropScience and a Louisiana State University facility
in Crowley were testing a strain of the rice for resistance to
Bayer’s Liberty-brand herbicide.  The genetically modified variety cross-bred with and
“contaminated” more than 30 percent of U.S. rice lands, Don
Downing, lawyer for the farmers, said at the first trial in
November 2009.  U.S. exports fell as the European Union,  Japan , Russia and
other overseas buying ceased or was slowed for testing of U.S.-
grown long-grain rice, growers alleged.  Bayer CropScience denied the testing program was
negligently managed and claimed sale prices rebounded after the
initial drop. The unit of Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer AG
said the trace amounts of the LibertyLink rice posed no threat
to people.  The case is In re Genetically Modified Rice Litigation, 06-
md-01811, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri (St.
Louis).  For more, click here.  Pfizer Settled About Half of Prempro Cases, Adds to Reserve  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, has settled
almost half of the lawsuits over its menopause drugs and
increased the funds set aside to resolve the cases, the company
said in a regulatory filing.  Pfizer and its  Wyeth  and  Pharmacia & Upjohn  units have
resolved about 46 percent of suits that claimed the companies’
hormone-replacement medicines, including  Prempro  and  Premarin ,
caused breast cancer, according to the Securities and Exchange
Commission filing. Pfizer said it added $68 million to the $772
million it already reserved for the cases.  “We have recorded a charge of $260 million in the first
nine months of 2011 that provides for the minimum expected costs
to resolve all the remaining hormone-replacement actions,”
Pfizer officials said in the Nov. 10 filing.  More than 6 million women took Prempro and related
menopause drugs to treat symptoms including hot flashes and mood
swings before a 2002 study highlighted their links to cancer.
Wyeth’s sales of the medicines, which are still on the market,
exceeded $2 billion before the release of the  Women’s Health
Initiative  study sponsored by the National Institutes of Health.  “Pfizer continues to have a strong record of success in
defending these cases,” Chris Loder, a company spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement. “While we will continue to look for
opportunities to enter into favorable settlements where
appropriate, we will also continue to vigorously defend these
medicines in litigation.”  Zoe Littlepage, a lawyer representing women suing Pfizer
over the menopause drugs, said that reserve doesn’t provide
enough compensation to spur settlements of outstanding claims.  “Based upon the size of the jury verdicts to date, and the
fact that multiple appellate courts have now affirmed some of
those verdicts, this new amount of money set aside by Pfizer
seems grossly insufficient to resolve the remaining claims,”
Littlepage said in an e-mailed statement.  The consolidated case in Arkansas is In Re Prempro
Products, 03-CV-015070-WRW, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Arkansas (Little Rock).  For more, click here.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , Anglo Win Case Overturning Sishen Right Award  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  unit
Kumba Iron Ore won a bid to overturn the award of a right over
the country’s largest iron-ore mine to a company whose owners
include a business partner of President Jacob Zuma’s son.  The High Court set aside the award of a 21.4 percent permit
to the Sishen mine to Imperial Crown Trading 289 (Pty) Ltd.,
whose owners include Jagdish Parekh, a business partner of
Duduzane Zuma. The right was previously held by ArcelorMittal
South Africa, a unit of the world’s biggest steelmaker. Its
stock surged the most in 11 months in Johannesburg.  Sishen Iron Ore Co., owned by Kumba and  Exxaro Resources
Ltd. (EXX) , holds 100 percent of the right to the operation and the
21.4 percent portion was never available for conversion, Judge
Raymond Zondo said in the Pretoria court yesterday.  “We are delighted that the judgment has confirmed that
Sishen Iron Ore is the only holder of the mining rights over
Sishen and that no other person including Imperial holds or may
be granted competing rights,” Kumba said in an e-mailed
statement. “With regards to the interpretation of the Mineral
and Petroleum Resources Development Act, we need to await the
full judgment and the reasons for the court’s decision.”  Zondo’s full ruling will be available on Dec. 20, he said.  ArcelorMittal South Africa is “pleased about the ruling,”
spokesman Themba Hlengani said in an interview. “It confirms
our long-held view Kumba applied for and was granted 100 percent
of the right in the first instance.”  The Vanderbijlpark-based steelmaker’s Sishen right lapsed
after it failed to apply for a license by April 30, 2009, to
satisfy a change in legislation.  Imperial will appeal the ruling “early in the new year,”
Ronnie Mendelow, the company’s lawyer, said in Pretoria.  The Department of Mineral Resources, which opposed the
action, will await the full judgment on the ruling before
commenting and will take legal advice on how to proceed further,
it said in an e-mailed statement.  For more, click here.  ‘Greedy’ Insider Trader Jailed for Using Hedge-Fund Tips  A London management consultant was sentenced to two years
in prison after being convicted of making about 500,000 pounds
($774,000) using confidential tips from a hedge-fund trader.  Jurors found Rupinder Sidhu guilty on 22 of 23 insider-
dealing charges yesterday, said Chris Hamilton, a spokesman for
the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which filed the case. A
separate charge of money laundering wasn’t considered.  “You are greedy,” Judge Michael Gledhill told Sidhu
yesterday. “Sheer greed is behind all these offenses.”  Sidhu, 40, used information from AKO Capital LLP trader
Anjam Ahmad about the hedge fund’s trading plans to spread bet
on companies including  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) ,  Swatch Group (UHR)  AG
and  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  between June and August 2009,
prosecutors said. He is the eighth person sentenced to prison
for insider trading in a case brought by the FSA.  Sidhu denied all the charges, claiming he didn’t know Ahmad
was passing on inside information. In a June 2010 trial, Ahmad
was given a suspended jail sentence of 10 months, 300 hours of
community service and fined 50,000 pounds after pleading guilty
to insider trading.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 