-- Chicago Bears Cut Sam Hurd After Receiver Charged With Running a Drug Ring
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2011-12-16T21:53:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/chicago-bears-cut-sam-hurd-after-receiver-charged-with-running-a-drug-ring.html
The  Chicago Bears  waived wide
receiver Sam Hurd a day after he was charged with conspiracy to
distribute cocaine in what federal authorities described as a
$700,000-a-week drug ring.  Hurd’s release from the National Football League team was
confirmed in a telephone interview by Mike Corbo, a club
spokesman.  Hurd was freed today on $100,000 bail by U.S. Magistrate
Judge  Young Kim  in Chicago. The receiver, who had been in
custody since Dec. 14, appeared in court wearing an orange
jumpsuit with his ankles shackled.  Hurd, 26, negotiated with a Homeland Security
Investigations agent for the purchase of up to 10 kilograms (22
pounds) of cocaine and 1,000 pounds of marijuana per week, at a
price of $25,000 per kilogram of cocaine and $450 per pound of
marijuana, according to a court filing yesterday. Those figures
mean Hurd would have been willing to pay as much as $700,000 a
week for the drugs.  The 26-year-old receiver had been under investigation since
July and was arrested outside a  Chicago  restaurant after
accepting a kilogram of cocaine from an undercover agent,
according to an affidavit filed with the court by George
Ramirez, a special agent for Homeland Security Investigations.  Hurd was charged in a criminal complaint filed yesterday in
 Dallas  with one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to
distribute 500 grams or more of a cocaine mixture. If convicted,
he faces a minimum of five years and a maximum of 40 years in
federal prison.  Hurd told the agent that he already was distributing four
kilograms of cocaine weekly and that his supplier couldn’t keep
up with the demand from his customers, according to the court
document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in  Washington  at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  