-- China Money Rate Falls a Third Week on Signs PBOC to Ease Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-16T09:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/china-money-rate-set-for-third-weekly-drop-on-signs-pboc-to-ease.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
completed a third weekly decline on speculation the central bank
will ease monetary policy to support economic growth.  Banks in Shenzhen are joining lenders in Beijing and
Shanghai in offering lower  mortgage rates  for first-home buyers
amid loosened credit, the  Securities Times  reported today.
Manufacturing may contract for a second month in December, a
preliminary reading from a purchasing managers’ index reported
by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics indicated yesterday.  “The market speculates the central bank will ease monetary
policy as growth slows,” said Peng Hao, a bond analyst at
Fudian Bank Co. in Kunming, capital of the southern Yunnan
province. “But the seven-day repurchase rate may be quite
volatile as the year-end approaches.”  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, dropped 44 basis points this week to 3.08 percent
as of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. It fell
38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, today.  The People’s Bank of  China  mopped up a net 73 billion yuan
($11.5 billion) of capital this week as bill sales exceeded
redemptions, compared with withdrawals of 101 billion yuan last
week, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell four basis
points this week to 2.72 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It slumped 13 basis points today, the biggest decline
in more than two weeks.  The yield on the 3.99 percent government bond due June 2021
dropped three basis points this week to 3.46 percent, according
to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  