-- Chinese Police With Shotguns Man Checkpoints Near Scene of Land Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-16T16:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/chinese-police-with-shotguns-man-checkpoints-near-scene-of-land-protests.html
Police armed with shotguns
restricted movement in and out of the village of Wukan in
southern China, the scene of protests this week following the
death in police custody of a local butcher.  A dozen uniformed officers and three vehicles manned a
checkpoint yesterday about 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) from the
village, checking identification cards and preventing some
people from entering. The restrictions remain after Communist
Party officials began a probe of local officials and halted a
real-estate development that sparked protests.  Wukan, about 150 kilometers east of  Hong Kong  in  Guangdong
Province , rose up in protest after the Dec. 11 death of a
villager while in police custody. The local government said Xue
Jinbo, 42, died of a heart failure. He was “suspected” of
leading more than 400 villagers to “vent their anger” over a
land dispute, the official Xinhua News Agency said.  “Several thousand” people held a memorial for Xue at a
temple in the village center yesterday, the Wall Street Journal
said, citing unidentified local residents. Xue’s remains are
still held by local officials, the newspaper said.  Wu Zili, the acting mayor of Shanwei, which has
jurisdiction over Wukan, said the government is “determined to
crackdown” on “criminal ringleaders” who incited the protests
and destroyed property, the  China  News Service reported. At the
same time, he said the land development will be halted and local
authorities questioned about the incident.  The standoff is the latest in a series of demonstrations
that have sparked concern among Communist Party leaders seeking
to maintain stability in the world’s most populous country,
where three decades of growth  averaging  10.1 percent a year has
also led to increasing income disparities.  Land Conflicts  Conflicts over land transfers in China are the leading
cause of unrest, according to an official study published in
June. The number of protests, riots and strikes doubled in five
years to almost 500 a day last year, according to Sun Liping, a
professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  The dispute, which began in September, was sparked by the
sale of a locally owned pig farm to a property developer for the
construction of luxury housing, the New York Times reported.  China News said the property development involved a real
estate company with the same name as Hong Kong-listed Country
Garden Holdings Co. Frederick Chan, a spokesman with the
company, said in a Dec. 15 e-mail that the company “does not
have any land in the village.”  State Department spokesman Mark Toner in a Dec. 14
interview called on “Chinese and local authorities to ensure a
peaceful resolution” to the situation in Wukan.  Police Barred  A thousand armed police attempted to enter the village on
Dec. 11 and were blocked, the  Daily Telegraph  reported, citing a
local resident. Tear gas and water cannons failed to disperse
the crowd and after two hours the police withdrew and barricaded
roads to the village, the newspaper said. Wukan is currently
being supplied by residents of neighboring areas carrying in
food across fields, the Telegraph reported.  Xue and two others were arrested on Dec. 9 on suspicion of
damaging public property and disrupting public services,
according to Xinhua. He pleaded guilty to the accusations during
two interrogations, Xinhua said, citing Zeng Songquan, Shanwei’s
deputy chief of the public security bureau.  To contact Bloomberg News staff in Beijing:  jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  