-- China May Relax Loan-to-Deposit Ratio for Growth, Goldman Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-16T11:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/china-may-relax-loan-to-deposit-ratio-for-growth-goldman-says.html
China  may relax a loan-to-deposit
ratio for banks to spur lending and support growth, economists
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Barclays Capital  said.  Regulators are likely to relax “regulatory controls such
as the 75 percent loan-to-deposit ratio which will enable
commercial banks to have the ability to extend more loans,”
Song Yu, a Beijing-based economist at Goldman, wrote in a Dec.
14 note. Such a cap is “a more binding constraint on smaller
lenders who face more difficulty in attracting deposits,” Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist for Barclays, said in an
interview by phone today.  China’s leaders pledged this week to fine-tune economic
policies as needed next year as the government seeks “steady”
growth and the global economy falters. The central bank has
already cut banks’ reserve requirements and encouraged lending
to smaller businesses as exports wane and the economy cools.  In the first 10 days of December, deposits at the nation’s
four biggest banks fell by 400 billion yuan ($63 billion),
limiting their ability to lend, the 21st Century Business Herald
reported today, citing an unidentified person close to the
lenders. The newspaper said that capital outflows from China may
be a factor.  The report referred to  Bank of China (3988)  Ltd., Industrial &
Commercial  Bank of China , China Construction Bank Corp.,
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. Half of the decline in deposits
was at Bank of China, which does the most foreign-exchange
business and faces slower inflows of overseas currency as
expectations for gains in the yuan weaken, the newspaper said.  ‘More Flexible’  “Officials may be more flexible in implementing some
macro-prudential measures such as the loan-to-deposit ratio if
capital outflows continue and liquidity tightness worsens,”
Chang said. In the meantime, “another reserve ratio cut before
the year-end or the Chinese New Year is likely.”  China’s November trade surplus shrank from a year earlier
and foreign direct investment fell for the first time in more
than two years.  Outstanding yuan deposits  at banks fell in October as
report from the central bank indicated capital outflows. While
deposits increased in November, the gain was the smallest in a
year.  Total yuan lending by the big four accounted for about 61
percent of their total deposits at the end of October, based on
data from the central bank. By contrast, for lenders with total
assets of less than 2 trillion yuan the ratio stood at 83
percent.  “If the loan-to-deposit ratio is not to be relaxed, loan
growth is unlikely to accelerate immediately, even with reserve
ratio cuts,” wrote Hong Hao, global equity strategist at China
International Capital Corp, in an e-mailed note today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  