-- China’s Stocks Snap Six-Day Slid on Policy Easing Outlook, New China Life
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2011-12-16T07:34:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/china-s-stocks-head-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-17-months-on-export-outlook.html
China’s stocks  rebounded, halting a
six-day slide for the benchmark index, on speculation the
government will lower lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios and
ease credit curbs to prevent the economy from slowing further.  China  Vanke Co. and Huaxia Bank Co. rallied more than 3
percent after the  Securities Times  reported banks in major
cities are offering lower  mortgage rates  for first-time home
buyers. Jiangxi Copper Co. led gains for materials companies as
U.S. economic data bolstered the outlook for commodities demand.
New China Life Insurance Co., the third-biggest life insurer,
jumped 13 percent in its debut. Stocks rebounded in the last 45
minutes of trading after fluctuating for most of the day.  “Investors speculate the government may cut the reserve
required ratio again in the near term to boost the economy,”
said Zhang Yanbin, an analyst with Zheshang Securities Co.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, climbed 44 points, or 2 percent, to
2,224.84 at the close, the biggest gain in two weeks. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  added 2.1 percent to 2,386.89. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese stocks lost 1.3 percent
yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite slid 3.9 percent this week after
reports showed growth in the world’s second-biggest economy is
decelerating. Foreign direct investment dropped for the first
time since 2009, while manufacturing may contract for a second
month. The Conference Board’s leading index for China, which
captures prospects over the next six months, fell in October,
while lending slowed in November and  money supply  grew the least
in a decade.  Financials Rally  The Shanghai index has tumbled 21 percent in 2011,
exceeding last year’s 14 percent decline, as shipments to
Europe, China’s biggest export market, slowed because of the
region’s debt crisis and the government raised  interest rates  to
curb inflation.  China Vanke, the biggest Chinese developer, gained 3.1
percent to 7.43 yuan today. Rival Poly Real Estate jumped 5.3
percent 9.98 yuan. Huaxia Bank, partly owned by Deutsche Bank,
climbed 4.8 percent to 11.26 yuan.  Banks in Shenzhen are joining peers in Beijing and Shanghai
in offering lower rates amid loosened credit, the Securities
Times reported.  The central bank will lower lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios once more this year and five times in 2012,  Li Wei  and
 Stephen Green , economists at Standard Chartered Plc., wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. China announced on Nov. 30 that it
will reduce the amount of cash banks must set aside as reserves
for the first time since 2008 as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens
exports and growth.  Export Outlook  Jiangxi Copper increased 2.8 percent to 22.04 yuan. Yanzhou
Coal Mining advanced 3.6 percent to 21.75 yuan, narrowing this
week’s drop to 13 percent.  In the U.S, reports showed manufacturing in the  New York 
and Philadelphia regions expanded more than forecast in
December. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index accelerated to the highest level in seven months,
to 9.5 from 0.6 in November.  Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said yesterday he is “not
too optimistic” about exports next year. Overseas shipments
climbed 13.8 percent in November from a year earlier, the
customs bureau said last week, the least since export growth
resumed in December 2009. Exports to the European Union rose 5
percent from a year earlier, a quarter of the pace reported in
July and August.  New China Life surged 14 percent to 26.44 yuan. The
company, whose shares plunged 9.8 percent in its Hong Kong debut
yesterday, is raising more equity after its expansion in a
market that has grown an average 30 percent a year during the
past three decades brought its solvency ratio, a gauge of its
ability to settle claims, below regulatory requirements.  ‘Bargain-Hunting’  “People are just bargain hunting since it sold at a bottom
of a range,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities
Co. in  Shanghai . “There’s nothing fundamentally better about
the company compared to the other insurers. There’s always an
element of speculation in A shares.”  Chinese stocks will “struggle” in 2012 as the government
is unlikely to loosen monetary policy ‘aggressively,’’ said
China International Capital Corp. Investors should stay
“defensive” on equities as stocks will have difficulty gaining
in an environment where economic growth is slowing, Hao Hong,
CICC’s Beijing-based global equity strategist, wrote in a report
today.  The yuan strengthened as much as 0.7 percent against the
dollar today, the most since a dollar peg ended in July 2005.
The central bank raised its daily  reference rate  by 0.1 percent
to 6.3352.  “The fixing was firmer and at market open there was solid
dollar offer interest, in particular by Chinese banks,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “Improved sentiment in global markets is helping
as is news that China is easing curbs in the property sector
which will limit downside risks to growth.”  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  