-- Christopher Hitchens, Who Wrote of God, Cancer, Dies at 62
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2011-12-16T12:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/christopher-hitchens-who-wrote-of-war-god-cancer-battle-dies-aged-62.html
Christopher Hitchens, the British-
born journalist at home in the middle of U.S. political disputes
including  Bill Clinton ’s infidelity, the war in Iraq and the
role of organized religion, has died. He was 62.  Hitchens died yesterday at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center
in Houston,  Texas , Vanity Fair magazine reported on its  website .
That was the same day the U.S. marked the end of its nine-year
war in Iraq, which first brought Hitchens to the attention of
many American readers.  In June 2010, while publicizing a memoir, “Hitch-22,” he
was diagnosed with cancer of the esophagus. He chronicled his
illness in Vanity Fair while copping to the role that his
tobacco habit likely played. As he wrote in 2007: “My keystone
addiction is to cigarettes, without which cocktails and caffeine
(and food) are meaningless.”  Vanity Fair  won a 2011  National
Magazine Award  for Hitchens’s columns about his illness.  A man of ample, strong convictions, Hitchens defied
political labeling. He supported the U.S. war in Iraq before and
after American public opinion turned against it. He was a critic
of former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who, he said,
deserved to be prosecuted for mass killings of civilians,
including in Indochina during the Vietnam War. He  called  Mother Teresa “a fanatic, a fundamentalist and a fraud.”  He backed the impeachment of President Clinton for his
affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky, as detailed in
Hitchens’s book, “No One Left to Lie To: The Values of the
Worst Family” (1999). He  lamented   George W. Bush ’s
“shortcomings of intellect” yet endorsed his re-election in
2004. His 2007 takedown of religion, “God Is Not Great,” was
nominated for a National Book Award and spurred widespread
debate.  Torture Inquiry  His reporting techniques likewise knew few bounds. A
regular visitor to world trouble spots -- from Kabul to  Baghdad ,
Northern Ireland to northern  Uganda  -- Hitchens allowed himself
to be waterboarded so he could better opine on whether the
controversial interrogation technique constituted torture.
Absolutely, he concluded, adding, “The interrogators would
hardly have had time to ask me any questions, and I knew that I
would quite readily have agreed to supply any answer.”  The author Salman Rushdie said of his longtime friend in a
2010 interview with the  Associated Press , “It’s difficult not
to hit it off with him, unless he chooses to attack you, in
which case it’s impossible to hit it off with him.” Another
friend, New York Times columnist and former Executive Editor
Bill Keller, wrote that Hitchens’s “alcohol-propelled
conversation is a captivating form of performance art.”  U.K. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, who once worked for
Hitchens as an intern, said in a statement today: “Christopher
Hitchens was everything a great essayist should be: infuriating,
brilliant, highly provocative and yet intensely serious.”  Impact of 9/11  The terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, turned Hitchens into
a high-profile hawk. He split publicly with other social
commentators, such as filmmaker  Michael Moore  and author Gore
Vidal, who sought to cast at least some blame on the U.S.
itself, for policies that created anger and enemies elsewhere in
the world.  Ending his affiliation with The Nation magazine in 2002,
Hitchens used his final column to make clear his agreement with
the so-called neoconservatives of the Bush administration, who
were already looking beyond the war in  Afghanistan  and taking
aim at Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein .  “I am on the side of the Iraqi and Kurdish opponents of
this filthy menace,” Hitchens wrote. “And they are on the side
of civil society in a wider conflict, which is the civil war now
burning across the Muslim world from  Indonesia  to  Nigeria .”  Parting Shot  In a parting shot, he said The Nation, his journalistic
home for two decades, “is becoming the voice and the echo
chamber of those who truly believe that John Ashcroft is a
greater menace than  Osama bin Laden .”  Hitchens’s support for the Bush administration’s post-9/11
agenda had limits. In 2006,  he joined  the American Civil
Liberties Union and Greenpeace, among others, in filing a
lawsuit to challenge the warrantless domestic spying program
that had been implemented in secret. After initial success in
U.S. District Court in  Detroit , their lawsuit lost on appeal.  Asked by New York magazine in 2007 whether he considered
himself a hawk on military issues, he said: “I used to wish
there was a useful term for those of us who thought American
power should be used to remove psychopathic dictators.”  Hitchens made another splash with “ God Is Not Great ,”
published in the U.S. with the subtitle, “How Religion Poisons
Everything,” and in the U.K. with, “The Case Against
Religion.”  ‘Irrational, Intolerant’  He wrote: “Violent, irrational, intolerant, allied to
racism and tribalism and bigotry, invested in ignorance and
hostile to free inquiry, contemptuous of women and coercive
toward children: organized religion ought to have a great deal
on its conscience.”  Some of his critics, especially in the anonymity of
Internet discussion boards, connected his cancer diagnosis to
his atheist beliefs. In response to those criticisms -- and to
the  designation  of Sept. 20, 2010, as “Everybody Pray for
Hitchens Day” -- Hitchens wrote a column for Vanity Fair titled
“ Unanswerable Prayers .”  “I don’t mean to be churlish about any kind intentions,”
he wrote, “but when Sept. 20 comes, please do not trouble deaf
heaven with your bootless cries. Unless, of course, it makes you
feel better.”  Gloom and Color  Christopher Eric Hitchens was born on April 13, 1949, in
Portsmouth,  England . In his memoir, he recalled his father,
Eric, an officer in the Royal Navy, as a “very gloomy,
pessimistic” man of few words who once told him that World War
II was “the only time when I really felt I knew what I was
doing.”  His mother, Yvonne -- “a great splash of color in this
rather drab world” -- left the marriage when she was 52 to take
up with a poet, Timothy Bryan, a devotee of the Maharishi Mahesh
Yogi. In 1973, in a hotel in  Greece , they committed suicide
together. Hitchens was 24. Only after her death did he and his
younger brother find out that she, and therefore they, had
Jewish roots.  A voracious reader, young Hitchens would bring books even
to church, so he had something to do during the sermon.  Two early yearnings -- to write and to move to the U.S. --
were connected, he told interviewer  Charlie Rose  in 2010: “It
was something to do with the scope of America, certainly, and
the relatively limited character of English society
comparatively.”  Fast Writer  After graduating from the  University of Oxford  in 1970, he
entered journalism in 1973 as a staff writer at the U.K. public-
affairs magazine New Statesman. Anthony Howard, the editor who
recruited Hitchens, recalled him in a 2010 profile as a
lightning-fast writer who “always came in at 10:45 a.m.,
holding, with shaking hands, this cardboard cup of tomato soup
to nurse his hangover.”  He moved to the U.S. in 1982, settling first in New York
City and then in  Washington . From 1982 to 2002 he wrote a
biweekly column for The Nation.  He joined Vanity Fair as a contributing editor in 1992,
writing a monthly column. He also served as Washington editor
for Harper’s and as U.S. correspondent for The Spectator and The
Times Literary Supplement in  London .  He became a U.S. citizen on his 58th birthday, in 2007.  His books include “Hostage to History: Cyprus from the
Ottomans to Kissinger” (1984), “The Missionary Position:
Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice” (1995), “The Trial of
 Henry Kissinger ” (2001), “Letters to a Young Contrarian”
(2001) and “Why Orwell Matters” (2002). His last book,
“Arguably,” a collection of essays, was published on Sept. 1.  Hitchens had a son and a daughter with his first wife,
Eleni Meleagrou, a lawyer whom he married in 1981. That marriage
ended in divorce. He had a daughter with his second wife, Carol
Blue, a writer.  In  one of  his final columns for Vanity Fair, Hitchens wrote
of the special indignity of having cancer attack his ability to
communicate his views. “What do I hope for? If not a cure, then
a remission,” he wrote. “And what do I want back? In the most
beautiful apposition of two of the simplest words in our
language: the freedom of speech.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  