-- Citigroup Said to Face Partial Japan Suspension
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2011-12-16T00:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/citigroup-said-to-face-suspension-of-some-operations-in-japan.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , will be ordered by regulators to suspend some
operations in Japan after a probe revealed compliance
violations, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Part of the New York-based bank’s retail business will be
suspended for 30 days by the Japanese Financial Services Agency,
said one of the people, who asked not to be named because the
matter isn’t yet public. Citigroup’s trading unit will be
suspended from selling products tied to  interest rates  for 10
days and its head, Brian McCappin, may resign, the person said.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is trying
to restore the bank’s reputation in Japan. Regulators punished
the company twice in seven years after finding fault with its
private-banking operation and a lack of internal controls.  The trading unit will be banned from selling certain
products in  Japan  tied to the London and Tokyo interbank offered
rates, or Libor and Tibor, the person said. These are rates at
which banks are willing to lend money to each other. Citigroup
employees tried to improperly influence Tibor to the firm’s
advantage, two people familiar with the matter said earlier this
month.  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for Citigroup in  New York ,
declined to comment. The suspensions will take effect in
January, the person said.  McCappin may resign within the next six weeks as a result
of the probe, the person said. He didn’t respond to phone calls
and e-mails seeking comment.  Product Risk  Citigroup’s retail operation will be suspended from
marketing some of its products, including those tied to mutual
funds, the person said. The FSA had been preparing to penalize
the bank for failing to fully explain product risk to retail
customers, two people with knowledge of the situation said
earlier this month.  Darren Buckley, CEO of the retail unit, may step down as
soon as this month to take responsibility for the breach, the
people said on condition of anonymity.  Citigroup has had a presence in Japan since opening a
branch in Yokohama in 1902, according to its  website . The bank
has 32 branches and offices in Japan with 1,790 employees. The
Citicorp division, which includes retail banking, had $2.9
billion in consumer loans in Japan as of Sept. 30, Pandit said
in a  presentation  earlier this month.  In 2009, the FSA ordered Citigroup to suspend marketing of
banking services to individuals for a month after failing to
install adequate internal controls to detect and monitor
suspicious transactions. In 2004, the regulator told the company
to close its private banking operations in the country.  The planned suspensions were reported earlier by the Nikkei
newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 