-- Coal Industry Drive Against EPA Will Shadow Obama’s Campaign
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/coal-industry-drive-against-epa-will-shadow-obama-s-campaign.html
As President  Barack Obama  toured an
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers training center
in  Pennsylvania  on Oct. 11, two television commercials made
their debuts on local Pittsburgh stations.  Both criticized the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s
pending regulations on reducing mercury emissions and accused
the administration of backing a job-killing new rule. Both were
sponsored by the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity.  They were among the first wave of commercials opposing the
EPA aired by the coal industry in a multimillion-dollar lobbying
effort that will shadow Obama’s re-election campaign in 2012.  Two months later, Pittsburgh residents got a look at
another commercial, this one embracing the new emission limits.
It was sponsored by the American Lung Association, a long-
standing charitable health organization, and underwritten in
part by  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the most active U.S. oil and
natural gas driller and a coal industry competitor.  “If the ads had listed Chesapeake as a sponsor, that would
have raised obvious red flags,” said Glenn Hansen, director of
the Political Communication Center at the University of
Oklahoma.  The lung association’s partnership with the natural gas
company has evened the field in what may be a protracted fight
over the new EPA regulations. The rules are to be released as
soon as today and could become a matter for Congress or the
courts.  Millions Already Spent  The lung association has run about 2,000 commercials this
year, at a cost of about $2.6 million; the coal industry has
aired about 2,500 commercials, spending an estimated $3.8
million, according to data compiled by CMAG/Kantar Media, a  New
York  based company that tracks political spending.  Charles Connor, the lung group’s president, attended the
unveiling of the mercury emissions proposal by EPA Administrator
 Lisa Jackson  on March 16.  “That was the first tipoff we got that the lung
association was going to be spokesman in chief for the EPA,”
said  Scott Segal , an attorney at Washington-based Bracewell &
Giuliani LLP, which represents energy companies. “You add it
all up and it stinks.”  The forthcoming regulations, which mandate a 90 percent
reduction in mercury emissions, is estimated by the EPA to cost
power plants $11 billion in 2015, the year they take effect.  Court Order  The new regulation was ordered after a federal court threw
out standards issued under the  Bush administration . Under the
EPA proposal, plants must install pollution controls to curb
mercury, arsenic and acid gases that are released when coal is
burned.  The EPA says the rule would save lives and create 9,000
more jobs than would be lost, as  power plants  invest billions of
dollars to install pollution scrubbing systems or build cleaner
natural gas plants. It estimates the regulation could prevent
17,000 premature deaths from toxic emissions.  The lung association’s new ads, airing now in  Washington ,
 Boston , Philadelphia and other U.S. cities, show children
wheezing and coughing against a backdrop of coal ash and coal-
fired plants. One features a red baby carriage in front of a
smokestack and a mound of coal.  Commercials Feature Children  In another, a boy runs through what appears to be a
snowfall toward a waiting school bus. He sticks his tongue out
and catches a flake. It dissolves into a black spot, and he
expels a gray cloud.  “Air pollution from other states is hurting our kids,
especially those with asthma, and corporate polluters are trying
to block EPA scientists from cleaning it up,” a female narrator
says.  “We’re trying to convey what’s at stake, and our kids’
health is at stake,”  said Peter Iwanowicz, the association’s
Healthy Air Campaign director. “We think the image conveys that
quite well. The emotional impact has stimulated people to get
into the fight.”  Oklahoma  City-based Chesapeake donated to the effort to
enable “communications campaigns that promote clean-air
initiatives,” Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  Existing Relationship  Financial ties between Chesapeake and the lung association
date to at least 2010, when the natural gas company “generously
funded” the Fighting for Air public-service campaign, according
to the association’s annual report.  The association and Chesapeake wouldn’t disclose the amount
of money the natural gas company invested in the public
relations campaign. Chesapeake didn’t influence the content of
the ads or the public-service campaign, Gipson said.  Compared to the average air emissions from coal-fired
generation, natural gas produces half as much carbon dioxide,
less than a third as much nitrogen oxides and 1 percent as much
sulfur oxides, according to the EPA. Mercury emissions from gas
plants are “negligible,” the EPA says on its website.  “ Natural gas  has already achieved significant market share
gains in the electrical generation market at the expense of
 coal ; largely on the basis of price, but also because of
environmental issues,”  Aubrey McClendon , Chesapeake’s chief
executive officer, said during a Feb. 23 earnings call.
“Certainly, the social and political acceptance of burning coal
in the U.S. will become more challenging in the years ahead.”  Market Shares  This year, coal accounted for 43 percent of electricity
power generation, while natural gas was 24 percent, according to
the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  The American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, which
represents  American Electric Power (AEP)  Co., Southern Co. and coal
producers such as  Arch Coal Inc. (ACI) , is dedicating its largest
budget since the group was formed 15 years ago to blocking or
mitigating EPA action, said Lisa Miller, a spokeswoman.  “They’ve got coal in their sights,” Miller said. “There
is a whole alphabet soup coming our way, and this is going to be
a political issue going into next year.”  A coal industry ad depicts a rodeo, with a nurse, a
businessman and a construction worker struggling to stay atop
bucking bulls.  “Today, too many Americans are just trying to hang on to
their jobs,” a male narrator says. “So why is the EPA in a
rush to push regulations that would saddle Americans with higher
energy costs and throw even more of us out of work? The EPA
needs to slow down. Tell Congress to make sure they do.”  Unlike an EPA proposal on ozone, which Obama scrapped in
September, the mercury regulations could become a political
winner, said  Frank O’Donnell , president of Clean Air Watch in
Washington.  “The opposition is nowhere near as broad nor as intense”
as it was to the smog rules, O’Donnell said in an interview.
“And the White House would like to keep health and
environmental groups on its side.”  In fact, Obama’s re-election campaign is already taking
credit for the regulation, saying on its website that, under
Obama, the EPA “has set the first national standards for
mercury emissions” from power plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  