-- Sam Hurd Cocaine Charge May Give NFL PR Headaches Without Alienating Fans
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/cocaine-charge-may-create-headaches-for-nfl.html
Sam Hurd’s arrest on a federal
charge of conspiracy to distribute cocaine will cause months of
public-relations headaches for the  National Football League 
without driving fans away from the most-watched sport in the
U.S., analysts said.  “They’re not turning off the TV, they’re not shying away
from fantasy sports and they’re not giving up gambling on games
because of this,”  David Carter , executive director of the
Sports Business Institute at the  University of Southern
California ’s Marshall School of Business, said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  Hurd, a 26-year-old wide receiver for the  Chicago Bears ,
was charged in a criminal complaint filed yesterday in Dallas
with one count of conspiracy to possess with intent to
distribute 500 grams or more of a cocaine mixture. If convicted,
Hurd faces a minimum of five years and a maximum of 40 years in
federal prison.  The NFL has more than $9 billion in annual revenue and the
charge against Hurd rivals other issues the league has faced,
such as dog fighting, shootings and performance-enhancing drug
use, Carter said.  “This is not going to go away,” Carter said. “It’s going
to be an ongoing issue because they’re going to have to wait for
the legal process to play out and something like this would
appear to be pretty high profile, coming from a big market and a
guy who’s been in the league for several years.”  $25,000 a Kilo  Hurd and an undercover Homeland Security Investigations
agent negotiated the purchase of up to 10 kilograms (22 pounds)
of cocaine and 1,000 pounds of marijuana per week, at a price of
$25,000 per kilogram of cocaine and $450 per pound of marijuana,
according to a court filing. Those figures mean Hurd would have
been willing to pay as much as $700,000 a week for the drugs.  Hurd had been under investigation since July and was
arrested outside a Chicago restaurant after accepting a kilogram
of cocaine from the undercover agent, according to an affidavit
filed with the court by George Ramirez, a special agent for
Homeland Security Investigations.  Hurd told the agent that he already was distributing four
kilograms of cocaine weekly and that his supplier couldn’t keep
up with the demand from his customers, according to the court
document.  The seriousness of the allegation makes it unlikely it will
be resolved soon, said Carter.  Penn State   NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell  won’t be able to address the
issue at a league level until the legal process runs its course,
Carter said. He likened it to what the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association  and its president,  Mark Emmert , could do in
the child sex-abuse scandal surrounding Penn State University,
where a former assistant coach, Jerry Sandusky, is charged with
sexually assaulting 10 young boys over a 15-year period.  Sandusky has denied any wrongdoing. The case led to the
firing of Penn State’s football coach,  Joe Paterno , who has the
most victories at the college sport’s top level, and the removal
of Graham B. Spanier as the university’s president.  “This isn’t just about Goodell dishing out some punishment
and the impact on the NFL brand, this is much bigger than
that,” Carter said. “It’s going to be so big that he’s going
to defer to the legal system on this, maybe not unlike how NCAA
President Emmert has had to wait for the legal proceedings to
run their course at Penn State.”  The NFL has faced other public-relations obstacles in
recent years: the dog-fighting case of Pro Bowl quarterback
 Michael Vick ; shootings such as the one involving then- New York 
Giants receiver Plaxico Burress; failed steroid tests; and on-
field concerns regarding players’ head trauma.  Television Contracts  The league still signed nine-year contract extensions with
its network television partners two days ago that will generate
about 60 percent more revenue through 2022.  While Hurd’s case might generate headlines for months, it’s
unlikely to keep people from watching the NFL, said Carter.  “They still want to see if the Packers can go undefeated,
they still want to see if  Tim Tebow  can beat the Patriots,”
Carter said.  The Bears are more likely to take an image hit from Hurd’s
arrest than the league, according to Steve Rosner, co-founder of
 East Rutherford , New Jersey-based 16W Marketing LLC.  “It might trickle down a little bit to the team more than
the league because they have more direct contact on a daily
basis,” Rosner said in a telephone interview. “So the bad
media, the bad PR, even sponsor-related things might be in
question, but nothing long term that will affect either the NFL
or the Bears.”  Team Reaction  The Bears issued a statement yesterday saying that they are
“continuing to gather details” surrounding Hurd’s arrest.  “We are disappointed whenever these circumstances arise,”
the statement said. “We will deal with them appropriately once
we have all the information.”  Ashanti Webb, Hurd’s agent, declined to comment in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the
league, declined to comment in an e-mail.  Hurd spent his first five NFL seasons with the  Dallas 
Cowboys before joining the Bears as a free agent in July. The
San Antonio native, who played at Northern Illinois University,
has eight catches for 109 yards this season, and 77 receptions
for 739 yards for his career.  The case is U.S. v. Hurd, 3-11-mj-590-bf, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 