-- Comcast’s Roberts to Pay $500,000 to Settle U.S. Suit on Stock Purchases
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-16T20:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/comcast-s-roberts-to-pay-500-000-to-settle-u-s-suit-on-stock-purchases.html
Brian L. Roberts, chairman and
president of  Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp., agreed to pay $500,000 to settle
allegations that he failed to report purchases of the company’s
stock as required under antitrust law.  The settlement, which needs approval from a judge, was
announced today by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and Justice
Department after they filed a civil lawsuit against Roberts in
federal court in  Washington .  Roberts didn’t comply with notification and waiting
requirements of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act when he acquired about
3,700 shares of Comcast voting securities as part of his
compensation beginning in October 2007, according to the
complaint. The stock purchases were related to a 2002 merger
agreement between Comcast and AT&T Corp., according to the FTC.  The purchases resulted in Roberts holding about
$120 million in Comcast stock, according to the  Justice
Department .  “The amount of the fine was limited by a number of
factors, including that the violation was inadvertent and
technical; that it was apparently due to the faulty advice from
outside counsel; that Roberts did not gain financially from the
violation; and that he reported the violation promptly once it
was discovered,” the FTC said in statement.  In August 2009, Roberts made a corrective filing to the
agencies, according to the FTC.  “We take very seriously our obligations to comply with all
aspects of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and working with our
lawyers we have put in place additional safeguards to ensure
that an inadvertent violation does not occur in the future,”
Philadelphia-based Comcast said in a statement.  Roberts previously admitted to reporting violations in 1999
and 2000, which he said were “inadvertent,’ according to the
FTC and today’s complaint. He wasn’t charged at that time by the
FTC, according to a statement by the agency.  The case is U.S. v. Roberts, 11-cv-02240, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 