-- Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Westpac Among Banks Sued Over Fee Payments
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2011-12-16T06:08:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/commonwealth-bank-of-australia-westpac-among-banks-sued-over-fee-payments.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and
Westpac Banking Corp. were sued by customers seeking to recoup
allegedly illegal fees, after a judge allowed part of a lawsuit
against  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  to proceed.  Maurice Blackburn Lawyers will also file claims against
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  and Citigroup Inc.’s Citibank, said
 Andrew Watson , head of class actions at the firm, which is
litigating the class-action suit. The claims against the five
banks total A$197 million ($196 million), he said at a briefing
in  Melbourne  today.  Australian banks have charged as much as A$5 billion in
fees that clients are seeking to recoup, said James Middleweek,
managing director at the Financial Redress Pty unit of  IMF
(Australia) Ltd. (IMF) , a litigation funder. Customers holding more
than 247,000 accounts have registered to sue, according to the
website of Financial Redress.  The lawsuits show “how aggrieved ordinary customers are
with their banks,” Middleweek said.  More than 150,000 customers are represented in the four new
lawsuits, Watson said.  Nick Buchan, a Westpac spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mailed request for comment. Steve Batten, a
spokesman for Commonwealth Bank, didn’t respond to phone and e-
mail requests.  Citigroup, NAB  National Bank of  Australia  will defend against the lawsuit,
spokeswoman Sharna Rhys-Jones said in an e-mailed statement.  “NAB has led the industry in abolishing a range of fees,”
she said. “We did this because it was the right thing to do by
our customers.”  Rhys-Jones said the bank hasn’t received the claim yet.  “Citigroup will defend the matter, but we are waiting on
the detail as we have not been served the documents yet,” the
bank said in a statement provided by Sydney-based spokeswoman
Kristen Kaus.  Westpac Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly has said fees
charged by banks are “completely inappropriate,” according to
Middleweek. “It would be good if at least one of these banks
would show a bit of leadership on this issue,” he said.  Federal Court Justice Michelle Gordon ruled Dec. 5 that the
lawsuit against ANZ can proceed because it is related to charges
for late credit-card payments. At issue in the decision was
whether the charges could be characterized as penalties, in
which case they could be challenged in court as excessive and
therefore illegal.  Honor Fees  The credit-card late-payment fees make up about 40 percent
of the A$50 million ANZ customers are seeking to recoup,
according to Watson.  Gordon dismissed complaints about charges for insufficient
funds in accounts or overdrawn bank accounts, ruling that those
didn’t amount to penalties.  So-called honor fees of A$29.50 charged when a bank clears
a check even when an account has insufficient funds, dishonor
fees of A$45 imposed when a check bounces and credit-card fees
charged when clients exceed approved limits, can’t be
characterized as penalties, the judge ruled. A A$35 credit-card
late-payment fee can be considered a penalty, she said.  Maurice Blackburn  plans to appeal Gordon’s ruling on
charges that she said can’t be characterized as penalties,
Watson said.  The case is: John Andrews v. ANZ Banking Group Ltd.
VID811/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Melbourne).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  