-- Congo’s Supreme Court Declares Kabila Victor of Nov. 28 Vote
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2011-12-16T20:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/congo-s-supreme-court-declares-kabila-victor-of-nov-28-vote-1-.html
Incumbent  Joseph Kabila  won the
Democratic Republic of Congo’s Nov. 28 presidential election,
Jerome Kintolo Kimpele, first president of the country’s  Supreme
Court , told reporters in the capital Kinshasa.  The court rejected a challenge by the opposition to annul
the provisional results announced by the electoral commission
Dec. 9, which gave Kabila 49 percent of the votes to 32 percent
for runner-up Etienne Tshisekedi. Tshisekedi has rejected the
outcome, saying he is the country’s true president.  “We’re not surprised,” Albert Moleka, Tshisekedi’s chief
of staff, said by telephone after the announcement. “As Mr.
Tshisekedi has said, the Supreme Court is a private institution
of Mr. Kabila. In Congo the people vote, but they don’t elect.”  The election, Congo’s second after 40 years of dictatorship
and war, was marred by irregularities including lost ballots and
violence, according to electoral observation missions from the
Atlanta-based  Carter Center , the European Union and Congo’s
Catholic Church.  The U.S. Department of State said Dec. 14 that while the
elections “were seriously flawed, lacked transparency and did
not measure up to the democratic gains we have seen in recent
African elections,” it wasn’t clear if the irregularities
changed the outcome.  Six African countries called on Congo’s opposition parties
to concede to Kabila at a conference of heads of state from
 Africa ’s Great Lakes region today in Kampala, Uganda, according
to  Agence France-Presse .  Tshisekedi’s party called for demonstrations against the
result this week, without specifying when or where.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  