-- U.S. Consumer Prices May Show Inflation in Check
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-little-changed-as-gasoline-costs-dropped.html
The cost of living in the U.S. was
probably little changed in November as gasoline prices dropped,
a sign inflation remains in check, economists said before a
report today.  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent last month
after falling 0.1 percent in October, according to the median
forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. So-called
core prices, which exclude volatile food and energy costs, may
have also climbed 0.1 percent.  Companies like  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Inc. are
stepping up promotions during the holiday season to lure
customers facing 8.6 percent unemployment and stagnant wages.
Stable inflation gives Federal Reserve policy makers leeway to
take additional steps to boost growth should the world’s largest
economy falter.  “Consumers are going to be very resistant to higher prices
and ultimately companies are going to have to adjust,” said
Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of America Corp. in  New York .
“Inflation is moderating.”  The Labor Department’s data is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline of 0.1
percent to a gain of 0.4 percent.  The median forecast would mean consumer prices climbed 3.5
percent over the past year, matching the prior month’s gain
which was the slowest since April. The core index is projected
to increase 2.1 percent from November 2010.  Fed View  “Inflation has moderated since earlier in the year, and
longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable” Fed
officials said in a Dec. 13 statement after their monetary
policy meeting.  Retailers are relying on a range of marketing maneuvers to
keep consumers spending through Christmas. Cyber Monday came
twice this year at J.C. Penney and Sears Holdings Corp. -- once
after the Thanksgiving weekend and again a week later.  Target began a three-day “Almost Last Minute Sale” on
Dec. 8 with markdowns on such items as Stanley Black & Decker
Inc. coffee makers and gift card giveaways. The discount chain
held the “Big Toy Event” on Dec. 1, offering half off a second
item.  The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline at the
pump fell to $3.38 last month from $3.43 in October, according
to  data  from AAA, the country’s biggest auto group.  Fuel costs may keep declining as the European debt crisis
threatens to slow global growth. The average gasoline price
dropped to $3.26 a gallon Dec. 14, the lowest since February.  Europe’s Influence  Stocks have fallen since Oct. 31 on concern a European
default might tip the U.S. back into a recession. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index was down 3 percent through yesterday.  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, The Commerce Department’s
measure that excludes food and fuel and is tied to  consumer
spending , rose 0.1 percent in October after no change the prior
month. It was up 1.7 percent in the year ended in October, at
the low end of Fed policy makers’ long-run projection of 1.7
percent to 2 percent.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed prices paid to
producers excluding food and fuel rose 0.1 percent in November,
less than forecast, while all producer prices rose 0.3 percent,
paced by a gain in food expenses.  Import prices in the U.S., reported Dec. 14, rose 0.7
percent.  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  