-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Stagnate as Gas Drops
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-16T22:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/consumer-prices-in-u-s-stagnate-as-gasoline-costs-show-inflation-in-check.html
The cost of living in the U.S. was
little changed in November as gasoline prices dropped and food
expenses cooled, supporting the  Federal Reserve ’s view that
inflation will remain in check.  The stable reading for the consumer-price index followed a
0.1 percent decline in October, a report from the Labor
Department showed today in Washington. So-called  core prices 
that exclude food and energy rose 0.2 percent, more than
forecast, reflecting higher medical care and clothing costs.  Companies like Target Corp. and  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  are
stepping up promotions during the holiday season to lure
customers facing 8.6 percent unemployment and stagnant wages,
signaling any price increases will be limited. More stable
inflation gives Fed policy makers leeway to take additional
steps to boost growth should the world’s largest economy falter.  “Retailers will be inclined to do more discounting,” said
Jacob Oubina, a senior U.S. economist at RBC Capital Markets LLC
in New York, who projected prices would be unchanged.
“Inflation will crest around here. This will give the Fed more
comfort in terms of implementing further monetary policy.”  Stocks rose as gains among commodity producers helped
overcome concern over the European debt crisis. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to 1,219.66 at the 4 p.m.
close in New York.  Euro-Area Exports  Euro-area exports fell 1.9 percent in October, led by
declines in Germany and  Spain , data today showed, as the
region’s economy slid toward a recession. European car sales
fell in November by the most in five months, the Brussels-based
European Automobile Manufacturers Association said. Ireland’s
economy shrank 1.9 percent in the third quarter, the most in
more than two years, according to separate figures.  With the fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis threatening
growth and inflation cooling, the  Reserve Bank  of India left the
repurchase rate at 8.5 percent. The decision was projected by
all 14 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  The median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a 0.1 percent increase in consumer prices. Estimates
ranged from a decline of 0.1 percent to a 0.4 percent gain.
Economists projected a 0.1 percent gain in core prices,
according to the survey median.  Overall consumer prices increased 3.4 percent in the 12
months ended November, the smallest year-over-year increase
since April. The core CPI climbed 2.2 percent from November
2010, the most since October 2008.  Fed’s Gauge  The Fed’s preferred price gauge, the Commerce Department’s
measure that excludes food and fuel and is tied to  consumer
spending , rose 0.1 percent in October after no change the prior
month. It was up 1.7 percent in the year ended in October, at
the lower end of Fed policy makers’ long-run projection of 1.7
percent to 2 percent.  “Inflation has moderated since earlier in the year, and
longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable,” Fed
policy makers said in a Dec. 13 statement after their most
recent monetary policy meeting.  Today’s report showed energy costs in November decreased
1.6 percent from a month earlier, reflecting a 2.4 percent drop
in gasoline prices. Energy costs were up 12 percent from
November 2010.  The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline at the
pump fell to $3.38 last month from $3.43 in October, according
to data from AAA, the country’s biggest auto group.  Fuel Costs  Fuel costs may keep declining as the European debt crisis
threatens to slow global growth. The average gasoline price
dropped to $3.26 a gallon on Dec. 14, the lowest since February.  “Weakness in energy will become more obvious in coming
months,” said  Eric Green , chief market economist at TD
Securities Inc. in  New York . “The story will be core inflation
holding around these levels while headline moves lower, and that
frees up the Fed to become more proactive as necessary.”  The cost of food in November climbed 0.1 percent,
restrained by the first decrease in a year in the food-at-home
category. Clothing prices advanced 0.6 percent, the seventh gain
in the past eight months, today’s report showed. Expenses for
medical care increased 0.4 percent after a 0.5 percent gain the
prior month.  Retailers are relying on a range of marketing ploys to keep
consumers spending through Christmas. Cyber Monday came twice
this year at J.C. Penney Co. and Sears Holdings Corp. -- once on
the day after Thanksgiving weekend and again a week later.  Target Corp. (TGT)  began a three-day “Almost Last Minute Sale”
on Dec. 8 with markdowns on such items as Stanley Black & Decker
Inc. coffee makers and gift card giveaways. A week earlier, the
discount chain held the “Big Toy Event” on Dec. 1 offering
half off a second item.  Rents Cool  Today’s report also showed owners-equivalent rent, one of
the categories designed to track rental prices, climbed 0.1
percent after a 0.2 percent gain in October.  Paychecks are failing to keep up with even limited
inflation.  Hourly earnings  adjusted for inflation fell 0.1
percent in November, and were down 1.5 percent over the past
12 months.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed prices paid to
wholesalers excluding food and fuel rose 0.1 percent in
November, less than forecast, while all producer prices rose 0.3
percent, paced by a gain in food expenses.  Import prices in the U.S., reported Dec. 14, rose 0.7
percent.  The CPI is the broadest of the three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  