-- Corporate America Must Fight, and Live With, China Hackers: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-16T00:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/corporate-america-must-fight-and-learn-to-live-with-china-hackers-view.html
Chinese  hackers  have redefined the
concept of room service: In one recent attack, they infiltrated
an  Internet service provider  to some of the world’s leading
hotels, potentially gaining access to millions of confidential
messages of traveling executives, as well as to the victims’
corporate networks.  The electronic theft of proprietary information from U.S.
companies has reached the level of grand larceny on a national
scale. One declassified government estimate put the value of
information stolen in the last year -- everything from
blueprints to merger plans -- at almost $500 billion. In
October, breaking with diplomatic niceties, the Office of the
National Counterintelligence Executive characterized  “Chinese
actors”  as “the world’s most active and persistent perpetrators
of economic espionage.”  The distinction represents a success of sorts: In 1986,
China launched a project --  program 863  -- that included the use
of clandestine means to close the gap with the West in areas
such as nanotechnology, biotech and computers. Since then, the
opportunities for progress have multiplied. Expanding commercial
and scientific links between the U.S. and  China  have created a
target-rich environment. The spread of portable devices and
pooled data processing and storage has made it harder to protect
corporate secrets.  Fact of Life  Of course, industrial espionage has been a fixture of the
economic landscape for centuries. Americans have a rich history
of pilfering ideas from abroad, beginning with the theft of
spinning and weaving technology from the British. So one proper
response to today’s techno-thieves -- be they Chinese, Russian,
French, German or Israeli -- is for American companies to
embrace the threat as a fact of life and step up their own
vigilance, especially when their executives travel overseas.  But there are other things that can be done to safeguard
the fruits of the roughly $400 billion that U.S. corporations,
the federal government, universities and nonprofit organizations
spend on research and development each year. For starters, the
Obama administration could put a stop to the low-grade turf war
between the National Security Agency and the Department of
 Homeland Security  over the protection of civilian networks. The
latter, as a civilian agency, is better positioned to take the
lead, with the NSA in a supporting role. The government could
also give  Howard Schmidt , the White House cyber-security
coordinator, more authority and resources to do his job.  Government and private corporations need to do more sharing
of information about cyber-espionage attacks. In 2010,  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  made news when it publicly identified China as the home
base of an effort to crack its source codes. All too often,
however, companies resist disclosing such incidents because they
worry about bad publicity, liability issues or Chinese
retaliation. Representative Mike J. Rogers, a Michigan
Republican who is chairman of the  Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence , has proposed  legislation  allowing the government
to share threat information with private industry, and to
encourage companies to reciprocate on a voluntary basis. That’s
good, but it will do little unless private companies and
officials in  Washington  develop a habit of following up on such
information.  Finally, we need to treat the threat of Chinese cyber-
espionage, real as it is, in a sober, nuanced manner. Sometimes,
U.S. cyber warriors talk of China in language that sounds like
it comes from an old Fu Manchu movie. China isn’t a monolith:
the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs , the Ministry of State Security
and the  People’s Liberation Army  -- not to mention an army of
rogue hackers -- all behave very differently.  Many Chinese recognize that China and the U.S. share a
common interest in ensuring the protection of intellectual
property, that foreign companies will not continue to invest in
a country that is stealing their crown jewels, and that China
stands to lose from undermining an economy in which it has
invested hundreds of billions of dollars.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 