-- Corzine on Transfers, EU Derivatives, SEC: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2011-12-16T18:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/corzine-on-transfers-eu-derivatives-law-sec-probes-compliance.html
Jon S. Corzine, former chairman and
chief executive officer of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. , told
lawmakers yesterday that the firm’s back-office staff
“explicitly” informed him that funds transfers made before the
company filed for bankruptcy were legal.  Bradley Abelow, chief operating officer, also testified.  Corzine, who testified yesterday before U.S. lawmakers for
the third time in a week, was responding to allegations made at
a U.S. Senate hearing earlier this week when the executive
chairman of Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME)  told lawmakers Corzine
had known of a $175 million loan using client money that was
made before the Oct. 31 bankruptcy.  The former New Jersey governor used yesterday’s hearing by
an oversight panel of the  House Financial Services Committee  to
rebut the suggestion that he may have authorized improper use of
customer money.  Lawmakers and U.S. authorities are investigating what
happened to as much as $1.2 billion in customer funds that is
missing from MF Global accounts.  “I did not instruct anyone to lend customer funds to
anyone,” Corzine said.  He suggested  Terrence Duffy , CME Group executive chairman,
may have been referring to some funds transfers that occurred as
MF Global was selling billions of dollars in securities.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which was involved in the transactions,
told MF Global the sale couldn’t be completed until overdrafts
in some accounts in London were corrected.  Corzine said he contacted the firm’s “back office in
Chicago and asked them to resolve the issues, which I understood
they did.” He didn’t say explicitly whether he was aware at the
time that the loan may have included funds from customer
accounts.  For more, click here, and click here, and click here.  MF Global and Corzine didn’t receive preferential treatment
in a bid to become a primary dealer of government securities,
said Thomas C. Baxter Jr., general counsel of the New York
Federal Reserve.  Corzine met with officials at the New York Fed on June 1,
2010, and discussed the broker’s efforts to improve its credit
structure by raising $150 million in equity, Baxter said in
testimony prepared for a hearing yesterday of the  House
Financial Services subcommittee  on oversight and investigations.  MF Global, starting before Corzine became CEO, sought to
expedite a New York Fed review in order to become a primary
dealer. The firm was under orders from the  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission  to overhaul its internal controls. The Fed’s
policy was to impose a one-year waiting period after such an
enforcement action. MF Global argued the matter wasn’t material
to its application, Baxter said.  The New York Fed disagreed and reviewed MF Global’s
application “without fear or favor,” Baxter said in the
testimony. MF Global was approved as a primary dealer on Feb. 2,
2011. That status was revoked by the Fed on Oct. 31, the same
day the firm filed for bankruptcy.  For more, click here.  Separately, the trustee overseeing the liquidation of MF
Global’s brokerage subsidiary is investigating whether client
funds were used to support as much as $6.3 billion in trades
tied to European sovereign debt, according to James Kobak, chief
counsel to the trustee.  The tie to European debt is “certainly something we’re
looking into,” Kobak said yesterday at the hearing.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Said to Face Derivatives-Law Setback After EU Summit Clash  European Union officials may abandon U.K.-backed safeguards
on derivatives legislation, four people familiar with the
situation said, less than a week after Prime Minister David
Cameron’s demands to protect London’s financial industry almost
wrecked an EU summit.  Ambassadors for the EU’s 27 nations, scheduled to meet
yesterday in Brussels, discussed weakening an October agreement
to grant national regulators powers over clearinghouses,
according to the people, who couldn’t be identified because the
talks are private. The British government has argued that the
accord was essential to protect U.K.-based clearing firms from
pressure to move part of their business to the euro area.  The possible unraveling of the derivatives deal follows
Cameron’s decision to break ranks with French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  at an EU summit last
week. Lawmakers in the  European Parliament  have “demanded”
that the October compromise be reconsidered, according to an EU
document dated Dec. 14 and obtained by Bloomberg News. The
Parliament and national governments must agree on the law before
it can enter into force.  Chantal Hughes, spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, declined to immediately comment and
the U.K. government’s office in Brussels declined to comment.  SEC Cheaper Than Finra for Regulating Advisers, Study Says  Inspections of investment advisers by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority may cost at least twice as much as
more frequent examinations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, according to the Boston Consulting Group.  An expanded SEC oversight program is estimated to cost from
$240 million to $270 million a year, compared with
$550 million to $610 million annually for examinations and
enforcement by Finra as well as SEC supervision of Finra,
according to the study released yesterday, which was conducted
by the Boston-based firm.  BCG was hired by several adviser industry groups, including
the  Investment Adviser Association , which represents SEC-
registered investment advisers, to do the report and an online
survey of 424 investment advisers. The study evaluated the costs
of three options the SEC recommended in January for improving
oversight of advisers. The firm didn’t consult or interview the
SEC or Finra for either the report or the survey.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  DuPont, Honeywell Said to Face EU Car-Refrigerant Probe  DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S. chemicals company by market
value, and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  face a European Union
antitrust probe over a refrigerant for car air-conditioning
systems, according to four people familiar with the plan.  The  European Commission  will soon open a formal
investigation to examine whether DuPont and Honeywell may have
concealed their ownership of patents for the refrigerant before
the car industry agreed to use the technology as a standard,
said the people who couldn’t be identified because the issue
isn’t yet public.  Honeywell and DuPont are expecting growth from the
technology they jointly developed to meet  EU environmental rules 
to cut greenhouse gases from air-conditioning systems. DuPont
told investors this week that the low-emission refrigerant
promises “nice growth and some healthy margins.” Honeywell’s
specialty chemicals division has said it expects coolants to
help it make “extremely solid” profits.  DuPont “has responded to inquiries from the European
Commission regarding the competitive dynamics and intellectual
property landscape” concerning the refrigerant, said Janet
Smith, a DuPont spokeswoman. The company will continue to
cooperate fully, she said.  Honeywell has “received requests for information from the
European Commission about the new refrigerant” and is “fully
cooperating,” said spokesman Peter Dalpe.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the commission, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Diamond Gets SEC Probe Notice Amid Walnut Investigation  Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND) , conducting an internal probe into
whether money paid to walnut growers violated accounting rules,
said the U.S Securities and Exchange Commission began an
investigation into the snack maker.  The SEC’s probe isn’t an indication that the company has
broken the law, Diamond said in a filing yesterday. San
Francisco-based Diamond said it will cooperate with the
investigation and didn’t provide further details. The shares
fell.  “Our commitment to this transaction is predicated on the
favorable resolution of all these current investigations,” Paul
Fox, a Procter & Gamble spokesman, said in an e-mail.  John Christiansen , an external spokesman for Diamond at
Sard Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment.  The  audit committee  may conclude the investigation by the
middle of February, Diamond said Dec. 12. As a result, the
company delayed filing its Form 10-Q for the fiscal first
quarter.  U.K. Fraud Prosecutor Conduct Investigated by Cabinet Office  The U.K. Cabinet Office investigated allegations of
improper conduct at the British agency that prosecutes white-
collar crime and corruption after staff members raised concerns.  The Cabinet Office oversees the workings of government
departments and the civil service.  The probe found no evidence of wrongdoing at the  Serious
Fraud Office , a spokeswoman for Attorney General Dominic
Grieve’s office said in an e-mail. The spokeswoman, who declined
to be named citing office policy.  The investigation focused on corporate-governance issues
related to top SFO officials, including Chief Executive Officer
Phillippa Williamson, said two people familiar with the probe
who declined to be identified because the subject matter isn’t
public. The review was prompted when Cabinet Secretary Gus
O’Donnell was alerted to concerns raised by an internal whistle-
blower. The investigation was conducted by Alex Allan, a former
 Permanent Secretary  at the Cabinet Office.  Sam Jaffa, an SFO spokesman, declined to comment.
Williamson didn’t answer a call to her office or an e-mail
seeking comment, and Jaffa declined to make her available.  PwC Investigated Over Barclays Capital U.K. Client Money Reports  A U.K. accounting regulator is investigating whether
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s reports on client assets at
Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. broke financial rules.  The  Accountancy & Actuarial Discipline Board  is reviewing
PwC’s reports to the Financial Services Authority outlining
Barclays Capital’s compliance with client-asset separation rules
between December 2001 and 2009, the London-based accounting
regulator said in a statement today.  The FSA fined the bank 1.12 million pounds ($1.7 million)
in January for failing to put as much as 752 million pounds a
day of client money into protected accounts that were separate
from its own money-market deposits. The AADB is already seeking
a record fine of at least 1.5 million pounds against PwC in a
similar case concerning regulatory reports on client-money
accounts at JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s London securities unit.  Spokespeople for PwC and Barclays Capital in London
couldn’t be immediately reached to comment on the investigation.  Courts  ‘Greedy’ Insider Trader Jailed for Using Hedge-Fund Tips  A London management consultant was sentenced to two years
in prison after being convicted of making about 500,000 pounds
($774,000) using confidential tips from a hedge-fund trader.  Jurors found Rupinder Sidhu guilty on 22 of 23 insider-
dealing charges yesterday, said Chris Hamilton, a spokesman for
the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which filed the case. A
separate charge of  money laundering  wasn’t considered.  When imposing the sentence, Judge Michael Gledhill told
Sidhu yesterday that “sheer greed is behind all these
offenses.”  Sidhu, 40, used information from AKO Capital LLP trader
Anjam Ahmad about the hedge fund’s trading plans to spread bet
on companies including  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) ,  Swatch Group (UHR)  AG
and  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  between June and August 2009,
prosecutors said. He is the eighth person sentenced to prison
for  insider trading  in a case brought by the FSA.  Sidhu denied all the charges, claiming he didn’t know Ahmad
was passing on inside information. Ahmad was given a suspended
jail sentence, community service and fined 50,000 pounds after
pleading guilty to insider trading.  SEC Appeals Rejection of $285 Million Citigroup Settlement  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission appealed a
federal judge’s decision to reject its proposed $285 million
settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The appeal, filed yesterday in the U.S. Court of Appeals in
New York, challenged U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s rejection
last month of the settlement, which involved claims that
Citigroup misled investors in a $1 billion financial product
linked to risky mortgages.  Rakoff criticized the agency’s practice of resolving cases
without requiring the subject of the allegations to admit
wrongdoing. SEC Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami said
yesterday in a statement that Rakoff’s decision “is at odds
with decades of court decisions that have upheld similar
settlements.”  Rakoff’s approach “could in practical terms press the SEC
to trial in many more instances, likely resulting in fewer cases
overall and less money being returned to investors,” Khuzami
said in the statement.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said the
New York-based bank disagrees with the court’s rejection of the
settlement. The agreement “fully complies with long-established
legal standards,” she said.  For more, click here.  Interviews  Barofsky Sees ‘Strong Indication’ of Fraud at MF Global  Neil Barofsky, former special inspector for the U.S.
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program and a Bloomberg
Television contributing editor, talks about former  MF Global
Holdings Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer Jon Corzine’s testimony
yesterday before the House Financial Services subcommittee about
the collapse of MF Global.  Barofsky speaks with Stephanie Ruhle and  Erik Schatzker on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 