-- Credit Agricole Sells Private-Equity Unit to Coller Capital
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2011-12-16T16:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/credit-agricole-sells-private-equity-unit-to-coller-capital.html
Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s second-
largest bank by assets, agreed to sell its private-equity unit
to Coller Capital for an undisclosed sum to boost capital.  The sale of  Credit Agricole  Private Equity will reduce the
lender’s risk-weighted assets by about 900 million euros ($1.2
billion), the company said in a statement today. The shares rose
as much as 4.4 percent and closed up 0.07 percent to 4.04 euros
in Paris trading.  “Credit Agricole SA’s decision to sell CAPE forms part of
a plan to optimize capital allocation and refocus the bank’s
private equity activities on local business,” the bank said in
the statement.  Credit Agricole, based near Paris, follows lenders
including Citigroup Inc., Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Barclays Plc
and BNP Paribas SA in seeking to sell holdings in leveraged-
buyout funds as banks are forced by regulators to hold more
capital in reserve against their riskiest assets.  “It’s normal because these activities are very capital
intensive,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage 500
million euros at Ofi Gestion Privee in Paris and doesn’t own
Credit Agricole shares. “It’s among the first things to be
cut.”  Coller, based in  London , is raising a $5 billion so-called
secondaries fund to buy stakes in private equity funds from
investors willing to reduce their commitments. It bought about
500 million euros of stakes in buyout funds from Credit
Agricole’s investment-banking unit earlier this year, three
people with knowledge of the matter said in March.  Job Cuts  The French firm said two days ago it will report a loss for
2011 and eliminate 2,350 jobs at its investment-banking and
consumer-finance units as  Europe ’s debt crisis erodes economic
growth. The company will book about 2.5 billion euros in fourth-
quarter writedowns on investments, including stakes in  Spain ’s
Bankinter SA and Banco Espirito Santo SA of  Portugal .  Credit Agricole scrapped a dividend for 2011 and said it
can’t confirm its 2014 goals because of “the lack of visibility
on the economic and financial climate.”  In today’s statement, the lender said it expects approval
for the sale to Coller in the first quarter of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  