-- Crown Castle Acquires NextG for $1 Billion to Add Largest Antenna System
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2011-12-16T21:41:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/crown-castle-acquires-nextg-for-1-billion-to-add-largest-antenna-system.html
Crown Castle International Corp.’s (CCI) 
$1 billion agreement to buy NextG Networks Inc. would form the
largest independent provider of distributed antenna systems as
wireless carriers look to expand fourth-generation networks.  Crown Castle is acquiring NextG from a group of investors
led by Madison Dearborn Partners, according to a statement
today. The purchase, due for completion in the second quarter of
2012, will be financed with debt.  The acquisition will enable Houston-based Crown Castle to
provide additional wireless coverage and capacity to customers
beyond areas traditionally served by towers. Distributed antenna
systems are networks of smaller cell sites connected by fiber to
communications hubs.  “DAS enables carriers to pinpoint coverage in difficult-
to-zone areas like urban canyons,” said Jonathan Atkin, an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , who has a “outperform”
rating on Crown Castle. As carriers race to expand network
capacity to keep up with data-traffic demand, “this provides a
good solution to optimize spectrum,” Atkin said.  Crown Castle closed down 1.2 percent at $42.88. The stock
has lost 2 percent this year.  Given the spending cycle ahead, with major U.S. wireless
operators upgrading networks to Long Term Evolution technology,
Crown Castle “shows brilliant foresight,” said Kevin Smithen,
an analyst with Macquarie Securities USA Inc. He also has a
“outperform” rating on Crown Castle. LTE is a so-called
fourth-generation technology, which enables faster wireless
Internet connections.  Small, discrete cell sites connected by fiber-optic cable
“are the future for LTE capacity additions over the next
several years,” Smithen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  