-- Cruise Scales Dubai Tower With Magic Gloves; Schlock King: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2011-12-16T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/cruise-scales-dubai-tower-with-magic-gloves-schlock-king-film.html
Tom Cruise  drives through a
sandstorm, scales the world’s tallest building, escapes from a
submerged car and gets rocked by a Kremlin explosion in
“ Mission: Impossible -- Ghost Protocol .”  And that’s just the trailer.  The fourth installment in the blockbuster series is crammed
with more death-defying stunts than a Blue Angels air show. All
it lacks are three-dimensional characters, a comprehensible plot
and a semblance of plausibility.  “Ghost Protocol” is a triumph of style over substance, a
film that doesn’t pause its frenzied action long enough to let
you consider the fact that almost nothing makes sense.  Perhaps that’s quibbling over a fantasy-based franchise
that dazzles us with gadgetry, exotic locales and doomsday
scenarios.  In “Ghost Protocol,” super-spy Ethan Hunt (Cruise)
tries to prevent a nuclear disaster and clear his name
after he’s blamed for a terrorist bombing at the Kremlin.  Joining Hunt on the mission are sexy, nail-tough Jane
Carter (Paula Patton), nerdy tech guru Benji Dunn ( Simon Pegg )
and William Brandt ( Jeremy Renner ), a desk-jockey analyst with a
mysterious past.  After Hunt breaks out of a Moscow prison -- it’s too
complicated to explain why he’s there -- he and his crew travel
to Dubai and Mumbai in hot pursuit of Cobalt (Michael Nyqvist),
a madman bent on starting a nuclear war.  Climbs Tower  They’re working without any support from their agency,
which has been disavowed by the U.S. president after the Kremlin
attack in a move known as Ghost Protocol.  Director Brad Bird, who made the Oscar-winning animated
films “Ratatouille” and “The Incredibles,” follows the
protocol of all “Mission: Impossible” films with eye-popping
action sequences.  The most amazing is Cruise climbing up Dubai’s 2,716-foot
Burj Khalifa glass tower from the outside using high-tech
magnetic gloves. We also see him leap from a fourth-story ledge
onto a moving van, lead a high-speed chase in a blinding
sandstorm and brawl with Cobalt over a nuclear-launch briefcase
in an automated parking garage where moving cars and platforms
pose a serious threat of decapitation.  The film’s publicists say Cruise did his own stunts,
including climbing scenes at Burj Khalifa where he wore a
harness attached to a cable system and a sequence in which he
catapults through an open window.  How do you top that? In the next “MI,” maybe he’ll summit
 Mount Everest  in his bare feet.  “Mission: Impossible -- Ghost Protocol,” from  Paramount
Pictures , opens today in 300 IMAX theaters across the U.S. It
will be released widely on Dec. 21. Rating: **1/2  ‘Corman’s World’  What do  Jack Nicholson ,  Robert De Niro , Peter Fonda,  Dennis Hopper ,  Martin Scorsese ,  Francis Ford Coppola ,  Ron Howard ,
Jonathan Demme and Peter Bogdanovich have in common?  They were all mentored by Roger Corman, the B-movie king
who churned out hundreds of low-budget flicks featuring
vampires, sharks, aliens, bikers, gangsters and -- almost always
-- scantily clad women.  Corman may be best known as a shlockmeister, but he gave
early career boosts to a long list of celebrated actors and
directors, many of whom pay tribute to him in “ Corman’s World:
Exploits of a Hollywood Rebel .”  Alex Stapleton’s documentary provides a fascinating look at
a filmmaker who defied the studio system and made movies that
were consistently profitable despite being dismissed by critics
and the movie establishment.  The documentary includes clips from campy classics such as
“Monster From the Ocean Floor,” “A Bucket of Blood” and
“The Cry Baby Killer.” But it also contains a segment on
Corman’s serious 1962 movie, “The Intruder,” which starred
 William Shatner  as a racist who tries to incite violence against
black people in a small Southern town.  “Corman’s World: Exploits of a Hollywood Rebel,” from
Anchor Bay Films, opens today in New York and  Los Angeles .
Rating: ***  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 