-- CVC Said to Hire CIMB to Arrange Loan Package for KFC Buyout
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2011-12-16T10:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/cvc-said-to-hire-cimb-to-arrange-loan-package-for-kfc-buyout-1-.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. hired CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. to arrange a finance package to fund its
takeover of  KFC Holdings (Malaysia) Bhd. (KFC) , according to two
people familiar with the matter.  CVC announced Dec 14. that it has teamed up with  Johor
Corp.  to bid at least $1.6 billion for KFC Holdings (Malaysia)
and parent  QSR Brands Bhd. (QSR)  in a deal that would hand it control
of more than 900 fast-food outlets, including KFC and Pizza Hut,
in Southeast Asia and India.  CIMB has agreed to underwrite and organize the facility,
which will probably be marketed to a wider group of lenders in
the new year, one of the people said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Details
including the acquisition loan’s size and maturity have yet to
be decided, the person said.  A spokesman for CVC in Malaysia was unavailable to comment
immediately on the acquisition financing when contacted by
telephone in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  KFC Malaysia operates more than 620 fried-chicken outlets
in Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei, Cambodia and India, according to
its  website . The company also has 29 RasaMas restaurants and 55
chicken stores, as well as farming and food manufacturing
operations, it said. QSR Brands operates about 260 Pizza Hut
restaurants in Malaysia and Singapore, according to its  website .  Malaysian state investment company Johor Corp. is the
biggest shareholder of palm-oil producer  Kulim Malaysia Bhd. (KUL) ,
which already owns 54 percent of QSR Brands, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Buyout firm CVC owns 49 percent of the
takeover vehicle and Johor Corp. holds the rest, yesterday’s
regulatory filings show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  