-- Delta Adding LaGuardia Flights in Bid to Dominate NYC Travel
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2011-12-16T21:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/delta-to-add-100-flights-29-destinations-at-new-york-s-laguardia-airport.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  will add more
than 100 flights and 29 destinations at New York’s LaGuardia by
mid-2012 as it builds the airport into a domestic hub and seeks
to dominate the nation’s busiest aviation market.  It will be the biggest single expansion by any carrier at
LaGuardia in “decades,” Delta said today at a New York news
conference. The airline is spending $100 million at LaGuardia as
it takes advantage of 132 flight slot pairs gained in a deal
with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)   Delta’s growth at LaGuardia, coupled with a $1.2 billion
expansion at  John F. Kennedy International Airport , is aimed at
winning business travelers who fly more frequently and generally
pay higher fares. With the LaGuardia additions, Delta said it
will offer more than 400 daily domestic departures from  New
York ’s three major airports, more than any other carrier.  “Our expanded New York schedule is a clear indication that
we’re making good headway with creative thinking and strategic
moves to become the preferred airline for travelers flying to
and from New York City,” Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson  said in a statement.  By mid-2012, Delta will have 264 daily flights between
LaGuardia and more than 60 cities, the carrier said. Flights
will go on sale tomorrow for travel starting between March 25
and July 11, 2012, depending on the market involved.  Delta Competitors  The investments will also help Delta compete against  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , which operates a hub for domestic and
overseas flights at New Jersey’s Newark Liberty International
Airport, and  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines, which has an
international gateway at New York’s Kennedy.  Delta and  US Airways  completed their trade of takeoff and
landing slots this week, with US Airways taking 42 pairs from
Delta at Washington’s Reagan National airport. The agreement
allowed US Airways to pare unprofitable flying from LaGuardia.  Delta will take over most of the US Airways terminal at
LaGuardia that’s adjacent to its existing one, and link the two
with a 600-foot connector bridge. It will operate a total of 26
gates in the two terminals.  “For the first time in the history of aviation at
LaGuardia, we’re going to build a hub,” Anderson said at the
news conference.  Delta rose 5 percent to $9.02 at the close in New York
trading, paring the shares’ decline this year to 28 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  