-- Democrats Seek One-Year Tax Cut as Republicans Push for Pipeline Approval
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2011-12-16T20:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/democrats-considering-a-two-month-extension-of-payroll-tax-cut-reid-says.html
Senate Democrats are focused on
salvaging a one-year extension of the expiring payroll tax cut
as they try to find enough spending reductions and other policy
changes to cover the $119.6 billion cost, said two Democratic
aides familiar with the talks.  Negotiators tentatively agreed on about $100 billion in
savings to pay for the measure, including higher fees charged by
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  and the sale of a portion of the
wireless spectrum, said one of the aides who spoke on condition
of anonymity to discuss private details. The aide said lawmakers
also are considering ways to reduce the $202.4 billion cost of
the House-passed package without resorting to a two-month
extension that Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  has described
as “Plan B.”  Democrats, boxed in by Senate Republicans with the
procedural power to block their preferred options, are trying to
figure out how to salvage the two-percentage-point payroll tax
cut, which expires Dec. 31. Republican leaders in the House and
Senate have insisted that the bill include language to expedite
approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline.  “This is essentially a treaty negotiation, and we have to
look at what land to give up for peace,” said Senator Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat.  An agreement on the payroll tax cut is the last issue that
Congress is expected to address before it leaves Washington for
the holiday recess. White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said
President Barack Obama’s administration is “cautiously
optimistic” that Congress can reach an agreement.  Covering the Cost  Democrats have been unable to advance their plan to pay for
the payroll tax cut with a surtax on income exceeding $1
million. The first aide said they are considering cutting off
certain tax benefits that millionaires are allowed to claim,
just as Republicans have proposed requiring people earning more
than $1 million to repay their  unemployment benefits . The aide
would not go into detail except to note that such an offset
would be counted as a revenue increase rather than a spending
cut.  The second Democratic aide said lawmakers were considering
limiting the cost of the bill by extending 99 weeks of
 unemployment insurance  only to the 10 hardest-hit states. The
House-passed bill would eliminate that benefit for all states
and gradually reduce the maximum unemployment benefit to 59
weeks.  Republicans lawmakers’ insistence on including the
expedited pipeline approval in a final bill increases the
chances they will prevail on that issue.  Keystone Pipeline  Many Democrats oppose TransCanada Corp.’s Keystone XL
pipeline because of environmental concerns. Obama has said he
would reject tying the two issues together. He hasn’t issued a
specific veto threat on the pipeline provision, which would
require him to decide within 60 days whether to approve the
project.  Carney, asked about Obama’s stance today, said he wouldn’t
“prejudge a final product that doesn’t yet exist.”  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , the Senate’s top Republican,
cited Democrats who support the project and said he requires its
inclusion.  “I will not be able to support a package that does not
include the pipeline,” McConnell said on the Senate floor today
in Washington.  The second aide said Senate Democrats are seeking language
that would give Obama some flexibility to meet the deadline for
the pipeline decision.  Senate Majority  Republicans control the  House of Representatives . Democrats
control the Senate with a 53-47 majority. Senate Republicans can
use procedural maneuvers to require a 60-vote majority for the
bill.  McConnell’s push on the pipeline language followed comments
today by House Speaker  John Boehner , who said that even a short-
term extension of the payroll tax cut would need to be linked to
the pipeline.  “We will make changes,” Boehner said. “I will guarantee
you the Keystone pipeline will be in the bill when it goes back
to the Senate.”  McConnell said earlier today that lawmakers were making
“significant progress” toward a deal on a payroll tax cut
package.  State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said she
wouldn’t comment on the legality of attempts in Congress to
legislate approval of the Keystone XL pipeline.  Retired General James L. Jones, a former national security
adviser to Obama, said today that swift approval of the pipeline
is essential to U.S. national interests.  Petroleum Institute  Jones spoke on a conference call organized by the  American
Petroleum Institute , which is advocating that the proposed
1,700-mile TransCanada pipeline be approved.  “I feel strongly approving the project serves the economic
and security interests of the  United States ,” Jones said,
according to the website Fuel Fix.  Also today, lawmakers were moving toward final passage of a
separate $1 trillion budget measure to fund the day-to-day
operations of federal agencies through Sept. 30, 2012, heading
off a threatened partial government shutdown. The House passed,
296-121, the spending bill, sending it to the Senate for action
as soon as today.  The completion of that bill would leave the payroll tax
legislation as the last obstacle to Congress finishing its work
for the year. Boehner said House members would be allowed to go
home to their districts after today’s vote and then return to
address a payroll tax bill that could be passed by the Senate
over the weekend.  Representative  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , the House majority
leader, said today the House would return no sooner than Dec. 19
to consider any payroll tax bill passed by the Senate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  