-- Democratic Groups in Talks to Merge Fundraising
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2011-12-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/democratic-supercommittees-work-to-consolidate-fundraising.html
The five main Democratic
supercommittees are in discussions to consolidate their
fundraising efforts to create a clearinghouse for big-dollar
donors who want to write a single seven-figure check.  Struggling to keep pace with Republican organizations
formed by Karl Rove, the groups want to end the confusion that
some contributors have expressed to them about which
organization to support, according to two people familiar with
the matter who requested anonymity.  Harold Ickes, president of Priorities USA Action, which
backs President  Barack Obama , confirmed that the groups, which
can raise unlimited amounts of money from individuals,
corporations and unions, are in talks on how to make it easier
for big donors to help their party in 2012.  “In order to assure success for Democratic groups this
cycle, we are discussing the linking up of our forces to work
together to raise money,” said Ickes. “We never thought we’d
raise as much money as the right-wing money machine,” he said,
“but we’re confident we’ll have enough to be a strong
countervailing force.”  The groups haven’t settled on a formula for allocating the
funds, and they would retain exclusive control over where and
how to spend money in 2012, according to the two people.  Pooled Pitching  The five groups are Priorities, founded by former White
House spokesman  Bill Burton  to help re-elect Obama; House
Majority PAC, an organization dedicated to returning the House
to Democratic control; Majority PAC, a group working to keep the
Senate under Democratic control; America Votes, a group
affiliated with Ellen Malcolm, the founder of Emily’s List; and
American Bridge 21st Century, a group that fact-checks
Republican and conservative claims.  “It’s smart strategy to pool the pitching,” said Michael Meehan, a Democratic strategist.  “With a small, finite universe of individual donors at
this giving level, the competition for these large funds is
intense,” he said. “The ideological nature of these donors
sometimes allows for inaction, as they are torn.”  As someone who has helped Majority PAC raise money this
cycle and coordinated outside spending in the 2004 campaign,
Ickes is in a position to persuade the different PACs to
streamline their outreach to potential top donors like  George Soros , according to one of the people.  Limited Coordination  The groups would limit their coordination to high-dollar
donors and fend for themselves in soliciting checks from the
kind of activists who typically write six-figure, not seven- or
eight-figure checks.  While Obama’s presidential campaign has trounced his
closest Republican challengers in total dollars raised and cash
on hand, the Democratic-leaning outside groups haven’t achieved
financial parity with the Republican ones, like  American
Crossroads  and Crossroads GPS, which started a $20 million
advertising campaign over the summer criticizing Obama’s
economic policies.  “We will never be as organized as Republicans as to how we
solicit donors for the various groups,” said  Steve Elmendorf ,
founder of Elmendorf Ryan and an adviser to  Hillary Clinton ’s
2008 Democratic presidential primary campaign. “Crossroads is
the go-to group for anything Republican.”  “It has been slower getting going on our side,” Elmendorf
said. “Once it’s clear that there is one candidate on the
Republican side and that person is a threat to Barack Obama,
people are going to focus on what they need to do to stop
this.”  Supreme Court’s Role  In April, Burton and  Sean Sweeney , a former senior White
House adviser, founded Priorities USA Action and a companion
group, Priorities USA, to counter pro-Republican groups that
cropped up after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that corporations
and unions can spend unlimited amounts in political campaigns.  The political action committee is organized under section
527 of the U.S. tax code and is required to disclose its donors.
The other group, classified as a 501c4 non-profit, isn’t
required to report who funds it.  The two committees combined had raised about $5 million at
the end of July, according to a press release, and they plan to
raise $100 million during this election cycle.  $61.4 Million in Bank  Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign raised $42.1 million from
July through September, including $9 million from a joint
fundraising committee with the  Democratic National Committee .
The president has raised $88 million for his re-election and
spent $29 million, leaving him with $61.4 million in the bank,
according to financial-disclosure reports released Oct. 15.  That is four times what the two leading Republican
fundraisers, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and former Massachusetts
Governor Mitt Romney, have on hand.  Obama’s advocates are planning for a general-election clash
with Republican groups formed last year with the help of Rove,
top political adviser to former President  George W. Bush .
Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for Crossroads, said that a name
like Rove helps open up doors with donors.  “Part of their struggle is donor confusion,” he said.
“But part is frankly that they don’t have the equivalent of
 Karl Rove  or  Haley Barbour  bolstering their efforts.”  -with Assistance from Kristin Jensen and Jonathan Salant
in  Washington  and John McCormick in  Chicago . Editors: Mark
Silva, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  