-- EBay Plays ‘Anti-Amazon’ Offering $10 In-Store Discount
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2011-12-16T21:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/ebay-offers-in-store-discount-after-amazon-move-draws-criticism.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest
online marketplace, will give consumers an incentive to shop in
stores after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  came under fire last week for
offering shoppers a discount to do the opposite.  EBay will offer customers who spend $100 online a $10
discount for purchases in certain stores, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. People must buy on the web from  Toys R Us Inc .,
 Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  or  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO)  using EBay’s
PayPal payments servicer.  Amazon drew criticism from Senator Olympia Snowe, a Maine
Republican, last week for offering a 5 percent discount to
entice people to use a new mobile application to compare prices
with physical stores. While EBay also offers an app for price
checking it doesn’t actively compete with retailers on its site.  EBay is “trying to be the anti-Amazon in a sense,” said
 Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San
Francisco. The company is “positioning itself as a partner with
traditional retailers, where as Amazon is trying to accelerate
that shift away from stores.”  Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, and  San Jose ,
California-based EBay are vying for a greater share of the
retail market where e-commerce accounted for just 4.6 percent of
total retail sales in the third quarter, according to the U.S.
Department of Commerce. EBay’s $10 promotion began today and
will run until Dec. 19.  American Booksellers  Amazon’s Price Check app, which also drew criticism from
the  American Booksellers Association  last week, allows shoppers
to look up online prices by scanning products at a store using
their phones. EBay users can also check and compare prices in
stores with a barcode scanner using its mobile application.  The difference, said  Brian Blair , an analyst at Wedge
Partners Corp. in New York., is that “Amazon is a direct
competitor to brick-and-mortar retailers.” The Seattle-based
retailer drew fire because the app lets the company gather in-
store prices and adjust its own to be more competitive, he said.  EBay has developed relationships with brick-and-mortar
stores this year through the $2.4 billion acquisition of GSI
Commerce Inc., which manages websites and inventory for 180
retailers, including the ones participating in EBay’s promotion.  Sally Fouts, an Amazon spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment.  EBay rose 2.7 percent to $30.40 at the close in New York.
Amazon was unchanged at $181.26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  