-- Tebow Endorsing FRS Energy Drink Puts Oak Investment in Position to Score
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/tebow-endorsing-frs-energy-drink-puts-oak-investment-in-position-to-score.html
Tim Tebow  has helped turn a $100 bet
on the  Denver Broncos  into more than $38,000 in six weeks. Fred Harman says his venture capital firm’s wager on the second-year
quarterback may also deliver big returns.  Harman is managing partner at  Palo Alto , California-based
 Oak Investment Partners , which five years ago bought a 50
percent stake in FRS Co. The company, which sells energy
products, including beverages and powdered drink mixes, signed
Tebow as an endorser last year.  Since taking over for Kyle Orton on Oct. 23 Tebow has led
Denver to a 7-1 record, including wins in the past six games,
and become one of the most talked-about athletes in the world.  Tebow mania has helped drive what FRS officials say is
“double- and triple-digit growth” in sales to major retailers.  “We were willing to bet on Tim and his future career as
much as Tim was making a bet on us,” Harman, a member of the
company’s board and a former general partner with Morgan
Stanley’s Venture Capital Group, said in a telephone interview,
adding that Tebow turned down an endorsement offer from PepsiCo
Inc.’s Gatorade brand.  A $100 bet on the Broncos at the start of their unbeaten
streak, with winnings reinvested, would have generated $38,450,
says RJ Bell, chief executive officer of Las Vegas-based
handicapping website Pregame.com.  Tebow, 24, and the American Football Conference West-
leading Broncos are 6 1/2-point underdogs for their home game
against two-time National Football League Most Valuable player
 Tom Brady  and the  New England Patriots  this weekend.  Neither Harman, a former investor in basketball’s  Golden
State Warriors , nor Carl Sweat, chief executive of closely held-
FRS, would disclose terms of their contract with Tebow, who used
the company’s products while at the University of Florida. Even
though the 6-foot-3, 235-pound left-hander won the Heisman
Trophy as college football’s best player and helped the Gators
to two national championships, scouts weren’t convinced he would
become a successful NFL quarterback.  Equity Stake  According to Harman, most endorsers of Torrance,
California-based  FRS , including Tebow and seven-time Tour de
France winner  Lance Armstrong , get a “vast” equity stake in
the company. He wouldn’t be specific.  “The cash component of our deals are very moderate,”
said Harman, 51.  Neither Harman nor Sweat would disclose the company’s
revenue or specific sales figures.  According to SymphonyIRI Group, a Chicago-based market
research firm, the company’s sales grew 119 percent to $10.4
million in the year ended Nov. 27 at U.S. groceries, gas
stations and warehouse stores excluding Wal-Mart. The beverage
outpaced growth of 16 percent for the $6.4 billion energy drink
category. FRS’s sales growth slowed to 32 percent in the most
recent four weeks, as the category grew 22 percent.  ‘Tebow Effect’  “The recent ‘Tebow Effect’ has driven double- and triple-
digit growth for FRS with large customers like Safeway, GNC and
Publix as more consumers become familiar with Tim’s belief in
FRS Healthy Energy and Healthy Protein products,” Sweat said in
an e-mail.  Tebow’s agent, Jimmy Sexton, didn’t return an e-mail or a
telephone message left at his office seeking comment on his
client’s marketing contracts. Tebow also has agreements with
Nike Inc. and Jockey International Inc.  Tebow’s success has become one of the dominant storylines
in the NFL, often regarding how he uses his football fame to
disseminate the teachings of his Christian faith.  Football or Faith  Host  Jay Leno  included a bit in an opening monologue on
“The Tonight Show” this week about Tebow and the Broncos
benefiting from divine intervention. The quarterback appears on
the cover of this week’s  Sports Illustrated , and Fathead LLC
added a $99.99 stick-on wall graphic of him “Tebowing,” the
kneeling-in-prayer pose he strikes after victories that has
become an Internet fad.  “Tim is without a doubt the hottest not only name, but
brand, being forged in sports right now,” said Sweat, who
graduated from the  University of Georgia , a rival of  Florida  in
the  Southeastern Conference .  The talk on Tebow isn’t always flattering, whether the
topic is football or faith.  Scouts and commentators such as ESPN’s Merril Hoge panned
Tebow’s throwing mechanics, saying his inaccuracy wouldn’t
permit him to become a winning quarterback in the NFL.  Former NFL quarterback Jake Plummer said he would like
Tebow more if he’d stop inundating fans with religion.  “When he accepts the fact that we know that he loves Jesus
Christ, then I think I’ll like him a little better,” Plummer
told a Phoenix-area radio station last month. Another former
quarterback, Kurt Warner, who stressed his religious beliefs
during a career that included a Super Bowl championship, told
the  Arizona Republic  that he would advise Tebow to tone done the
religious references.  Increased Ads  Sweat and Harman say Tebow has far more supporters than
detractors.  “We’re seeking out people that are world-class athletes
and, more importantly, world-class human beings,” Harman said.  FRS plans to increase its Tebow-themed advertising,
according to Harman. The company tried to buy a Super Bowl
commercial last season but was rebuffed by the NFL, Sweat said.
League spokesman  Brian McCarthy  didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on why the ad was refused.  Social Media  While FRS will probably buy “as much TV as we can
afford,” the company is also making use of social media. It has
about 148,000 Facebook “likes,” up from 3,000 a year ago. The
number “skyrocketed” after Tebow joined the company, Sweat
said.  Bob Dorfman, executive creative director at San Francisco-
based Baker Street advertising, said the risk to Tebow as an
endorser isn’t religion but defensive coordinators.  “If defenses catch up to him, and figure out how he works,
this just becomes a flash in the pan,” Dorfman said in a
telephone interview.  According to Harman, Oak Investment backed companies such
as  Whole Foods  Market Inc.,  Office Depot (ODP)  Inc. and  aQuantive ,
which was acquired by  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. in 2007 for $6 billion. He
and Sweat said Tebow can do the same for FRS.  “In my world, there are essentially two camps of folks,”
Sweat said. “Those who believe in Tim and those who will.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  