-- EIB to Reduce Lending Next Year on Market Turmoil, Molterer Says
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2011-12-16T14:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/eib-to-reduce-lending-next-year-on-market-turmoil-molterer-says.html
The  European Investment Bank  will
reduce lending next year as the sovereign debt crisis pushes
markets lower and banks cut back on offering credit, EIB Vice
President Wilhelm Molterer said.  The European Union’s long-term lending institution said it
lent about 77 billion euros ($100.7 billion) to central and
eastern European countries between 2004 and 2010. That pace
won’t be maintained in 2012, Molterer said in an interview today
in Bucharest.  “We are not working out of the blue, we are of course
working under current market circumstances,” Molterer said in
an interview in Bucharest today. “That means our level of
lending won’t be increased for the next year. It has to be a bit
lower than it was, no doubt about that.”  The euro region has been hit by a debt crisis that has
pushed the euro down about 13 percent against the dollar in two
years and caused stocks and bonds to slump, while governments
are under pressure to slash spending to keep debt levels from
soaring. International banks, which fueled an eastern credit
boom between 2005 and 2008, may reduce support for their local
units as they seek to attract funds to boost their own capital.  Molterer said some of the losses don’t seem to make sense,
considering the sound fundamentals of individual economies.  “I do not see a specific situation for a credit crunch in
specific countries,” Molterer said. “I think it is one of the
key elements for all of us to find the right balance between
austerity on the public sector and growth via research and
investment.”  The European Banking Authority demanded banks raise about
115 billion euros in fresh capital by mid-2012 to withstand
writedowns on Greek bonds and other risky markets. It also
warned them not to cut lending or inflate capital levels
artificially.  About 70 percent of the capital requirement falls on
lenders in  Spain ,  Greece ,  Italy  and  Portugal , according to the
EBA. Greek banks, which control about 30 percent of  Romania ’s
banking system have the biggest deficit and need to raise 30
billion euros.  “We are not playing any role in the recapitalization of
banks, not now and not in the future,” Molterer said.  Central banks around the world have injected cash into
markets to address concern that banks are struggling to fund
themselves. The  European Central Bank  said Dec. 8 it will offer
banks unlimited cash for three years.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the ratings of BNP Paribas
SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA on Dec. 9, citing
funding constraints and deteriorating economic conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  