-- Telekom Austria Cuts Dividend by Half as Europe Debt Crisis Trims Spending
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2011-12-16T17:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/telekom-austria-cuts-dividend-by-half-as-europe-debt-crisis-trims-spending.html
Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  cut the minimum
dividend it will pay for this year and 2012 by half to 38 euro
cents ($0.50) a share, citing an adverse economic environment
and investments that will weigh on  cash flow  and increase debt.  Austria’s former telephone monopoly, which had previously
planned to pay at least 76 cents a share, will pay a dividend of
about 55 percent of free cash flow from 2013 as long as this
doesn’t lead to a “deterioration of group equity,” Vienna-
based Telekom Austria said in a statement today. The company
reiterated its guidance for 2011.  Telekom Austria’s move comes two days after  Spain ’s largest
telecommunications company, Telefonica SA, cut its dividend for
the first time in a decade as consumers and corporations trim
spending amid  Europe ’s sovereign  debt crisis. (TEF)  Austrian investor
Ronny Pecik, who owns 15.8 percent of Telekom Austria, told
weekly magazine Format today that he’s aiming for a 25 percent
stake and that the company’s dividend policy is “excessive.”  “An adverse macro-economic environment as well as highly
volatile foreign-exchange markets will continue to affect
Telekom Austria’s operations for the foreseeable future,” the
company said in the statement. “Anticipated significant
investments, such as upcoming spectrum auctions, are expected to
lead to pressure on cash flows as well as a material increase of
Telekom Austria’s leverage beyond its target corridor.”  Telekom Austria’s dividend yield before the cut was 8.3
percent, more than the average of 6.3 percent for European
telephone companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company said its supervisory board also discussed a
plan to improve operational performance. The plan will be
presented in February.  Telekom Austria  still forecasts earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of 1.55 billion euros this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  