-- Telus Sees 2012 Sales Gaining 6.5% on Phones, Digital TV
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2011-12-16T18:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/telus-sees-2102-sales-gaining-6-5-on-smartphones-digital-tv.html
Telus Corp. (T) , Canada’s third-largest
wireless carrier, forecast 2012 sales growth of as much as 6.5
percent as it concentrates on selling more smartphone contracts
and digital-television subscribers.  Revenue will be C$10.7 billion ($10.3 billion) to
C$11 billion, the Vancouver-based company said today in a
statement. Earnings will be from C$3.75 to C$4.15 a share,
excluding tax adjustments, Telus said. Analysts estimated profit
of C$4.14 on sales of C$10.8 billion.  The company’s shares climbed 24 percent this year before
today, outperforming rivals  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Rogers Communications
Inc . as Telus focuses on mobile phones and cable and eschews
sports and media acquisitions like those BCE and Rogers have
made to add content. Telus also benefits from its western Canada
base, where the commodity-driven economy has cushioned consumers
better than in Ontario and  Quebec , home to Rogers and BCE.  Chief Executive Officer Darren Entwistle has said Telus
doesn’t need content to succeed. By contrast, BCE’s CEO George Cope advocates a “four-screen strategy” to sell programming on
smartphones, tablets, computers and televisions.  Cope spent C$1.3 billion to buy broadcaster CTVglobemedia
Inc., a transaction completed in April. He also teamed up with
Rogers CEO Nadir Mohamed earlier this month in an agreement to
buy Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment Ltd., owner of the Toronto
Maple Leafs hockey team and Raptors basketball franchise, for
C$1.32 billion.  ‘Right Thing’  “We are doing the right thing by investing in our core
business,” Chief Financial Officer Robert McFarlane said in an
interview today. Others are investing in media at “very high
prices” and “there are tradeoffs to that,” he said.  Telus fell 0.4 percent to C$56.28 in Toronto at 1:25 p.m.  Canada ’s telecommunications regulator earlier this week
ruled that BCE was wrong to negotiate exclusive mobile-device
rights for professional hockey and football after a complaint
from Telus. BCE has 30 days to explain how it will guarantee
Telus has access to that content on “reasonable” terms, the
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission
said.  “That decision really vindicates our whole strategy,”
McFarlane said. “You don’t need to own content to distribute
content.”  The company’s earnings before interest, taxes, amortization
and depreciation will climb by as much as 6 percent next year to
as high as C$4 billion, according to the company’s statement.  Telus reiterated a 2011 revenue forecast. The company said
in August that full-year sales will rise by C$200 million to
C$300 million. Telus said today that revenue this year will be
C$10.23 billion to C$10.43 billion, and earnings will be C$3.50
to C$3.90 a share.  McFarlane said he doesn’t expect smartphone adoption to
slow down for Telus in 2012 even as fiscal problems in  Europe 
threaten to crimp economic growth in  North America .  “We will load more smartphones next year than we did this
year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  