-- Eolice, LM Wind to Build Windmill-Blade Factory in Brazil
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2011-12-16T18:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/eolice-lm-wind-to-build-windmill-blade-factory-in-brazil.html
Eolice Participacoes e Investimentos
and LM Wind Power Group will build a windmill- blade factory in
 Brazil  to help meet rising demand.  The companies will start on the 100 million-real ($54.1
million) plant in April at Suape Port in the northeastern state
of Pernambuco, Romualdo Monteiro de Barros, director of Sao Jose
dos Campos, Brazil-based Eolice, said yesterday in a telephone
interview.  Eolice was formed in 2010 by a group that included three
former executives of Brazilian aircraft maker  Embraer SA. (ERJ)  LM
Wind Power, based in Kolding,  Denmark , is the world’s biggest
independent maker of windmill blades.  Brazil imports blades because the two companies that have
factories there, Tecsis Tecnologia E Sistemas Avancados Ltda.
and Wobben Windpower - Industria e Comercio Ltda., aren’t
meeting demand, Barros said.  “Tecsis doesn’t have the conditions to provide for all
turbine makers,” he said. “Wobben uses a lot of its blades at
its own wind farms.”  LM Wind will provide its blade-manufacturing expertise and
will invest in the facility, Barros said.  “As much as 40 percent of the total installed capacity in
2011 had imported blades,” Eduardo Tabbush, an analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s office in  Sao Paulo , said today
in a telephone interview. “This is expected to decrease in the
medium-term as Brazil increases local blade production.”  The factory will start producing 50-meter blades in the
middle of 2013, he said.  It will be located near Buenos Aires-based Industrias
Metalurgicas Pescarmona SA’s wind-turbine factory and a plant
that makes wind-farm towers owned by  Spain ’s Grupo Gonvarri,
Roberto de Abreu e Lima, an engineer at Pernambuco’s Secretary
of  Economic Development , said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “Pernambuco will become the first state in the country to
produce towers, blades and generators -- the whole supply
chain,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  