-- Mercator Gains in Ljubljana as Banks Seen Adamant to Sell
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2011-12-16T14:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/mercator-gains-in-ljubljana-as-banks-seen-adamant-to-sell-1-.html
Mercator Poslovni Sistem d.d. (MELR)  gained
in Ljubljana amid expectations banks will sell their majority
stake in the biggest store chain in the Balkans to its Croatian
rival  Agrokor d.d. .  The stock rose 8 euros, or 5.2 percent, to close at 161
euros, the most in three weeks, after rising as much as 8
percent in earlier trading. Mercator advanced 4.8 percent this
year, giving the company a market value of about 606 million
euros ($792 million).  “Banks are apparently adamant to sell their holdings in
Mercator,” Saso Stanovnik, head of research at Ljubljana-based
brokerage Alta Invest d.d., said in an e-mail today. He doesn’t
own Mercator stock. “At this price on one side and what Agrokor
offered on the other, one would get a hefty profit, so it’s
worth speculating.”  Slovenian banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and
other investors are in exclusive talks with Agrokor,  Croatia ’s
biggest private company, to purchase the 52 percent stake of
Mercator. Agrokor bid 221 euros per share and would have to
extend its offer for the rest of Slovenian rival if its bid is
successful.  Management Demands  The management of the Slovenian company is refusing to
allow due diligence to its rival and is demanding more binding
commitments from Agrokor’s partners, including the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development, to protect the interests of
the retailer. Mercator management has said it can’t stop the
sale.  Slovenia opposes the EBRD’s participation in a “possible
hostile takeover” of Mercator by Agrokor, the  Finance Ministry 
said in a statement in Ljubljana today. The ministry believes
the takeover would have significant negative implications for
Slovenia’s economy.  Slovenian banks need to raise fresh funds to improve their
capital cushions by mid-2012 as bad loans continue to advance
after the 2009 recession and a faltering economic recovery. Both
NLB and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. (KBMR)  are likely to report
full-year losses for 2011. Bad loan provisions at lenders in the
country surged 40 percent in the first 10 months from a year ago
to 706 million euros, according to the Slovenian central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  