-- Mercedes Leads Luxury-Car Discounts in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-16T04:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/mercedes-leads-luxury-car-discounts-in-china.html
Mercedes-Benz and  BMW (BMW)  dealers
deepened their discounts on some models in China last month as
slowing property and stock markets weighed on premium-car
purchases, according to a research firm.  Average prices of Daimler AG’s basic 2012 Mercedes-Benz
C200 sedan at Chinese dealerships were 16 percent below the
manufacturer’s recommended price last month, compared with 14
percent in October and 3.4 percent in July, when the model
became available, according to data from China Auto Market. BMW
dealers sold the 2012 320i sedan 11 percent below the suggested
price, more than triple the initial discount for the 2011 model.  Daimler,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  and  Volkswagen AG ’s
Audi are looking to the world’s biggest car market to prop up
deliveries as European demand sags on concern over the region’s
sovereign debt crisis. A slowdown in  China ’s property and stock
markets will probably undermine discretionary spending,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG and BNP Paribas SA.  “Competition is getting fierce, especially in the entry-
level luxury car segment,” said  John Zeng , a Shanghai-based
director at researcher LMC Automotive Asia Pacific. “BMW,
Mercedes and Audi are expanding their capacity in China and the
majority of that capacity is used to make the entry-level
models, and that’s increasing the competition.”  China’s vehicle sales have slowed from last year’s record
32 percent increase as inflation, higher  interest rates  and the
end of a two-year stimulus plan deter purchases. Deliveries for
2011 may rise the least in 13 years, according to the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Bigger Discounts  Mercedes-Benz (DAI) ’s 2012 entry-level C200 sedan sold at 292,800
yuan ($46,122) last month, compared with the recommended price
of 348,000 yuan, according to China Auto Market, which surveys
dealerships in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Hangzhou and
Chengdu.  “There are phases when you offer customer discounts, like
in the phase-out period,”  Klaus Maier , Mercedes-Benz China
chief executive officer, said Nov. 21 at the Guangzhou Auto
Show. “But currently I feel comfortable.”  Dealers offered 6.7 percent off Volkswagen’s 2011 Audi A6L
last month, versus 1 percent in January at its introduction, the
data show. The new version of the sedan will be available in
early 2012.  BMW’s new BMW 5-series sedan, introduced last month in
China, sold at at the recommended price of 797,600 yuan,
according to the data.  Audi and BMW didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Stock Market  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has declined 22
percent this year and is trading at the lowest since March 2009,
as a drop in foreign direct investment and gauges showing a
contraction in manufacturing add to signs the world’s second-
largest economy is slowing.  Home prices  fell in 33 of 70 cities monitored by the
government in October, the worst performance since it expanded
property curbs and scrapped the reporting of national average
housing data this year.  “For premium consumers, tight liquidity could translate
into less speculative opportunities and hence less ‘spare cash’
for vehicle upgrades,” Hung Bin Toh, Hong Kong-based analyst at
Credit Suisse wrote in a Dec. 5 report.  Premium-vehicle sales growth in China is forecast to slow
to 16 percent in 2012, down from the 41 percent pace in the
first 10 months of this year, according to LMC Automotive, an
industry researcher. China’s vehicle sales will probably rise 10
percent next year, according to the auto industry group.  Last month, Audi posted a 69 percent jump in China
deliveries to 29,861 units. BMW had a 9.8 percent increase in
sales in the country, while Mercedes-Benz increased deliveries
by 24 percent.  “Competition is very strong,” said Klaus Paur, Shanghai-
based managing director at Synovate Motoresearch. “In order to
secure your market share, you need to be aggressive.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  