-- European Banks Insure $25 Billion of Government Debt via Swaps
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h
-- 2011-12-16T13:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/european-banks-insure-25-billion-of-government-debt-via-swaps.html
European banks have sold insurance
on a net 18.9 billion euros ($25 billion) of government debt in
the region, according to figures from the European Banking
Authority analyzed in today’s Bloomberg Risk newsletter.  Data gathered by the EBA for its stress tests, combined
with figures compiled by the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.,
show that European Union banks are responsible for 17 percent of
the credit-default swaps issued on euro sovereign bonds.  German, French and Italian banks have the most at stake,
the data show. German banks have underwritten 8.1 billion euros
of  government securities , the most for any country surveyed by
the EBA. The four largest French banks, which were downgraded by
Moody’s Investors Service last week, wrote 4.1 billion euros of
protection, while Italian banks sold 3 billion euros of swaps
designed to compensate the buyer in the event of a government
failing to meet its obligations.  The entanglement between banks and their governments may
hamper plans by regulators to move settlement of credit-default
swap trades to clearing houses by the end of 2012, said Jon
Gregory, partner at Solum Financial Partners in  London . French
banks, for example, have insured a net 1.5 billion euros of
their own government debt, according to the EBA.  Risk Analysis  “Managing portfolio and wrong-way risks in credit-default
swaps is one of the most difficult challenges on a technical
level, and it is unclear that clearing companies have had the
time or expertise in place to manage this properly,” said
Gregory. “In terms of disclosure, clearers are a bit of a black
box in terms of analyzing the risk on their balance sheets.”  The only clearing house that can currently handle sovereign
default swaps is  InterContinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , which began
clearing Brazilian, Mexican, Argentine and Venezuelan CDS last
month. In its Securities and Exchange Commission approval for
the move on Oct. 18, ICE Clear Credit said it would prohibit
dealers from clearing CDS on their own countries because the
default correlation risk was too high.  ICE is still awaiting Financial Services Authority approval
to clear European sovereigns, fifteen months after submitting a
request for approval. Rival LCH.Clearnet Ltd. is focusing on
clearing corporate single-name CDS, according to an e-mailed
statement from the company.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. The figures for  Europe ’s
banks are net positions; German banks, for example, have sold
109 billion euros of protection and bought 100.9 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Dunbar at   ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  