-- European Stocks Decline for Second Week on Fiscal Crisis in Region, Fed
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2011-12-17T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/european-stocks-decline-for-second-week-on-fiscal-crisis-fed.html
European stocks  fell for a second
week as concern lingered that the region’s debt crisis is
deepening and the  Federal Reserve  refrained from taking new
action to bolster the world’s largest economy.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  led banks
and carmakers lower, falling more than 7 percent, as investors
shunned companies with profits most tied to economic growth.
Logica Plc plunged 23 percent after the Anglo-Dutch computer-
services provider reduced its sales-growth forecast.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slid 2.8 percent to 233.71 this
past week. The benchmark gauge has slumped 15 percent in 2011 as
the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis spread to  Italy  and  Spain 
and economic growth in the U.S. slowed. Optimism that the
 European Central Bank  and governments across the region will
stem the crisis has led to an 11 percent rebound from this
year’s lowest level on Sept. 22.  “There is a risk that we will get a pretty serious
recession in  Europe ,” said Bill Dinning, the Edinburgh-based
strategy chief at Kames Capital Plc, which manages 47 billion
pounds ($73 billion). “Economic growth is weak, the earnings
outlook is weak and that’s making us cautious.” He spoke in a
Bloomberg Television interview with  Mark Barton  on Dec. 15.  The Fed declined to take new action to lower borrowing
costs in a statement on Dec. 13, saying the  U.S. economy 
continues to expand even as global growth slows. The central
bank repeated a warning at its two previous meetings that the
“strains in global financial markets continue to pose
significant downside risks to the economic outlook.”  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service said it will review the ratings
of all European Union countries in the first quarter because an
EU summit on Dec. 8 and Dec. 9 failed to deliver “decisive
policy measures” to end the debt crisis.  Global investors are avoiding equities in the final month
of 2011 and maintaining high levels of cash holdings, a Bank of
America Corp. survey of money managers who oversee $608 billion
showed Dec. 13. Investors cut holdings in  European stocks (SXXP) , with
35 percent saying they were “underweight” the region in
December, compared with 30 percent last month.  “Investors end 2011 in a grim, resigned mood,” Michael Hartnett, chief global-equity strategist at BofA Merrill Lynch
wrote in the report.  Jobless Claims  The Stoxx 600 rose 1 percent on Dec. 15 as U.S. Labor
Department figures showed the number of  applications  for
unemployment benefits dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 in the week
ended Dec. 10, the fewest since May 2008. A Bloomberg survey of
47 economists had projected a reading of 390,000.  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets. France’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  lost 6.3 percent,  Germany ’s
DAX slid 4.8 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 sank 2.6 percent.  BNP Paribas, France’s biggest bank, retreated 15 percent.
Societe Generale SA also declined 15 percent and HSBC Holdings
Plc, the region’s largest lender, dropped 4.8 percent. A gauge
of banks in the Stoxx 600 fell 6.1 percent, extending its slump
for the year to 35 percent.  “The banks are in potentially quite a difficult
situation,” said Matthew Moniot, the founder and chief
investment officer of Elanus Capital Mangement in  New York . He
spoke in a Bloomberg Television interview in London. “The banks
will not heel, no matter how much capital they are forced to
hold, while we have this sovereign-debt overhang.”  BMW, the world’s largest maker of luxury cars, lost 7.1
percent and Daimler AG retreated 7 percent.  Logica Sinks  Logica fell 23 percent, the most since August, after
reducing its full-year revenue growth  forecast (LOG)  to about 3
percent, compared with a Nov. 2 estimate for an increase of more
than 3 percent. The company also said it will accelerate
restructuring measures that will eliminate more than 1,300 jobs
with charges of 80 million pounds this year.  Telefonica SA slid 7.7 percent after Spain’s largest
telecommunications company cut its  dividend (TEF)  for the first time
in a decade, highlighting the extent to which Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis has curbed sales. The company cited market
conditions, which it said have changed “significantly.”  Old Mutual Plc rallied 7.4 percent as the third-biggest
U.K. insurer said it plans to sell its Nordic unit to Skandia
Liv for 2.1 billion pounds to reduce debt and return capital to
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  