-- Euro-Area October Exports Fall 1.9%, Led by Germany, Spain
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2011-12-16T10:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/euro-area-october-exports-fall-1-9-led-by-germany-spain-1-.html
European exports fell in October,
led by declines in  Germany  and Spain, as the region’s economy
edged toward a recession.  Exports from the euro region dropped a seasonally adjusted
1.9 percent from September, when they fell 1.1 percent, the
European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
Imports fell 0.7 percent, and the  trade surplus  shrank to 300
million euros ($391 million) from 2.2 billion euros a month
earlier.  Labor costs  grew 2.7 percent in the third quarter, a
separate report showed.  Europe ’s economy is showing signs of weakening in the
current quarter, as the euro area’s debt crisis spreads from
periphery nations to core countries and global demand falters.
The  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark  interest rate  last
week for the second straight month and lowered its forecast for
growth next year to 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said Europe faces “a mild recession by year-end.”  The euro region’s economy may contract 0.6 percent in the
fourth quarter,  Chris Williamson , chief economist at London-
based Markit Economics, said yesterday. Rising exports in the
third quarter helped to offset the impact of a slump in
construction and maintain growth of 0.2 percent.  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.3037 at 11:12 a.m. in Brussels, up 0.2 percent.  Exports from Germany, Europe’s biggest economy, decreased a
seasonally adjusted 1.7 percent in October, today’s report
showed, while shipments from France dropped 0.4 percent. Spanish
exports plunged 9.1 percent in the month. Belgian shipments
soared 10.7 percent.  Ripples from Europe’s debt turmoil have dented confidence
among companies and consumers and hit global demand. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said last
month that trade in goods stalled in most major economies in the
third quarter and it cut its growth forecast.  Euro-area nominal labor costs, which include wages and
salaries, grew a working-day adjusted 2.7 percent in the third
quarter after a 3.3 percent increase in the previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  