-- Euro Weakens After Fitch Downgrade Warnings
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-12-16T22:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/euro-advances-as-juncker-signals-eu-to-meet-imf-loan-deadline-yen-falls.html
The euro dropped against the
majority of its most-traded counterparts as concern increased
that the region’s leaders won’t be able to contain the
sovereign-debt crisis after  Fitch Ratings  put  France  on negative
outlook and said six other European nations may be downgraded.  The 17-nation currency erased earlier gains against the
dollar as Fitch revised its outlook on the ratings of Belgium,
 Spain , Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus to negative, and said
France is more exposed to the crisis than other top-rated euro-
zone countries. Canada’s currency fell, erasing earlier gains,
as European ratings concern damped demand for higher-yielding
assets.  “There is a positive and negative camp and Fitch is
obviously in the negative,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist
at FOREX.com, a unit of online currency trading firm Gain
Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “The market is ahead of the
ratings agency and the declines we’ve seen in the euro is
pricing in a probability of a ratings cut.”  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3046 at 5 p.m. in New
York, after gaining as much as 0.5 percent. It fell 2.5 percent
this week, the biggest such decline since the five-day period
ended Sept. 9. The shared currency rose 0.1 percent to 101.47
yen. The Japanese currency rose 0.1 percent to 77.76 per dollar.  Annual View  The euro has depreciated 0.8 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has advanced 4.8 percent
and the dollar has gained 1.7 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, rose the most
among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, adding 1.1
percent to 76.18 U.S. cents, paring its loss this week to 1.8
percent.  Canada ’s currency fell 0.3 percent to C$1.0383 and the
nation’s 10-year bond yields fell below 1.9 percent for the
first time.  Fitch said a “comprehensive solution” to the euro-zone
crisis is “technically and politically beyond reach.” The
company said Dec. 12, without taking any action, that a European
Union leaders’ summit last week did little to ease pressure on
 Europe ’s sovereign bond ratings.  Standard & Poor’s  put 15 of the 17 euro nations on
“creditwatch negative” last week, pending the outcome of last
week’s summit and the actions of central bankers. The ratings
company said it would conclude its review of the ratings “as
soon as possible” following the leaders’ meeting.  Belgium  had its local- and foreign-currency government bond
cut by two levels to Aa3 from Aa1 by Moody’s Investors Service,
which cited factors including “the sustained deterioration” in
funding conditions.  Euro Plan  European leaders unveiled a blueprint last week for a
closer fiscal accord to save the currency. They agreed to move
up the creation of the permanent European Stability Mechanism
and said that by March the EU will reassess plans to cap the
overall lending of the ESM and the temporary rescue fund at 500
billion euros ($651 billion).  The euro earlier gained after Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude
Juncker said Europe should meet a deadline for arranging loans
with the  International Monetary Fund  as part of a crisis-
fighting package.  The three-month cross-currency basis swap, the rate banks
pay to convert euro payments into dollars, was 122 basis points
below the euro interbank offered rate, 18 basis points lower
than yesterday’s 140 basis points. The measure reached 162 in
November, which was the highest level since October 2008.  Inflation Data  The cost of living in the U.S. stagnated last month as
gasoline prices dropped, supporting the  Federal Reserve ’s view
that inflation remains in check.  The unchanged reading in the consumer-price index last
month followed a 0.1 percent decline the prior month, a report
from the Labor Department showed today in  Washington . That
compares with a 0.1 percent increase forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 82 economists.  The Fed’s policy-setting panel said on Dec. 13 the economy
“has been expanding moderately,” compared with the Nov. 2
assessment that growth “strengthened somewhat.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, dropped 0.1 percent to 80.139.  Futures traders increased their bets to a record level that
the euro will decline against the  U.S. dollar , figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 116,457 on Dec.
13, compared with net shorts of 95,814 a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  