-- Euro Short Bets Versus Dollar at Record on Region’s Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-12-16T22:24:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/euro-short-bets-versus-dollar-at-record-on-region-s-debt-crisis-concern.html
Futures traders increased bets that
the euro will decline against the dollar to a record level this
week amid speculation the region is struggling to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators had 116,457 more
 bets  the 17-nation currency will fall versus the dollar than
gain in the five-day period ended Dec. 13, according to
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data. The so-called net-
shorts compare with 95,814 a week earlier and the previous
record of 113,890 reached in May 2010, when  Greece  accepted a
110 billion-euro ($145 billion) aid package.  The dollar weakened 0.2 percent to $1.3046 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time. The shared declined 2.5 percent for the week
versus the U.S. currency, its largest five-day loss since the
week ended Sept. 9.  European leaders unveiled a blueprint last week for a
closer fiscal accord to save the currency. Moody’s Investors
Service, which said it would review the ratings of European
Union nations after the summit failed to produce decisive steps,
lowered  Belgium ’s credit rating two levels today.  Fitch Ratings today lowered  France ’s rating outlook and put
the grades of six other European nations on review for a
downgrade.  Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price
and date. The figures reflect holdings in currency-futures
contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as of Tuesday. Each
Friday, the CFTC publishes aggregate numbers for long and short
positions for speculators such as hedge funds and institutional
investors that buy or sell futures to protect against price
moves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  