-- Europe’s Crisis May Hold Seeds of Dealmaking
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2011-12-16T12:40:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/europe-s-crisis-may-hold-seeds-of-dealmaking-as-valuations-drop.html
U.S. and Asian companies seeking
acquisitions in  Europe  may accelerate dealmaking next year after
a slowdown in the second half, beckoned by a slumping euro and
share prices depressed by the sovereign debt crisis.  Led by Johnson & Johnson’s $21.3 billion bid for
Switzerland’s  Synthes Inc. (SYST) , announced takeovers in Europe by
overseas companies rose by about 58 percent to $252 billion this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. While acquisitions have
declined since July, companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
 China ’s HNA Group Co., and Japan’s  Fast Retailing Co. (9983)  have
signaled an appetite for further takeovers in the region.  “There are well-positioned acquirers globally looking for
bargains,” even if economic pressure has slowed recent European
dealmaking, said Gregg Lemkau, head of mergers and acquisitions
for Europe, the  Middle East , Africa and Asia-Pacific at  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “One of the drivers in Europe has been
historically low valuations and a relatively soft currency.”  Europe may offer the best bargains in more than 15 years.
The MSCI Europe Index, a measure of 450 stocks,  trades (MXEU)  for 10.4
times reported earnings, showing equities in the region are
cheaper than they’ve been 98 percent of the time since 1995,
according to Bloomberg data.  The euro, meanwhile, has fallen by about 13 percent against
the dollar since the sovereign debt crisis began two years ago,
making conditions even more favorable for U.S. buyers. Potential
Japanese acquirers have the advantage of a yen that has gained
about 10 percent in the past six months against a benchmark
basket of currencies including the euro.  Acquiring Technology  While few companies are clamoring for access to the
European market itself, “in many cases, what overseas buyers
are really acquiring in Europe is technology, or access to
 emerging markets ,” said Giuseppe Monarchi, head of European M&A
at Credit Suisse Group AG.  J&J’s planned purchase of Synthes will give the U.S.
health-care products maker devices used to treat bone fractures
and trauma, while  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s $10.3 billion takeover
of the U.K.’s Autonomy Corp. in November handed it data-sifting
enterprise search technology helpful to cloud computing. In
buying Luxembourg-based Skype Technologies SA for $8.5 billion
in October,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  absorbed the world’s biggest
provider of Internet telephone service.  Emerging Markets  European companies have also tended to be more aggressive
than their U.S. counterparts in expanding in markets like Africa
and the Middle East, spending about $90 billion on deals in
those regions since 2000, Bloomberg data show. That compares
with about $50 billion of such takeovers by U.S. companies.  So far, access to those markets and technologies mean many
European targets are still worth having. However, a protracted
slowdown and a failure by European policy makers to resolve
their fiscal challenges may damp the outlook for dealmaking.  A degree of reluctance to do deals will “likely persist
until there’s some resolution to the debt crisis,” said Goldman
Sachs’s Lemkau. “The interest is still there, but the
volatility and uncertainty in the markets makes the likelihood
of most acquirers taking action low.”  Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 12 it will review the
ratings of all European Union countries after a summit last week
in Brussels failed to produce “decisive policy measures” to
end the region’s debt crisis.  Standard & Poor’s  placed the
ratings of 15 euro nations on review for possible downgrade on
Dec. 5.  Slowing Pace  Dealmaking in Europe declined in the second half to the
slowest pace since 2008, with foreign buyers announcing $86
billion of acquisitions, 48 percent less than in the first half,
Bloomberg data show.  Still, many companies have recently expressed an interest
in Europe. General Electric, based in Fairfield, Connecticut,
said in November it’s targeting European deals as it seeks to
compete with German rival  Siemens AG. (SIE)  Fast Retailing, owner of
the Uniqlo fashion brand, is seeking European targets to offset
stagnant sales at home, Chief Executive Officer  Tadashi Yanai 
said last month. HNA, meanwhile, has said it has a $6 billion
war chest for acquisitions in Europe and the U.S.  There were more than $8 billion in takeovers announced
globally today, including New York-based Apollo Global
Management LLC’s agreement to acquire Belgian chemical producer
Taminco Group Holdings from CVC Capital Partners Ltd. for about
1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion), the data show.  Cash Stashes  “The U.S. went into recession earlier than Europe and came
out of it faster,” said David Silver, head of European
investment banking at Milwaukee-based  Robert W. Baird , which
typically focuses on deals valued at as much as $1 billion.
“American companies are armed with stronger balance sheets and
want to deploy capital.”  A study of 258 U.S. corporations by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
published in September, found they held $368 billion abroad,
roughly half of their total cash, cash equivalents or
investments. Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard both cited a need to
find a healthy return on their cash held overseas when
announcing their takeovers of Skype and Autonomy, respectively,
earlier this year.  `Getting Serious'  U.S. companies may face competition from Asian acquirers,
who have announced about $72 billion of takeovers in Europe so
far this year, up 42 percent from the same period a year ago,
according to Bloomberg data. Japanese acquirers led dealmaking,
more than doubling their purchases to $34 billion.  “Japanese companies are getting serious about acquisitions
abroad,” said Hernan Cristerna, head of M&A for Europe, the
Middle East and Africa at JPMorgan in  London .  Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s $13.7 billion takeover of
Nycomed ASA, a Norwegian supplier of pharmaceuticals, was the
biggest acquisition by an Asian buyer in Europe. More recently,
Suntory Holdings Ltd. entered talks to buy bottled-water assets
from France’s  Danone SA (BN) , people familiar with the matter said in
October.  On the whole, a bleak economic outlook hasn’t changed the
fundamental attractiveness of at least some European companies,
dealmakers say.  “International companies are stepping up their focus on
Europe,” said Jean-Baptiste Charlet, head of global industries
for Europe, the Middle East and Africa at  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  “The
euro crisis still scares them, but there’s a lot of technology
to be gleaned and the companies here are very well-developed
internationally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Chris V. Nicholson at 
 cnicholson22@bloomberg.net  