-- Texas Republicans, Democrats Delay State Primaries, Skip Super Tuesday
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2011-12-16T21:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/texas-republicans-democrats-agree-to-postpone-state-s-primary-election.html
Texas  won’t hold party primary
elections on March 6 –- Super Tuesday –- a U.S. judge ruled
after state Republicans and Democrats struck a deal to avoid
holding multiple primaries.  “The two major political parties have carefully worked out
the agreement giving rise to this order,” U.S. District Judge
Orlando Garcia said today on behalf of the three-judge panel
that is overseeing Texas’s redistricting fight in federal court
in San Antonio.  Texas will hold its 2012 general primary for all federal,
state and local elections on April 3, with runoff elections set
for June 5, according to the order. The court also extended the
state’s candidate filing deadlines for a third time, until Feb.
1.  The delay means Texans won’t vote on Super Tuesday, when 10
other states are set to hold party primaries or caucuses. The
day has heightened significance in the U.S. presidential primary
contest, as more voters go to the polls that day than on any
other in the 2012 primary election cycle.  Earlier, the Texas Republican Party leadership fought to
keep Texas’s presidential primary on Super Tuesday, to preserve
the state’s political influence and boost voter turnout for
Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who is running for president. The
party leaders wanted Texas to hold multiple primaries for
different races, most of which must be delayed while wrangling
over Texas’s election maps plays out in three federal courts.  Primary Costs  Texas Democrats, 28 members of the state’s congressional
and legislative delegations, including Republicans, and the
Hispanic voting-rights groups involved in the redistricting
fight urged the court this week to order a single, unified
primary election, even if it meant dumping Super Tuesday. They
said cash-strapped state and county governments couldn’t afford
to spend scare resources to hold multiple primaries, which might
also suppress voter turnout.  The debate was prompted by the  U.S. Supreme Court ’s
decision to hear a challenge stemming from complaints by
Hispanic voting-rights groups and the U.S.  Justice Department 
that election maps drawn by the Republican-controlled Texas
Legislature are racially gerrymandered.  The U.S. high court will hear arguments on Jan. 9 at a
hearing in Washington. The justices stayed implementation of
both the Legislature’s election maps and temporary replacement
maps drawn by the three-judge San Antonio panel until the high
court decides whether the lower court overstepped its authority
by creating maps that largely ignored the Legislature’s lines.  Gained Seats  Texas gained four congressional seats after adding almost
4.3 million new residents since 2000. Hispanics comprised about
65 percent of that increase, according to the 2010  U.S. Census .  Perry approved election maps drawn by the Legislature in
June, shortly before he announced his candidacy for president.
Critics said the maps created no new districts that improved
election opportunities for Latinos, who provided the bulk of the
state’s growth and who historically have voted more often for
Democrats than Republicans.  Republicans hold 23 of Texas’s 32 congressional seats.  The  San Antonio  court is weighing the Hispanic activists’
challenge to the state’s maps, while a separate three-judge
panel in federal court in Washington weighs a lawsuit filed by
Texas seeking pre-clearance of the Legislature’s election maps.  Trial Scheduled  Texas, like all states with a history of voting-rights
violations, must obtain pre-clearance from the Washington court
or the Justice Department before implementing new election
districts. The Obama administration opposes the state’s maps.
The Washington court has scheduled a trial in the dispute
starting Jan. 17.  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
Washington case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-1303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ). The appellate case is
Perry v. Perez, 11A536 (Congressional map); U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  