-- Mexico Exchange CEO Fined for Failing to Disclose 2009 Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2011-12-16T22:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/mexico-exchange-ceo-fined-for-failing-to-disclose-2009-talks-1-.html
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB Chief
Executive Officer  Luis Tellez  was fined by the nation’s
securities regulator after failing to disclose talks on a
partnership even as the stock-exchange operator’s shares surged.  The National Banking and Securities Commission fined Tellez
because  Bolsa Mexicana  delayed in releasing relevant information
in August 2009, the company said in a statement today. The fine
was the minimum amount required under the law, it said, without
disclosing the figure.  The fine is related to Bolsa Mexicana’s 2010 agreement to
sell a stake to  CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s largest
futures market. Mexico City-based Bolsa Mexicana disclosed that
it was in talks with CME on Sept. 7, 2009, following an 11
percent surge in its shares over the previous seven trading
days.  “This isn’t an issue for just one company,” said
Elizandra Cardoso Azcoitia, an analyst with Grupo Financiero
Interacciones in Mexico City. “It’s a problem for the Mexican
market. Information is filtered in the Mexican market, and in
other markets too, but it’s a bit more lax here.”  Bolsa Mexicana will create a working group that will
determine a process by which the company should disclose
sensitive information in the future, Tellez said.  “We respect their opinion,” Tellez said of the securities
regulator today in a phone interview. “It’s always complicated
to issue a statement when you have a possible partner on the
other side.”  Company officials weren’t involved in the rise of Bolsa
shares before the talks were disclosed, he said. A banker was
fined earlier by the securities regulator for sharing
information on the subject, he said, without providing details.  Bolsa Mexicana  gained (BOLSAA)  1.5 percent to 23.26 pesos at the
close in Mexico City before the fine was announced. The shares
have dropped 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  