-- Mexico’s Central Bank Divided on Future Policy as CPI Rises
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2011-12-16T23:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/mexico-central-bank-divided-on-policy-direction-as-cpi-rise-2-.html
Mexico ’s central bank directors are
divided over the need to raise or cut their key  interest rate  in
2012 as consumer prices climb during a global economic slowdown,
minutes from their Dec. 2 meeting show.  The central bank board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
voted unanimously to keep the overnight rate at 4.5 percent for
a 23rd consecutive meeting, according to the  minutes  published
today on the bank website. The board said the “current monetary
posture is adequate” as members disagreed whether risks to
inflation would deteriorate or remain unchanged. Only four of
the five board members were present at the December meeting, the
minutes showed.  “Some board members indicated that a relaxing of monetary
posture could be recommended if world economic growth continues
to deteriorate,” the minutes said. Other board members said an
increase in financial volatility and weakening monetary
conditions “have increased the probability that implementing a
more restrictive monetary policy might be necessary.”  The board met before reports that  consumer prices  had
surged in November by the fastest pace in almost two years.
Policy makers may remain on hold “indefinitely”, said  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said
by phone.  “In the minutes, the board members really abandoned any
idea or any willingness to cut,” he said in a telephone
interview in Mexico City. Casillas had previously forecast a
rate cut of 25 basis points in the first quarter 2012.  Growth, Prices  Economic growth in  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy
will moderate to 3.23 percent in 2012 from an estimated 3.90
percent this year, according to 26 economists and consulting
firms in a central bank survey published today.  Even as growth moderates next year, inflation will
accelerate to 3.69 percent from 3.53 percent in 2011, according
to the poll. The central bank targets 3 percent inflation.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.08 percent in November, the
biggest jump since January 2010, partially reflecting a removal
of electricity subsidies.  The board agreed in the Dec. 2 meeting that the
depreciation of the  exchange rate  could pose a risk to
inflation, which they estimated would range from 3 percent to 4
percent next year, according to the minutes.  Today’s report shows that central bank’s board members are
“quite concerned with the exchange rate and they see a low
probability of a strong and quick appreciation of the  Mexican
peso ,” said Delia Paredes, chief economist at Grupo Financiero
Banorte, in Mexico City.  Rate Horizon  Banxico, as the central bank is known, “will keep its
current monetary policy unchanged for next year and even
throughout the first quarter of 2013,” Paredes said in a
telephone interview in Mexico City. “Growth will be relatively
good, with internal demand getting a boost from the elections,”
she said referring to the presidential elections that will take
place in July.  The peso advanced 0.3 percent to 13.8775 per  U.S. dollar  at
5 p.m. in Mexico City, from 13.9153 yesterday. It has dropped
2.2 percent this week and 11.1 percent this year, the biggest
decline among the region’s major currencies for 2011.  Gains in the service industry offset a slowdown in
manufacturing exports during the  third quarter , when gross
domestic product expanded 1.3 percent from the previous period
on a seasonally adjusted basis, policy makers said in the
meeting. Private consumption may slow as  consumer confidence 
appears to be stagnant, the bank said today.  The central bank next meets Jan. 20 to decide on rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  