-- MF Global’s U.K. Administrator KPMG Says It Knows Where Clients’ Money Is
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2011-12-16T16:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/mf-global-s-u-k-administrator-kpmg-says-it-knows-where-clients-money-is.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd .’s U.K.
administrator says it found all of the British unit’s segregated
client funds and collected 82 percent of the money.  Richard Heis, a  KPMG  LLP partner working on the
administration, said the firm is trying to recover remaining
customer assets, some of which were held by the failed broker’s
parent company in the U.S.  Trustees for the U.S. bankruptcy of MF Global Holdings have
estimated as much as $1.2 billion is missing from segregated
customer funds, which are supposed to be protected. Jon S. Corzine, the former chairman and chief executive, apologized to
clients and investors for the misuse of funds at a hearing
before U.S lawmakers yesterday.  The allegation in the U.S. “is that nobody knows where the
money is,” Heis said in a phone interview today. “We know
exactly where the money is.”  The parent company, based in  New York , was the fifth-
largest financial company to file for bankruptcy when it sought
protection on Oct. 31.  KPMG was appointed to supervise the special administration
of the broker’s London unit, in the first use of a U.K. program
designed to quickly unwind failed financial firms.  “To hear that something like 80 percent is likely to be
returned is very helpful as we hadn’t had much news before
that,” said Douglas Makepeace of New York-based Sperry Fund
Management, which had money in a segregated U.K. client account.
“Up to now, KPMG seemed to have been overwhelmed by the
necessity to unwind huge numbers of positions one-at-a-time.”  Futures, Options  In a separate update on its website, KPMG said it won’t
sell MF Global’s Futures and Options, Brokerage, or CFD and
Spreads divisions in London because of a lack of bids and that
“high revenue generating employees were already holding
discussions with alternative employers.”  The London-based Metals Division, including more than 50
staff, was sold to INTL FCStone ( Europe ) Ltd. in November for a
“seven figure dollar sum,” KPMG said.  KPMG is working with U.S. Trustee James W. Giddens on the
release of U.S. client money held in the U.K., but they haven’t
agreed on how much U.S. money is in the country, Heis said.  “We’ve got client money with them. They’ve got client
money with us,” he said. “We are working together in a
constructive way to resolve those issues.”  All open client positions for MF Global U.K. have been
liquidated or transferred to other brokers, Heis said, except
for “a handful of deep out-of-the-money options that have
little or no value.”  No Returns  KPMG hasn’t returned any money to U.K. clients and plans to
make an interim distribution early next year following
consultation with a judge.  Around $1 billion of U.K. customer funds were frozen when
MF Global collapsed. The segregated funds were automaticaly pooled at the start
of the administration, Heis said.  So far, the U.K. administrators have received about 800
claims from MF Global’s clients and creditors. Heis said of the
7,000 claim forms downloaded from the KPMG website, about 85
percent were requests to repay customer funds.  KPMG said in a U.S. court filing it had $250 million
remaining in accounts at the MF Global Inc. brokerage, of which
$230 million is in segregated commodity accounts for customers.  The U.K. administrators haven’t received any money from the
trustee of the U.S. brokerage and aren’t in line to get any of a
third planned payout of $2.1 billion, KPMG said in a Dec. 6
court filing. KPMG said in an e-mailed statement not all of the
$230 million was segregated under the definition used in U.K.
regulations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  