-- MF Global Told CME It Used Customer Funds: Timeline
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2011-12-16T15:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/mf-global-told-cme-group-it-used-customer-funds-timeline-shows.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd.  used about
$700 million of customer funds to “meet liquidity issues” in
the days prior to its bankruptcy, according to  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
which had auditing authority over the failed futures broker.  CME Group detailed its dealings with MF Global in documents
 released  yesterday by the oversight panel of the House Financial
Services Committee. Christine Serwinski, chief financial officer
for  North America  at MF Global, and Edith O’Brien, a treasurer,
told Mike Procajlo, an exchange auditor, at around 1 a.m. on
Oct. 31 in Serwinski’s Chicago office that the customer money
was transferred on Oct. 27 and Oct. 28 and possibly Oct. 26,
according to a CME Group timeline.  “About $700 million was moved to the broker-dealer side of
the business to meet liquidity issues in a series of
transactions on Thursday, Friday and possibly Wednesday,”
Serwinski and O’Brien told Procajlo hours before the firm filed
for the eighth-largest bankruptcy following record quarterly
losses and $6.3 billion in trades on European sovereign debt.  The timeline, the most detailed account yet of what may
have happened to as much as $1.2 billion of missing customer
money, was released as  Jon Corzine , the firm’s former chairman,
chief executive officer and architect of the European trades,
faced his third congressional panel in the past week. The former
senator and governor of  New Jersey  said he doesn’t know what
happened to the money.  New York-based MF Global’s failure marks the first time a
futures broker’s bankruptcy has led to the loss of customer
funds, according to  Terrence Duffy , CME Group’s executive
chairman.  ‘Not a Permitted Use’  “A statement that $700 million was taken implies a rule
violation,” said Ronald Filler, who was a managing director in
the global futures business at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. for
16 years. “That is not a permitted use of customer funds under
Commodity Futures Trading Commission rules,” said Filler, who
is now a professor at New York Law School, specializing in
derivatives and futures brokers issues.  Messages at Serwinski’s home telephone number and a request
to speak to O’Brien through the office of James Giddens, the MF
Global bankruptcy trustee, weren’t immediately returned. Laurie Bischel, a CME Group spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Procajlo’s involvement in the matter.  MF Global had its  credit rating  cut to junk on Oct. 27 by
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings as its shares
plunged and bonds began trading at distressed levels amid a
crisis of investor confidence over the Europe trades.  Cover Margin Payments  The downgrades “sparked an increase in margin calls” that
were “threatening overall liquidity,”  Bradley Abelow , MF
Global’s president and chief operating officer, said in the
company’s bankruptcy filing.  Customer funds were also used to make a $175 million loan
to MF Global’s U.K. subsidiary, Duffy said yesterday.  Regulators are investigating whether  MF Global 
intentionally used customer funds to cover margin payments on
the European government bond trades. That may bolster their
ability to retrieve the missing money, people with knowledge of
the matter said this week.  Allegations Made  Investigators including the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the  Justice Department , the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission and the bankruptcy trustee are reviewing the
brokerage’s accounts seeking proof of fraud, which would allow
them to recover some of the lost money, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the probe is continuing.  A revised MF Global customer segregation report was sent to
CME Group on Oct. 31 that showed $891.5 million in missing
customer money as of Oct. 28, the CME Group chronology shows.  Corzine, 64, told lawmakers yesterday that the firm’s back-
office staff “explicitly” informed him that the $175 million
transfer made before the company filed for bankruptcy was legal.  He was responding to allegations made at a U.S. Senate
hearing Dec. 13 when Duffy told lawmakers Corzine had known of
the loan using client money. At yesterday’s hearing of an
oversight panel of the House Financial Services Committee,
Corzine denied the suggestion that he may have authorized
improper use of customer money.  Moving Money  Once customer money is moved from the customer segregated
accounts to the broker-dealer unit of a broker it can lose its
designation as protected funds, Filler said.  “No one knows it belongs to the customer” and treasury
officers may mistakenly think the funds are available for
general use, he said.  Investigators are attempting to determine which
transactions involving customer funds were illegitimate, Jill E. Sommers, the senior CFTC commissioner overseeing the
investigation said in a telephone interview this week.  If a transaction that was legitimate in the beginning
“becomes illegitimate” later in a chain of transactions, then
the chances of recovering the funds could be slim. “It may be
gone,” Sommers said.  The CFTC should ban derivatives brokers from investing
client funds in anything other than  U.S. debt , commissioner  Bart Chilton  said today. Recent changes in regulations governing
client funds, approved after MF Global filed for bankruptcy,
don’t provide enough protection for clients, he said.  Steps need to be taken to put “confidence and trust back
into our U.S. derivatives markets,” Chilton, a Democrat, said
in a statement.  The missing money doomed a sale of MF Global’s futures
brokerage to Interactive Brokers Group Inc.,  Hans Stoll , a board
member of the potential acquirer, said last month.  According to the CME timeline, the Interactive Brokers deal
fell apart between 4:37 a.m. and 6:45 a.m. on Oct. 31. MF Global
filed for bankruptcy at 9 a.m. that morning.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  