-- FCC Should Stop Worrying and Learn to Love Spectrum Market: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2011-12-16T00:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/fcc-should-stop-worrying-and-learn-to-love-free-market-for-spectrum-view.html
Julius Genachowski , the  Federal
Communications Commission  chairman, thinks the end is near. His
evangelizing isn’t spiritual but digital: The economy of the
future depends on smartphones, tablet computers and other
wireless devices, and yet the U.S. faces a crippling spectrum
shortage, he says.  Genachowski is right to worry about the U.S.’s digital
future. Nearly 70 million people have a smartphone, which can
use 24 times more airwave capacity than a regular cell phone.
Tablet computers, now owned by about 11 million people, can use
100 times more capacity. A  spectrum  crunch would mean slower
connections, longer downloads and dropped calls.  He and his allies in this mission, the large mobile
carriers  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , have a solution: Take
back unused spectrum from television broadcasters and auction it
to the highest bidders (most likely Verizon and AT&T). If
Congress approves, the FCC would reward the TV broadcasters by
letting them share in the proceeds.  We see two problems. Some broadcasters don’t want to give
up their spectrum (even if they’re compensated), and it’s not
clear that the spectrum crunch is real. The FCC’s critics say
this is an old-fashioned war between two entrenched interests --
the TV guys versus the telecom guys -- and the FCC has chosen
the telecom side.  Middleman Role  We’ll stay out of that fight, but we agree the FCC is
confusing its role. Rather than play the middleman, the FCC
should push for a true  free market . All interested players,
entrepreneurs included, should have an opportunity to license
airwaves. To make this happen, the FCC should charge rent on the
spectrum it licenses, then get out of the way.  Spectrum belongs to the public, but once the government
auctions off parcels of megahertz to the highest bidders, it
almost never takes them back, even if they’re not being used.
That’s the case now with large blocks owned by broadcasters. The
FCC wants to repurpose that spectrum, located in the airwaves’
silk-stocking district: It’s very high quality, and the
broadcasters are generally using it for low-audience shows like
home shopping and religious services, or not at all.  Carriers, meanwhile, are hungry for spectrum. They have
ambitious plans to roll out next-generation networks. Meeting
demand by building more cell-phone towers and microwave networks
is laborious and costly. But carriers can’t order a year’s worth
of airwaves from a warehouse. AT&T sought to acquire Deutsche
Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA for $39 billion in large part to get
its hands on T-Mobile’s spectrum. Although the FCC rejected the
merger, neither it nor AT&T is backing away from the spectrum-
crunch prediction.  Congress Going Along  Congress appears willing to go along with the FCC’s request
for incentive auctions. The House on Tuesday approved them as
part of an extension of the payroll tax cut. The Senate voted
down the House package, but the auction authority may get tacked
onto whatever the Senate ultimately approves. Congress wants the
$20 billion the auctions could raise to pay for other things.  A recent report by Citigroup analysts, however, says the
real issue is spectrum hoarding by companies that won licenses
at previous auctions and have been sitting on them since. The
FCC agrees there is unused spectrum, but because it doesn’t
collect usage data on licensed spectrum, it can’t say how much,
and assumes owners eventually will put it to work.  The FCC does allow spectrum to trade in a secondary market,
and points to the recent sale to  Verizon Wireless (VZ)  of a large
spectrum band by a group of cable companies, which no longer had
use for it. That is an example of market forces at work, the FCC
says. True, except that one sale doesn’t make a market, and the
cable companies sat on the airwaves for five years before
unloading them.  A debate is playing out over the Citi analysis, but it’s
clear that sometimes spectrum sits idle to keep it out of
competitors’ hands. It’s also clear that carriers often put it
in deep freeze while waiting out poor market conditions before
investing in new networks.  Instead of creating inducements for owners to give back
spectrum that the FCC auctions, Congress should create market
incentives for owners to offer services on their spectrum -- or
sell it to someone who will. Economists call this increasing the
opportunity cost.  The easiest way to do this is by charging annual rent, a
form of user fee recommended in the 2010 National Broadband Plan
commissioned by Genachowski. With fees, spectrum would no longer
be cost-free, removing the hoarding incentive. Owners would have
reason to offset the rent with a revenue stream or sell the
airwaves to avoid the expense. And by making all spectrum
licenses flexible, so they support wireless devices, streaming
movies or whatever service an owner wishes to offer, the FCC
could start a real spectrum market.  Rural Benefit  The first to benefit might be rural areas, where about 18
million residents are desperate for high-speed broadband
connections. Carriers own licenses in rural areas but don’t use
them because the long distances between population centers and
the lack of scale make for unacceptable investment returns.
Smaller, startup carriers with lower overhead might make better
use of such spectrum -- and relieve the government of having to
subsidize broadband Internet in rural areas.  The Government Accountability Office noted in 2006 that
fees “promote the efficient use of spectrum by compelling
spectrum users to recognize the value to society of the spectrum
that they use. In other words, these fees mimic the functions of
a market.” To that end,  Australia ,  Canada  and the U.K. charge
spectrum fees.  President  Bill Clinton  and every president since has asked
Congress for permission to impose rents. It’s time Congress
granted that wish.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 