-- FDIC Races Chubb to Silverton in Clash Over Failed-Bank Costs
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/fdic-races-chubb-to-silverton-in-clash-over-failed-bank-costs.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
and insurer  Chubb Corp. (CB)  are clashing over a Georgia bank failure
as the U.S. seeks to recover costs of shutting the lender.  Silverton Bank NA was seized on May 1, 2009. That same day,
Chubb sent a message to an insurance agent who worked with the
bank, limiting a policy that covered its directors and officers
against lawsuits, according to a government complaint filed in
August. The insurer has used the amendment to deny a payout as
the FDIC seeks at least $71 million from the Atlanta-based
bank’s former board members and executives.  The FDIC’s push to recover funds from former leaders of
failed banks is sparking more confrontations with insurers that
sold directors-and-officers, or D&O, protection. The regulator
said it won approval to pursue claims for more than $5 billion
in damages this year, double the amount authorized through 2010.  “The next 12 to 18 months, we’re going to see a whole
bunch of these lawsuits,” said Kevin LaCroix, executive vice
president at OakBridge Insurance Services LLC, an insurance
intermediary that focuses on management liability issues. “It’s
a salvage operation” for the FDIC.  Seventeen of the  41 suits authorized  by the FDIC’s board
had been filed as of Dec. 8. It takes about 18 months to study
the failures and determine if legal action is appropriate and
cost-effective, said Richard Osterman, FDIC deputy general
counsel. The regulator will decide in coming months which
additional cases to pursue as it reviews some of the more than
400 failures since 2007, he said.  Limits on Coverage  D&O policies in general pay for damages and defense costs
associated with alleged wrongful actions by executives or board
members. Some policies exclude coverage for regulatory actions,
which limits the funds the government can recoup, said Osterman.  Chubb,  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Travelers Cos. (TRV) ,
 XL Group Plc (XL)  and  Ace Ltd. (ACE) , were among the largest primary
providers of the protection to banks in 2008, the last year of
available data, according to a Towers Watson & Co. survey.  Insurance policies affect the agency’s decision about
whether to make claims against directors and officers, and are
part of the analysis even before a bank fails, Osterman said in
a Dec. 6 phone interview. The FDIC seeks to settle before going
to court to limit legal fees.  “It’s important to not only hold people accountable but
also to recover funds for the receiver,” said Osterman.  Washington Mutual  The FDIC reached  $64.7 million  settlement with three former
executives of Washington Mutual Inc., the largest  U.S. bank  to
fail, according to a statement yesterday from the regulator.
About $40 million of the total is being paid by insurance,
according to a  settlement document , which names units of Warren,
New Jersey-based Chubb, XL, Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc., CNA Financial Corp., Axis Capital Holdings Ltd. and
Lloyd’s of  London  underwriters as providers of coverage.  The latest lawsuits recall tactics used during the savings-
and-loan crisis. From 1986 to 1996, the FDIC  brought cases 
against failed lenders, and along with the Resolution Trust
Corp. recovered more than $5 billion through professional
liability cases. Bank failures have cost the insurance fund more
than $80 billion since 2007.  In the  Silverton  case, the regulator said that former board
members and executives disregarded the lender’s policies when
making loans, “robotically voting for approval of transactions
without exercising any business judgment, according to the Aug.
22 complaint filed in federal court in Atlanta.  Bank officials set a “course of expansive and extravagant
spending,” including annual lease payments of about $2.6
million on a “large and lavish” office building called the
Medici; $3.5 million for a Falcon 20 jet; and, from 2002 to
2009, a combined $4 million on an annual board meeting and
conferences, the FDIC said.  Silverton Directors  The directors named in the case said they weren’t negligent
and they “took great pride in the services that Silverton
provided to the banking community and had planned carefully for
its further growth and expansion,” according to a joint report
filed on Nov. 30. An attorney for the group declined to comment.  The bank’s former chief executive officer, Tom Bryan, is
among company officials who denied wrongdoing. Bryan intends to
file claims against Chubb for breach of contract, according to
the document. He declined to comment in a phone interview.  Chubb’s Federal Insurance unit, a defendant in the lawsuit,
denied coverage under a $5 million policy partly on grounds that
it prohibited claims made after regulatory action, the
government said. The exclusion wasn’t in the policy when issued,
according to the lawsuit.  ‘Last-Minute’ Change  “The timing of the alleged amendment certainly suggest that
Chubb was tipped off regarding the bank’s closing,” the FDIC
said in its complaint. The “last-minute attempt to unilaterally
change the terms of the policy fails miserably.”  Chubb said that the language excluding coverage of
regulatory actions wasn’t originally attached to the policy
“through administrative error,” in an answer to the FDIC’s
complaint filed on Oct. 31. The insurer said it had no prior
knowledge of Silverton’s closure. Mark Schussel, a spokesman for
Chubb, declined to comment.  AIG’s Chartis division is in a separate dispute with former
directors and officers of  Westernbank Puerto Rico , which failed
in 2010. The managers sued Chartis after the insurer denied
coverage on D&O policies that provided as much as $50 million a
year in protection, according to a complaint filed in October.
The FDIC has said it intends to sue the WesternBank directors
and officers, the complaint shows.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to
comment, as did an attorney for the bankers.  Catlin Group  In another dispute, the FDIC sued  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL) , the
third-biggest Lloyd’s of London insurer by market value, for $40
million after it denied coverage under a D&O policy sold to
 First National Bank  of  Arizona . The government filed a complaint
in October.  James Burcke, a spokesman for Catlin, declined to comment.  The total cost of the lawsuits to the  insurance industry  is
difficult to estimate because many underwriters don’t disclose
losses or projected claims on individual policies and not all
cases name the insurers that sold D&O coverage.  Travelers, the insurer in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
said in July 2009 as bank collapses accelerated that it had
potential losses of  $100 million  tied to 26 failed banks, a cost
that may fall because of actions taken to reduce risk. The
company said a year later that it had coverage on 33 more banks
that failed in 2010.  Shane Boyd , a Travelers spokesman, declined
to comment on loss trends.  Insurers Being Careful  Insurers have tightened underwriting standards and boosted
prices for some D&O policies since the financial crisis, said
OakBridge’s LaCroix.  Firms are “being more careful, they’re being more
painstaking in their underwriting” for banks, he said.
“They’re trying to reduce their exposure.”  The industry is likely to face years of negotiations from
bank failures, said Tom Orrico, a practice leader in Marsh
Inc.’s financial and professional liability operations.  “There’s going to be losses,” he said. “One would expect
significant payouts by the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  