-- Fed’s Kamin Says Europe Has ‘Critical Problem of Confidence’
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2011-12-16T15:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/fed-s-kamin-says-europe-has-critical-problem-of-confidence-.html
Countries that share the euro face
“a critical problem of confidence” in the long-term
sustainability of fiscal accounts for some nations, said Steven Kamin, the Federal Reserve Board’s Director of International
Finance.  Euro nations also face doubts about their near-term
liquidity and the stability of their banking systems, he added.  “It is incumbent upon European authorities to address all
these issues, and indeed they have taken a number of steps on
all three fronts,” Kamin told a House Oversight and Government
Reform subcommittee, where he testified with New York Fed
President William C. Dudley.  Asked about the solvency of the European financial system,
Kamin said “some subset” of investors has doubt about solvency
“even if perhaps a broader class of investors is more
confident.”  “That is why it is critical in this situation where
liquidity is at issue to bolster confidence,” Kamin said.  The Fed cut the cost of emergency dollar funding for
European banks as part of a globally coordinated central-bank
response to the continent’s sovereign-debt crisis last month.
Dudley told the subcommittee that the swap lines help insulate
U.S. markets from European pressures and support the supply of
credit.  The  interest rate  was reduced to the dollar overnight index
swap rate plus 50 basis points, or half a percentage point, from
100 basis points, and the program was extended to Feb. 1, 2013,
the Fed said Nov. 30. The Fed coordinated with the  European
Central Bank  in the program, which was also joined by the
central banks of  Canada , the U.K.,  Japan  and  Switzerland .  The Fed reported $54 billion in central bank liquidity
swaps on its balance sheet as of Dec. 14.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  