-- Fed’s Evans Says U.S. Economy Isn’t at ‘Escape Velocity’
-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2011-12-16T19:09:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/fed-s-evans-says-u-s-economy-isn-t-at-escape-velocity-1-.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said the  U.S. economy  hasn’t reached
“escape velocity” and that monetary policy can remain easy
until unemployment falls to 7 percent.  “No matter which explanation seems to be at work, we can
continue to push accommodative policy” until joblessness falls
from the current level of 8.6 percent, he said during a panel
discussion today near Florence,  Italy .  Evans’s remarks are his first since he voted against the
rest of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s Dec. 13 decision to
keep monetary policy unchanged, preferring additional stimulus
instead. The Chicago Fed chief is the only policy maker this
year to break from FOMC ranks in favor of further action to
boost the economy.  “We are not even close” to above-trend growth, the policy
maker told reporters after the panel, held at the European
University Institute.  Evans said he’s also not convinced by the
latest trend in economic data.  Some statistics are signaling that growth may be picking
up. The fewest workers in three years filed claims for jobless
benefits for the week ended Dec. 10, according to Labor
Department figures issued yesterday in Washington. Other reports
showed manufacturing accelerated this month after pausing in
November.  Payroll Gains  Job gains picked up last month, and the  unemployment rate 
unexpectedly fell to the lowest level since March 2009. Payrolls
climbed 120,000 after a revised 100,000 increase in October.  Inflation has decelerated, based on the Fed’s preferred
measure, the personal consumption expenditures price index
excluding food and energy. That gauge rose 0.07 percent in
October from September, the second-slowest gain in 2011.  The central bank refrained from taking new steps this week
to lower borrowing costs. It retained a pledge to keep the
benchmark  U.S. interest rate  “exceptionally low” at least
through mid-2013. Fed officials lowered the target for the
overnight lending rate between banks to zero to 0.25 percent in
December 2008.  Stocks fell after the Fed’s statement three days ago.  Shares pared gains today, wiping out a 99-point increase in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , as optimism about the European
crisis fizzled. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2
percent to 1,218.05 at 2:08 p.m. New York time, trimming its
advance from 1.3 percent.  The 53-year-old regional bank chief proposed earlier this
year to keep the fed funds rate near zero until either
unemployment falls below 7 percent or the medium-term inflation
outlook rises above 3 percent. He has also said he would support
more asset purchases if those objectives aren’t reached.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in  Washington  at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  