-- Fed’s Fisher Says Crisis in Europe Could Knock U.S. Economy ‘Off Course’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2011-12-16T19:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/fed-s-fisher-says-crisis-in-europe-could-knock-u-s-economy-off-course-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the  U.S. economy  remains at risk
of disruption by the crisis in Europe and a slowing in global
growth, two challenges not easily overcome by Fed policy.  Demand in the economy “has slowly begun to strengthen
domestically, yet developments in Europe, a slowdown in growth
in emerging economies such as  China  and  Brazil , and concerns
about financial trip wires that might be triggered, give rise to
caution,” Fisher said today in a speech in Austin,  Texas .  The power of Fed  policy makers  to influence events is
limited, Fisher said. “On the foreign front, we are innocent
bystanders: There is little we can do but pray that fiscal and
monetary authorities abroad get it right,” he said.  Fisher is among the first Fed officials to speak since the
central bank’s Dec. 13 policy meeting. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  said after its gathering that the U.S. economy “has
been expanding moderately, notwithstanding some apparent slowing
in global growth” and that market strains pose “significant
downside risks to the economic outlook.”  Fisher, who supported the Fed’s statement, said that “just
as we had come to see the light of an evolving domestic
recovery, one senses Europe, and possibly the emerging
economies, sneaking up behind us.” They may be “poised to
knock us off course.”  Fisher told reporters after his speech that Europe’s crisis
has “tripwires that might exist in terms of cross exposures
with financial institutions.”  One Reason  “That’s one of the reasons we created the swap lines, that
I supported,” he said.  On Nov. 30 the Fed cut the cost of emergency dollar funding
swap lines as part of a globally coordinated central bank
response to ease financial market pressures from  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  Asked if the situation in Europe could require a monetary
policy response as well as liquidity measures, Fisher said, “it
would depend on whether we had say, a panic, based on a failure,
or some specific development that might require a monetary
response. I don’t envision one at this juncture.”  U.S. inflation will probably settle below 2 percent, based
on the Dallas Fed’s trimmed mean personal consumption
expenditures index, Fisher said.  The Dallas index “has been slightly below 2 percent on a
six month basis and that’s where I think we’re going with
headline inflation,” Fisher said. “Right now let’s get it down
to 2 percent, and I think we’re headed in that direction. It
might go below that. We’ll see.”  Threat From Slowdown  The global economy also faces a threat from a slowdown in
 China’s economy , he said.  “The Chinese have not provided convincing proof that they
will be able to contain the pricking of their real estate bubble
or the shadow banking industry that enabled it,” Fisher said to
the Austin Chamber of Commerce. “This has led some to posit
that Chinese growth may slow beyond the consensus expectation of
China watchers.”  The Dallas Fed chief dissented from the central bank’s
decisions in August and September to add additional monetary
stimulus. In August the Fed pledged to hold  interest rates  near
zero until at least mid-2013. In September, the central bank
said it would sell $400 billion of short-term debt and replace
it with longer-term debt, a move known as Operation Twist.  “I’m going to argue against QE3 if it’s put on the
table,” Fisher said in response to audience questions,
referring to a third round of quantitative easing. That third
round has been proposed by some policy makers including Fed
governor  Daniel Tarullo , who said in an Oct. 20 speech the Fed
should consider a new round of large-scale purchases of mortgage
backed securities.  Fisher, 62, became president of the Dallas Fed in April
2005. He was deputy U.S. trade representative from 1997 to 2001
under President  Bill Clinton  and a former Democratic U.S. Senate
candidate in Texas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Austin, Texas at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  