-- Feisty Lovers, Waspish Actors Gambol in Farce: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2011-12-16T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/feisty-lovers-waspish-actors-gambol-in-farce-london-stage.html
This may be the worst year for the
U.K. economy since Eve short-sold the apple to Adam. It also has
been just about the best year for stage comedy in  London .  Michael Frayn’s 1982 farce “Noises Off,” now playing in a
new production at the Old Vic, is the latest in a line of must-
see comedies. This backstage romp comes hot on the heels of “One 
Man, Two Guvnors” at the Adelphi, and “The Comedy of Errors” at
the National.  Act 1 takes place in a provincial theater during the dress
rehearsal of a dreadful farce called “Nothing On.” It’s the
sort of piece in which doors are banged, coincidences abound and
a pretty young girl runs around in her underwear. It’s late. The
actors get everything wrong. Tempers fray. “Why do I take the
things off into the study?” complains Frederick (Jonathan Coy)
about his numerous props.  “Why does anyone do anything?” spits the director (Robert
Glenister) sarcastically. “The wellsprings of human action are
deep and cloudy.”  Act 2 takes place a few weeks later during the tour of the
play, and we watch the whole farce from behind the scenes. By
now, relationships in the company have deteriorated even
further. Between their quick exits from the set, a bitter pair
of former lovers tries to brain each other. Colleagues sabotage
props. A  love triangle  is at breaking point. “Nothing On”
spirals into backstage mayhem.  Shaky Props  In Act 3, we see the play at the end of its run. The props
start falling apart. Several actors have given up the ghost, and
others start improvising furiously. Only the ingenue (Amy
Nuttall) carries on blindly with her scripted gestures as if
nothing were wrong, leading to some eye-watering non-sequiturs.  Lindsay Posner’s slick production could show the particles
in the Hadron Collider a thing or two about speed. Each joke is
timed with Swiss precision, and the set-piece climaxes burst
with atomic explosiveness.  The cast is superb. Celia Imrie milks every gag possible as
Dotty, a grand thesp playing a common cleaning lady. Jamie
Glover (as dim romantic lead Garry Lejeune) wins applause for
his superb stunt falling headlong down a flight of stairs.  Paul Ready, as the flailing stage manager Tim, does a
beautiful line in mounting panic, and his pratfalls are as
ticklish as anything on stage.  Designer Peter McKintosh creates a beautiful pastiche of a
cheap touring production set, complete with wobbly walls and
garish colors.  If we are indeed sliding down the drain into recession and
despair, at least we can go laughing. The only question is: Will
Londoners’ ribs stand the strain? Rating: ****.  “Noises Off” is at the Old Vic, which has Bank of America
Merrill Lynch as its season sponsor. The show runs through
March. Information:  http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or
+44-844-871-7628.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 