-- Fertitta to Buy Morton’s Steakhouse $116.6M
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2011-12-16T21:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/fertitta-to-buy-morton-s-steakhouse-116-6m.html
Tilman J. Fertitta, the  Texas 
billionaire and restaurateur, agreed to buy  Morton’s Restaurant
Group Inc. (MRT)  for $116.6 million, adding the high-end steakhouse
chain to his portfolio of dining brands.  The offer of $6.90 a share in cash is 34 percent more than
yesterday’s closing price, Fertitta, who already owned 5 percent
of Morton’s shares, said today in a statement. The deal is
scheduled to be completed in February and will be financed
through cash and debt.  Fertitta, the chief executive offer of restaurant company
 Landry’s Inc. , has a history of buying struggling eateries. In
November, Houston-based Landry’s agreed to buy McCormick &
Schmick’s Seafood Restaurants Inc. for about $131.6 million
after terminating an earlier offer. Landry’s also owns the
Rainforest Cafe and Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. chains.  “He got it at a cheap price if he’s able to improve the
current mediocre business model,” Bryan Elliott, an analyst at
Raymond James & Associates in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , said in
an interview. Fertitta will need to modernize Morton’s because
it’s “stuck a bit in a time warp,” he said.  Morton’s, based in Chicago, rose 33 percent to $6.85 at the
close in New York. The shares have gained 5.7 percent this year.  Increased Prices  The offer values Morton’s at 7.36 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, less than the
8.24 times the average of 59 pending or completed restaurant
deals for which such data is available in the past five years,
according to Bloomberg data.  Morton’s, which opened its first restaurant in Chicago in
1978, said in March it was exploring a possible sale to boost
 shareholder value . The steakhouse increased menu prices last
December and in January to help counter surging meat prices.  As part of the deal, Castle Harlan Partners III LP has
agreed to tender the 28 percent of the shares it owns.  Earlier this year, Fertitta, 54, bought the Trump Marina
Hotel Casino in  Atlantic City  for $38 million with plans to
refurbish the resort and change its name to Golden Nugget.
Landry’s owns hotels in  Las Vegas  and Texas, as well as
amusement parks.  Morton’s Chief Executive Officer Christopher Artinian, who
worked his way up after starting in the company’s kitchens, has
sought to bring in younger diners with happy hour specials and a
more affordable wine list. Sales rose 5.3 percent to $296.1
million in the year ended Jan. 2 after two years of declines.  Filet Mignon  The original Morton’s in downtown  Chicago , which serves
filet mignon, lamb chops and whole lobsters from  Maine , is
blocks from rivals Gibsons Bar & Steakhouse and Tavern on Rush.
The dining spot organizes winemaker dinners for $150 a person
and brings in football and baseball stars to serve four-course
meals during celebrity dining events.  Morton’s was taken private by buyout firm Castle Harlan for
$71.2 million in 2002 after a bidding contest with billionaire
financier  Carl Icahn . The company sold shares to the public four
years later.  The chain was founded by Klaus Fritsch and Arnie Morton,
according to its  website . The company owns and operates 77 of
the namesake steakhouses in 64 cities across 26 states as well
as six international locations, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  