-- Forint Heads for Third Weekly Gain as OTP Rallies on Bank Talks
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2011-12-16T09:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/forint-heads-for-third-weekly-gain-as-otp-rallies-on-bank-talks.html
The forint headed for the third week
of gains and Hungarian stocks rose as Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban  prepared to meet with chief executives of lenders after
reaching a deal with them on foreign-currency loans.  Hungary’s currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 300.33 per
euro. A close at that level would mean a 0.5 percent weekly
rally, the third in a row, which is the longest streak since
April. The benchmark BUX stock  index (BUX)  gained 2.5 percent to
17,454.82 by 9:50 a.m. in Budapest.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s
largest lender, rallied 3.7 percent to 3,266 forint.  “The positive news is that the government and banking
sector have reached an agreement on foreign-currency
mortgages,” Gillian Edgeworth, a London-based economist at
UniCredit SpA, wrote in a research report today.  Orban’s government yesterday agreed to share the cost of
easing foreign-currency borrowers’ debt burden, promised to cut
the nation’s bank tax from the highest in  Europe , and to consult
lenders before taking further action. That contrasts with the
government’s unilateral September decision to force banks to
swallow losses on foreign-currency loans by allowing borrowers
to repay at discounted exchange, which the banks have said may
cost them as much as 200 billion forint ($868 million).  Orban will meet executives from the banks involved in
yesterday’s agreement at 11 a.m. in parliament today, his office
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Orban’s earlier repayment plan prompted Hungarian lenders
to sue the government in the country’s  Constitutional Court  and
urged the European Union to take action against the government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  