-- Ex-Islanders Coach Milbury Accused of Assaulting 12-Year-Old Hockey Player
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2011-12-16T21:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/former-nhl-coach-milbury-accused-of-assaulting-player-at-child-hockey-game.html
Former  New York  Islanders coach and
General Manager Mike Milbury was charged with assaulting a 12-
year-old player during a hockey game in  Massachusetts .  Milbury, who was an assistant for one of the teams, also
was charged with threatening to commit a crime and disorderly
conduct, according to the Brookline Police Department’s  website .  The 59-year-old Milbury is alleged to have “verbally
berated and grabbed and shook” the boy during a game a week ago
at the rink at Larz Anderson Park in Brookline after the child
got into a “scrape” with Milbury’s son, who also was playing
in the game, according to the Boston Herald. The newspaper
didn’t say where it got the information.  Milbury will have to appear in Brookline District Court at
a yet-to-be-determined date, according to ESPN.com.  “Mike Milbury denies any allegations that there was an
assault of any kind,” his lawyer, Daniel Rabinovitz, said in an
e-mailed statement. “He simply intervened in an altercation
between his son and an opposing player. No one was struck, no
one was injured and no one was threatened.”  Milbury, who is an NHL analyst for Comcast Corp.’s NBC as
well as  Canada ’s CBC, played his entire 12-year National Hockey
League career for the  Boston Bruins , where he later coached for
two seasons. He joined the Islanders as coach in 1995 and five
months later also assumed the GM duties. Milbury quit the
coaching role 46 games into the 1996-97 season, remained GM
through January 2006, and stepped down as the team’s senior vice
president of sports properties in May 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 