-- French AAA Outlook Cut as Fitch Reviews Ratings of Slovenia, Spain, Italy
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2011-12-17T11:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/france-s-aaa-outlook-cut-as-fitch-reviews-ratings-of-italy-spain-belgium.html
France ’s credit outlook was lowered
by  Fitch Ratings , which also put the grades of nations including
 Spain  and  Italy  on review for a downgrade, citing  Europe ’s
failure to find a “comprehensive solution” to the debt crisis.  Fitch affirmed France’s AAA rating and placed Spain, Italy,
 Belgium , Slovenia, Ireland and Cyprus on a “Rating Watch
Negative” review, which it expects to complete by the end of
January, according to a statement released yesterday in London.
Separately, Belgium’s credit rating was cut two levels to Aa3
yesterday by Moody’s Investors Service.  The move by Fitch increases pressure on the region’s
leaders to end a two-year debt crisis that has seen bailouts of
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . European Union leaders meeting
this month in Brussels agreed to forge a tighter fiscal union as
the thrust of their efforts, even as the  European Central Bank 
resisted investor calls to ramp up its bond-buying program.  “Of particular concern is the absence of a credible
financial backstop,” Fitch said in an e-mailed statement.
“This requires more active and explicit commitment from the
ECB.”  Without a full solution, Fitch said the crisis will
persist, “punctuated by episodes of severe financial-market
volatility that is a particular source of risk to the sovereign
governments of those countries with levels of public debt,
contingent liabilities and fiscal and financial sector financing
needs that are high relative to rating peers.”  S&P Action  Fitch’s action follows reviews announced by  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s. S&P on Dec. 5 placed the ratings of 15 euro
nations on review for possible downgrade, including the region’s
six AAA rated countries. Moody’s had said Dec. 12 it will review
the ratings of all euro countries in the first quarter of 2012
because the Dec. 9 EU summit didn’t produce “decisive policy
measures” to end the debt turmoil.  Credit rating companies are quick during an economic boom
to give ratings that are too high, and “during the downturn
they may exaggerate in the other direction,” ECB council member
Erkki Liikanen said in an interview on Finland’s YLE TV1 today.  Still, governments should “take care of finances in a way
that doesn’t leave them at the mercy of the markets,” Liikanen
said. “It would be best to act early so one doesn’t have to
react to market surprises.”  The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.3046 at in  New York 
yesterday, after rising as much as 0.5 percent. It fell 2.5
percent this week, the biggest such decline since the five-day
period ended Sept. 9.  ‘Factored In’  Fitch’s decision “has been already factored in” by
investors, said  Jay Bryson , global economist for Wells Fargo
Securities in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “I would think that if
it were a surprise there would have been a larger financial
market reaction.”  “It’s justified,” said Vincent Truglia, managing director
at New York-based Granite Springs Asset Management LLP and a
former head of the sovereign risk unit at Moody’s. “A solution
to the crisis that maintains the euro as it is, is not
tenable,” he said. “The euro must be shrunk dramatically.”  A so-called ratings watch indicates a heightened
probability of a rating change. Ratings outlooks show the
direction a rating is likely to move over a one- or two-year
period. A negative outlook indicates a “slightly greater than
50 percent chance of a downgrade over a two-year horizon,”
Fitch said in its statement on France.  ‘Heightened Risk’  Fitch said it changed France’s outlook because of the
“heightened risk of contingent liabilities” that may emerge
from the escalating euro-region crisis. The country has almost
run out of buffers to absorb shocks “without undermining its
AAA status,” it said.  “The intensification of the euro zone crisis since July
constitutes a significant negative shock to the region and to
France’s economy and the stability of its financial sector,”
the company said.  France’s government is “determined to follow its actions
for growth” and “in the reduction of the public deficit,”
Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said in an e-mailed statement
after the Fitch announcement.  EU leaders agreed to forge a tighter fiscal union, shore up
the region’s bailout funds and tighten rules to curb future
debts at the summit. The same week, ECB President  Mario Draghi 
signaled that the Frankfurt-based bank wouldn’t step up its
purchases of sovereign bonds, and instead expanded its liquidity
measures for banks.  ‘Paradigm Shift’  “This marks the beginning of a deep paradigm shift about
the euro area, especially the implied underlying assumption of
intra-EMU solidarity and ECB assistance,” said Thomas Costerg,
an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London . “They now
have to show that EMU is not an emperor without clothes.”  Moody’s cut Belgium’s rating two levels to Aa3 and said
rising borrowing costs, slowing growth and liabilities arising
from Dexia SA’s breakup threaten to inflate the euro area’s
fifth-highest debt load.  Moody’s lowered Belgium’s debt rating to the fourth-highest
investment grade, from Aa1, with a negative outlook, the ratings
company said yesterday in a statement. The action follows S&P’s
one-step downgrade of Belgium to AA on Nov. 25. Fitch Ratings
put Belgium’s AA+ on review for a downgrade yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  