-- France Urges Tougher Rules on High-Frequency Trades, Dark Pools
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2011-12-16T11:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/france-urges-tougher-rules-on-high-frequency-trades-dark-pools.html
France ’s financial market regulator
urged the European Union to toughen its planned overhaul of
rules, highlighting the need for more oversight of high-
frequency trading and new trading platforms.  Proposals presented in October by the EU are
“insufficient” in ways that “could have grave consequences,”
Thierry Francq, secretary general of the Autorite des Marches
Financiers, said at the regulator’s Paris headquarters today.  “It’s absolutely essential that we move towards a system
of centralized surveillance of orders and transactions on the
markets,” the AMF said in a statement of its priorities for the
overhaul, seeking a “more ambitious” plan for markets
oversight.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May of last
year, during which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost
almost 1,000 points. The EU proposed measures like requiring
firms that offer high-frequency or algorithmic-trading services
to prove they have sufficient risk controls and ensure clients
with direct access to the markets are properly qualified.  The European Securities and Markets Authority needs to have
greater control of the high-frequency trading fees structure so
they’re not “discretionary,” Francq said.  ‘No Legitimate Reason’  The EU’s plans to crack down on so-called dark pools need
to cut the number of exemptions from transparency requirements
for “organized trading facilities,” or OTFs, which encourage
the opaque venues, he said. “There is no legitimate reason”
for most exemptions, he said.  The EU is seeking to push some dark-pool trading through a
new form of regulated platform known as an OTF. Dark pools, or
private venues that don’t display prices in advance, have been
probed by regulators in both the EU and U.S. because of concerns
that their lack of transparency increases price volatility.  There’s a “risk” that transactions taking place outside
regulated markets will rise if “the rules there are less
restrictive.” A threshold therefore needs to be imposed beyond
which an organized trading facility must become a properly
regulated trading venue, the AMF said.  Regulators need to have more cross-border access to
information to police against market abuses, Francq said.  “The lack of provisions for regulators to have access to
trading books is an important failure” in empowering regulators
to police against market manipulation, he said. France only has
access to those books for platforms within its territory,
clogging the AMF’s efforts to halt market manipulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 