-- Gabon Votes for Parliament With Bongo Set to Maintain Control
-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2011-12-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/gabon-votes-for-parliament-with-bongo-set-to-maintain-control.html
Voters in Gabon will cast ballots in
a parliamentary election tomorrow, with President Ali-Ben Bongo Ondimba likely to maintain his family’s 44-year hold on power in
sub-Saharan  Africa ’s sixth-biggest oil producer.  As many as 475 candidates are vying for 120 seats in the
central African nation’s National Assembly, including 90 from
Bongo’s Parti Democratique Gabonaise and 160 candidates from
smaller groups that back him. A group of 12 opposition parties
say the vote won’t be fair and are calling for a boycott.  Bongo has “gradually and quietly tightened his grip on
power” since he was elected in 2009 following the death of his
father, Omar Bongo Ondimba, who ruled Gabon for 42 years,
according to Sebastian Spio-Garbrah, emerging-market analyst at
New York-based DaMina Advisors. Bongo has replaced his father’s
loyalists with his own in the administration, he said.  There is a risk that protests that followed Bongo’s
election will be repeated in Libreville, the capital, and Port-
Gentil, the main oil city, said Hannah Koep, head of the sub-
Saharan Africa desk with London-based Control Risks.
Demonstrations may turn violent as “security forces have little
crowd-control experience and will be instructed to crack down on
unrest,” she said.  Interior Minister Jean Francois Ndongou said “the police
will provide security for all citizens,” in a phone interview
yesterday.  The opposition “shoots itself in the foot by not being
represented in the National Assembly for a full term,” Koep
said. The expected victory of Bongo’s party will be aided by the
boycott and “total control” of the election commission and the
court that verifies the results, she said in an e-mailed
response to questions Dec. 14.  Diversifying Economy  Bongo’s government has been attempting to cut its reliance
on oil with reforms to promote private companies while luring
investment in infrastructure in Gabon, where one-third of the
population of 1.5 million lives in poverty, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  “Diversification is not progressing as much as it
should,” Koep said. Economic growth may slow to 3.3 percent
next year from 5.6 percent this year, according to the IMF. Oil
production dropped 25 percent over the decade to 245,000 barrels
a day by 2010, according to the BP Statistical Review of World
Energy. Companies including Total SA and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
pump crude from Gabonese wells.  The yield on Gabon’s $1 billion Eurobonds, due 2017,
reached a high this year of 6.5 percent on Oct. 5 amid global
uncertainty that led to sale of many emerging-market
instruments, according to  Stuart Culverhouse , chief economist at
investment bank Exotix Ltd. The yield fell to 5.206 percent late
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The bonds quickly rebounded because there is an
underlying solvency that’s not in question,” he said by phone
from  London . “It’s one of those ones that if it weakens, it
opens up a good buying opportunity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Johannesburg at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  