-- German Minister Rejects Coalition Calls to Cut Renewable Subsidy
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2011-12-16T16:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/german-minister-rejects-coalition-calls-to-cut-renewable-subsidy.html
German Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen rejected Economy Ministry calls to cut renewable energy
subsidies in one of the biggest markets for the industry, saying
it would hurt the nation’s goal of transforming its power use.  “It makes no sense to again politically question laws that
have just been adopted,” Roettgen, a member of  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic Union, said today in
Berlin. “Insecurity is poison for the energy transformation.”  Germany , the largest solar market in 2010, should lower the
rates it pays for power generated with the technology next year
to curb electricity bills, Economy Minister Philipp Roesler of
the junior coalition Free  Democratic Party  has said.  Germany, which installed a record 7,400 megawatts of solar
panels last year, should curb future growth to 1,000 megawatts a
year, Roesler told the Rheinische Post newspaper last month.  Q-
Cells SE (QCE)  and  Solarworld AG (SWV) , Germany’s biggest solar producers,
last month reported wider-than-expected losses on slowing demand
in their home market and falling prices for their products.  A limit of 1,000 megawatts would “starve” the industry,
Hans-Josef Fell, a Green Party lawmaker, said last month.
Roettgen said warnings that power prices will go through the
roof as Germany raises the share of renewables are “horror
scenarios that have not proven real.”  Merkel shut more than a quarter of atomic capacity in March
and plans to complete an exit by 2022. It would be replaced with
efficient coal- and gas-fired plants and renewables including
wind, solar and biomass. Germany aims to get at least 35 percent
of its power from renewables by 2020 compared with 20 percent
now, according to figures released today by the BDEW utility
lobby.  While the renewable expansion is well on course, Germany
needs to speed investments to expand the  power grid  and do more
to reduce overall energy consumption, Roettgen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  