-- Spain, Italy Notes Rise on ECB-Driven Demand; German Yields Fall to Record
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2011-12-16T16:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/german-two-year-note-yields-decline-to-record-low-on-europe-debt-concern.html
Spanish and Italian notes rose,
leading gains in euro-area debt, on speculation banks bought the
securities to use as collateral when the  European Central Bank 
starts offering three-year loans next week.  Spain ’s  two-year yields  dropped to a four-month low after
the nation sold almost double its initial maximum target of
securities at an auction yesterday. Italian notes extended a
third weekly gain as Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government won
a confidence vote. French and Belgian bonds also advanced.
German and Dutch two-year  yields  fell to euro-era records as
some investors remained concerned the European debt crisis will
worsen, underpinning demand for safer assets.  “The market is in risk-on mode,” said  Padhraic Garvey ,
head of developed-market debt strategy at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “It’s been a good couple of days from an auction
perspective. There’s a temptation on the part of banks to use
the opportunity to buy  government bonds  at the three-year
refinancing window at the ECB,” which is boosting Spanish and
Italian securities.  Two-year Spanish yields fell 21 basis points, or 0.21
percentage point, to 3.45 percent at 4:16 p.m. London time after
dropping to 3.10 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 9. The 2.5
percent note due October 2013 rose 0.365, or 3.65 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,304) face amount, to 98.315. The yields have
tumbled 1.22 percentage points this week.  Italian two-year yields slid 21 basis points to 5.34
percent, extending this week’s decline to 62 basis points.  Spread Widens  The  difference  between Spain’s two- and 10-year yields
widened 78 basis points this week to 186 basis points amid
speculation investors bought shorter-maturity notes before the
ECB starts its longer-term refinancing operation on Dec. 20.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced the plan to offer
lenders unlimited funds for three years after the central bank’s
policy meeting on Dec. 8.  Spain sold a combined 6.03 billion euros of debt due in
January 2016, April 2020 and April 2021 yesterday, compared with
an original target of 3.5 billion euros. The government’s cost
of borrowing for five years declined.  “The ECB intervention is supporting banks, and that’s
positive,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European rates
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “The supply is out
of the way, so that’s contributing to an improvement in
sentiment.”  Confidence Vote  Italian two-year yields fell as low as 5.01 percent, the
least since Nov. 1, as the government survived a confidence vote
in the lower house of parliament on a 30 billion-euro package of
austerity and growth measures.  A final vote will be held later today before the plan
passes to the Senate.  French  two-year yields  dropped as much as 16 basis points
to 0.76 percent, the lowest since Sept. 9, 2010, before being
little changed at 0.91 percent. Rates on two-year Belgian debt
declined 23 basis points to 2.60 percent.  France ’s  10-year yield 
dropped below 3 percent for the first time since Nov. 2.  Bonds of  Europe ’s most highly-indebted nations also gained
after U.S. reports yesterday showed fewer workers filed claims
for jobless benefits and manufacturing accelerated this month,
adding to signs the world’s largest economy is strengthening.
The euro appreciated 0.2 percent to $1.3038.  Euro-area leaders last week outlined a solution including
tighter budget rules to contain a surge in Spanish and Italian
bond yields that threatened the survival of the common currency.  Moody’s Investors Service said on Dec. 11 the measures
agreed at the Dec. 9 summit in Brussels didn’t go far enough.  German Notes  German note yields dropped to a record low on concern the
region’s debt crisis is far from being resolved.  The two-year  yield  declined three basis points to 0.22
percent after falling to a euro-era low of 0.214 percent. Ten-
year rates slid as much as seven basis points to 1.87 percent,
the least since Nov. 22.  Dutch two-year yields fell three basis points to 0.30
percent after reaching a euro-era low 0.293 percent. Finnish
two-year yields dropped four basis points to 0.39 percent.  The decline in yields is “reflecting the fact that
investors are comfortable with German, Dutch and Finnish paper
relative to the rest of the euro-region,” ING’s Garvey said.
“We are still trading in a very menacing environment and at any
point sentiment could tip back in to negative territory.”  Ten-year German yields have fallen about a percentage point
this year as Europe’s debt crisis intensified. Luxembourg’s
 Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of euro-area finance
ministers, told reporters today the euro region is “on the
brink of a recession.”  The ECB cut its benchmark  interest rate  last week for the
second month and lowered its forecast for growth next year to
0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.  German bonds have returned 9 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities gained 4.6
percent, and Italian bonds lost 7 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  