-- Gold Rout Means Traders Least Bullish
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2011-12-16T17:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/gold-market-rout-leaves-traders-least-bullish-in-four-months-commodities.html
Gold’s biggest rout in three months
means traders are the least bullish since July and  Dennis Gartman , the economist who sold the last of his metal on the day
the slump began, warned of further declines.  Ten of 21 surveyed by Bloomberg expect the metal to gain
next week, the lowest proportion since July 29. Three were
neutral. While bullion’s slide of as much as 9 percent this
week took its drop from the record $1,923.70 an ounce reached in
September to almost 20 percent, the common definition of a  bear
market , investors are still  holding  near the most metal ever in
exchange-traded products, a wager now valued at $120.2 billion.  Commodities retreated the most in almost three months and
more than $640 billion was wiped off the value of global
equities on Dec. 14 after the  Federal Reserve  refrained from
taking new stimulus measures. That combined with signs of
increased funding stress in  Europe  helped drive the dollar to
the highest since January against the euro. Gold typically moves
in the opposite direction to the U.S. currency.  “Bears are in the driver seat,” said Miguel Perez- Santalla, vice president of sales at Heraeus Precious Metals
Management LLC in New York, whose clients include jewelers and
 mining companies. (BWMING)  “But the problems in Europe have not been
solved and buying will come back and we will see higher prices
because of a lack of confidence in the financial system.”  Bank of America  Bullion rose 12 percent to $1,592.70 an ounce this year on
the Comex in New York. Even after this week’s rout, it’s still
the third-best performer in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of
24 commodities, which fell 2.6 percent. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities retreated 12 percent this year and
Treasuries returned 9.6 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Options traders are still bullish. The most widely held
option gives owners the right to buy gold at $2,000 by March,
data from the bourse show. The eight biggest holdings are all
 call options  at 13 percent or more above prices today.  While investors cut 13.3 metric tons of gold from their ETP
holdings yesterday, the most since Aug. 24, assets are less than
1 percent below the record set Dec. 14, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Holders have a combined 2,347.5 tons, greater
than the reserves of all but four of the world’s  central  banks
and equal to more than 10 months of global mine supply.  Debt Crisis  Demand for physical gold accelerated this quarter at the
fastest pace in more than a year as Europe’s debt crisis
deepened. The European Central Bank cut  interest rates  for a
second consecutive month last week to shore up growth. Lower
interest rates increases the appeal of gold because it generally
earns investors returns only through price gains.  “The fundamentals remain positive,” said Adrian Day, the
president of Adrian Day Asset Management in Annapolis,  Maryland .
“Both the  European Central Bank  and Fed remain easy. After this
cleansing, gold will move up again.”  Gartman said on Dec. 13 traders were witnessing the “death
of a bull” and “the beginnings of a real bear market” that
may drive prices as low as $1,475. Bullion may “cascade” lower
if prices drop below yesterday’s lows by early next week, he
wrote today in his Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter. If
that were to happen, he would “begin to look again at buying
gold,” he wrote.  While gold is heading for an 11th consecutive annual gain,
this week’s declines mean it is also poised for its first
quarterly drop in three years.  Money Managers  Hedge funds  and other money managers boosted bets on higher
futures prices by 3.5 percent to 151,347 contracts in the week
ended Dec. 6, the first gain in three weeks, U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission  data  show. Prices declined 4 percent
in the week through Dec. 13 and dropped another 5.6 percent
since then. The CFTC will announce the latest data today.  Gold may drop below $1,500 an ounce in the “short term,”
said  Daniel Briesemann , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , who is forecasting an average of $1,800 next year.
“Gold is not a safe haven at the moment,” he said.  The metal plunged as much as 20 percent in the three weeks
through Sept. 26 as investors sold to cover their losses
elsewhere, before rebounding as much as 18 percent in the
following six weeks. The September plunge halted at the metal’s
200-day moving average. Two days ago, gold closed below that
measure for the first time since January 2009.  Gold Rally  That move means prices may tumble to $1,400 “in a hurry,”
said  Dave Lutz , head of exchange-traded-fund trading and
strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. Gold may drop to
$1,550 before rallying to as high as $2,400 in the second half
of next year, Citigroup Inc.’s CitiFX Technicals predicted in a
report Dec. 14.  The plunge may spur more buying from central banks, who are
expanding reserves for the first time in a generation, and put a
“floor” on prices, said Day of Adrian Day Asset Management.
The World Gold Council expects central banks to buy as much as
450 tons this year. Official holdings stand at 30,708 tons, data
from the London-based council show.  The metal should rally in the second half of next year
“given the turmoil in Europe,” Bank of America wrote in a note
yesterday, predicting bullion will reach $2,000 in 12 months.  Twelve of 24 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect copper to fall next week. The metal for delivery in three
months, the  London  Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract, declined
24 percent to $7,331.50 a ton this year.  Sugar Slumps  Raw sugar retreated 28 percent this year to 22.98 cents a
pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . Six of 10 people surveyed
expect prices to drop next week.  Nine of 21 anticipate a gain in corn, with four neutral,
while the same number said soybeans will rise. Corn slipped 7
percent to $5.8475 a bushel in  Chicago  this year, and soybeans
slid 19 percent to $11.365 a bushel.  “Stock markets are going down, the  euro zone  is going into
recession,  China  is slowing down, you’ve got a million reasons
to go underweight commodities,” said Jesper Dannesboe, an
analyst at Societe Generale SA in London. “It may bottom out in
the first quarter. You’re going to see quantitative easing and
that will stabilize the markets. There’s not going to be a big
 bull market , but it will help stabilize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Nicholas Larkin  in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 