-- SoCal Edison Worker Kills 3 in Office Shooting
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2011-12-17T21:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/gunman-opens-fire-in-socal-edison-building.html
A Southern California Edison
employee opened fire at a company office building in Irwindale
yesterday, killing two people and injuring two others before
committing suicide, officials said.  “It’s a very sad day for us,” Ted Craver, chief executive
officer of  Edison International (EIX) , the utility’s owner, said
yesterday at a press conference from the company’s headquarters
in Rosemead.  Two people died at the scene and a third on the way to a
hospital, Mike Taylor, a captain with neighboring Baldwin Park
Police Department, said in a telephone interview from the site,
about 25 miles (40 kilometers) east of Los Angeles.  The shooter was an Edison employee, Craver said. Of those
who were shot, four were company staffers and one was a contract
worker. Four were male and one was female, according to Charles Coleman, an Edison spokesman. The shooter was a male.  Robert Gray, a sergeant with the Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Department, said today that the motive for the
shooting remains unclear and an investigation is underway.  The company is cooperating with investigators and doesn’t
have all the details of the shooting, Craver said in a
statement. The facility houses about 200, said Gil Alexander, a
spokesman for the utility. They work “almost exclusively” in
 information technology , Craver said.  After Lunch  The shooting started at about 1:30 p.m. local time,
according to Taylor, the police captain. The unidentified gunman
went through the building with a rifle, local station KCAL-9
reported. Homicide detectives from the sheriff’s department
headed to the scene, said Gray.  “As soon as we heard of the shooting, we secured our
facilities and took all necessary precautions to protect our
employees,” Craver said in the statement.  Police searched the building for potential victims as many
as three hours after the shooting, Taylor said.  A group of about 20 employees barricaded themselves in a
break room during the attack by blocking the door with a
refrigerator, KCAL-9 reported, citing an interview with the
husband of one of the employees in the room.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  