-- Microsoft, Cephalon, DuPont, Red Bull: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2011-12-16T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/microsoft-cephalon-dupont-red-bull-intellectual-property.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s largest
software maker, told a German court that Android-based
smartphones and tablets from  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. 
infringe its European patents.  Microsoft claimed in the first of three cases heard
yesterday that software Motorola Mobility uses protected
technology that helps computers switch between languages in the
same program. Presiding Judge Peter Guntz in Munich said the
patent may have been drafted so narrowly that its language may
not cover the solution Motorola Mobility uses.  It was the first time the two U.S. companies faced each
other in a German court in the patent dispute. The country has
become a center for European smartphone and tablet lawsuits with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co. are involved in similar
cases in Mannheim and Munich.  A suit between Microsoft and Motorola Mobility in the U.S.
is pending before the International Trade Commission in
 Washington  where a judge is scheduled to release his findings
tomorrow. Microsoft sued Motorola Mobility in Munich, while
Motorola Mobility, which is being acquired by Google Inc., filed
several suits against Microsoft in Mannheim.  An offer by the court to mediate settlement talks was
rebuffed by both parties yesterday. While the companies have
talked, not much progress has been made since their last meeting
in October, Motorola Mobility attorney Marcus Grosch said.  “The German cases are just a fraction of all the
litigation. The bulk of suits is pending in the U.S.,” said
Peter Hess, a lawyer for Microsoft. “Motorola Mobility cannot
settle as long as Google hasn’t gained control, so talks here
don’t make much sense.”  Google said Aug. 15 it would buy Libertyville, Illinois-
based Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion to obtain patents that
may be used to fend off suits targeting handsets and tablet
computers that use Android.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, makes its own
mobile-operating system, Windows Phone 7, which competes with
Android.  In a second hearing yesterday, Microsoft argued that
Android-based devices illicitly use its technology for sending
short messages with an unlimited number of characters. Motorola
Mobility, which denies wrongdoing, argues Android’s uses a two-
step procedure, whereas Microsoft’s patent protects a one-step
solution. The third case concerned technology used for intents
notifications.  The court scheduled separate hearings for each case in
March and April.  Yesterday’s cases are: LG Muenchen, 7 O 7019333/11,
7019334/11 and 70020429/11.  Cephalon, Acusphere Claim Celgene’s Abraxane Infringes Patent  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Cephalon unit and
 Acusphere Inc. (ACUS)  sued Celgene Corp. for patent infringement
related to the breast cancer drug Abraxane.  The lawsuit claims Celgene’s Abraxane violates an Acusphere
patent for a drug formulation of paclitaxel particles, according
to the complaint filed Dec. 14 in federal court in  Boston .
Abraxane’s active ingredient is the compound paclitaxel.  The injected drug, used to treat metastatic breast cancer,
was obtained by Summit, New Jersey-based Celgene as part of its
purchase of Abraxis BioScience Inc. in 2010. The drug generated
$282 million in sales in the first nine months of this year,
according to the company’s quarterly reports.  Cephalon, acquired in October by Petah Tikva, Israel-based
Teva, is the exclusive licensee of Watertown, Massachusetts-
based Acusphere’s patent. The companies are seeking cash
compensation and an order to block further use of the invention.  The case is Cephalon Inc. v.  Celgene Corp. (CELG) , 11cv12226, U.S.
District Court for the District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  DuPont, Honeywell Said to Face EU Car-Refrigerant Probe  DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S. chemicals company by market
value, and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  face a European Union
antitrust probe over a refrigerant for car air-conditioning
systems, according to four people familiar with the plan.  The European Commission will soon open a formal
investigation to examine whether DuPont and Honeywell may have
concealed their ownership of patents for the refrigerant before
the car industry agreed to use the technology as a standard,
said the people who couldn’t be identified because the issue
isn’t yet public.  Honeywell and DuPont are expecting growth from the
technology they jointly developed to meet EU environmental rules
to cut greenhouse gases from air-conditioning systems. DuPont
told investors this week that the low-emission refrigerant
promises “nice growth and some healthy margins.” Honeywell’s
specialty chemicals division has said it expects coolants to
help it make “extremely solid” profits.  EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said earlier
this month he planned to open “a high-profile case on
standards” to follow an investigation into standards in the
banking industry  DuPont “will continue to cooperate fully with this inquiry
and is confident that the commission will conclude that actions
taken by DuPont complied with applicable laws,” said Janet
Smith, a spokeswoman for the Wilmington, Delaware-based company.  Honeywell is confident that its “practices are consistent
with the law and that the commission will conclude that we acted
in full compliance with European Union competition rules,”
Peter Dalpe, a spokesman for the Morristown, New Jersey-based
company said in an e-mail.  The refrigerant developed by Honeywell and DuPont was
designed to replace ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons, which
can’t be included in new cars sold in the 27-nation EU from
2017.  Honeywell and DuPont agreed last year on a joint venture to
produce the refrigerant from the fourth quarter this year.  The Brussels-based antitrust authority can fine companies
as much as 10 percent of yearly sales or require them to change
the way they do business if it concludes that they harmed
competition.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Yahoo May Win Case Over U.K. Soccer Data, EU Court Aide Says  Yahoo! Inc . may win a bid to access annual schedules of the
English and Scottish soccer leagues, an adviser at the European
Union’s highest court said.  Soccer leagues can’t claim copyright protection for match
schedules, Paolo Mengozzi of the EU Court of Justice said in a
non-binding opinion yesterday. The creation of soccer fixture
lists is a “data creation activity” and not an “original
intellectual creation.” The Luxembourg-based EU court follows
this advice in a majority of cases.  “The effort expended in the creation of the data cannot be
taken into consideration for the purposes of assessing the
eligibility for protection of the database as such,” Mengozzi
said in his opinion.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , and a number of
betting companies who want to access the information, are at
loggerheads with the soccer leagues over whether their lists’
data is protected by copyright. While Yahoo’s U.K. unit argued
the data isn’t protected and can be published without payment,
the English and Scottish leagues said they own the rights to the
data on the annual fixture lists and can charge for its use.  A  London  court in 2010 ruled the data is protected by
copyright under the EU’s database law. The case is now pending
at the Court of Appeal in London, which last year referred the
case to the EU court for guidance.  Any ruling by the EU Court of Justice, which usually
follows within six months of the opinion, will be binding.  “We’re pleased that the Advocate General shares our
opinion that there are no intellectual property rights in
football fixtures,” Yahoo said in an e-mailed statement.  Football DataCo, which is responsible for the Premier
League and Football League fixture lists, declined to comment.  The case is  C-604/10 , Football DataCo Limited, Football
Association Premier League Ltd, Football League Limited,
Scottish Premier League Limited, Scottish Football League, PA
Sport UK Limited v. Yahoo UK Limited, Stan James (Abingdon)
Limited, Stan James Plc, Enetpulse APS.  Red Bull Loses EU Court Ruling Over Dutch Trademark Breach  Red Bull GmbH, an Austrian energy-drink maker, lost a
challenge at the European Union’s highest court over an alleged
breach of its trademark by a Dutch company.  “A service consisting of the mere filling of cans bearing
a sign protected as a trademark is not use of that sign which is
liable to be prohibited,” the EU Court of Justice, the region’s
top court, said in a ruling in Luxembourg yesterday.  Red Bull, based in Fuschl am See, Austria, sued Dutch
company Frisdranken Industrie Winters BV after it filled up cans
bearing logos and texts such as “Bullfigter,” and “Red Horn”
with drinks for another company, called Smart Drinks. Red Bull,
whose logo is a red bull, argued its Benelux trademark rights
had been infringed.  Frisdranken didn’t use the protected trademark and couldn’t
have infringed it, the court said.  “The service provided by Winters consists of the filling
of cans and this service does not have any similarity with the
product for which Red Bull’s trademarks were registered,” said
the EU court.  Tina Deutner, a spokeswoman for Red Bull, declined to
comment.  The case is pending at the Dutch Supreme Court, which last
year sought the EU court’s guidance whether a company that fills
up cans provided by another company, can breach trademark
rights.  The case is C-119/10, Frisdranken Industrie Winters BV v.
Red Bull GmbH.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Ex-Judiciary Committee Staffers Lobbying House on SOPA  Sixteen former staff members of the U.S. House of
Representatives Judiciary Committee are presently lobbying
Congress with reference to the Stop Online Piracy Act, the
Sunlight Foundation Reporting Group  reported .  Eight ex-staffers of the committee are lobbying in support
of the bill, representing such organizations as the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, the Motion Picture Association of America and the
Recording Industry Association of America, according to  Sunlight
Foundation , a Washington-based non-profit group aimed at
governmental transparency.  The group also found eight different ex-staffers lobbying
against the bill, representing organizations that include  Google
Inc. (GOOG) , the Digital Media Association and Microsoft Corp.  Hollywood-Backed Bill on Web Piracy Debated as Amendments Added  House Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith urged U.S.
lawmakers to approve Hollywood-backed legislation aimed at
stopping Internet piracy of movies and goods that Google Inc.
opposes as promoting censorship.  Smith’s panel was debating 60 proposed amendments to the
Stop Online Piracy Act yesterday before deciding whether to send
the measure to the full House for consideration. Lawmakers on
the panel raised concerns that a provision on blocking websites
may damage the security of the Internet’s domain-name system and
requested a delay to hear technical testimony.  Lobbying by the entertainment and Internet industries
intensified ahead of yesterday’s hearing. Movie studios,
including Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., want a crackdown on
non-U.S. websites that sell illegally copied films and TV shows.
Web companies say the House measure would harm innovation.  “Laws equip U.S. authorities and rights-holders to take
action against criminals who operate within our borders,”
Smith, a Republican from  Texas , said in an opening statement at
the hearing. “But there is no parallel authority that permits
effective action against criminals who operate from abroad.”  The bill would let the  Justice Department  ask courts to
order Internet-service providers, search engines, payment
services and advertising networks to block or cease business
with non-U.S. websites trafficking in stolen content or
counterfeit goods.  Sixteen Internet executives, including Google co-founder
Sergey Brin, PayPal Inc. co-founder Elon Musk, and EBay Inc.
founder Pierre Omidyar, published an open letter to Congress in
major newspapers yesterday saying the House and Senate bills
would give the U.S. government power to censor the Web.  Google, Facebook Inc. and other Internet companies rallied
around an alternative draft bill from Senator Ron Wyden, an
Oregon Democrat, and Representative Darrell Issa, a California
Republican, which would make the U.S. International Trade
Commission the arbiter of complaints about non-U.S. websites
linked to piracy.  The proposal from Wyden and Issa “fails to provide an
effective way to target foreign rogue websites and goes easy on
online piracy and counterfeiting,” Michael O’Leary, senior
executive vice president for global policy and external affairs
at the Motion Picture Association of America, said in a
statement last week.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Openwave Appoints Mendez, Robbins to Run IP Portfolio Business  Openwave Systems Inc. (OPWV) , a provider of Internet-based
communications software and applications, hired two new managers
of its IP patent portfolio business, the Redwood City,
California-based company said in a  statement .  One of the new hires is  Daniel Mendez , who was previously
vice president and chief technology officer at American
Management Systems. He has also worked as director and senior
technical consultant at Cambridge Technology Partners, a
business consulting service based in Nyon,  Switzerland .  He has an undergraduate degree in computer science from
 Harvard University .  Tim Robbins , the other new hire, was previously vice
president, general counsel and corporate secretary for Visto
Corp. Before that, he practiced law at Redwood City, California-
based  Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin & Hachigian,
LLP .  Robbins has an undergraduate degree in business and
economics from the  University of California  at  Los Angeles  and a
law degree from the University of Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 