-- IHS’s Behravesh Says Europe ‘Biggest Threat’ to World Economy: Tom Keene
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-12-16T18:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/ihs-s-behravesh-says-europe-biggest-threat-to-world-economy-tom-keene.html
A spiraling default crisis in  Europe 
poses the “single biggest threat” to the world economy, IHS
Inc. chief economist Nariman Behravesh said today in an
interview on Bloomberg Television.  “The predominant risks are on the downside” to the global
economy, he said on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance
Midday” with Tom Keene. Those risks included  China ’s ability to
“engineer a soft landing,” he said.  Behravesh said economic research firm IHS had “penciled
in” a recession for Europe, while the U.S. would probably avoid
a renewed slump. Emerging economies like China and Brazil would
continue to be the drivers of world growth, while developed
economies, including the U.S., will see “sluggish growth.”  “It’s very much still this sort of a two-speed world,” he
said.  IHS forecasts the  U.S. economy  will grow 1.8 percent next
year, he said. “It’s not great, it’s not horrible either. It’s
sluggish but no double dip,” he said, referring to another
recession.  Growth at that pace would generate 125,000 to 150,000 jobs
a month, which he said would only bring down U.S. unemployment
from its current 8.6 percent rate “very gradually.”  He said  Federal Reserve  monetary policy could do little to
bring down unemployment. “What’s going to drive down the
 unemployment rate  is confidence on the part of businesses and
consumers, for consumers to spend, for businesses to hire.”  Better-than-forecast economic data in recent months in the
U.S. had given the Federal Reserve more latitude to weigh its
monetary-policy options, he said. “In that sense, it doesn’t
necessarily have to pull the trigger on” additional
quantitative easing “or anything dramatic yet,” he said.  “Given the economy is looking a little better, it does
have more room to maneuver,” he said. “The Fed in that sense
is very fortunate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net 
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  