-- Million-Dollar Nurses Show California’s Struggle to Cut Payroll
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2011-12-16T05:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/million-dollar-nurses-show-california-s-struggle-to-reduce-payroll-costs.html
California (BCAX)  has paid Lina Manglicmot
$1.5 million since 2005, an average of $253,530 a year, to work
as a  prison  nurse in the agricultural town of Soledad.  Manglicmot is one of 42 state nurses who each made more
than $1 million in those six years, mostly by tapping overtime,
according to payroll  data  compiled by Bloomberg News. Together,
those nurses collected $47.5 million. In 2008, Manglicmot was
paid $331,346, including $211,257 in overtime.  The extra pay that allows some nurses to triple their
regular compensation underscores a broader trend in  California ,
where government workers are paid more than in other states for
similar duties and civil-service job protections hamper efforts
to close budget gaps. Governor  Jerry Brown  said this week that
revenue will fall short of expectations, triggering $1 billion
in cuts to school busing, libraries and care for children, the
elderly and the disabled, among other programs.  “California taxpayers should be outraged,” said Lanny
Ebenstein, an economics lecturer at the  University of California 
at  Santa Barbara  and president of the  California Center for
Public Policy , a research institution critical of public-sector
compensation. “Taxpayers should insist that this is no longer
acceptable because what government does is important and it’s
important that government run effectively.”  California is home to city managers whose compensation is
higher than the governor’s, prison doctors who make more than
counterparts elsewhere, Los Angeles firefighters who collect
twice the national mean and state workers who reaped $1.7
billion more than their regular salaries last year, from
overtime and unused vacation pay to physical-fitness incentives.  Above National Average  Public nurses make far more in California than they do in
 New York  or  Texas . Their pay also places them well above the
$67,720 national average for registered nurses, according to the
U.S.  Bureau of Labor statistics .  The highest-paid nurse in New York last year earned
$186,909 working in a prison north of  Manhattan , according to
payroll data from the state comptroller’s office. Seventy-five
nurses in California made more than that in 2010, and the top
earner was paid $269,810, including $179,800 in overtime.  The director of nursing for the Texas prison system makes
$165,000 a year, while rank-and-file registered nurses are paid
$68,000 to $72,000, said Owen Murray, vice president of offender
health services for the University of Texas Medical Branch. The
state’s prison nurses aren’t unionized, and overtime payouts to
the penal system’s health-care staff are limited, Murray said.  ‘No Way Possible’  “There might be some overtime opportunities, but it would
never be more than a handful of hours in a pay period,” Murray
said. “So there is no way possible, even at time-and-a-half,
that you would reach the ranges that you are talking about in
 California .”  An array of union-sought laws and regulations keeps nurses’
pay high in California. A rule limits mandatory overtime, yet
doesn’t control how much extra time employees can work
voluntarily. California must offer extra hours to state
employees first, even when officials estimate that a temporary
nurse would be cheaper. The state isn’t allowed to hire new
prison nurses to fill in for the 10 percent who are on long-term
sick leave.  California paid the overtime as the state grappled with
more than $100 billion in  budget  shortfalls since 2008, forcing
it to cut spending by 16 percent. The six-year period in which
the 42 nurses collected $24.6 million in overtime coincided with
the recession that damaged housing markets and curbed  tax
revenue  in California and elsewhere.  $98.7 Million in Overtime  Last year, the state’s nurses were paid a total of $98.7
million in overtime at one-and-a-half times their normal hourly
wage -- an average of $17,692 each. Since 2005, California has
paid more than $424 million in overtime for nurses, data
obtained from Controller John Chiang shows.  Most of the overtime is concentrated in  prisons  and mental-
health hospitals, where 83 percent of the more than 6,000 nurses
for those two agencies collected extra pay in 2010, according to
the data.  Union officials say they have urged the state corrections
and mental health departments to consider more efficient
scheduling, which they say would reduce overtime.  “We actually have looked at this and tried very hard to
get them to understand that mandatory and even voluntary
overtime is not the way to go,” said Nancy Lyerla, former
chairwoman of the bargaining unit for prison nurses at the
Service Employees International Union Local 1000, the largest
union of state employees in California. “It’s very expensive.
We recognize that and have had lengthy discussions with them
about that.”  State officials have taken some steps to curb overtime.  Looking For Fixes  Clark Kelso, the court appointed receiver put in charge of
California’s prison health system after inmates filed a legal
challenge to the quality of care, sent a management team to
prisons with especially high overtime and sick-leave totals to
examine the reasons and find fixes, said his spokeswoman, Nancy Kincaid. Kelso has sought lower costs from companies that offer
temporary contract nurses to the state, she said.  Critics such as Ebenstein don’t understand how much the
agency has worked to improve prison medical care efficiencies
since 2006, Kelso said in a statement.  ‘Examples of Mismanagement’  “We have been tackling these examples of mismanagement,”
he said. “Over the last several years, we have improved medical
care significantly while saving taxpayers more than $400
million. There is still more to do. We focus every effort on
improving the system through increased efficiency and reduced
costs.”  For example, the department has hired more nurse assistants
and licensed vocation nurses to handle duties such as medication
management and round-the-clock suicide watches, Kincaid said. In
the past, that duty has fallen on the registered nursing staff,
boosting overtime costs.  Before 2009, California law allowed personal-leave hours to
be counted as time worked in calculating overtime. A  state audit 
in 2009 found a worker at the Sonoma Developmental Center who
was paid for 160 hours of overtime in a single month, even
though the employee took 167 hours of leave during that period.  That rule has since been changed, so that only approved
leave and not sick leave can be calculated toward overtime and
only if the employee is ordered to work the extra hours.  While the day-to-day causes of overtime vary, such as when
a prison is locked down and a nurse already on duty must remain
past her regularly scheduled shift, prison health-care
executives are limited by state law in their ability to use
contract nurses to cover for employees who are ill or on
vacation.  Long-Term Leave  Labor laws also prohibit the state from hiring a new civil-
service nurse to fill in for those on long-term leave.  “The constitution says that if a civil servant can do the
job, we must hire or use a civil servant and not an outside
contract,” Kincaid said. “So we’re required to offer the
overtime to staff before we can go outside to fill it.”  Kincaid said the agency tries to anticipate what staffing
level is needed for a given shift based on inmate population and
the severity of medical issues. It schedules extra employees in
anticipation that the ratio may change because of patient needs
or workers who call in sick.  Not Enough  That’s often not enough, she said. During two hunger
strikes by inmates throughout the state’s prison system in July
and September of this year, nurses had to work an extra 7,000
hours of overtime to ensure proper medical care, Kincaid said.
Three-day-a-month furloughs in 2009 through 2011 also thinned
the staff, requiring more overtime, she said.  At a  prison drug-treatment center  in California’s central
valley, 160 miles north of  Los Angeles , nurse Milacris Andres
has been paid more overtime than regular pay in each of the
past six years, payroll data show. In all, she has collected
almost $700,000 in overtime pay since 2005, boosting her income
during that time to $1.24 million. Through Kincaid, Manglicmot
and Andres declined to comment.  “I have never heard of a nurse making that kind of
money,” said Lorry Schoenly, a Philadelphia-based prison
health-care risk and quality of care consultant. “I’m shocked
that they would have any openings left. California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation may benefit from a fresh look at
their staffing patterns and hiring practices.”  Nurse Overtime Triples  Overtime pay at the Department of Corrections has declined
by 27 percent to $475 million last year since reaching a high of
$648.5 million in calendar year 2007, payroll data show.
Overtime for nurses more than tripled since 2005, to $54 million
last year.  At the Department of Mental Health, also operating under
federal oversight, overtime costs have soared about 75 percent
to almost $100 million last year, from $56.6 million in 2005,
payroll data show. Overtime pay for nurses in the agency more
than doubled during that period to $41.2 million.  Maria Theresa Sicad was paid $227,014 last year as a nurse
at the state mental-health hospital in Napa, even though her
base pay was $86,427. Since 2005, she’s been paid $823,905 in
overtime pay. Through agency spokeswoman Beth Willon, Sicad
declined to comment.  The agency has been understaffed for years partly because
of the difficulty of recruiting nurses in some rural locations,
said the agency’s acting chief deputy director, Kathy Gaither.
Another factor that taxes the staff is federal oversight of the
mental-health department, which requires nurses to spend many
hours documenting patient care, she said.  Accumulating Overtime  Labor contracts for the nurses require that overtime be
offered first to volunteers, so the agency doesn’t have a choice
in which employees work the extra hours. That allows some
workers to accumulate large quantities of overtime hours. The
agency can’t assign mandatory overtime until there are no more
volunteers willing to take the hours.  California has made efforts to curb its payroll costs,
include a hiring freeze ordered by the governor in February.
According to the controller’s office, the number of full-time
employees of the state payroll has shrunk to 201,408 in October
from 205,635 when Brown took office in January.  He and the state legislature passed a plan to ease crowding
in prisons by shifting responsibility for thousands of criminals
from state control to county jails and local probation.  The Department of Mental Health recently announced an
 overhaul  that includes ways to make staff-to-patient ratios more
flexible and technology and documentation improvements that will
move nurses from paperwork duty back to direct patient care,
Gaither said.  ‘Each Patient’s Need’  “Because we are returning more staff back to the unit, we
are able to make improvements in how staff are employed and at
lower costs,” she said. “It’s really looking at each patient’s
need and staffing based on those needs rather than doing a one
size fits all.”  At least 15 states have privatized prison health-care to
curb costs. Corizon, Inc., a Tennessee company that provides
private healthcare to more than 400,000 inmates in 31 states,
keeps a pool of temporary nurses on its payroll to fill in when
an additional worker is needed.  Those nurses are paid regular hours instead of overtime
wages and are not offered full-time benefits, helping to keep
costs down, said Rich Hallworth, Corizon’s chief executive
officer.  “Sometime overtime is required,” he said. “But when we
do, what we try to make sure is that the number they are working
isn’t excessive. It’s a patient quality care issue. If you are
working a 24-hour shift how attentive can you be?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net . 