-- Tim Tops RIM as Doughnuts and Coffee Beat BlackBerrys: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2011-12-16T18:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/tim-hortons-tops-rim-size-as-doughnuts-beat-blackberrys-chart-of-the-day.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , once
Canada’s largest company by market value, has fallen below the
country’s biggest coffee and doughnut chain after the BlackBerry
smartphone maker’s latest share slide.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that RIM’s market value has
plunged to C$7.2 billion ($6.9 billion) from a record C$84.5
billion in 2008.  Tim Hortons Inc. (THI) , which runs contests asking
customers to “roll up the rim” of their coffee cups in search
of prizes, has now rolled up to RIM’s market value. Tim Hortons
is worth C$7.8 billion after rallying 20 percent this year.  “The company has been whittled down to levels we wouldn’t
have contemplated even less than a year ago,”  Greg Eckel , a
 money manager  with Morgan Meighen & Associates Ltd. in Toronto,
said in a telephone interview, referring to RIM. “It’s just a
massive failure.” His firm manages about C$1 billion.  RIM’s stock price has dropped to levels last seen in 2003
after its flagship BlackBerry smartphone lost market share to
Apple Inc.’s iPhone and handsets based on Google Inc.’s Android
software. The stock slumped today after RIM said a new
generation of BlackBerrys designed to fuel a comeback won’t be
out until late in 2012.  After surpassing Royal Bank of Canada to become the
country’s most-valuable company three years ago, Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM has dropped to 58th among companies in the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index. Companies now bigger by
market value include grocer Loblaw Cos., pharmacy chain Shoppers
Drug Mart Corp. and Saputo Inc., Canada’s largest cheese
producer.  Oakville, Ontario-based  Tim Hortons , named after a former
National Hockey League defenseman with the  Toronto Maple Leafs ,
began an expansion into the U.S. last year. Third-quarter sales
at existing U.S. stores climbed 6.3 percent, eclipsing a 4.7
percent gain at its Canadian outlets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  