-- Congress Spares Incandescent Bulbs in Victory for U.S. Tea Party
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2011-12-17T16:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/incandescent-light-bulb-spared-in-u-s-lawmakers-spending-bill.html
Congress spared the 100-watt
incandescent light bulb from a government-enforced phaseout in a
win for  Tea Party  activists over manufacturers who said they are
already switching to more energy-efficient products.  Lawmakers cleared legislation today to fund the government
through Sept. 30, with a provision barring the Energy Department
from carrying out the elimination of the pear-shaped bulb.
Groups backing small government urged Republican allies to block
the requirement, calling it an example of regulatory overreach
in keeping with the health-care overhaul and the Wall Street
bailout.  The federal standards limit the “freedom of average
Americans” to buy whatever type of bulb they wanted,
Representative Michael Burgess, a Texas Republican, said
yesterday in an interview before the House voted 296-121 for the
bill. The Senate voted 67-32 today and sent the legislation to
President  Barack Obama .  A 2007 law effectively phased out incandescent bulbs
starting next year by setting efficiency standards they don’t
meet. They would be replaced by compact fluorescent, halogen and
light-emitting diode models.  “If America is to have a rational  energy policy , we need
to make progress in efficiency,” Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a New
Mexico Democrat, said in a statement. “Blocking funds to
enforce minimum standards works against our nation getting the
full benefits of  energy efficiency .”  While business groups back Republican efforts to repeal or
delay clean-air standards proposed by the Environmental
Protection Agency, light-bulb makers including  General Electric
Co. (GE)  joined Democrats and environmentalists to defend the light-
bulb law signed by President  George W. Bush .  Retool Factories  U.S. manufacturers invested millions of dollars updating
factories to produce more efficient bulbs -- including a halogen
version with the incandescent model’s pear shape -- according to
Kyle Pitsor, vice president for government affairs with the
National Electrical Manufacturers Association, whose members
include Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE and  Royal Philips
Electronics NV (PHIA)  of Amsterdam.  Other companies may exploit regulatory uncertainty and
continue to sell the 100-watt bulbs, leaving manufacturers that
comply at a disadvantage, Pitsor told reporters yesterday on a
conference call with organizations that support the efficiency
standard. He didn’t name those companies.  The provision creates “confusion in the market for every
American who is interested in securing their own energy savings
for their families and their communities,” Philips said in an
e-mailed statement.  ‘Government Overreach’  Opponents said consumers should be able to keep the option
of buying the cheaper incandescent bulb.  “The light-bulb ban is government overreach at its
worst,” Nick Loris, a policy analyst at the  Heritage Foundation 
in  Washington , which says it promotes conservative public
policies, said in an e-mailed statement. “Washington has
absolutely no business in dictating what you can and cannot
purchase.”  FreedomWorks, a Washington-based group affiliated with the
Tea Party that said it backs limited government, had urged
activists in a blog post to resist the “federal light bulb
police.” Website visitors were encouraged to sign the group’s
“Free Our Light” petition sent to Congress.  The provision in the spending bill gives opponents more
time to fight for an outright repeal of the 2007 efficiency law,
Brian McGraw, a coordinator for the group, said in an interview.  ‘Abide By Standards’  The provision may have limited practical effects. The 2007
law still requires manufacturers to produce more-efficient bulbs
even though the Energy Department wouldn’t be able to impose
fines for violators.  “We are required to abide by the standards, and, of
course, intend to comply with our legal obligation,” David
Schuellerman, a GE spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  State attorneys general can seek to ensure compliance with
the federal law, Kateri Callahan, president of the Alliance to
Save Energy, a Washington-based group that promotes efficiency
standards with funding from companies including  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and
 Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , said on the conference call.  The U.S. transition to more efficient lighting standards
may take longer than it otherwise would have, David Goldston,
director of government affairs for the New York-based Natural
Resources Defense Council, which supports the efficiency law,
said on the call.  While incandescent bulbs are cheaper to buy, they cost
consumers more in the long-run because they burn out faster than
the alternatives and use more energy, advocates say.  Halting the phaseout would jeopardize $12.5 billion in
consumer savings by 2020, according to a study by the
Washington-based American Council for an Energy-Efficient
Economy.  “The question is, who is in favor of wasting energy?”
Callahan said.  The bulb provision is in a spending bill for fiscal 2012.
The measure is H.R. 2055.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  