-- Subbarao Leaves Benchmark Repo Rate Unchanged to Support Economic Growth
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2011-12-16T13:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/india-leaves-benchmark-rate-unchanged-at-8-5-to-support-economic-growth.html
India’s central bank refrained from
raising  interest rates  for the first time in eight meetings as
inflation cools and the fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis
threatens growth. Ten-year bonds gained the most in six months.  The  Reserve Bank of India  left the repurchase rate at 8.5
percent, according to an e-mailed statement in Mumbai today. The
decision matched all 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao  paused after inflation slowed to
a one-year low and industrial output fell for the first time in
28 months, tilting the balance of risks toward growth. The rupee
rebounded today from a record low, helping cut import costs and
giving the central bank scope to spur expansion.  “It’s prudent to pause as growth is slowing substantially
amid global uncertainties and inflation is on a downward path,”
said Samiran Chakraborty, a Mumbai-based economist at Standard
Chartered Plc. “The RBI will have to wait for a quarter or so
before cutting rates as inflation is still high.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 fell
11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 8.38 percent at
the close in Mumbai. The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, which has
lost a fifth of its value in 2011, declined 2.2 percent.  Rupee’s Rebound  India’s rupee, which has weakened about 15 percent this
year, surged 1.7 percent to 52.7450 per dollar, the biggest gain
since May 2010. The jump followed the central bank’s move to
curb rupee-forwards trading yesterday after the currency dropped
to an all-time low of 54.3050 per dollar.  “The need to improve business sentiments and recover the
growth momentum in the remaining months of the current fiscal
necessitated a review of the monetary policy stance,” Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  said in an e-mailed statement today.  Besides industrial production  shrinking , growth prospects
were set back by the government’s decision on Dec. 7 to put on
hold plans to allow overseas retailers such as Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. to open supermarkets. The move followed political protests,
and sent the  stock index  to its biggest three-day drop since
July 2009.  “Growth is clearly decelerating,” the central bank said
in today’s statement. “This reflects the combined impact of
several factors: the uncertain global environment, the
cumulative impact of past monetary policy tightening and
domestic policy uncertainties.”  Even so, the central bank said inflation risks “remain
high” and the “rupee remains under stress.”  BRIC Inflation  India’s  benchmark wholesale-price inflation  slowed to a
one-year low of 9.11 percent in November. It’s still higher than
in other so-called BRIC nations. Consumer prices rose 6.6
percent in  Brazil , 6.8 percent in  Russia  and 4.2 percent in
 China  last month.  While the “projected trajectory” for inflation remains,
“from this point on, monetary policy actions are likely to
reverse the cycle, responding to risks to growth,” the central
bank said.  Subbarao told reporters in Mumbai today that he won’t
speculate when the central bank would start cutting rates,
saying a “rate cut is an event some way ahead.”  The  Reserve Bank  paused its monetary tightening after
industrial production fell 5.1 percent in October from a year
earlier and the economy expanded 6.9 percent last quarter, the
weakest pace in more than two years. The central bank has raised
its  repurchase rate  by 375 basis points in 13 moves since mid-
March 2010, the fastest round of increases since the central
bank was established in 1935.  Tightening Complete  “With slowing growth momentum amidst moderating inflation
and heightened uncertainty in the global environment, the
current phase of rate tightening is complete,” Shubhada Rao,
Mumbai-based chief economist at Yes Bank Ltd., said before the
report. “The retail FDI reversal is very disappointing and what
India needs is a fresh batch of reforms to boost the economy.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , in an interview with
Bloomberg News this week, said he expects to succeed in his push
to open the nation’s retail market to foreign companies after
regional elections conclude by March. He said the slide in the
rupee won’t diminish investor confidence in India and the
economy will return to a long-term growth pace of 9 percent.  Singh, halfway through his second term, said India’s gross
domestic product will expand 7.5 percent in the year ending
March 31 and inflation will cool to between 6 percent and 7
percent.  Earnings Estimate  Still, analysts are cutting their earnings estimates for
companies in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  Earnings forecasts for  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  companies for the
year ending in March 2012 have fallen 7.9 percent to 1,160
rupees ($22) per share, the biggest drop since the 12 months
ended March 2009, according to about 1,500 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts cut outlooks for Maruti Suzuki India Ltd.,
the country’s biggest carmaker, and Tata Steel Ltd., the largest
producer of the alloy, by at least 29 percent, the data show.  The Reserve Bank’s decision to keep borrowing costs
unchanged may also have been prompted by a cash squeeze in
commercial lenders.  Cash availability with Indian lenders dropped after the
central bank bought rupees to stem the decline in the currency
and companies borrowed money to fund imports, Mahendra Jajoo,
the Mumbai-based head of fixed-income investments at Pramerica
Asset Managers, a unit of  Newark , New Jersey-based Prudential
Financial Inc., said before the report.  Cash Crunch  In an indication of cash shortages, lenders borrowed 924.7
billion rupees on average a day in November from the Reserve
Bank, almost twice the amount sought in October, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. They borrowed 867.6 billion rupees
on average a day this month.  Overnight rates  surged to 9.15
percent today, the highest level in three years.  The central bank resumed open-market purchases of sovereign
debt last month for the first time since January to boost the
amount of cash in the banking system. The monetary authority has
purchased 243 billion rupees of government debt in auctions over
the past month, central bank data show.  “We hope the RBI will now shift its focus to encouraging
growth,” Chandrajit Banerjee, director general of the
Confederation of Indian Industry, said before the release. “The
industrial slowdown is taking very serious dimensions and there
is an urgent need to improve sentiment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  