-- Indonesia Parliament Passes Land Bill in Boost to Yudhoyono’s Growth Plans
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2011-12-16T17:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/indonesia-parliament-passes-land-bill-in-boost-to-yudhoyono-s-growth-plans.html
Indonesia ’s parliament approved a
land-acquisition bill that will allow the government to
accelerate road, port and airport projects, bolstering President
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s efforts to boost growth.  Lawmakers passed the legislation today after The Land
Procurement Parliamentary Special Committee and the government
agreed on a draft of the bill Dec. 14.  The bill may reinvigorate Yudhoyono’s push to double
spending on roads, ports and airports to $140 billion and
increase economic growth by an average 6.6 percent per year by
the end of his term in 2014. While fiscal stability under the
president helped the country regain an investment-grade  credit
rating  after 14 years, gains in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy
have been undermined by corruption scandals and project delays
caused by land disputes.  “This is a good signal for investors to get involved in
infrastructure projects,” said Wisnu Wardana, an economist at
PT BNI Securities in Jakarta. “Combined with Fitch’s upgrade,
it will give new power to the government to boost projects. We
can see significant impact to Indonesia’s economy starting from
2013.”  Rating Raised  Fitch Ratings  raised the country’s long-term foreign and
local currency debt to BBB- from BB+ yesterday, citing “strong
and resilient economic growth, low and declining public-debt
ratios, strengthened external liquidity and a prudent overall
macro policy framework.”  Indonesia lost the investment grade rating in December
1997, during the Asian financial crisis. The rating puts the
nation on the same level as  India .  Indonesia’s currency rose for the first time in four days,
gaining 0.6 percent to 9,035 a dollar as of 10:50 p.m. in
Jakarta, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. Bonds climbed, with the yield on Indonesia’s 8.8
percent Islamic dollar notes due in 2014 dropping the most since
May 2010, data from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc show.  The Jakarta Composite index of stocks added 1.7 percent,
the best performer in  Asia  today, as PT Astra International, the
nation’s largest automotive retailer and the biggest stock by
market value, rose 4.1 percent. PT Citra Marga Nusaphala
Persada, a toll-road operator, advanced 0.6 percent, set for the
first increase in three days.  Doubling Spending  Indonesia’s 2011-2025 development plan seeks 4,012 trillion
rupiah ($440 billion) of investment, with 1,786 trillion rupiah
assigned to items such as highways, harbors and power plants.
Yudhoyono is seeking to improve Indonesia’s roads, bridges and
ports to spur annual economic growth of as much as 9 percent,
closing to Chinese and Indian rates of expansion.  The law change means Indonesia will be able to double the
amount of infrastructure spending in the next two or three years
from 3 percent of output now, said Trade Minister  Gita Wirjawan .  “This reform will allow us to ramp up that percentage to 5
or 6 percent and unleash a significant amount of value,”
Wirjawan said in an interview in Geneva, where he is attending a
World Trade Organization ministerial meeting. “This will entail
certainty on two things: pricing and timing. This is great,
because in the absence of this, it’s virtually impossible to
make a business plan or to clear land for infrastructure
development.”  Toll Roads  The government plans to boost  capital spending  by 19
percent to 168 trillion rupiah next year, Yudhoyono told
parliament in his annual budget speech on Aug. 16.  PT Jasa Marga, the country’s biggest toll-road operator,
may accelerate its plans when the bill becomes law.  “We plan to build nine toll roads totaling about 215
kilometers (134 miles),” Jasa Marga Corporate Secretary Okke Merlina said yesterday. “Until now we’ve only built about 20
kilometers because of problems with land acquisition.”  During the president’s first five-year term, 125 kilometers
of toll roads were built, compared with  China ’s 4,719 kilometers
of toll roads in 2009 alone. A 1961 law says that only the
president can seize land if owners refuse to sell. Yudhoyono was
elected to a second term in 2009.  The law will set a deadline of 74 working days to resolve
all legal issues in the event of objections to any land
acquisition for infrastructure projects, Taufik Hidayat, vice
chairman of the Land Procurement Parliamentary Special
Committee, said Dec. 14.  An independent appraiser will decide on compensation in the
form of money or land relocation for people giving up the
property for development, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  