-- Intesa Sanpaolo to Double India Lending as European Debt Crisis Worsens
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2011-12-16T09:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/intesa-sanpaolo-to-double-india-lending-as-european-debt-crisis-worsens.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s largest
bank by market value, plans to double lending in India within
five years of receiving a license to open a branch in the South
Asian nation, as the European debt crisis worsens.  “While the market situation in  Europe  continues to present
challenges, the bank is focusing in the immediate term on
international expansion in Asia Pacific, along with the  Middle
East  and Latin America,” said Simon Dodd, the bank’s Hong Kong-
based Asia-Pacific general manager, in an interview today. “The
India plan is to double lending over three to five years
following the granting of the license.”  The Turin, Italy-based bank’s euro-denominated loans in
Europe dropped 14 percent from last year to $9.2 billion this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank plans to
expand its market share in U.S. dollar loans, as well as begin
local-currency lending to international and Indian companies in
areas including acquisition and trade finance, according to
Dodd. “The move is part of the bank’s efforts to support
Italian businesses internationally,” said Dodd.  Intesa is applying for a branch license “in the next few
months” and wants to start operating in 2012, Dodd said.  The bank’s lending in  India  exceeds $2 billion and includes
loans to infrastructure, energy, telecommunications, power,
shipping and industrial companies, Dodd said. The bank lost
market share in foreign currency-denominated loans in India this
year, falling to No. 37 from No. 27 in 2010, Bloomberg data
show.  In Asia, Intesa has branches in Hong Kong,  Shanghai ,
 Singapore  and  Tokyo , and four representative offices including
one in Mumbai, according to a Dec. 8  presentation  on its
website. The bank’s international division reported net income
of 130 million euros ($169.5 million) for the three-months to
Sept. 30, compared with 527 million euros for the bank as a
whole, according to a Nov. 8  regulatory filing .  Intesa will extend service to mid-sized companies after
receiving the license, while maintaining its focus on large
companies in India, Dodd said.  The bank’s so-called core Tier 1 capital ratio is 10.2
percent, Dodd said. The number measures a financial
institution’s common equity against its assets, adjusted for the
risk of losses. A higher ratio indicates a stronger financial
position. European regulators are trying to have lenders achieve
a ratio of at least 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  