-- Ireland’s ‘Poster Boy’ Image in Europe Tainted as Economy Slumps
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2011-12-16T12:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/irish-economy-shrinks-most-since-2009-dashing-recovery-hopes.html
Ireland’s  economy  shrank at the
fastest pace in more than two years in the third quarter,
tainting the one-time Celtic Tiger’s image as a model of
austerity in the euro region.  Gross domestic product fell 1.9 percent from the second
quarter, when it rose a revised 1.4 percent, the  Central
Statistics Office  said in Dublin today. The decline was the
biggest since the  first quarter  of 2009 and faster than the 0.8
percent median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. From a year earlier, GDP fell 0.1 percent.  The data “spoil its emerging image as a ‘poster boy’ for
other debt-laden peripheral euro-zone economies,” said  Jonathan Loynes , an economist at  Capital Economics  Ltd. in  London . “The
figures still put something of a dent in hopes that Ireland was
starting to reap the rewards of its economic reforms and
austerity measures.”  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  has lowered the country’s
2012 growth forecast twice in the last six weeks, as the euro
debt crisis weighs on the global economy. Ireland is relying on
export growth to reignite the economy, which has shrunk about 15
percent since 2008, as consumers rein in spending.  “The figures show an incredibly weak underlying
performance,” said Jim Power, chief economist at Friends First
in Dublin. “While exports are growing at a reasonable pace,
domestic demand and investment are not happening. The weakening
global outlook is another concern.”  Consumer Slump  Exports rose 0.8 percent on the quarter, the statistics
office said. Consumer spending decreased 1.3 percent. Investment
fell 21 percent as airlines spent less on planes, while
 government spending  dropped 1.3 percent.  Gross national product fell 2.2 percent in the third
quarter from the previous three months and slumped 4.2 percent
in the year. The difference between GDP and GNP is partly due to
net factor outflows.  Irish bonds due in 2020 yielded 8.54 percent today, falling
20 basis points from yesterday. Ireland was forced to seek a
bailout last year, and the government is targeting a full return
to bond markets by mid-2013.  “Today’s figures don’t change the overall picture too
much; the main reason GDP fell so strongly was a drop in
investment,” said Conall Mac Coille, an economist at Dublin-
based securities firm Davy. Still, with  consumer spending 
falling quicker than expected, Mac Coille said he expects to cut
his 1.5 percent growth estimate for next year.  Noonan said this week his budget for 2012 will ensure that
the country meets the fiscal targets under its bailout. The
government is targeting budget savings of 3.8 billion euros
($4.96 billion) next year even as unemployment in the third
quarter rose to 14.4 percent.  “The fact that these figures are volatile means we
shouldn’t read too much into them,” said Capital Economics’
Loynes said. “These figures will underline the point that
Ireland isn’t fully out of the woods just yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  