-- Ista Shares Rise Past Valeant’s Bid as Investors Expect Higher Offer
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2011-12-16T21:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/ista-shares-rise-past-valeant-s-bid-as-investors-expect-higher-offer.html
Ista Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ISTA) , a maker
of eye medications, rose higher than the $327 million hostile
bid by  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX) , indicating
investors expect more.  Ista climbed 72 percent to $6.68, more than the $6.50 a
share offered by Valeant. The surge was the most since the
Irvine, California-based drugmaker became publicly traded in
August 2000.  Valeant, which has announced 10 acquisitions this year,
made its bid public today after Ista rebuffed three approaches,
the Mississauga, Ontario-based company said in a statement. The
price includes debt. Ista again rejected the offer, calling it
“grossly inadequate,” and said the company will explore
strategic options. Valeant said the offer may be raised if Ista
allowed the company to conduct due diligence that revealed a
reason to pay more.  “It’s not surprising that Valeant saw Ista as a great
target,”  Corey Davis , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  New
York , wrote in an e-mail. “But equally not as surprising why
Ista management wasn’t interested in $6.50, if they can really
hit their 2013 target revenue of $300 million.”  Davis estimated Valeant may pay as much as $8 a share if
due diligence is allowed.  Ophthalmology Expansion  Valeant, which has been building its dermatology business
this year with acquisitions of units from Johnson & Johnson and
Sanofi, wants to similarly expand in ophthalmology, Chief
Executive Officer Mike Pearson said today. Adding Ista would
boost Valeant’s annual eye-medication U.S. sales to more than
$200 million from less than $50 million now, he said.  “This will create a new growth platform for us,” Pearson
said in a telephone interview. “Our preferred approach is
obviously not to have this type of transaction where we have to
go hostile, but we do think it’s in shareholders’ best interest
to hear directly from us.”  The bid is 67 percent higher than Ista’s $3.89 closing
price yesterday.  Valeant rose 1 percent to $45.32. The shares had gained 59
percent this year before today.  Valeant approached Ista on Oct. 5 and made a written
proposal at the end of November, before affirming the offer on
Dec. 12, the company said. Ista declined to engage in
discussions and rejected the bid on Dec. 14, according to the
statement.  Ista Decline  Ista, which sells Istalol for intraocular pressure and
Bromday for problems associated with cataract extraction, had
fallen 24 percent this year before today. The company reported
in July that a late-stage trial showed its experimental drug
Remura didn’t fight dry eyes better than a placebo.  The offer “appears conservative at first blush given our
valuation scenarios,” Adnan Butt and  Jason Kantor , analysts
with  RBC Capital Markets , wrote in a research note. Valeant’s
offer values Ista at 1.4 times estimated 2012 revenue, compared
with an average 2.8 times multiple for other specialty
pharmaceutical companies, they wrote.  There have been 965 acquisitions this year of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies under $1 billion,
with an average disclosed size of $49 million and average
premium of 23 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Under our upside scenario, current products could be
worth $16 based on life-cycle extensions and patent grants,”
Butt and Kantor wrote about Ista. “Our ‘base’ case valuation
for the marketed product franchise is $10.”  Valeant’s offer expires Jan. 31, the company said.  “This is interesting, but we’re not going to spend the
next eight months dealing with it,” Chief Financial Officer
Howard Schiller said in an interview.  Valeant made a $5.7 billion hostile bid for Cephalon Inc.
in March that was trumped by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
in May, with a deal for $6.2 billion.  Valeant is being advised on the Ista transaction by Morgan
Stanley & Co. LLC and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.
Ista’s financial adviser is  Greenhill & Co. (GHL) , with Stradling
Yocca Carlson & Rauth and WilmerHale LLP as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  