-- Hitchens’s Greatest Legacy Is His Clarity: Stephen L. Carter
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2011-12-16T23:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/hitchens-s-greatest-legacy-is-his-clarity-stephen-l-carter.html
I first met Christopher Hitchens
some years ago at a panel put together by a publishing house.
Our topic was, as I recall, the future of the public
intellectual.  We were in a hotel ballroom, and “No Smoking” signs were
prominently displayed, but he had found an ashtray somewhere,
and went through any number of cigarettes as he devastated my
presentation (I had the misfortune of speaking just before him)
and told the audience why, in his opinion, there was more wisdom
in any page of Stephen Hawking than in the entirety of the
Bible.  Afterward, at the reception, he was warm and friendly,
because criticism for Hitchens was not personal, but rather part
of the search for truth. I told him then -- I had occasion to
repeat it often -- that he put me in mind of Sport magazine’s
famous encomium to  Ted Williams : sometimes unbearable, but never
dull.  Hitchens, who died Dec. 15, was one of the great writers
and critics of the age. He was probably best known to the wider
public for his aggressive commitment to atheism and his screeds
against religion in all its manifestations, particularly his
best-selling book “God Is Not Great.”  The historian Sean Wilentz, a friend and admirer, once
referred to him as the Voltaire of our age with respect to the
reputations of religious figures. The comparison seems apt. Like
Voltaire, Hitchens hated religion, but hated even more to see
his fellow humans turning other humans into demigods; like
Voltaire, he often went too far in his efforts to debunk those
whom the religious admired.  Parody and Critique  But Hitchens’s writing on faith was neither the most
interesting nor the most important of his remarkable career, and
many who excoriated Hitchens for his views misunderstood, in our
unlettered and literal-minded age, the way in which traditional
British wit merges wicked parody and cold critique. From his
early days at the  New Statesman  and the Nation to his most
recent decade as perhaps the West’s most prominent public
intellectual (a term he abhorred), what moved him most was a
love of clear thought.  He disliked whatever forces in life prevented people from
thinking for themselves. If he despised religion, it was for the
same reasons that he despised communism, fascism and most forms
of partisan politics: All were disguises for substituting slogan
and cant for clarity of thought.  If Hitchens had an ideology, it was a hatred of
totalitarianism. Like his intellectual hero George Orwell, about
whom he wrote a wonderful book, he celebrated the individual and
had distaste for governments, on right or left, that attempted
to manage the lives of those they were supposed to serve. On
matters domestic, Hitchens leaned toward socialism, although
that preference may have faded a bit over the years. He despised
what he considered America’s imperial ambitions and hated many
of its military adventures. Yet Hitchens also believed that
military and economic might could and should be used judiciously
in the service of liberty and democracy.  This belief explained his controversial support of the U.S.
wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. He wondered aloud how American
liberals could be more concerned about the rights of gay people
to serve openly in the military than about the Taliban regime
that buried them alive. He scorned those who suggested, as an
argument against the war in Iraq, that we had long been  Saddam Hussein ’s patrons: For Hitchens, that egregious moral error only
meant that it was our responsibility to get rid of him. And
although Hitchens had few kind words to say about the presidency
of  George W. Bush , he never fell into the common partisan trap
of never crediting those whose politics he abhorred, or always
excusing those whose politics he adored.  Genuinely Creative  My own admiration for Hitchens had little to do with his
views. What I loved most was his facility in the language, his
attention to nuance and metaphor, his genuinely creative style -
- all the things that rarely matter in the unlettered and
overliteral dark ages that are upon us.  Osama bin Laden  was a
man of “strange, scrofulous quasi-nobility and bogus
spirituality.” A visit to  North Korea  produced a  pithy yet
evocative summary : “Newspapers with no news, shops with no
goods, an airport with almost no planes.”  Sarah Palin is 
“anti-Washington except that she thirsts for it.” As for
 efforts at the United Nations  to restrict criticism of Islam:
“The thought buried in this awful, wooden prose is as ugly as
the language in which it is expressed.” Oh, and then there is
Christmas, the season in which he died: “ a moral and aesthetic
nightmare .”  There are today pundits aplenty whose pens are poisoned,
but few who possess Hitchens’s magnificent facility with words -
- writers whose prose one is forced to admire even as he skewers
you. William Safire had it. Peggy Noonan and Martin Amis are
close -- A’s to Hitchens’s A-plus. Alas, the great mass of
columnists and commentators seem long ago to have surrendered
any obligation to write cleverly or creatively or, in many
cases, even intelligibly, contenting themselves instead with the
cheers of partisan readers. There is a place, of course, for
pandering, and money to be made doing it, but Christopher
Hitchens was no panderer. He said what he thought, and said it
with a masterful erudition.  Unlike many who sharply criticize others, Hitchens did not
seem to mind being criticized himself. When attacks turned
personal -- as, after his support for the  Iraq  War, they
increasingly did -- he crowed that the ad hominem was “a sign
of victory.” Words were his weapons, and if all wars were
verbal, he would always have won.  In the first chapter of his book “Letters to a Young
Contrarian,” Hitchens expresses the hope that he might “live
long enough to graduate from being a ‘bad boy’ -- which I once
was -- to becoming a ‘curmudgeon.’” He added, with evident
sadness, that our current age was losing any taste for serious
debate or even dissent: “Most people, most of the time, prefer
to seek approval or security.”  Blinding Language  Hitchens sought neither. He spent his life saying what he
thought, in language so brilliantly polished that its flash
could be blinding. After your most sacred cows had been
effectively skewered, you had little choice but to gasp in
admiration at the skill with which it was done. Hitchens did not
care whether you agreed with him. He sought neither acolytes nor
praise. He sought only truth. Even when he was egregiously wrong
-- even when he was at his most unbearable, as in his attacks on
Mother Teresa -- he was never dull.  This month, in an essay in  Vanity Fair , Hitchens expressed
his hope that he would die with his eyes wide open. He did not
believe that anything followed this earthly existence, and
wanted to be sure that he experienced every instant. I like to
imagine that he did exactly that. I also suspect that he now
knows he was wrong about the afterlife, so I have little doubt
that he is sitting there at this moment, sharpening his pen,
ready to explain to the rest of us in exaggerated yet withering
detail just how mistaken the rest of us are about precisely what
lies on the other side.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at  Yale
University  and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s
Wars in the Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at   stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 