-- Jefferson County Judge May Seek Bankruptcy Advice From Alabama High Court
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/jefferson-county-judge-may-seek-advice-from-alabama-high-court.html
The federal judge overseeing
Jefferson County’s bankruptcy is considering asking the  Alabama 
 Supreme Court  for advice on whether to dismiss the biggest U.S.
municipal bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett in Birmingham said
he may ask the state’s highest court how to interpret a state
law that creditors claim bans Alabama counties from entering
bankruptcy unless they have issued “refunding or funding
bonds.”  The answer he gets is likely to determine whether the
county can remain in bankruptcy, lawyers told Bennett yesterday
in court. At the end of that hearing, Bennett said he could not
immediately rule on whether to dismiss the bankruptcy case as
requested by investors who hold more than $3 billion worth of
sewer warrants at the heart of the county’s financial troubles.  Creditors including  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  objected to the November filing. They claim
Jefferson County doesn’t have any debt that is officially
labeled as a bond; its bankruptcy was caused mainly by more than
$3 billion in sewer warrants.  One Alabama town, Prichard, had its bankruptcy petition
thrown out because its debt didn’t include funding bonds,
according to court papers. That case is on appeal to the Alabama
Supreme Court.  Bennett said it was his “inclination” to seek guidance
from the Alabama Supreme Court by sending the justices a number
of technical questions about state law. He said he would not
make a decision before Christmas.  Distinction, if Any  “If the creditors are right, the outcome will turn on the
distinction, if any, between bonds and warrants,” Dale Ginter,
a lawyer who represented retired city workers in Vallejo,
 California ’s bankruptcy, said in an e-mail. “Financial
instruments are occasionally given different names -- even if
the economic impact is the same.”  Jefferson County contends that limiting the bankruptcy
option in Alabama to municipalities with bonds is “absurd.”  “Were the objectors’ argument the law, a county struggling
to service $3 billion in bond debt would be authorized to
declare bankruptcy, but a county struggling to pay the same $3
billion in warrant obligations would not,” the county argued in
court papers filed Dec. 13.  Bennett asked both sides to submit proposed questions for
the Alabama Supreme Court on whether bond debt is required before 
a municipality can file for bankruptcy in the state.  In Limbo  A lawyer for BNY Mellon said that should Bennett send
questions to the state court, he should dismiss the bankruptcy
petition first. Allowing the case to continue while waiting for
an answer from the state  high court  “leaves the parties in
limbo,” David Lemke said in court.  The county urged Bennett to allow it to stay under court
protection should he send questions to the state justices.  Bennett said that if he declines to seek advice and simply
rules to allow or reject the bankruptcy, his decision may be
appealed, causing more delay than sending so-called certified
questions to the state Supreme Court.  “At a minimum we’re facing one or two appeals rulings one
way or another,” Bennett said in court yesterday.  The hearing yesterday opened with county attorney Jeffrey
Sewell saying that the county has spent about $10 million on
legal related to the sewer debt since 2008.  Later,  David Carrington , president of the county
commission, testified that the bankruptcy filing was necessary
because the county was burning through $3 million in cash a
month.  Explicit Law  Bondholders and other creditors claim the state law
authorizing bankruptcy is explicit and should be applied to
Jefferson County the same way it was applied to Prichard.  Bondholders have asked Bennett to dismiss the bankruptcy,
which gives the county the right to stop paying some bills
temporarily while it reorganizes its finances. Under Chapter 9
of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , the county may seek court approval
for a plan to reduce what it owes creditors.  The hearing yesterday focused on whether the county meets
legal tests laid out in Chapter 9. Those tests include whether
Jefferson County is insolvent, whether it negotiated with
creditors before seeking bankruptcy and whether the filing was
authorized by state law.  Bennett said the county has proven that it meets all the
tests except whether state law authorized the filing. The reason
he is considering seeking advice from the state Supreme Court is
to help him make that final ruling.  Agreement Failed  Jefferson County filed last month after county, state
officials, the receiver and bondholders failed to implement a
tentative agreement that would have required the sewer debt to
be cut by about $1 billion.  Jefferson County was the 13th entity to file a Chapter 9
bankruptcy this year. Three other filings were by
municipalities: Boise County,  Idaho ;  Central Falls ,  Rhode
Island ; and Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  The rest were special-purpose districts and public-benefit
corporations. A bankruptcy judge dismissed Harrisburg’s case,
saying it wasn’t properly authorized under state law.  Jefferson County’s bankruptcy is opposed by  BNY Mellon , the
trustee for the sewer debt, and creditors JPMorgan, which owns
more than $1 billion of the sewer warrants, Bank of America
Corp. and Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. A group of taxpayers
who are suing Jefferson County also seeks to dismiss the
bankruptcy.  Chapter 9  “In light of the county’s lack of funding or refunding
bonds and the resulting failure of specific authorization to
file its Chapter 9 petition, the county’s Chapter 9 petition
must be dismissed,” BNY Mellon said in a court filing.  The county’s sewer system doesn’t collect enough money to 
pay obligations on more than $3 billion in related debt. Since 
the Nov. 9 bankruptcy filing, the county has battled bondholders 
and the sewer system’s receiver for control of the system and its
finances. Bennett hasn’t ruled on what limits, if any, the
bankruptcy imposes on the receiver, John S. Young Jr.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  