-- JGB Yield to Hit 0.8% on Global Slump, Societe’s Shimamoto Says
-- B y   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2011-12-16T06:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/jgb-yield-to-hit-0-8-on-global-slump-societe-s-shimamoto-says.html
Japan ’s benchmark bond  yields  may
drop to the lowest since 2003 in the first quarter of next year,
as  Europe ’s debt woes weigh on global growth, according to
 Societe Generale  Securities.  “Japan’s long-term yields may slide further, if deflation
deepens amid the intensifying European debt crisis,” Koji Shimamoto, branch manager and head of research at Societe
Generale in Tokyo, said in an interview on Dec. 14.  Ten-year yields reached a seven-year low of 0.82 percent in
October 2010. The rate has fallen three basis points this week
to 0.98 percent as of 3:04 p.m. in Tokyo.  The  European Central Bank  on Dec. 8 cut its euro-area
growth forecast for next year to 0.3 percent from its previous
estimate of 1.3 percent. ECB Executive Board Member Peter Praet
said on Dec. 9 that global economic growth will remain
“sluggish.”  A series of elections are scheduled in key economies for
next year when the world is likely to face growing “tail
risks,” which will force Japan, the U.S. and Europe to boost
monetary stimulus, Shimamoto said. Presidential elections will
be held in France in April and in the U.S. in November.  On Nov. 30, six central banks including the  Federal
Reserve , the ECB and the Bank of Japan made it cheaper for banks
to borrow dollars as Europe’s crisis drove demand for funding in
the U.S. currency. The ECB, which cut its key  interest rate  to
match a record low 1 percent on Dec. 8, has scope to reduce
rates further and may do more to ease credit, Shimamoto said.  “That will help lower financing costs for financial
institutions, pressuring the Fed and BOJ to ease as well,” he
said.  Shimamoto expects Japan’s 10-year yields will range from
0.8 percent to 1.6 percent next year. The rates will be at 1.11
percent by March and 1.25 percent by December 2012, according to
weighted average of estimates by analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Ikeda in  Tokyo  at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  