-- JPMorgan Is Bondholders Next Target After $8.5 Billion Deal
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2011-12-16T21:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/jpmorgan-is-bondholders-next-target-after-8-5-billion-deal.html
A bondholder group said it may seek
reimbursements from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for soured home-loan
securities, after Bank of America Corp. agreed to pay $8.5
billion to resolve similar claims this year.  Investors holding $95 billion of mortgage bonds instructed
the trustees for the debt to investigate whether JPMorgan
included ineligible loans in the securities, according to a
statement released today by Gibbs & Bruns LLP, which says it
represents the group. The  law firm  helped secure the settlement
with Bank of America in June.  “Our clients continue to seek a comprehensive solution to
the problems of ineligible mortgages,”  Kathy Patrick , a partner
at Gibbs & Bruns, said in the statement. “Today’s action is
another step toward achieving that goal.”  JPMorgan, based in  New York , is a defendant in more than
10,000 legal proceedings, the company said in its third-quarter
report. Demands from private investors over mortgage bonds have
been “limited,” the bank said.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  The bondholders asked Bank of New York Mellon Corp., U.S.
Bank NA, Wells Fargo & Co., Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc
to open investigations into the pools debt issued by affiliates
of JPMorgan, today’s statement said.  Bank of America’s proposed $8.5 billion settlement would
resolve claims from investors in  Countrywide Financial Corp .
mortgage bonds. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America
acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The settlement has drawn criticism from insurer  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  and other investors. New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman and Delaware Attorney General Beau Biden have also intervened in the case, which is pending in
federal court. The bondholder group has defended the settlement
saying in a court filing that rejection of the deal would be
“devastating” for investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  