-- Juncker, Bundesbank Differ on Urgency of Arranging EU Crisis Loans to IMF
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2011-12-16T14:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/juncker-expects-eu-to-meet-deadline-on-channeling-loans-to-imf.html
Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker
said European Union states should meet a Dec. 19 deadline for
arranging loans to the  International Monetary Fund  as part of a
crisis-fighting accord, though  Germany ’s Bundesbank said it sees
“no urgent need” to reach a decision.  At a Dec. 9 EU summit, countries were given 10 days to say
“what’s happening and we’re collecting this at the moment,”
Juncker told reporters in Luxembourg today. Asked if the EU
would meet its informal deadline, he said: “I think so.”  An hour later, the Bundesbank said it won’t rush to a
decision on the loans, which are to be provided by EU national
central banks. “We don’t see an urgent need for a final
decision,” a Bundesbank spokesman said by telephone. “We want
to evaluate the whole situation.”  EU leaders decided at the summit to channel an additional
200 billion euros ($261 billion) in loans to the IMF to help
fight the euro region’s debt crisis. In putting the extra funds
on the line, European governments for the first time extracted a
contribution from national central banks. Euro-area countries
are expected to provide 150 billion euros, while non-euro EU
states will chip in around 50 billion euros more.  The euro extended gains after Juncker’s comments, touching
an intraday high of $1.3084, before retreating to $1.3072 at
2:55 p.m. in Brussels, up 0.4 percent.  ‘Fair Distribution’  Juncker said he hadn’t spoken with Bundesbank President
Jens Weidmann about the loans to the IMF.  The Bundesbank can provide as much as 45 billion euros to
the IMF only if nations outside the euro area also contribute,
Weidmann said this week.  “The Bundesbank has stated its readiness to provide up to
45 billion euros as long as there is a fair distribution of the
burden amongst the IMF members,” Weidmann said. “If these
conditions are not fulfilled, then we can’t agree to a loan to
the IMF.”  Russia  may provide as much as $20 billion of assistance to
the euro area through the IMF,  Arkady Dvorkovich , chief economic
aide to President  Dmitry Medvedev , said yesterday. Russia has
committed to $10 billion and may consider providing another $10
billion, he said.  The possibility of Russia expanding its aid offer “isn’t
pressing yet because no one has even asked for the first ten,”
Dvorkovich said. The Russian central bank would lend the
additional money to the IMF as European central banks are doing.  Juncker said a draft of the fiscal-compact accord hammered
out at the EU summit will be distributed on Dec. 20.  “We’ll get the draft accord on Tuesday,” he said, adding
that he will decide today whether to convene a meeting of euro-
group finance chiefs later next week to discuss the agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  