-- Korean Won Strengthens, Paring Weekly Loss as U.S. Jobless Claims Decline
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2011-12-16T06:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/korea-won-strengthens-paring-weekly-loss-on-u-s-jobs-data-bonds-steady.html
South Korea ’s won rose for the first
time in seven days after a report showed jobless claims in the
U.S. fell to the lowest level since May 2008, brightening the
outlook for exports to the world’s biggest economy.  Currencies declined and benchmark stock indexes fell across
Asia’s emerging markets this week on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis will escalate.  Christine Lagarde , the managing director
of the  International Monetary Fund , said yesterday the crisis is
growing to the point that it won’t be solved by one group of
countries. Moody’s Investors Service said a European summit held
last week offered few new measures and doesn’t diminish the risk
of credit-rating cuts for European nations. South  Korea ’s
government bonds retreated.  “The U.S. data supported some risk-taking sentiment today,
but we’re still walking on thin ice as bad news from Europe may
come out anytime,” said Lee Jung Hyun, a Seoul-based currency
dealer at the Industrial Bank of Korea. “Currency markets are
quiet as year-end nears, and the low trading volume is helping
prevent volatility.”  The won gained 0.4 percent to close at 1,158.73 per dollar
in Seoul, trimming this week’s loss to 1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of shares advanced
1.2 percent, reducing its weekly slide to 1.9 percent.  The number of applications for unemployment payments in the
U.S. dropped by 19,000 to 366,000 in the week ended Dec. 10, a
lower total than was forecast by any of 47 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News, according to government figures released
yesterday.  Sales  at major South Korean department stores fell
0.5 percent last month from a year earlier, the first
contraction since February 2009, data showed yesterday.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.5 percent bonds due September
2016 climbed one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.48
percent, according to Korea Exchange Inc. prices. The rate
dropped four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  