-- Kushner Refinances Record-Setting Manhattan Tower as Vornado Buys Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2011-12-16T20:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/kushner-refinances-record-setting-manhattan-tower-as-vornado-takes-a-stake.html
Kushner Cos. completed a
restructuring of its debt on Manhattan’s 666 Fifth Ave. with
 Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , salvaging an investment made in a record-
setting deal at the peak of the  property market .  Vornado, which has stakes in more than 19 million square
feet (1.8 million square meters) of  New York office buildings ,
is injecting $80 million of equity and will jointly own the
Midtown skyscraper with Kushner, the companies said in a
statement today. Kushner will contribute $30 million.  Kushner Cos., run by Jared Kushner, bought the 39-story
tower in January 2007 for $1.8 billion, then a record for a
single U.S. building. Real estate investment trusts including
Vornado,  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  and  Brookfield Office Properties
Inc. (BPO)  are now taking stakes in Manhattan properties purchased in
the years leading up to the 2008 financial crisis, when
overvalued mortgage securities contributed to  bank failures , a
seizure in credit markets and a plunge in  real estate values .  The deal “shows that values in New York continue to hold
up,” said  Alex Goldfarb , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, who has a “hold” rating on Vornado. “It’s
certainly not distressed pricing despite the fact that Kushner
was in a bit of a distressed-type situation since acquiring this
building.”  Vornado rose 1 percent to $74.23 at 3:08 p.m. in New York
trading.  ‘Hope Certificate’  Under the refinancing agreement, the tower’s senior debt is
reduced to $1.1 billion from almost $1.22 billion, with the
difference pushed into a “hope certificate,” along with unpaid
interest on the senior mortgage, to be settled with higher
income once empty offices are rented, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction.  The equity contributions will cover the costs of leasing
the 30 percent of the building that’s  vacant  and reworking the
space to suit tenant needs, said the person, who asked not to be
named because the terms were private.  The transaction values the building at $835 a square foot,
not counting the subordinated debt, Goldfarb said. With the hope
certificate, also called a “B-piece,” the value is $915 a
square foot, he said.  Those values don’t include the tower’s ground-level retail,
a stake in which Kushner sold in 2008, Goldfarb said. Since the
sale, apparel merchants Uniqlo Co. and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara chain
have taken space there in record deals.  East Side Tower  In October,  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , a Vornado rival, sold
the 44-story 2 Grand Central Tower, on East 45th Street on the
East Side, for about $630 a square foot, according to property-
data provider Real Capital Analytics Inc. A 50 percent stake in
Park Avenue Plaza, a two-building complex at East 52nd Street,
went for $944 a square foot.  When the re-leasing of 666 Fifth Ave. is complete, the
building will probably be worth more than $1,100 a square foot,
said the person familiar with the deal. Filling the tower should
be easier now that the “precarious” state of the tower’s
financing is resolved, Goldfarb said.  Midtown  Manhattan  office prices fell 4 percent in November
after several months of little change, Green Street Advisors
Inc., a real estate research firm in  Newport Beach ,  California ,
reported on Dec. 6. Values in Midtown are up 80 percent from a
bottom in mid-2009, the firm said.  Vornado Stake  Vornado acquired a 49.5 percent stake in 666 Fifth as part
of the deal, according to the statement. The companies will
jointly oversee  leasing , which was hindered by uncertainty over
the building’s capital structure, the person said.  About three-quarters of the debt on the tower was sold as
commercial mortgage-backed securities. The remaining $285
million is held by AREA Property Partners LP, Starwood Capital
Group LLC, Colony Capital LLC and Paramount Group Inc. Each
party’s percentage of the loan is being reduced proportionally,
the person said.  “This was one of the most complicated restructurings I
have ever done, and that’s over a good 30 years, because of the
multiple parties who had a stake in the outcome,” said Jonathan Mechanic, chairman of the real estate department at the law firm
 Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson LLP , who represented
Kushner Cos.  The debt holders are willing to be patient and wait for
their return, he said in an interview. They are “very bullish
on the re-leasing of the building,” Mechanic said.  Largest Restructuring  Robert Verrone, principal of Iron Hound Management Co. of
 Short Hills ,  New Jersey , who advised Kushner, said the deal was
“probably the largest restructuring of a single asset ever done
in the CMBS world.”  The debt was sent last year to special servicer LNR
Property Corp., triggering negotiations to restructure the
building’s financing. Special servicers represent the interests
of investors in securities backed by mortgages. Vornado has a
partial interest in LNR.  Vornado got “anything but” an advantage from its stake in
the special servicer, Mechanic said. The servicer’s fiduciary
obligations to the debt holders, along with the property’s high
profile in the real estate industry, precluded Vornado from
capitalizing on its interest, he said.  “Everybody knew what was going on,” Mechanic said.  Bud Perrone , a spokesman for LNR, said the company had no
comment.  Mark Semer , a Vornado spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail and telephone message.  Deal Delays  The refinancing was completed about five months after the
parties agreed in principle to recapitalize the tower. The
transaction was held up by the complexities of dealing with the
multiple parties who held parts of the the building’s financing.  Maturity of the $1.1 billion of senior debt is extended by
two years to 2019, according to the person with knowledge of the
deal. The  interest rate  averages out to 4.5 percent, reduced
from 6.3 percent.  By 2008, the skyscraper was plagued by falling reserves and
departures of tenants such as Citigroup Inc., which vacated
about 80,000 square feet that August.  Cash flow  fell to 69
percent of debt service for the year’s third quarter.  Jared Kushner, the 30-year-old son of New Jersey real
estate developer and company founder Charles Kushner, sold
stakes in the building’s retail space that year, in part to help
replenish the building’s reserves. Retail rents in the shopping
district surrounding the tower, on Fifth Avenue between 52nd and
53rd streets, are the highest in the world.  Kushner sold 49 percent of the retail portion in 2008 to
 Carlyle Group  and Crown Acquisitions, keeping the rest. Two
years later, the parent of Japanese clothier Uniqlo agreed to
lease part of the space for a record $300 million over 15 years.
Inditex, the Spanish owner of the Zara apparel chain, bought
another storefront in March for a record $8,300 a square foot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  