-- Ex-UBS Trader Fires Lawyers in Unauthorized Trading Case
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-12-16T16:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/kweku-adoboli-drops-law-firm-kingsley-napley-says.html
Former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader Kweku Adoboli
dismissed the lawyers defending him over allegations he caused
the Swiss bank $2.3 billion in losses from unauthorized trading
and hired London  law firm  Bark & Co.  Adoboli, 31, is no longer using Kingsley Napley in London
to advise him in the case, Melanie Riley, a spokeswoman for the
firm, said today. Tim Harris of Bark & Co. is now representing
him, a receptionist at the London law firm said.  Adoboli is scheduled to appear in court next week to enter
a plea in the case. He was granted a four-week adjournment last
month, when he was initially scheduled to enter a plea at a
London criminal court.  His legal team said at the hearing last month they needed
more time to gain “a better understanding of exactly what it
was that preceded the calamitous losses.”  Adoboli has been in custody since Sept. 15 when UBS asked
 London  police to arrest him on suspicion of causing the loss
from unauthorized trading. He is being held at Wandsworth prison
in southwest London.  The former trader, who holds a Ghanaian passport, is
charged with fraud and false accounting dating back to 2008.
Prosecutors have said he falsified records on exchange-traded-
fund transactions. UBS said the loss came from trading in
Standard & Poor’s 500, DAX and EuroStoxx index futures. The
trades’ risk was masked by fictitious positions, according to
the bank.  ‘Sorry Beyond Words’  Adoboli has said through his lawyers he was “sorry beyond
words” for “his disastrous miscalculations.”  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority and the Swiss
Financial Market Supervisory Authority are jointly investigating
control failures at the bank that allowed the trades to go
undetected. The joint regulatory probe will be conducted at the
same time as investigations by police, prosecutors and an
internal review by the Swiss bank.  Bark & Co. also represents Asil Nadir, the former chief
executive officer of Polly Peck who returned to the U.K. last
year to face fraud claims nearly two decades after fleeing the
country. According to its  website , the law firm specializes in
criminal and civil fraud and civil litigation.  Kingsley Napley, his previous law firm, previously advised
 Nick Leeson , who caused the collapse of Barings Plc with $1.4
billion in losses in 1995. Leeson, a former derivatives trader,
caused the demise of Britain’s oldest merchant bank after losses
on the futures and options markets in Singapore and  Osaka ,  Japan 
were uncovered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  