-- Nevada Sues Lender Processing Services Alleging Foreclosure ‘Robo-Signing’
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2011-12-16T23:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/nevada-sues-lender-processing-services-claiming-robo-signing-was-practice.html
Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto sued  Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) , alleging the
company falsified foreclosure documents and demanded kickbacks
for referrals, sending the shares down 18 percent.  The company, based in Jacksonville,  Florida , engaged in the
practice known as robo-signing, requiring employees to execute
or notarize as many as 4,000 foreclosure-related documents a
day, Masto said today in a statement. She sued yesterday in
state court in Las Vegas.  Lender Processing Services “engaged in a pattern and
practice of deceptive conduct that willfully misled consumers,
courts and the public, resulting in countless foreclosures that
were predicated upon false, deceptive and deficient documents
that LPS prepared and/or executed,” the attorney general said
in the complaint.  Nevada recorded the highest foreclosure rate in the U.S.
for the 58th straight month in October, Masto said in the
complaint. Deceptive business practices by LPS and its
subsidiaries caused many foreclosures to “proceed under false
pretenses,” she said.  “The robo-signing crisis in  Nevada  has been fueled by two
main problems: chaos and speed,” Masto said in today’s
statement. “We will protect the integrity of the foreclosure
process. This lawsuit is the next, logical step in holding the
key players in the foreclosure fraud crisis accountable.”  ‘Disputes the Allegations’  The company “strongly disputes the allegations,” Michelle
Kersch, a Lender Processing Services spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail. “LPS has cooperated with the attorney general’s office
for more than 14 months to resolve its inquiry in a manner which
would benefit the citizens of Nevada.”  The company previously disclosed that it discovered,
“during its own internal reviews, potential issues related to
some of its past document execution practices,” she said.
“However, the company is not aware of any person who was
wrongfully foreclosed upon as a result of a potential error in
the processes used by our employees.”  The attorney general’s complaint “highlights
misconceptions about LPS and seeks to sensationalize a variety
of false allegations in a misleading manner,” Kersch said.  Lender Processing Services fell $3.04 or 14 percent to
$14.30 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
drop since Oct. 4.  The case is State of Nevada v. Lender Processing Services
Inc., A-11-653289-B, District Court,  Clark County , Nevada ( Las
Vegas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  