-- New China Life Jumps in Shanghai Debut as Asia Stocks Rebound on U.S. Jobs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-16T08:26:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/new-china-life-insurance-jumps-in-shanghai-debut-as-asian-stocks-rise.html
New China Life Insurance Co.  jumped
in its  Shanghai  trading debut after offering shares at a lower
valuation than its biggest rival and as Asian equity markets
rebounded from three days of losses.  Shares  in the nation’s third-largest life insurer surged 14
percent from its initial public offering price to close at 26.44
yuan. The stock rose 2.7 percent to HK$26.40 in Hong Kong,
following a 9.8 percent slump in its debut in the city yesterday.
The Beijing-based insurer raised $1.9 billion this month after
pricing the shares near the bottom of a marketed range.  New China Life yesterday had the worst debut among Hong
Kong IPOs of at least $1 billion since June, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index advanced 0.8
percent today as better-than-expected U.S. data signaled the
world’s biggest economy is strengthening.  “New China Life’s IPO price values it at a level cheaper
than China Life, which has the most similar business structure”
among the nation’s major insurers, said Qiu Peng, a Shanghai-
based investment manager at Western Securities Co., referring to
the companies’ focus on  life insurance . Trading data show that
“some institutional investors are buying, as they probably
believe that insurers have been oversold.”  Lower Valuation  New China Life set its Shanghai IPO price at 23.25 yuan,
near the bottom of 23 yuan to 28 yuan range to investors,
offering the stock at about 1.2 times estimated 2011 embedded
value, according to Qiu. Its biggest rival  China Life Insurance
Co. (601628)  trades at about 1.5 times, he said.  China Life has fallen 21 percent in Shanghai this year
while Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., the nation’s second-largest
insurer, tumbled 36 percent, after premiums growth slowed as the
nation’s economic expansion cooled.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 2 percent
today after six days of declines, on speculation the government
will loosen credit curbs as decelerating growth in exports
threaten to deepen the economic slowdown.  New China Life is raising more equity after its expansion
in a market that has grown an average 30 percent a year during
the past three decades brought its solvency ratio, a gauge of
its ability to settle claims, below regulatory requirements. It
sold 358.4 million shares at HK$28.50 each in  Hong Kong  and
158.5 million shares at 23.25 yuan apiece in Shanghai.  Companies including Haitong Securities Co. canceled or
reduced first-time offerings in the past week as global economic
concerns sapped demand for equity.  --Zhang Dingmin. Editors: Linus Chua, Malcolm Scott  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  