-- New York City Nurses May Stage Strike Over Health-Benefit Contributions
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2011-12-16T18:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/new-york-city-nurses-may-stage-strike-over-health-benefit-contributions.html
Thousands of nurses at three  New
York  City hospitals may stage their biggest strike in at least a
decade if they fail to reach an agreement on health benefits.  The 6,000 unionized nurses, who work about 3,800 patient
beds and handle hundreds of thousands of annual visits, say they
shouldn’t be paying more for their health benefits. Negotiations
are taking place at Mount Sinai Hospital, Montefiore Medical
Center and St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital Center.  Hospitals, which face rising pension costs after market
losses and will lose some government support under the 2010
health-care overhaul, say they can’t afford to spend so much on
benefits for their workers. The New York State Nurses’
Association would give hospitals 10 days’ notice before starting
a strike, which it hasn’t done, said Mark Genovese, a spokesman.  “Management wants to gut their health-care benefits,
weakening the scope of the benefits and making them pay more,”
Genovese said. “Nursing is an incredibly physically demanding
job.”  The overhaul President  Barack Obama  signed last year will
cut $156 billion in U.S. payments to hospitals through 2019, the
Congressional Budget Office  estimates . Nurses, protected by
unions, already contribute less to their health care than other
employees do, hospitals said.  “The fact is that with the cost share, nurses at The Mount
Sinai Hospital would be paying approximately 20 percent of the
monthly cost share paid by other health-care professionals at
Mount Sinai, who are part of the same health-care team and who
work alongside the nurses every day,” said Jeanne Bernard,
spokeswoman for Mount Sinai.  At Montefiore, nurses pay nothing for single or family
health coverage, according to a chart from the hospital. The
senior management pay 31 percent of their premiums.  When nurses strike, the hospitals must find temporary
replacements to continue operating. Nurses’ strikes in New York
between 1984 and 2004 increased in-hospital deaths by 19.4
percent and 30-day readmission by 6.5 percent, according to a
March 2010 study by the  National Bureau of Economic Research  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 