-- Novell-Microsoft Trial Over WordPerfect Ends as Jurors Deadlock
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   S h e l l e y   O s t e r l o h
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/novell-trial-against-microsoft-over-wordperfect-ends-in-mistrial.html
Novell Inc.’s antitrust lawsuit
against Microsoft Corp. over the WordPerfect computer program
ended in a mistrial after jurors said they were unable to reach
a unanimous verdict.  Jurors in federal court in  Salt Lake City  told the judge
yesterday they were deadlocked after deliberating for three
days. After talking to the 12-member panel, U.S. District Judge
J. Frederick Motz dismissed the jurors, some of whom were in
tears. The trial began Oct. 18.  Novell sought as much as $1.3 billion in damages over
allegations that Microsoft, while developing the Windows 95
operating system in 1994, blocked an element of the software to
thwart Novell’s WordPerfect and Quattro Pro programs.  Novell will probably seek a retrial, said Jim Lundberg, an
attorney for the company, who said the jury vote was 11-1
against Microsoft.  “We are hoping that in retrial, although it is technically
complicated, that we can convince a jury that Novell’s claims
are valid,” he said in an interview.  Steve Aeschbacher, a lawyer for Microsoft, said in an
interview the company will probably renew its bid to have the
case dismissed for “legal deficiency,” citing flawed antitrust
theories.  ‘We Are Confident’  “We are disappointed,” Jim Jardine, another attorney for
Microsoft, said in an interview. “We hoped to get a verdict.
But we are confident. This jury was a very diligent jury, and
there are other steps that we can do to move forward.”  Five jurors contacted by Microsoft after they were
dismissed said they would not have awarded damages to Novell,
 Tim Brown , a spokesman for Microsoft, said in an e-mail.  Microsoft Chairman  Bill Gates  testified last month at the
trial, telling the jury he “absolutely” denied the
allegations.  Novell, which briefly owned WordPerfect in the mid-1990s,
argued that Microsoft restricted outside programmers’ access to
“extensions,” or programming code, which made it impossible
for Novell’s programs to run properly on Windows.  Novell, which was bought by Seattle-based Attachmate Corp.
in April, claimed WordPerfect’s share of the word-processing
market fell to less than 10 percent in 1996 from almost 50
percent in 1990.  Its value dropped from $1.2 billion in May 1994 to $170
million in 1996, when it was sold to Ottawa-based Corel Corp.,
Novell said. The company settled separate antitrust claims
against Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft for $536 million in
2004.  During jury deliberations, Motz asked lawyers on both sides
whether they would agree to accept a verdict that wasn’t
unanimous to avoid a mistrial. Microsoft’s lawyers refused.  “There was one juror that had difficulty,”  Jeffrey
Johnson , a lawyer for Novell, said after yesterday’s mistrial.
“He had strongly held views and he wasn’t going to budge.”  Novell’s complaint against Microsoft had initially been
dismissed by Motz. In May, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Richmond,  Virginia , revived it.  The case is Novell Inc. v. Microsoft Corp., 04-01045, U.S.
District Court, District of Utah (Salt Lake City).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net :
Shelley Osterloh in federal court in Salt Lake City at
 shelley.osterloh@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  