-- Obama Says No Options Off Table to Stop Iran Nuclear Arms
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2011-12-16T20:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/obama-says-no-options-off-table-to-stop-iran-nuclear-arms-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
hasn’t ruled out any options that may be needed to keep  Iran 
from obtaining nuclear weapons.  “We’re going to keep up the pressure, and that’s why, rest
assured, we will take no options off the table,” Obama said at
a convention of the Union for Reform Judaism in Washington’s
Maryland suburbs. “We’re going to keep standing with our
Israeli friends and allies.”  The U.S.,  United Nations  and European Union have imposed
sanctions on Iran, saying the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear
program is a cover for developing atomic weapons that could
threaten Israel and other Middle East nations. Iran says the
program is purely civilian.  Obama’s first presidential address to the Reform Judaism
meeting follows efforts by Republican challengers to win over
Jewish voters by portraying Obama as falling short in his
support for  Israel  and his actions to thwart to  Iran’s nuclear
program .  “No U.S. administration has done more in support of
Israel’s security than ours,” Obama said. “Don’t let anybody
tell you otherwise.”  Earlier today, a Republican National Committee release said
Obama “has failed to live up to” the promise of an
“unwavering friendship with Israel.” Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  has said Obama has made a “timid and
weak” response to Iran’s nuclear threat and “immeasurably set
back” chances for Middle East peace.  Answering Criticism  “I don’t think those arguments take very deep root in our
community,” said Mark Pelavin, associate director of the
Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism in Washington. “On
the other hand, it’s always dangerous to let those kinds of
criticisms go unanswered.”  Obama said he shares values with the Reform Jewish movement
on civil rights and economic fairness. “You have brought to
life your faith and your values and the world’s a better place
for it,” he said.  Eric Yoffie, president of the Union for Reform Judaism,
said after the president’s remarks that on fundamental issues
“there’s a great deal of sympathy for the president’s positions
and the president’s values.”  “This notion that somehow there’s this hostility and
antagonism between the president and the Jewish community is
simply not true,” Yoffie said.  Obama won the support of 78 percent of Jewish voters in the
2008 election, according to national exit polls. Republicans are
trying to win over independent or wavering Democratic Jewish
voters in swing states. Florida is the biggest swing state with
a large proportion of Jewish residents -- estimated at 613,000,
according to the 2010 North American Jewish Data Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  