-- Crude Oil Heads for Biggest Weekly Drop Since September on Europe Outlook
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2011-12-16T20:18:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/oil-heads-for-second-weekly-drop-on-concern-european-growth-is-slowing.html
Crude fell, capping the biggest
weekly decline since September, on concern that European
economic growth will slow, curbing fuel demand.  Futures dropped to the lowest level in more than six weeks
after  Fitch Ratings  lowered  France ’s outlook and put nations
including  Spain  and Italy on review for downgrade. Exports from
the euro area dropped in October, led by declines in Germany and
Spain, according to the European Union’s statistics office.  “The market is going to be concerned about Europe for a
while,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in New York. “Oil is still in a down trend in
the short term, so I won’t be surprised if prices fall to
something close to $90.”  Oil for January delivery fell 34 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$93.53 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since Nov. 2. The contract tumbled 5.9 percent since
Dec. 9, the biggest weekly decline since Sept. 23. Prices are up
2.4 percent this year after climbing 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for February settlement slipped 25 cents to
$103.35 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe 
exchange. The January contract expired yesterday.  Fitch changed its outlook on France to negative, while
affirming its AAA rating. It also said all investment-grade
countries in the euro region rated below AAA are subject to a
“Rating Watch Negative” review, which Fitch expects to
complete by the end of January, according to a statement today
in  London .  Fitch Rating  “Of particular concern is the absence of a credible
financial backstop,” Fitch said in an e-mailed statement.  The 27 member states of the EU accounted for 16 percent of
global oil demand last year, based on BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Exports from the euro region dropped a seasonally adjusted
1.9 percent in October from September, when they fell 1.1
percent, the EU’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said today.
Imports dropped 0.7 percent and the  trade surplus  shrank.  The  French economy  will shrink this quarter and next,
suggesting the nation is in a recession as investment and
consumer spending stagnate, national statistics office Insee
said yesterday.  The euro area’s second-largest economy will shrink 0.2
percent in the fourth quarter and 0.1 percent in the first
quarter of 2012, before expanding 0.1 percent in the following
three months, Paris-based Insee said.  Price Outlook  Crude may fall next week on speculation that Europe’s
economy will shrink as the region’s debt crisis spreads, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Nine of 17 analysts, or 53 percent, forecast oil will
decrease through Dec. 23. Six respondents, or 35 percent,
predicted prices will increase and two estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 41 percent of surveyed analysts
expected a decline.  Oil extended losses as the euro erased gains against the
dollar and U.S. stocks retreated from earlier advance. The euro
was little changed at $1.3035 at 3:16 p.m. in New York, after
rising to $1.3084 in intraday trading. A weaker euro and
stronger dollar reduces oil’s appeal as investment alternative.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  pared its advance to 0.4
percent from as much as 1.3 percent.  Technical Levels  Oil also decreased as the January contract settled below
the 50-day moving average for a second day. It closed below the
200-day moving average for a third session.  Oil rose as much as 1 percent earlier after the Italian
government won a confidence vote in Parliament on a 30 billion-
euro ($39 billion) emergency budget plan and on optimism the
European Union will meet a Dec. 19 deadline for funding a
crisis-fighting package.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads a group of
finance ministers from the region, said the EU should meet the
goal for arranging loans to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The market seems completely disjointed,” said  Peter Beutel , president of trading advisory company Cameron Hanover
Inc. in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut . “One day you are talking about
wonderful sentiment for Europe and the next day things aren’t
looking that good.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 447,102
contracts as of 3:16 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 564,037
contracts yesterday, 13 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.33 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net 
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  