-- Olympus Shares Fall as Takayama Backs Away From Revamp Recommendations
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2011-12-16T05:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/olympus-declines-as-takayama-revamp-may-stop-short-of-demands-by-investors.html
Olympus Corp. (7733)  fell after President
Shuichi Takayama signaled a planned revamp of management may
stop short of demands by some overseas investors.  The Japanese camera maker, reeling from a $1.7 billion
accounting fraud, has lost about a quarter of its market value
since restating earnings and slashing net assets Dec. 14.
Takayama said yesterday he didn’t see a need for the entire
board to resign over the cover-up, even after an independent
review said they had failed to stop a “rotten” core of
managers from hiding losses over more than a decade.  Shareholders including Southeastern Asset Management Inc.,
the biggest overseas stockholder in Tokyo-based Olympus, have
said the entire board must go, along with all executives who
were involved in the fraud. Takayama and  Michael Woodford , who
was fired as chief executive officer after challenging his
fellow directors over the accounts, are in a battle for control
that will test Japanese shareholders’ appetite to shake up one
of the country’s best-known global companies.  While Takayama and Woodford both said yesterday they want
to avoid a damaging proxy battle, they also traded barbs.
Woodford said Takayama must quit and should play no role in
deciding Olympus’s future management. Takayama repeated
criticisms of Woodford’s abrasive personality and said it was
unlikely management could work with him.  Delisting Threat  Since Woodford questioned inflated fees and takeover costs
after he was fired Oct. 14, the company admitted to a 13-year
scheme to hide losses and purged some senior executives. It
still faces criminal probes, a battle for management control and
a TSE review that may yet see it ejected from the world’s
second-biggest bourse.  Takayama said that while he was willing to work with
Woodford, he won’t meet him until after a separate panel to
advise on changes in management reports.  The shares plunged 21 percent yesterday after Olympus took
a $1.3 billion reduction in net assets, sparking a cut in the
company’s  credit rating . The stock fell as much as 11 percent
today, before paring losses to trade 3.6 percent lower at 2:20
p.m. in Tokyo.  Takayama said he will consider all options to restore
capital, including a tie-up with other companies. Tokyo Stock
Exchange rules permit companies to issue new shares to a third
party with a dilutive effect of as much as 25 percent without
seeking shareholder approval.  Shareholder Vote  Shareholders will vote on new management in March or April,
Olympus said yesterday. Takayama said the replacement of the
entire board may not be necessary.  “We’ll review our management structure, corporate
governance and our business plans as we prepare for the
shareholder meeting,” Takayama told reporters in  Tokyo . “We’ll
be reborn as new Olympus so that we can provide value to all our
stakeholders including shareholders, customers, banks and our
employees.”  The independent panel set up to investigate the fraud found
a culture of “yes men” and a board that failed in its duty to
stop a “rotten” core of executives from duping auditors,
regulators and investors.  The board unanimously voted to fire Woodford when he
challenged the accounting practices. Some board members and
senior executives, including the head of the treasury
department, Shigemi Sugimoto, signed off on documents that
formed part of the fraud and were at yesterday’s press briefing.  Net Assets  Repeated attempts to reach Olympus executives accused of
being involved in the schemes have failed.  Olympus’s net assets fell to 46 billion yen ($590 million)
as of Sept. 30 from 151 billion yen reported in the previous
quarter. That took the ratio to total assets to 4.8 percent,
compared with the 44 percent average of 15 global peers in the
precision-engineering sector, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Equity capital has eroded more than expected,” Tokyo-
based Rating & Investment Information Inc. said in a statement
announcing its decision to cut Olympus two levels to BBB-, with
a view to a further downgrade. The rating is one above non-
investment, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “The
possibility of additional losses from a lawsuit and other
factors also cannot be ruled out.”  TSE Review  R&I is the only company with a credit rating on Olympus,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The TSE removed the company from its watch list for
automatic delisting after it filed corrected earnings from
fiscal 2006 on Dec. 14. It remains on a separate list for
delisting pending a review of the fraud by the exchange.  Olympus stock plunged as much as 81 percent, wiping $7.1
billion off the company’s market value, after Woodford’s
dismissal. The shares had recouped about half that loss before
their two-day plunge.  Olympus had a net loss of 32 billion yen for the fiscal
first-half ended Sept. 30, compared with a revised net income of
3.8 billion yen a year earlier. Revenue was 414.5 billion yen
for the six months, from 417.3 billion yen a year earlier.  The company withdrew its earnings forecasts for this fiscal
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  