-- London Luxury Shops See Lean Christmas
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2011-12-16T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/london-luxury-shops-see-lean-christmas.html
London ’s luxury retailers are braced
for weak sales over the key Christmas and New Year business
period amid signs bankers and brokers are curbing their spending
on concern the economy will slide back into recession next year.  The number of visitors to the Gucci store in London’s Royal
Exchange shopping mall opposite the  Bank of England  is similar
to last year, said store manager Tara Thompson. Sales at jeweler
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  in Canary Wharf will “probably” match last year,
said store manager Luke Richardson. At the Bulgari outlet in the
Royal Exchange, Rosetta Citton, who runs the store, said she
expects holiday sales at similar levels to last year.  “All the uncertainty in the economy does affect our
customers’ spending habits, but we’ve got to hope for the
best,” Thompson said in a telephone interview.  London’s bankers may receive 4.2 billion pounds ($6.5
billion) in bonuses for 2011, the lowest in almost a decade, as
financial-services firms’ earnings dwindle, the Centre for
Economics & Business Research Ltd. said in October. Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has urged banks to strengthen
their financial defenses rather than pay big bonuses this year
as the Treasury said it will explore ways to tackle
“unacceptable” levels of pay.  Chris Marino, 53, an interdealer broker for BGC Partners
Inc. in  New York , has agreed to not exchange gifts with his wife
this Christmas.  Frightening  “Traditionally my wife used to pick out a piece of jewelry
and I’d buy it for her,” Marino said in an interview at the
Royal Exchange. “This climate will carry on for at least the
first two, maybe three quarters of next year. The jobless
numbers are frightening.”  Financial firms globally have announced more than 200,000
job losses this year, up from about 58,000 last year and 174,000
in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , which has eliminated about 27,000 jobs since
receiving the biggest banking bailout in the world, said in
October it will stop subsidizing holiday parties and banned
staff entertainment for the rest of the year.  Shopper numbers in the week starting Dec. 5 fell in all
locations compared with the same week last year, the  British
Retail Consortium  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. On
main streets, the decline was 2.6 percent, according to the BRC.
      U.K. retail sales  fell more than economists forecast in
November. Sales including fuel declined 0.4 percent from
October, the  Office for National Statistics  said yesterday in
London. The median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 0.3 percent drop.  Discounting  “I’m being more aware,” about Christmas spending, said
Alistair Mackie, 26, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. “I’m making
sure I’m not paying too much for travel and on gifts.”  Earlier this month, Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank
by assets, announced it will cut about 4,500 jobs in coming
quarters to reduce costs amid slumping revenue and
“unprecedented” market conditions. Morgan Stanley said
yesterday it plans to cut about 1,600 jobs globally.  December retail sales in the U.K. are expected to be no
better than last year’s 36.2 billion pounds, according to
Deloitte LLP. That would be the first holiday with no growth
since 2008, when the financial crisis that followed the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. caused consumers to cut back.  Retailers such as  Debenhams Plc, (DEB)  the U.K.’s second-largest
department-store chain, started discounting early as they seek
to entice shoppers. Debenhams said it would reduce prices by as
much as 40 percent compared with 25 percent last year.  Late Shoppers  “It’s fiercely competitive,” Natalie Berg, an analyst at
Planet Retail Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen
a lot of retailers discount early in a bid to get shoppers
through the doors. With all this heavy discounting we’ll see
margin erosion and a limited appeal of Boxing Day and January
sales as shoppers don’t need to wait for promotions.”  Antique jeweler Kojis in the Royal Exchange is seeing more
browsers than impulse buyers, said store manager Semih Yilmaz.  “People will delay in buying and some will skip buying
expensive gifts,” Yilmaz said by phone. “We’re the last people
to get a bite of the cake at Christmas as people browse before
they buy.”  Some workers in London’s finance industry remain
unaffected. “My job is the same and prospects are positive
going ahead,” Mike Camburn, a 43-year-old partner at
accountancy firm  KPMG , said in an interview in  Canary Wharf .
“There’ll be no ostensible belt tightening.”  Belt-Tightening  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
forecast on Nov. 28 that the U.K. economy will shrink in the
current quarter and first quarter of 2012, pushing the country
back into a technical recession. The Paris-based OECD forecast
0.5 percent growth in 2012.  Mike Thompson, group retail director for clothing retailer
Jaeger Group Ltd., which has two shops in Canary Wharf’s mall,
said the company “does not comment on trading” because it is
privately owned. Fiona Rushton, a spokeswoman for  Hermes
International SCA (RMS) , the French maker of Birkin bags and silk
scarves, also wouldn’t comment.  A spokeswoman, who declined to be named, for  LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest maker of  luxury
goods , wouldn’t comment. Hermes and LVMH both have stores at the
Royal Exchange. Cecile Simon, a spokeswoman for Montblanc U.K.
Ltd., the luxury pen-maker, also declined to comment.  “We’re slightly tightening the belt,” said Roddy Spencer,
an insurance broker who didn’t name his employer. “I’ll
definitely be cutting back on the amount of presents I’ll be
buying. No-one knows what’s going to happen in 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  