-- Honeywell, DuPont Probed by EU Regulators on Car Refrigerant
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2011-12-16T16:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/honeywell-dupont-probed-by-eu-regulators-over-car-refrigerant.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the largest U.S.
chemicals company by market value, and  Honeywell International
Inc. (HON)  are being probed by European antitrust regulators over
plans to produce a refrigerant for car air-conditioning systems.  The European Union will review agreements between Honeywell
and DuPont to develop the low-emission coolant, it said in an e-
mailed statement today. Regulators are probing whether Honeywell
abused a monopoly position for the refrigerant and if it
“engaged in deceptive conduct” when the product was endorsed
by a car industry group. They will also check if Honeywell
charges “fair and reasonable” licenses to rivals who want to
produce it.  Honeywell and DuPont expect growth from the technology they
jointly developed to meet  EU environmental rules  to cut
 greenhouse gases  from air-conditioning systems. DuPont told
investors this week that the refrigerant promises “nice growth
and some healthy margins.” Honeywell’s specialty chemicals
division has said it expects coolants to help it make
“extremely solid” profits.  “The commission will examine the case as a matter of
priority,” the Brussels-based European Commission said in the
statement. “This investigation highlights the importance of
ensuring” that agreements involving intellectual property
“contribute to innovation rather than holding it back.”  Companies Cooperating  Honeywell is “confident that our practices are consistent
with the law” and “is committed to fully cooperating with the
commission,” said Sabine Chmielewski, a spokeswoman for the
company in Seelze,  Germany .  DuPont “will cooperate fully with this inquiry and is
confident that the commission will conclude that actions taken
by DuPont complied with applicable laws, said Janet Smith, a
spokeswoman for Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont. The
refrigerant was developed in response to EU rules, she said.  Arkema SA (AKE) , which wants a license to make the product, filed
a complaint with EU regulators over the refrigerant in April
2011 and is “satisfied” by the EU’s decision to open an
investigation, said Gilles Galinier, a spokesman for the
Colombes, France-based company.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said this month
he wanted to make sure that intellectual property rights “are
used to reward inventions and motivate innovation and not as
tools to foreclose access for expansion in markets.” He is also
probing standards in the banking industry.  Rambus, Qualcomm Cases  European Union regulators have had mixed success with
antitrust cases over standards. The EU settled a probe of
memory-chip designer  Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  in 2009 into so-called “patent
ambush.” The practice involves patent owners hiding their
intellectual property so they can demand royalties from other
companies forced to use the same technology once it becomes a
standard.  The commission dropped a four-year probe into  Qualcomm
Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of chips for mobile phones, started
after competitors complained the chipmaker was charging
excessive royalties on patents.  The refrigerant developed by Honeywell and DuPont was
designed to replace ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons, which
can’t be included in new cars sold in the 27-nation EU from
2017. Honeywell and DuPont  agreed last year  on a joint venture
to produce the refrigerant from the fourth quarter this year.  The EU antitrust authority is investigating complaints that
Honeywell and DuPont may have “entered into anti-competitive
arrangements” over the joint development, licensing and
production of the refrigerant.  Regulators will also examine whether Honeywell disclosed
patents and patent applications when the refrigerant was
assessed and  endorsed  by the Society of Automobile Engineers, an
industry group, between 2007 and 2009, and then “failed to
grant licenses on fair and reasonable terms.”  The antitrust authority can fine companies up to 10 percent
of yearly sales or require them to change the way they do
business if it concludes that they harmed competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 