-- Monti Faces Confidence Vote to Speed Approval of Emergency Budget Proposal
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-12-16T09:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/monti-faces-confidence-vote-to-speed-approval-of-emergency-budget-plan.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
faces a confidence vote in Parliament to speed passage of a 30
billion-euro ($39 billion) emergency budget plan aimed at
spurring growth and convincing investors he can cut  Europe ’s
second-biggest debt.  The Chamber of Deputies in Rome began the debate on the
package at 10 a.m. before the confidence vote, which Monti’s
government requested to end debate and force lawmakers to vote
or risk the fall of the government. A final vote will be held in
the lower house at 7:30 p.m., and then the package will pass to
the Senate, which is set to give final approval on Dec. 23.  Monti has said the measures, which include an overhaul of
the pension system, the reinstatement of a property tax on
primary residences and measures to boost growth and fight tax
evasion, will help protect  Italy  from the spread of the debt
crisis and bring down record borrowing costs. The Treasury had
to pay 6.47 percent to sell five-year debt on Dec. 14, the most
in more than 14 years.  “The package has some limits, a significant part of it is
based on higher taxes, but it’s absolutely indispensable,”  Emma Marcegaglia , head of employers’ lobby Confindustria, said
yesterday in Rome at a presentation of the group’s new economic
forecasts.  Fifth Recession  The euro-region’s third-largest economy has slipped into
its fifth recession since 2001, Confindustria said. The group
forecasts the Italian economy will contract 1.6 percent next
year, after predicting growth of 0.2 percent in September.  Italian bonds gained for the first day in four yesterday
after  Spain  sold more debt than forecast at a bond sale, easing
concern about demand for new debt. The yield on Italy’s
benchmark 10-year debt fell 17 basis points to 6.40 percent
today. Before the Spanish sale, the Italian yield rose as high
as 6.82 percent, approaching the 7 percent threshold that led
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  “We are confident that markets will react positively to
the efforts Italy is making, maybe not tomorrow, but the
reduction in borrowing costs that we anticipate in the coming
months will help spur the economy,” Monti told the Finance and
Budget Committees of the Chamber of Deputies on Dec. 13. Europe
must avoid internal conflicts between northern and southern
countries over the debt crisis, Monti said today at a  Rome 
conference.  New Measures  The premier said yesterday that his government was working
on a new package of measures that aim to spur economic growth,
which has lagged behind the European Union average for more than
a decade. He reiterated a pledge to open up closed professions
and said he would go ahead with plans to overhaul labor market
rules and the welfare system.  Monti, who took office a month ago as head of a so-called
technical government without a political base in Parliament, is
seeking to show investors he can tame a  debt  that is bigger than
that of Spain, Greece, Portugal and Ireland combined. This week
he accepted changes to the plan to ease a pension freeze and the
impact of the property tax on families in a bid to build support
before the vote.  The plan was changed this week to raise the threshold on
pensions that will be frozen to about 1,400 euros a month, from
just under 1,000 euros in the original package. Families paying
the new property tax will get a 50-euro credit per child, the
amendment says. Italians whose checking-account balances average
less than 5,000 euros a year will no longer have to pay a 34-
euro annual tax.  The government will cover the lost revenue by increasing
the planned levy on Italians who took advantage of previous
amnesties on  tax evasion . The amendment will also add a tax
surcharge on pensions of more than 200,000 euros a year and will
impose a levy on property owned by Italians outside of Italy.  Monti won backing for his government of non-politicians
last month in the parliament from most parties. While the budget
plan has met criticism from Berlusconi and his People of Liberty
Party, the former premier would risk a political vacuum at a
time when Italy’s bonds are under pressure should his forces
vote against the plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ; 