-- Monti’s Austerity Budget Cuts Win Broad Support in Italian Confidence Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 2011-12-16T23:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/monti-s-austerity-budget-cuts-win-broad-support-in-italian-confidence-vote.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  won broad
backing for his 30 billion-euro ($39 billion) emergency budget,
setting up final passage next week of his plan to shield Italy
from being overwhelmed by the region’s debt crisis.  The Chamber of Deputies gave its final approval last night
in Rome by a vote of 402 to 75, with former Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi ’s People of Liberty Party and the Democratic
Party both backing Monti. The plan now passes to the Senate,
which will begin debate on Dec. 21 and hold a vote on Dec. 23.  “Without these emergency measures, what’s at risk is the
savings of all Italians and the wellbeing accumulated by
generations,” Monti told lawmakers before the final vote.
“There is also the risk of seeing Italians’ income evaporate
and the pension and public-health systems threatened.”  Monti has said the measures, which include an overhaul of
the pension system, the reinstatement of a levy on primary
residences and proposals to boost growth and fight tax evasion,
will help protect  Italy  from the debt crisis and bring down
record borrowing costs. The Treasury had to pay 6.47 percent to
sell five-year debt on Dec. 14, the most in more than 14 years,
and faces about 200 billion euros in bond maturities in 2012.  Italian bonds gave back early gains yesterday, with the
yield on benchmark 10-year finishing up 2 basis points at 6.59
percent. That widened the difference with German bonds by 11
basis points to 474 basis points. The 10-year yield reached a
euro-era record 7.48 percent on Nov. 9 and closed eight times in
November above the 7 percent threshold that led Greece,  Portugal 
and Ireland to seek bailouts.  Income Squeeze  The measures will put a further squeeze on income at a time
when a slump in  consumer spending  may have already pushed the
economy into its fifth recession since 2001.  Confindustria, the nation’s employers lobby, forecast this
week that growth in the euro region’s third-largest economy will
contract until the second half of next year. The group predicted
the economy would shrink 1.6 percent in 2012. Confindustria also
said that the government was on track to meet its goal of a
balanced budget in 2013.  Monti told lawmakers not to underestimate measures in the
package to spur growth and competition and said that his
government is committed to approve more so-called structural
reforms. His priorities would be an overhaul of  labor laws  to
make it easier for young people and women to get jobs and
opening up closed professions to spur competition and bring down
prices, he said.  Violent Threats  Tensions are mounting over the austerity package, which has
provoked threats of violence against leading politicians and was
linked to a letter-bomb campaign. Post-office officials
yesterday intercepted threatening letters containing bullets
addressed to Monti, Labor Minister Elsa Fornero, Berlusconi,
 Democratic Party  leader Pier Luigi Bersani and some top
newspaper editors.  “The budget plan is ready and so is your funeral,” one of
the letters read, newspaper La Repubblica reported. “We will
see you in Rome.”  The letter follows the explosion of a letter bomb on Dec. 9
claimed by an Italian anarchist group in an office of the tax
collection authority Equitalia in Rome. The explosion left a
worker there missing parts of two fingers and with injuries to
his face. That attack came a day after another letter bomb,
intercepted in  Germany  and addressed to Deutsche Bank Chief
Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann , was attributed to the same
Italian group.  Unions held a three-hour general strike to protest the
measures on Dec. 12 and more work stoppages are planned for the
coming months. A public transport strike yesterday slowed
traffic in Rome to a crawl.  Non-Political Government  Monti, who took office a month ago as head of an unelected
government of non-politicians, is seeking to show investors he
can tame a 1.9 trillion-euro  debt , bigger than that of  Spain ,
 Greece , Portugal and Ireland combined. With no political base in
parliament, Monti relies on support from both Berlusconi’s PDL
and the Democratic Party, its chief rival, to remain in power.  “The concern that there is always going to be with having
a technocrat in charge is that the other parties might try and
gain political capital,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income
strategist at Credit Agricole SA in  London . “So, as long as the
technocrat remains well backed, that’s good for Italy and good
for stability.”  Berlusconi criticized the austerity plan Dec. 15 and warned
that the Monti government may not last until the end of the
legislature in 2013. He pledged to vote in favor of the measure
because “in an emergency you have to choose the lesser evil,”
he said at a book presentation in  Rome .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  