-- Toyota Ends Go-It-Alone Strategy With BMW, Tesla Alliances: Cars
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n ,   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2011-12-16T01:44:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/toyota-ends-go-it-alone-strategy-with-bmw-tesla-alliances-cars.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (TM)  has a tradition
of self-reliance. Chief Executive Officer  Akio Toyoda  is
beginning to change that.  Toyoda agreed this month to equip some Toyota cars with
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  diesel engines, building on an
earlier deal to use  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  battery packs in future
electric vehicles. Before the grandson of the founder became
president, Toyota had not purchased such core technologies from
other carmakers, said  Shiori Hashimoto , a spokeswoman at the
Toyota City-based carmaker.  The alliances illustrate how Toyoda is shaking up decades-
old practices at Japan’s largest manufacturer, which is poised
to cede its three-year lead in the global automotive industry to
 General Motors Co. (GM)  As the company emerges from three years of
crisis management -- from millions of vehicles recalled to
coping with Japan’s biggest postwar natural disaster -- Toyoda
now faces the challenge of recovering ground lost to GM and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   “They have a high need for control, because they want a
high level of confidence things will be delivered on time,”
said Jeff Liker, an engineering professor at the University of
Michigan in  Ann Arbor  specializing in Toyota research. “When
you go outside the family, there’s some risk. Akio is willing to
take that risk.”  The worldwide recalls in 2009 and 2010 created an
opportunity to push changes in Toyota’s corporate culture, Liker
said. The CEO likely “came to the conclusion Toyota has grown
too insular in Japan, that it needed to open up more, get more
access to the outside world,” he said.  Diesels  Toyoda has reason to drive change. The company forecasts
profit will fall to 1 percent of revenue this fiscal year,
Toyota’s second-lowest margin, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg stretching back to 1992.  At its height, when Fujio Cho and Katsuaki Watanabe were
running Toyota in the mid 2000s, the carmaker was generating
margins of almost 7 percent. The stock is down about 70 percent
from its peak in February 2007.  “Toyota used to be able to grow simply by manufacturing
the cars it made best, but now it needs to make gasoline and
diesel cars, hybrids and electric vehicles,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million at Ichiyoshi Investment
Management Co. in Tokyo. “If Toyota doesn’t reach out to other
companies for help in technology, they won’t be able to sustain
market share.”  Lagging in Europe  Under this month’s agreement, Toyota will equip some of its
European models with BMW engines starting in 2014 to gain market
share in the region, where most cars run on diesel.  Toyota’s share of European auto sales was 3.8 percent this
year through October, according to the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association. By comparison, Toyota’s U.S. share
was 12.7 percent through November, according to Autodata Corp.,
based in Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey.  In May 2010, Toyota agreed to use Tesla’s lithium-ion
battery pack and motor on its RAV4 sport-utility vehicle
starting early next year. Toyoda said at the time that he hoped
the partnership would also inspire Toyota workers to adopt the
“venture business” spirit of Tesla.  The BMW and Tesla deals differ from previous partnerships
because Toyota is the recipient of another company’s technology,
Hashimoto, the Toyota spokeswoman, said. In previous deals such
as a project to develop a hybrid system for trucks with  Ford
Motor Co. (F) , and others with GM,  Aston Martin  and  Fuji Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru, Toyota either provided or co-developed
technologies, she said.  Corporate Culture  The new push for alliances may fall short of turning around
Toyota.  Only the BMW accord is likely to yield direct benefits for
the Japanese carmaker because the other agreements are “small,
isolated deals,” said Maryann Keller, an auto analyst and
president at Maryann Keller & Associates.  The project with  Palo Alto , California-based Tesla, for
example, isn’t likely to change Toyota’s management practices
because “you cannot change a corporate culture simply by
working with a company that’s 3,000 miles away,” she said.  Even the BMW deal isn’t a guaranteed success, Akino said.  “Why would Toyota’s partners provide them with the best
technology?” he said. “In partnering with other companies,
Toyota is putting its reputation as a company of quality, ‘made-
in-Japan’ products at risk.”  Toyota generally resisted an industrywide wave of equity
tie-ups that began in the 1990s, including the alliance between
 Nissan Motor (7201)  Co. and Renault SA;  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s acquisitions of
Chrysler Corp. and a stake in  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) ; and the
pre-bankruptcy General Motors Corp.’s purchase of Korea’s Daewoo
Motor Co. and interests in  Fiat SpA (F) ,  Isuzu Motors Ltd. (7202) ,  Suzuki
Motor Corp. (7269)  and Fuji Heavy.  Failed Alliance  In 1999, Toyota and GM announced plans to share research on
hybrid vehicles and hydrogen fuel-cell technology. That
agreement yielded no results. While Toyota also supplied hybrid
components to Nissan for its gasoline-electric Altima sedan, the
companies didn’t expand that arrangement beyond a limited supply
deal.  Toyota’s go-it-alone strategy worked through the most of
the 2000s, with  earnings (7203)  reaching 1.72 trillion yen ($22
billion) in the fiscal year ended March 2008, before Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy exacerbated a global
recession.  The alliances support the executive’s goal of giving Toyota
vehicles more driving performance and character, said Ed Kim, an
analyst for industry researcher AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,
California.  Motorsports Enthusiast  “Akio is a motorsports enthusiast -- his brain is
definitely wired that way,” Kim said. “It’s a good thing for
Toyota to have someone at the helm who is passionate about
vehicles, given the criticism the company gets for vehicles
lacking character or soul.”  For some investors, the partnerships are key.  “Partnerships all seem very necessary,” said Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp.
“Toyota, under the new president, realized that they need to
cooperate if they are going to survive and they must get help
from companies where they are weak.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  