-- Pakistan’s Military Seeks Probe of Memo Scandal, Dawn Reports
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2011-12-16T05:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/pakistan-s-military-seeks-probe-of-memo-scandal-dawn-reports.html
Pakistan ’s army chief and the head
of the country’s spy agency acknowledged the existence of a memo
seeking U.S. help to prevent a military coup and called for a
thorough investigation, Dawn newspaper  reported .  The memo, allegedly written by Pakistan’s then-envoy to the
U.S., had affected the country’s national security and was an
attempt to lower the morale of the military, the newspaper cited
army chief General Parvez Ashfaq Kayani as saying in a statement
to the Supreme Court.  Pakistani-American businessman Mansoor Ijaz has alleged he
helped  Husain Haqqani , Pakistan’s former ambassador to
 Washington , to deliver a message to top U.S. military officials
requesting help in the wake of Osama bin Laden’s killing in May.
Both Haqqani and the government of President Asif Ali Zardari
deny the allegations.  The  Supreme Court  on Dec. 1 barred Haqqani from leaving
Pakistan and sought replies from the government and the army as
it investigates the memo scandal. It is scheduled to begin
hearing the case on Dec. 19.  In their statements to the country’s top court, Kayani and
General Shuja Pasha, the head of the intelligence service, said
they were satisfied with the evidence provided by Ijaz to
support his claims, Dawn reported.  Ijaz wrote an opinion piece in the Financial Times alleging
the memo offered that Pakistan’s civilian government would
replace military and intelligence officials with officers
compliant with U.S. demands to sever the military’s ties with
the Taliban and other Islamic militant groups.  Pakistan’s army was embarrassed by the strike deep inside
the country to kill bin Laden, which the Obama administration
has said was carried out without informing Pakistani officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Williams  at 
 mwilliams108@bloomberg.net  