-- Penn State Coach McQueary Says He Reported Sandusky ‘Sexual Acts’ With Boy
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-16T18:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/penn-state-coach-mcqueary-says-he-reported-sandusky-sexual-acts-with-boy.html
A Pennsylvania State University
assistant football coach told a judge that he reported seeing
Jerry Sandusky “sexually molesting” a 10-year-old boy in a
campus shower in 2002.  The assistant coach, Michael McQueary, 37, was called to
testify today in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, state court in a
hearing to decide whether there’s enough evidence to try Penn
State Athletic Director Timothy Curley, 57, and ex-Vice
President  Gary Schultz , 62, on perjury charges. They are accused
of lying to a grand jury about what McQueary told them and with
failing to report Sandusky to police.  “There is no question in my mind that I conveyed to them
that I saw Jerry with a boy in the showers and that it was
severe sexual acts going on and that it was wrong and over the
line,” McQueary testified.  Sandusky, a former defensive coordinator for the football
team, faces more than 40 criminal counts tied to the alleged
sexual molestation of 10 boys from 1994 to 2009. He has pleaded
not guilty. Curley and Schultz, who face as long as seven years
in prison if convicted of perjury, deny wrongdoing.  At the heart of the case against Curley and Schultz is
their testimony in January to a grand jury investigating
Sandusky. Curley denied that McQueary reported anal sex or
anything of a sexual nature and termed the conduct “horsing
around,” according to the grand jury report.  Sexual Conduct  Schultz was initially unsure about what he remembered
McQueary telling him, while later conceding the report was of
inappropriate sexual conduct, according to court documents.  McQueary today recounted what he said he witnessed in 2002.
He said he went to a football building on the  Penn State  campus
to fetch some video tapes. When he got there, he first heard
“rhythmic slapping sounds” and then the sound of showers
running. Then he saw Sandusky standing directly behind a boy in
the shower. They were both naked and Sandusky had his arms
around the boy at about waist level, McQueary said.  “I believe Jerry was sexually molesting him,” McQueary
testified. McQueary said he took steps toward the shower, and
the boy and Sandusky separated.  Neither Sandusky nor the boy spoke or made any sound while
McQueary was there, he said. They both looked directly at him
before he left, McQueary said. McQueary said he went to his
office and called his father, leaving the building six or seven
minutes later without returning to the shower area.  Joe Paterno   McQueary, a graduate assistant at the time, said he spoke
to Joe Paterno, the head football coach, about the incident the
following day. Paterno was “shocked and saddened,” McQueary
said. He said he made it clear to Paterno that what he saw was
sexual in nature but didn’t detail the act explicitly or use the
words sodomy or anal intercourse.  McQueary said that when he later met with Curley and
Schultz, he told them the incident was “extremely sexual in
nature” without using the terms “anal sex” or “sodomy.”
Under cross-examination by Curley’s attorney Caroline Roberto,
he said he couldn’t remember whether he said “in nature.”  Neither Curley nor Schultz, who oversaw university police,
reported the incident to  law enforcement  or attempted to learn
the identity of the alleged victim, identified in the grand jury
report as Victim 2.  Thomas Harmon, the former director of university police at
Penn State, testified that his force wasn’t made aware of the
2002 incident. He said he would have investigated and consulted
with the  district attorney , as he did in a 1998 incident
involving Sandusky. Harmon said Schultz was his boss.  Campus Security  McQueary testified that he thought speaking to Schultz, the
head of campus security, was tantamount to talking to the police
or the district attorney.  “It was someone who things were reported to and would know
what to do with it,” McQueary said.  His father, John McQueary, testified he told Schultz about
the incident in a separate conversation at his office with his
boss Jonathan Dranov.  “I would think I said it had sexual overtones, that it
appeared to be sexual in nature,” said John McQueary, who
testified he had a cordial working relationship with Schultz.
“I was expecting that something would be done.”  Schultz kept his head down taking notes for most of the
hearing, looking up to hear John McQueary’s testimony. Curley
focused on each witness as they took the stand, listening with
his head leaned to one side.  Defense attorneys Roberto and Tom Farrell sought to poke
holes in Michael McQueary’s testimony by raising questions about
what Dranov was told about the incident.  John McQueary testified on the night of the incident he
called Dranov, who arrived at his home shortly after his son.
Magisterial District Judge William Wenner limited most of the
cross-examination questions on Dranov.  Family Friend  Dranov, a doctor and family friend, allegedly testified to
a grand jury that Michael McQueary didn’t describe anything
sexual on the night of the incident, the Patriot-News of
Harrisburg reported on Dec. 11.  Dranov told grand jurors he asked McQueary three times if
he saw anything sexual, and three times McQueary said no, the
Patriot-News said. Because of that response, Dranov told
McQueary he should talk to Paterno, rather than police. Wenner
barred questions about Dranov after state prosecutors objected
that it was beyond the scope of today’s hearing.  The case against Sandusky led to the firings of Paterno,
whom Sandusky worked under for 30 years, and university
President Graham Spanier. Paterno and Spanier weren’t charged
with any criminal wrongdoing.  The cases are Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania  v. Curley,
MJ12303-cr-0000353-2011, and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Schultz, MJ12303-cr-0000354-2011, Magisterial District Judge 12-
3-03, Dauphin County (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  