-- Penn State Officials’ Fate May Turn on What They Heard About Sandusky
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-16T14:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/penn-state-officials-fate-may-turn-on-what-they-heard-about-sandusky.html
Whether two Penn State officials
must go to trial in the university sex-abuse scandal may depend
on precisely what they heard from  Mike McQueary , the football
coach who told a grand jury he saw a child being raped.  “It’s going to come down to what exactly McQueary said to
them,” said Amy Marion, a  Long Island , New York-based criminal
defense attorney who has been watching the case.  Athletic Director Timothy Curley, 57, and ex-Vice President
 Gary Schultz , 62, are in a Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, court today
for a hearing on whether there is enough evidence to try them.
They are accused of perjury and failing to report a sex-abuse
allegation against Jerry Sandusky, a coach. The men have denied
the charges, which stem from their grand jury testimony.  Sandusky, a former defensive coordinator for the football
team, faces more than 40 criminal counts tied to the alleged
sexual molestation of eight boys from 1994 to 2009. He denied
the accusations. McQueary told the grand jury that he saw
Sandusky in a campus locker room shower engaging in anal sex
with a boy who appeared to be 10 years old.  Prosecutors plan to call three to five witnesses for the
hearing today, Senior Deputy Attorney General Marc Costanzo said
in a phone interview. McQueary was the first witness called
today.  McQueary, a graduate assistant at the time of the alleged
incident, testified earlier that he called his father, who then
told him to talk to  Joe Paterno , the head football coach.  Call to Paterno  He called Paterno the next morning and went to his home to
report what he had seen, according to the grand jury’s report
released Nov. 5 when charges against Sandusky were announced.  Paterno testified that he called Curley to his home the
next day and reported that McQueary had seen Sandusky “fondling
or doing something of a sexual nature to a young boy,”
according to the report.  McQueary told the same story in a meeting a week and a half
later with Curley and Schultz, the grand jury said. Curley told
McQueary a few weeks later that Sandusky’s keys to the locker
room were taken away and the incident was reported to the Second
Mile, a charity for needy children Sandusky founded in 1977.  At the heart of the case is the testimony given by Curley
and Schultz to the grand jury in January. Curley denied that
McQueary reported anal sex or anything of a sexual nature and
termed the conduct “horsing around,” according to the grand
jury report.  ‘Disturbing’ Conduct  Schultz testified that Paterno reported “disturbing” or
“inappropriate” conduct. Schultz was initially unsure about
what he remembered the graduate assistant’s telling him, while
later conceding the report was of inappropriate sexual conduct,
according to court documents.  Neither Curley nor Schultz, who oversaw university police,
reported the incident to  law enforcement  or attempted to learn
the identity of the alleged victim, identified in the grand jury
report as Victim 2.  Any variations in accounts McQueary gave outside and inside
the grand jury room might affect the case, said Wes Oliver, an
associate law professor at Widener Law School’s Harrisburg
campus.  “The variety of different stories doesn’t really undermine
the case against Sandusky, but it does undermine the case
against Curley and Schultz,” Oliver said. “It’s entirely
possible that he didn’t have the clarity when he spoke with them
that he had when he spoke to the grand jury.”  Two Witnesses  Under the law, prosecutors will need two corroborating
witnesses to say that Curley’s and Schultz’s testimony was false
and they knew it. Constanzo declined to comment on whether
Paterno will testify.  Paterno, 84, who coached football at  Penn State  for 46
years and won 409 games, the most among major-college coaches,
was fired as a result of the Sandusky case. He hasn’t been
charged with criminal wrongdoing. Sandusky waived a preliminary
hearing Dec. 13 and will be tried on a date to be set.  Perjury, a felony, is punishable by as long as seven years
in prison, Costanzo said.  “No matter how his inconsistencies look, there are a
million reasons you can use to explain it,” Marion said of
McQueary. “What would be his motive to make something like that
up?”  The cases are Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Curley,
MJ12303-cr-0000353-2011, and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Schultz, MJ12303-cr-0000354-2011, Magisterial District Judge 12-
3-03, Dauphin County (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania ,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  