-- Penn State Officials to Face Trial for Perjury Over Sandusky Abuse Report
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-17T07:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/penn-state-officials-must-face-trial-in-sex-abuse-perjury-case-judge-says.html
Pennsylvania State University ’s
athletic director and a former school vice president were
ordered to stand trial on charges of lying about a 2002 sex-
abuse allegation against former assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky.  Magisterial District Judge William Wenner in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, yesterday said Athletic Director Timothy Curley
and  Gary Schultz , the former vice president, will face trial for
perjury and failing to report that a member of the football
program told them he saw Sandusky molesting a boy.  “The task that was at hand yesterday was to present enough
evidence to show the court that the charges should be held,”
Senior Deputy Attorney General Marc Costanzo said after the
ruling. “We’re not surprised by that.”  Curley and Schultz, who remain free on $75,000 unsecured
bail, denied the charges, which stem from their grand jury
testimony. They face formal arraignment on Jan. 19, according to
court records. They face as long as seven years in prison if
convicted of perjury.  Wenner ruled after hearing testimony from Penn State
assistant football coach, Mike McQueary, and from the former
chief of the campus police and McQueary’s father. The grand jury
testimony of  Joe Paterno , Penn State’s former head football
coach, was also read into the record.  McQueary testified yesterday that he told Curley and
Schultz he had seen Sandusky with what appeared to be a 10-year-
old boy in a locker room shower in March 2002.  Boy in Shower  McQueary said he had gone to a football building on the
Penn State campus to fetch some video tapes. When he got there,
he first heard “rhythmic slapping sounds” and then the sound
of showers running. Then he saw Sandusky standing directly
behind a boy in the shower. They were both naked and Sandusky
had his arms around the boy at about waist level, McQueary said.  “There is no question in my mind that I conveyed to them
that I saw Jerry with a boy in the showers and that it was
severe sexual acts going on and that it was wrong and over the
line,” McQueary, 37, told the court yesterday.  Neither Curley nor Schultz, who oversaw university police,
reported the incident to  law enforcement  or attempted to learn
the identity of the boy, identified in the grand jury report as
Victim 2.  Curley, 57, and Schultz, 62, denied that McQueary told them
about witnessing anal sex, according to the grand jury report.
Curley testified to the grand jury in January that McQueary told
him about Sandusky “horsing around.”  ‘Disturbing’  Schultz testified that McQueary reported “disturbing” or
“inappropriate” conduct. Schultz was initially unsure about
what he remembered McQueary told him and later conceded the
report was of inappropriate sexual conduct, according to court
documents.  Sandusky, 67, has been charged with more than 40 counts
stemming from the alleged sexual abuse of 10 boys. He waived his
preliminary hearing this week and prosecutors said his case will
proceed to trial. Sandusky, under home confinement on $250,000
bail, denies the charges.  Caroline Roberto, Curley’s lawyer, said her client will be
acquitted at trial.  “The question will be whether  Mike McQueary  has the
credibility to overcome the perjury high level of proof that is
necessary,” she said at a press conference after yesterday’s
hearing. Curley “testified consistently with his character,”
she said. “He told the truth”  McQueary’s Actions  Tom Farrell, Schultz’s lawyer, said McQueary’s actions
after witnessing the alleged incident speak louder than his
testimony.  “Mike McQueary didn’t call the police. He went home and
consulted with his dad and a trusted adviser who also didn’t
call police,” Farrell said. McQueary’s actions and his father’s
testimony yesterday point to “some vague allegation of
inappropriate conduct,” and not the graphic incident the
assistant coach testified to this morning, Farrell said.  McQueary, a graduate assistant at the time of the alleged
incident, testified that he called his father, who then told him
to talk to Paterno, whom Sandusky worked under for 30 years.  McQueary testified that he went to Paterno’s home to report
what he had seen. He said he made it clear to Paterno that what
he saw was sexual in nature, while not detailing the act
explicitly or using the words “sodomy” or “anal
intercourse.”  Paterno Testimony  Paterno, 84, testified for seven minutes before the grand
jury in January. He said McQueary called him on a Saturday
morning to report the incident with Sandusky, according to a
transcript of his testimony that prosecutors read into the
record in Harrisburg yesterday.  “I don’t know what you would call it. Obviously, he was
doing something with the youngster it was of a sexual nature. I
didn’t know exactly what it was,” Paterno said, according to
the transcript. “I didn’t push Mike any further because I knew
he was upset.”  Paterno said he reported within the week to Curley.  “I called him and said, ‘Hey we got a problem.’ and I
explained the problem to him,” Paterno testified.  Curley told the grand jury that Paterno called a meeting
with him and Schultz at his home on the Sunday after the
incident. Paterno told him an assistant had reported seeing two
people in the shower and he was uncomfortable with the activity
in the shower area, according to a transcript of Curley’s
testimony read during yesterday’s hearing.  Meeting With McQueary  Curley said he met with McQueary within a week to hear his
version of the events.  “I can’t remember specifically how Mike described it. My
recollection was they were kind of wrestling, there was body
contact and they were horsing around,” the athletic director
testified, according to the transcript. “I don’t remember any
report to me that it was sexual in nature. It was inappropriate
behavior.”  Curley said he didn’t think the behavior was criminal at
the time. He spoke to Sandusky about it before reporting it to
the Second Mile, a charity Sandusky founded for needy children
in 1977.  Schultz, who testified before the grand jury the same day
as Paterno and Curley, said his impression at the time was that
the behavior was inappropriate, not criminal.  ‘Wrestling-Around Activity’  “My recollection was that Mike and Joe both described what
was observed in a very general way. I had the impression that it
was inappropriate. I had the feeling that there was some kind of
wrestling-around activity and that Jerry may have grabbed the
boys genitals or something like that,” Schultz testified,
according to a transcript read in court.  He testified that he never attempted to determine the
identity or age of the child even though he was aware of a
similar incident involving Sandusky and a boy in a campus shower
in 1998. Schultz said his impression of Sandusky was of someone
who would “regularly wrestle people” as part of his “common
clowning around thing.”  Schultz retired from the university Nov. 6, the day after
charges against him, Curley and Sandusky were announced. Curley
requested administrative leave so he could defend himself
against the charges.  The case against Sandusky led to the firings of university
President Graham Spanier and Paterno, who coached football at
 Penn State  for 46 years and won 409 games, the most among major-
college coaches.  ‘Crude Words’  Costanzo dismissed defense arguments that McQueary
minimized what he told Paterno and what was later told to the
Penn State officials.  “McQueary said there were certain crude words in the
English language he wouldn’t use to describe the incident to
Coach Paterno out of respect,” Costanzo said. Still, McQueary
was clear about what he saw, Costanzo said.  Prosecutors still don’t know the identity of the boy in the
shower and another alleged victim in the case, Costanzo said.  Sandusky’s lawyer Joseph Amendola didn’t attend yesterday’s
hearing and declined to comment on the outcome.  The cases are Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania  v. Curley,
MJ12303-cr-0000353-2011, and Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v.
Schultz, MJ12303-cr-0000354-2011, Magisterial District Judge 12-
3-03, Dauphin County (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, at   spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  