-- Perry Gets Texas State Pension on Top of Governor’s Salary
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2011-12-16T22:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/perry-gets-pension-in-addition-to-salary.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Perry  is receiving a Texas pension of more than $92,000 a
year in addition to his almost $133,000 salary as governor,
according to a financial disclosure statement released today.  Perry, 61, was first elected to the state Legislature in
1984 and served as agriculture commissioner and lieutenant
governor before succeeding George W. Bush in the top job when
the latter was elected president in 2000. Perry began receiving
the pension of $7,698 a month, before taxes, beginning Jan. 31,
said  Ray Sullivan , a campaign spokesman.  “The combination of Governor Perry’s U.S. military
service, state service and age exceeded the state-required 80
years and qualified him for the annuity,” Sullivan said. He
said Perry continues to pay 6.5 percent of his salary into the
state retirement system.  With U.S. unemployment topping  8 percent  for 34 straight
months, so-called double-dipping by tens of thousands of
government workers nationwide has drawn greater scrutiny.
 Arkansas  banned the practice this year and at least 10 states
changed laws in 2010 dealing with government retirees who go
back to work on public payrolls while collecting pension checks,
according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.  Taking Advantage  “This makes Governor Perry look like a guy who will take
advantage of the system and not stand on principle when it is to
his own benefit,” said Adrian Moore, vice president of policy
at the Reason Foundation, a Los Angeles-based nonprofit research
organization that promotes free markets and limited government.
“This is a benefit that was deliberately created for government
and designed to allow double-dipping.”  A bill to block the practice in  Texas , authored by
Representative Kenneth Sheets, a Dallas Republican, failed to
get out of a pensions committee before the legislative session
ended in June. Sheets didn’t immediately respond to a message
seeking comment on Perry’s pension.  In addition to his government roles in Texas, Perry served
about five years in the U.S. Air Force.  Perry reported assets between $1.2 million and $2.4
million, primarily from a money market fund and a trust, both
valued at between $500,000 and $1 million. Candidates need only
to disclose their holdings in broad ranges.  In August, Perry ended his blind trust. His filings showed
that his trust holdings included  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 