-- Peugeot, Fiat, GM Lead European Car Sales Drop as Regional Economy Stalls
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2011-12-16T08:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/peugeot-fiat-gm-lead-european-car-sales-drop-as-economy-stalls.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ,  Fiat SpA (F)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)  led the biggest decline in European car sales
in five months as the region’s economy slipped closer toward a
recession.  Registrations in November dropped 3 percent to 1.07 million
vehicles from 1.10 million a year earlier, the biggest decline
since June, the Brussels-based  European Automobile Manufacturers
Association , or ACEA, said today in a statement. Eleven-month
sales declined 1.1 percent to 12.6 million registrations.  “This minus figure will only get worse in the coming
months,” said Hans-Peter Wodniok, a Kronberg, Germany-based
analyst at Fairesearch GmbH who recommends buying Peugeot and
selling Fiat. Unless carmakers stage production halts in
December, “the inventories will be very full, which wouldn’t be
good going into a bad 2012.”  Four of the region’s five biggest markets contracted, with
 France  and Italy leading declines at 7.7 percent and 9.2 percent
respectively. The  European Central Bank  cut its 2012 economic-
growth forecast for euro countries on Dec. 8 to a range of minus
0.4 percent to plus 1 percent, from plus 0.4 percent to 2.2
percent previously. European  manufacturing  contracted in
November and economic confidence fell.  French Production Cuts  Peugeot and  Renault SA (RNO) , France’s largest carmakers, are
cutting production capacity to reduce inventories. Turin, Italy-
based Fiat is working to stem an increase in debt as its
domestic car market approaches a 30-year low.  The ACEA compiles figures from European Union member
countries plus Switzerland, Norway and Iceland. Western European
car sales, which don’t include figures from the nations that
have joined the EU since 2004, fell 2.7 percent to 1 million
vehicles.  European sales at Paris-based Peugeot, the region’s second-
biggest carmaker, dropped 13 percent, while registrations at
Fiat declined 12 percent. Detroit-based GM, whose main brands in
Europe are Opel and Vauxhall, posted an 11 percent drop. The
Detroit-based carmaker said last month that its global sales
would be similar to last year’s, with weakness in  Europe 
dragging down the company’s earnings.  U.K., Spanish Declines  Sales in the U.K. and Spain declined, tumbling 4.2 percent
and 6.4 percent respectively. Registrations in  Germany , Europe’s
largest car market with sales that account for almost one in
four vehicles delivered in the region, grew 2.6 percent, holding
back the gain this year in the country to 9.1 percent.  The end of the property and construction boom, fueled by a
speculative bubble and low  interest rates  during the previous
decade, has caused Spain’s unemployment rate to more than double
to 22.8 percent. The economy, which stagnated in the third
quarter, may contract in the final three months.  Spain’s car market, which peaked in 2007 peak at 1.61
million vehicles, probably won’t top that figure in this decade,
according to Jonathon Poskitt, an Oxford, England-based analyst
at  J.D. Power  & Associates.  J.D. Power estimates that industrywide car sales in western
Europe will fall to 12.6 million vehicles in 2012 from the 12.8
million deliveries anticipated this year and the 13 million
posted in 2010.  Daimler AG , whose Mercedes-Benz division is the world’s
third-biggest luxury-vehicle maker after  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi division, posted a 6.8 percent
European sales drop. Sales at Renault, France’s second-biggest
carmaker, fell 1 percent, while those at  Ford Motor Co. (F)  dropped
5.5 percent.  European sales at  Volkswagen , the region’s biggest
carmaker, rose 5.8 percent. Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW, which
also owns the Skoda and Seat brands, has introduced a new
version of the Passat mid-sized car and a revamped Audi A6 sedan
in the past year.  BMW  increased its European sales 1.1 percent, contributing
to the company’s best-ever November global sales total,
according to the BMW website. The Munich-based carmaker
redesigned its mid-size 5-Series line last year, and sales of
the model increased 52 percent globally in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  