-- Pharmasset Says Drug Trial Change Won’t Affect Gilead Takeover Agreement
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2011-12-16T21:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/pharmasset-says-drug-trial-change-won-t-affect-gilead-takeover-agreement.html
Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS) , the company that
has agreed to be bought by  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , said it will
modify the design of a hepatitis-C trial after one of its
experimental drugs was linked to liver-function abnormalities.  Both companies said they don’t expect the trial change to
affect the deal. Pharmasset, of Princeton,  New Jersey , will halt
treatment arms that used a drug known as PSI-938, while
continuing to test PSI-7977, another compound it is developing,
the company said today in a statement.  Gilead, the world’s largest maker of HIV medicines, agreed
to spend $10.8 billion to buy Pharmasset to ward off rival
bidders and bolster its roster of potential therapies, Gilead
President and Chief Operating Officer John Milligan said in an
interview last month. Gilead, based in  Foster City , California,
is betting that Pharmasset’s treatments will lead a hepatitis C
market that may reach $20 billion by 2020.  “Since this does not impact the development of PSI-7977,
we do not believe the fundamental value of the deal has been
impacted, and we remain committed to and look forward to
completing the deal,” Amy Flood, a spokeswoman for Gilead, said
today in an e-mail.  The study-design change doesn’t trigger a “key product
event” clause in the takeover agreement, Pharmasset said in its
statement. The company doesn’t have additional comment, said
Andrew Cole, an outside spokesman.  Phase 2 Study  In the Phase 2 study, there were 235 participants treated
with PSI-938 alone, or in combination with Pharmasset’s
PSI-7977, the company said. While liver abnormalities were
observed in those groups, they weren’t detected in patients who
took PSI-7977 without PSI-938.  “This will not affect the transaction between Pharmasset
and Gilead” because the deal is “based solely on PSI-7977,”
 Yaron Werber , an analyst for Citigroup Inc. in  New York , said
today in a note to clients. “There is a fair amount of data
already with PSI-7977 and the drug looks clean.”  Both drugs are part of a class of compounds known as
nucleotide analogs that are designed to prevent viruses from
replicating.  “Based on our read of the deal terms and our conversation
with Gilead this morning, we do not believe today’s development
poses any risk to the deal going through” at a price of $137 a
share,  Brian Abrahams , a New York-based analyst at Wells Fargo &
Co., said today in a note to clients.  Pharmasset declined 3.2 percent to $123.75 at the close in
New York. Gilead dropped 3.5 percent to $37.16.  The Pharmasset announcement may have negative implications
for  Inhibitex Inc.  and  Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX)  Those
companies are developing drugs “with similar structures” to
PSI-938, Abrahams said.  Inhibitex (INHX) , based in Alpharetta, Georgia, plunged 20 percent
to $10.45, the biggest drop since Dec. 14, 2010. Idenix, based
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, fell 8.6 percent to $7.09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  