-- Polish Nov. Job Growth Holds Steady, Wage Growth Slumps
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2011-12-16T14:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/polish-job-growth-holds-steady-in-november-wage-growth-slumps.html
Polish  job growth  at companies
employing more than nine workers unexpectedly held steady in
November while wage growth slumped, supporting policy makers’
arguments that borrowing costs can stay unchanged.  Corporate employment, which had slowed for four months,
rose 2.5 percent from a year earlier, matching October’s
increase, the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw said today.
That exceeded the 2.3 percent median estimate of 23 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. Hiring increased 0.1 percent from the
previous month.  Poland’s economy is the biggest among the European Union’s
eastern members and the only one in the bloc to avoid a
recession in 2009. Gross domestic product may expand more than 4
percent this year, according to government forecasts, as
corporate investment increases, domestic demand improves and a
weaker zloty helps boost exports, outweighing the effect of the
debt crisis in the neighboring euro region.  “Polish companies have been hiring and if the Polish
economy weakening is relatively minor, the employment dynamics
may stay positive next year,” said Monika Kurtek, chief
economist at Bank Pocztowy SA in Warsaw. “The data supports the
current policy of unchanged rates that will be maintained also
throughout the whole year of 2012.”  The zloty traded at 4.493 per euro at 3:55 p.m. in Warsaw,
unchanged on the data and up from 4.526 late yesterday. The
yield on the government’s five-year bond fell 0.04 basis points
to 5.34.  Earlier this month, the central bank left the benchmark
seven-day  interest rate  at 4.5 percent for a sixth month.  “I don’t expect the economy to slow next year to such an
extent that we would be forced into monetary-policy easing,”
 Jerzy Hausner , a member of the rate-setting Monetary Policy
Council, said in a Dec. 13 interview.  Average gross wages rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier in
November, slowing from 5.1 percent the previous month. That’s
below the 5.3 percent median forecast of 26 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Wages rose 1.8 percent from October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  