-- Portugal Banks Told to Increase Provisions for Loan Losses
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2011-12-16T19:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/portugal-banks-told-to-increase-provisions-for-loan-losses-1-.html
Portuguese banks needed to increase
loan impairments by 596 million euros ($776 million) as of the
end of June, according to a Bank of  Portugal  presentation.  The lenders’ loan books were audited as part of Portugal’s
aid package.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) , the country’s biggest
non-state bank in terms of assets, said in a separate statement
it found impairments need to increase 207 million euros, after
charges of 174 million euros in the second half.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  said it found impairments needed to
rise 104 million euros, after it made an impairment charge of 21
million euros in September.  Banco BPI SA (BPI)  has no need to increase
impairments, it said in a regulatory filing.  Under Portugal’s 78 billion-euro aid plan, lenders are
required to raise Core Tier 1 capital ratios to 9 percent by the
end of the year and 10 percent by the end of 2012. According to
European Banking Authority rules, they also need a 9 percent
capital ratio by the end of June after marking their sovereign
debt holdings to market prices.  The central bank said Dec. 8 that the country’s lenders
needed to raise 6.95 billion euros in capital to meet the EBA
target, which was calculated using figures from the end of
September. Since then, Portuguese banks have carried out capital
increases to reduce their shortfalls.  Recapitalization Fund  Banks that fail to raise the money from private sources
will have to turn to their governments. Portugal’s banks can use
a 12 billion-euro recapitalization facility set up as part of
the bailout the country received from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  While banks are being told to increase their  capital
ratios , the government is also asking them to keep lending to
the economy.  The  European Central Bank ’s financing to Portuguese lenders
rose 0.3 percent to 45.69 billion euros in November. Portuguese
lenders have turned to the ECB because the government’s struggle
to narrow its  budget deficit  has restricted their ability to
borrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Joao Lima in Lisbon at   jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  