-- Prada Poised to Extend Slump as China Shoppers Cut Back: Retail
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-16T09:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/prada-poised-to-extend-slump-as-china-s-shoppers-cut-back-spending-retail.html
     Dec. 16 (Bloomberg) -- Prada SpA  is falling out of fashion
six months into its Hong Kong trading debut as investors brace
for Chinese shoppers to curb spending.  Shares of the maker of $2,000 bags and Miu Miu shoes, which
gets more than 42 percent of sales from Asia, have dropped 32
percent from their July peak. The stock has fallen with
companies such as jeweler  Luk Fook Holdings International Ltd. (590) 
and Omega retailer  Hengdeli Holdings Ltd. (3389)  as property and stock-
market declines hurt China’s consumers.  Luxury-sales growth in the world’s most populous nation
will slow in 2012 from a forecast of at least 20 percent this
year, said Royal Bank of Scotland analyst Katherine Chan.  Coach
Inc. (COH)  to Gieves & Hawkes seller  Trinity Ltd. (891)  are already feeling
the effects.  “The golden time, or the high-growth period, for many
luxurious goods retailers is probably over,” said Chan. Sales
growth at high-end stores open more than a year may drop by as
much as six percentage points in 2012, she said.  Consumption leveled off faster than expected this quarter
amid a cooling economy and market declines, Citigroup Inc. said
Dec. 8, citing retailer and manufacturer projections at a Hong
Kong conference.  ‘Fading’ Wealth  “Chinese shoppers could cut back spending on luxury items
in the near term, as the stock markets and the property markets
have corrected steeply this year,” said Eddie Lau, head of
regional consumer research at Citigroup. “The wealth effect is
fading.”  Luxury goods sales in  China  will reach a record 88.8
billion yuan ($14 billion) in 2011, rising 12 percent this year
and growing 82 percent since 2005, Euromonitor International
estimates.  China will grow 8.5 percent next year, the lowest pace in
11 years, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development forecasts.  “It’s hard to repeat the 30 to 40 percent same-store sales
growth we saw in 2011,” said RBS analyst Larry Cho, who
recommends short-term investors avoid China discretionary
stocks. “If consumers have to tighten the purse strings, they
will cut back on luxury items.”  High-end brands are growing more reliant on growth from
China, where urban disposable incomes almost doubled over five
years to 19,109 yuan in 2010. Asia is  Prada ’s biggest market,
with more than 42 percent of its 2 billion euros revenue in the
fiscal year ending January, compared with 29 percent two years
earlier.  Prada Tumbles  Prada’s stock  has lost 32 percent from its July 27 record
of HK$49.45, wiping more than $5 billion off its market value.
The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has lost 19 percent in the same
period. The luxury goods maker, which raised $2.5 billion in
June through  Hong Kong ’s biggest public offering this year,
still trades at 20.52 times expected earnings, more than double
that of the benchmark.  “Prada’s substantial store roll-out plan makes it
particularly vulnerable to a sales slowdown or decline,” said
Rey Wium, an analyst at Renaissance BJM in Johannesburg, who has
a “hold” rating on the security.  Philip Mok, an analyst at Phillip Securities in Hong Kong,
has a “sell” recommendation. He said in October that Prada
could fall to HK$26.50. It closed today at HK$33.70. Macquarie
Equities Research analyst Gary Pinge started covering the stock
Dec. 9 with an “underperform” rating and a HK$31.30 price
target. “Deteriorating  consumer confidence  in Prada’s key
markets, as well as weakening trends in China, create headwinds
for optimistic consensus forecasts,” he said.  Trinity Valuation  Valuations for consumer companies such Trinity, which sells
Gieves & Hawkes and other expensive brands, and  Prada  have gone
too high, said Sinopac Securities analyst Katharine Song. Share
prices are sliding as “people expect high-end spending will
slow in a weakening economy,” she said. Still, Chan, the RBS
analyst, recommends Trinity because it has cash to make
acquisitions.  Stocks have declined across the discretionary sector.
Coach’s depositary receipts that started trading in Hong Kong
this month have declined 8.5 percent since Dec. 2. The largest
U.S. luxury handbag maker plans to increase China stores 40
percent to 75 next year. Hengdeli, the retail partner of Swatch
Group AG in China, is down 46 percent for the year.  Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Ltd. , the world’s largest listed
jewelry chain, fell 8 percent on its Hong Kong stock exchange
debut yesterday. “The macro-economic situation may weaken the
buying power of the customers,” said Henry Cheng, executive
chairman, adding the company is confident about long-term sales.  ‘Inevitably’ Slowing Growth  The jeweler’s same-store sales growth for the six months
ended Sept. 30 was 61.9 percent, according to its listing
prospectus. Cho said he is doubtful “the explosive sales growth
will repeat.”  Smaller competitor Luk Fook, which makes gold and diamond
jewelry, has lost 38 percent since its Aug. 17 peak of HK$44.75.
“Growth rate will inevitably slow as we are riding on a higher
base and we have yet to see the impact from a global economic
slowdown,” said Chief Financial Officer Paul Law. He predicts
same-store sales growth of between 15 percent to 20 percent for
the year ended March 2013, lower than at least 30 percent in
fiscal 2012.  Mercedes,  BMW (BMW)  Discounts  Europe ’s debt crisis and China’s efforts to curb property
prices have pushed the  Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
down 22 percent this year. China’s home prices declined in 33 of
70 cities in October from September, the worst performance this
year, according to government statistics.  Mercedes-Benz (DAI)  and BMW dealers deepened their discounts on
some models in China last month, according to China Auto Market.  Average prices of Daimler AG’s 2012 Mercedes-Benz
C200 sedan at Chinese dealerships were 16 percent below the
manufacturer’s recommended price last month, compared with 3.4
percent in July, when the model became available, according to
the research company. BMW dealers sold the 2012 320i sedan 11
percent below the suggested price, more than triple the initial
discount for last year’s model.  Prada’s worldwide sales so far this year have grown with
the global luxury industry, which Boston-based consultant Bain &
Co estimated in October is set to rise 10 percent in 2011. Prada
sales  grew  25 percent for the first nine months of this year
from a year earlier and its  Asia  Pacific revenue, excluding
 Japan , grew 39 percent.  ‘Buy on Weakness’  Prada spokesman Luca Grassis declined to comment on the
company’s outlook. The stock has declined 15 percent from its
offering price.  China’s consumer sector could pick up next year if the
government takes steps to boost growth. Banks including China
International Capital Corp. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
forecast Premier  Wen Jiabao  will cut taxes to help the economy.
“The consumer sector will outperform in the second half of
2012, as China is determined to boost domestic spending,” said
Catherine Yeung, investment director at Fidelity Investment
Management Ltd. “Fund managers are sitting on a lot of cash and
need to look back at growth.”  Companies such as Prada will keep growing as China’s
population gets richer, said Seth Peterson, a London-based
luxury sector analyst at Berenberg Bank. “If you believe in the
long-term growth story, you could buy on weakness,” he said.
“The short-term sentiment remains extremely bad, with China’s
GDP slowing and European crisis continuing. This is not going to
improve anytime soon.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  