-- Bank Reform Needs Unlimited Liability for Owners: Jonathan Berk
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B e r k
-- 2011-12-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/proper-bank-reform-needs-owners-to-be-liable-commentary-by-jonathan-berk.html
Any discussion of financial
regulation and its chronic failures should start with a simple,
jarring truth: It’s impossible to outregulate a banker.  Each crisis in the financial sector brings calls for new
rules, which take hold after much political jostling. Then we
are supposed to sleep easier, certain that this time we are
protected. We never are. Fresh rules are like antibodies, and
banking -- much like viruses -- keeps evolving to outwit the
regulations.  Financial incentives tilt hugely in bankers’ favor. By
outwitting regulations, bankers can become unimaginably rich.
Regulators, on the other hand, earn a small paycheck regardless
of whether the rules work. With incentives like this, bankers
inevitably prevail. Regulations will no more protect against
future crashes than last year’s flu shot will ward off this
year’s flu.  Are we doomed to endless crises and government bailouts?
No, but stopping this cycle requires a completely new approach.
To avoid future banking meltdowns, we must change bankers’
incentives today. Instead of motivating bankers to take bets
that increase the likelihood of us getting into a crisis, we
need to reward the opposite behavior.  One way to align incentives requires a credible government
commitment not to bail out banks. That would require strict
limits on banks’ size to insure that no institution’s failure
would threaten the financial sector’s stability. Of course,
bankers would immediately object to this proposal, pointing to
the supposed “economies of scale” that big banks offer.
According to them, without big banks our entire way of life
would be threatened.  Aligning Incentives  Luckily, there is another way to align incentives:
requiring all bank equity holders to have full liability.
Currently, equity holders lose only their investment if banks
are bailed out. Unlimited-liability equity ensures that before
the government steps in, every shareholder would need to first
declare personal bankruptcy.  When an irresponsible decision could literally put you and
your family on the street, you scrutinize. You worry. You
structure incentives so the bank never comes to your door asking
for money. And if it never comes to your door, it will never be
at the government’s door.  If you think such an idea is naive and unrealistic, you
should know that as recently as the 1990s, the world’s most
successful bank,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , was essentially
organized this way. Thirty years before, so were most top non-
commercial banks, including giants such as  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Salomon Brothers .  Bankers will carp that if shareholders are fully liable,
nobody will want to hold bank equity. Really what they are
saying is that nobody (other than taxpayers) is willing to take
on their current level of risk. That is the beauty of this idea:
We don’t want owners to hold this much risk. By changing their
ownership structure, we spur them to act responsibly.  All risk that a bank undertakes must be borne by someone.
In the current system, the implicit bailout guarantee means
taxpayers hold catastrophic risk, not investors. With unlimited
liability, taxpayers exit the picture and investors become the
regulators. The only banks that get financed are the ones that
do not expose the rest of us to the consequences of a financial
meltdown.  There are a few legitimate objections to unlimited-
liability equity. First, by forcing investors to hold both the
downside and the upside, it might package risk in an inefficient
manner. But this limitation is easily neutralized by allowing
investors to trade derivative contracts on the equity. For
example, limited-liability equity could effectively be recreated
by trading a derivative contract on the bank’s dividend
payments.  Liquidity Strategies  Second, unlimited liability means bank stocks can’t be
traded in anonymous markets, making them potentially illiquid
and thus unattractive to some investors. However, investors
could instead use derivative markets to buy a stake in bank-
stock performance. Also, illiquidity per se mightn’t be as
severe a problem as one might think.  Venture capital  and
private-equity investments also are highly illiquid. There’s no
shortage of investors in those sectors.  Finally, some benefits of diversification are denied to
investors with unlimited liability. Consequently, one might be
concerned that undiversified investors will demand a steep  risk
premium , thereby raising the cost of equity for banks. The
evidence, however, is that many investors already voluntarily
forgo the benefits of diversification without demanding a risk
premium.  Two studies in the American Economic Review (the  first  by
Tobias J. Moskowitz and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen and the  second 
by Robert E. Hall and Susan E. Woodward) found that returns on
illiquid private investments were lower than those for public
equity, even though most owners of private companies tie up most
of their wealth in their own companies. This evidence strongly
suggests that concerns over the cost of fully liable equity are
misplaced.  If we introduce unlimited-liability equity now, we can
sharply reduce the probability of future banking crises. After
all, when bankers took on risks that caused the 2008 meltdown,
they did so in the hope that the government might bail them out.
Now they know for certain. If we leave current incentives in
place, bankers will circumvent whatever new regulations are
passed. Then the next financial crisis will make the last one
look mild.  (Jonathan Berk is the A.P. Giannini professor of finance in
the Graduate School of Business at  Stanford University . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Berk at  jonathan.b.berk@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 George Anders  at   ganders1@bloomberg.net . 