-- Traders Buying CO2 From EIB May Have Privileged Data, IETA Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2011-12-16T17:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/traders-buying-co2-from-eib-may-have-privileged-data-ieta-says.html
Companies buying 2013 European Union
carbon permits directly from the  European Investment Bank  may
have “privileged” information that other traders don’t have,
according to an emissions trading lobby group.  “It’s not very easy to assess the impact” of the sales,
because they are confidential, said Simone Ruiz, Brussels-based
European policy director at the International Emissions Trading
Association. “There are many rumors and that’s not helpful.”  The lack of public information about the commencement of
the sales means that “if you are a recipient of a large volume
you are in a privileged position,” Ruiz said today by phone.
“The market wants more transparency.”  The EIB may have last week begun selling privately the
first tranche of 200 million EU permits for the third phase of
the EU’s emissions trading system, which begins in 2013, to fund
renewable energy and carbon capture projects as part of the EU’s
drive toward a low-carbon economy. The permits are worth as much
as 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion).  Nick Antonovics, a spokesman for the Luxembourg-based EIB,
declined to comment on criticism of the sales process when
reached today by phone and e-mail.  “The EIB has stated repeatedly, including on our website,
that we would start sales soon after delivery but would not be
making any other statements regarding timing,” Antonovics said.
“Results for December will be published by the middle of
January.”  ‘Accusations’  IETA is continuing internal discussions on precisely what
information and changes it will seek from the commission and the
EIB, Ruiz said.  “There have been some accusations of market
manipulation,” Ruiz said, referring to price volatility in
carbon contracts since the start of December. “I can’t judge on
that,” she said.  On Dec. 2, the European Commission in Brussels  delivered 
300 million phase three allowances to the EIB, 200 million of
which need to be sold by Oct. 2, 2012.  EU carbon for 2013 dropped to 7.78 euros ($10.13) a metric
ton on Dec. 6, a record low at the time. It rebounded to as high
as 9.18 euros a ton on Dec. 12, the day after nations at
climate-protection talks in Durban,  South Africa , decided to
seek a global agreement by 2015. That’s an increase of 18
percent in six days.  The contract fell 1.2 percent today to close at 7.69 euros
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. It dropped as much
as 3.3 percent in intraday trading. The record low of 7.26 euros
was reached on Dec. 14.  The bank has a mandate to impact the secondary market as
little as possible while selling, Ruiz said. “We would have
preferred them to start on exchanges” and it’s unclear when
they will start to do that, she said.  The market would probably like more information on the
price structure used and number of parties the EIB is dealing
with as it carries out the sales, Ruiz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  