-- Transocean Asks Judge to Force BP to Indemnify Spill Damages
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2011-12-16T19:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/transocean-asks-judge-to-force-bp-to-indemnify-gulf-oil-spill-damages.html
Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s drilling contract
with  BP Plc (BP/)  promised indemnification for damages from oil
spilled below the surface of the Gulf of Mexico and should be
enforced for claims over the Deepwater Horizon accident, the rig
owner told a judge.  Claiming the drilling contractor shares blame for the
disaster,  London-based BP  sued Transocean in April to recover
part of more than $40 billion in damages and costs from the 2010
spill. Transocean accused BP of breaching their contract by
failing to defend the rig owner and hold it harmless against
claims.  “What Transocean seeks is to hold BP to its promise,”
John M. Elsley, a lawyer for Transocean, told U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  at a hearing in  New Orleans  federal court
today. “BP does not want that to happen.”  BP has argued that Transocean’s conduct voided the
agreement. Transocean, based in Vernier,  Switzerland , denies
willful misconduct and claims the indemnity provision requires
BP to pay virtually all damages and cleanup costs because it was
a subsurface spill.  “The court must rule Transocean cannot be indemnified if
there is gross negligence,” Andrew Langan, a lawyer for BP,
told the judge today. “The drilling contract does not, cannot
provide for indemnification from damages,” Langan said. “We
think maritime law prohibits indemnification for gross
negligence, regardless.”  Ruling Postponed  Barbier didn’t rule on the issue today and said he would
take it “under advisement.”  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore  oil
spill  in U.S. history. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against  BP  and its partners and contractors.  The defendants in the cases also include  Cameron
International Corp. (CAM) , which made the blow-out prevention
equipment used for the Macondo well, and  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which
provided cementing services.  Cameron also sought indemnity, citing its contract with
Transocean. Cameron settled with BP today, paying $250 million
to the London-based company. BP agreed to indemnify Cameron for
claims other than fines, penalties or punitive damages.  The lawsuits for injuries, economic and environmental loss
are combined before Barbier in New Orleans. Barbier will
determine liability and apportion fault at a nonjury trial
scheduled to start in February.  ‘Pollution Obligations’  Transocean said in court papers last month that BP promised
to indemnify it “for any and all pollution obligations” except
those originating on or above the surface of the water. This
included any “loss, damage, expense, claim, fine, penalty,
demand or liability,” Transocean said, citing the contract.  The drilling contract required Transocean to defend and pay
for injury or death of the rig owner’s employees, Transocean
said. “Transocean also accepted the liability and agreed to
indemnify BP for loss or damage to the drilling unit,” the
company said.  BP is “discharged from any duty to indemnify if
Transocean’s conduct in causing the Deepwater Horizon accident
materially increased risks” to the company or breached the
terms of the drilling contract, BP lawyer  Don Haycraft  said in a
Dec. 7 court filing.  ‘Against Public Policy’  Transocean can’t claim indemnification from punitive
damages, or fines or penalties under the federal Clean Water
Act, BP said in court papers. Federal law “prohibits” such
indemnification, BP said in the Dec. 7 filing.  “Any attempt to seek indemnity for fines and penalties”
would be “against public policy,” Langan said at today’s
hearing.  The indemnity provision doesn’t cover liabilities that
resulted from willful misconduct, the U.S. Justice Department
said in court papers last week.  “We’ve sued both parties in this contract,” Steven
O’Rourke, a government lawyer, told the judge today, saying the
U.S. opposed indemnity for Transocean against any future fines
and civil penalties the rig owner may incur for pollution under
the  Clean Water Act .  “The parties being punished should be the parties being
punished,” O’Rourke said. “They shouldn’t be able to pawn that
off.”  Gross Negligence  Transocean said in court papers Dec. 12 that “the drilling
contract does not provide for indemnity in the event of
intentional or willful misconduct in excess of gross
negligence.” Transocean is indemnified for negligence, even
gross negligence, the company said.  Barbier should determine that the contract grants
indemnification as a matter of public policy, Elsley,
Transocean’s lawyer, argued today. “Unless the contract is
enforced, every time somebody alleges gross negligence” similar
agreements in the offshore oil and gas industry “will fall
apart,” he said.’’  The company “remains liable,” Elsley said. The federal
Oil Pollution Act makes clear the responsibility for pollution
is allocated “according to contractual obligations,” he said.  Transocean’s lawyer asked the judge to enforce the drilling
contract with BP, which would indemnify Transocean against
claims for pollution “below the waterline.” Transocean is
liable for pollution “above the waterline,” he said.  Insurance Ruling  Barbier “recognized” this in his ruling Nov. 15 in an
insurance dispute, Elsley said today.  The Deepwater Horizon incident was a subsurface release,
Barbier said in a decision last month, concluding that BP
couldn’t use Transocean’s insurance coverage to pay costs
related to the spill.  “The court finds that BP, under the drilling contract,
assumed responsibility for Macondo well oil release pollution
liabilities,” Barbier said Nov. 15.  The drilling contract “allocates to Transocean liabilities
for pollution originating on or above the surface of the
water,” Barbier said. “The Deepwater Horizon Incident entailed
a subsurface release; thus, Transocean did not assume pollution
liabilities arising from the incident.”  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  