-- RBS Said to Get Highest Offer for Leasing Unit From Chinese Bank
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2011-12-16T17:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/rbs-said-to-get-highest-offer-for-leasing-unit-from-chinese-bank.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s largest government-owned lender, received the highest
bid for its aircraft-leasing division from  China Development
Bank Corp ., according to a person with knowledge of the process.  China Development Bank , which is owned by the Chinese
government, is so far leading the race to acquire the asset,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
discussions aren’t public.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,
Japan’s second-biggest bank by market value, and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , also submitted offers, according to people familiar with
the sale.  If RBS succeeds in selling the aviation unit for $8
billion, the top end of its price expectation, it would be the
lender’s largest disposal since the 2008 financial crisis. The
Edinburgh-based bank has sold or wound down more than 150
billion pounds ($233 billion) of assets since 2009 after
receiving a government bailout the year before.  While an agreement on the sale of the aircraft-leasing unit
isn’t finalized, a decision may come before the end of the year,
two people with knowledge of the process said.  Calls to China Development Bank’s office in Beijing weren’t
answered outside normal business hours.  RBS Aviation Capital is one of the biggest plane lessors
after  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s Gecas and AIG’s International Lease
Finance Corp.  Lessors buy planes and then lease them to airlines for
monthly fees, seeking to profit from the residual value by
selling aircraft after about 15 years.  RBS is advising itself, alongside  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  