-- Treasuries Gain Most in a Week Since November as Crisis Spurs Haven Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2011-12-16T22:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/treasuries-are-little-changed-as-u-s-consumer-prices-stagnate-in-november.html
Treasuries had the biggest weekly
gain since early November as divisions among European leaders a
week after a region-wide summit renewed concern policy makers
will be unable to resolve the area’s debt crisis.  Ten-year note  yields fell to a two-month low, approaching a
record, as  Fitch Ratings  lowered France’s rating outlook and put
the grades of nations including  Spain  and  Italy  on review for a
downgrade. Moody’s Investors Service cut  Belgium ’s rating. U.S.
consumer prices were little changed last month, supporting the
 Federal Reserve ’s view that inflation will stay subdued even as
stimulus measures start to sustain growth. Record demand at this
week’s Treasuries auctions added to optimism investor interest
will stay strong at next week’s $99 billion in note sales.  “It’s the European woes,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York,
one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “There’s
clear  risk aversion . Supply is of little concern to the market.
The market is saying Treasuries are where the safe-haven bid is.
Even at these low yields, there’s strong demand.”  The benchmark  10-year note yield  dropped six basis points
today, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.85 percent at 5:02 p.m.
 New York  time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It
reached 1.83 percent, the least since Oct. 5, approaching the
record low of 1.67 percent reached on Sept. 23. The yield slid
21 basis points this week in the biggest decline since the
period ended Nov. 4. The 2 percent securities due in November
2021 gained 17/32, or $5.31 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 3/8.  Thirty-Year Bonds  Thirty-year bond  yields tumbled seven basis points to 2.85
percent. They dropped 26 basis points this week, also the most
since the five days ended Nov. 4.  The gap between yields on two- and 30-year securities
narrowed for the first week since November, shrinking to 2.63
percentage points. The 2011 average is 3.5 percentage points.  Three-month Treasury bill rates were negative 0.005 percent
for the third straight day. The rate on the U.S. one month bill
due Jan. 12 slid to negative .0152 percent.  Fitch said a “comprehensive solution” to Europe’s debt
crisis is “technically and politically beyond reach.”  The rating company changed its outlook on  France  to
negative, while affirming its AAA rating. It put the debt
ratings of Belgium, Spain,  Slovenia , Italy, Ireland and Cyprus
on rating watch negative, indicating they face a heightened
probability of downgrade in the near-term.  Moody’s Cuts Belgium  Moody’s downgraded Belgium two levels to Aa3, citing
factors including “the sustained deterioration” in funding
conditions. The outlook was negative.  Standard & Poor’s  said Dec. 5 it expected to conclude a
review of euro-area sovereign ratings “as soon as possible”
after a European summit that ended a week ago.  Treasuries gained after  Germany ’s Bundesbank said it sees
no urgent need for a decision on a loan to the  International
Monetary Fund , suggesting the Dec. 19 deadline set by EU leaders
may be missed. The leaders decided Dec. 9 at their summit to
channel an additional 200 billion euros ($261 billion) in loans
to the IMF to help fight the debt crisis.  “We want to evaluate the whole situation,” a spokesman
for the Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said by telephone.  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads a group of
finance ministers from the region, said the EU should meet the
deadline. Juncker also told reporters in Luxembourg today that
the euro region is “on the brink of a recession.”  Political Turmoil  There’s no clarity on how  Europe  will resolve its crisis
amid the region’s political turmoil, Ira Jersey, an interest-
rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the Fed, said today in an
interview with Sara Eisen and  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Radio.  “Treasuries are the beneficiaries of that,” Jersey said.  U.S. consumer prices stagnated last month, Labor Department
data showed, supporting the Fed’s view that inflation remains in
check. The unchanged reading in the consumer-price index
followed a 0.1 percent decline in October. It compared with a
0.1 percent rise forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. So-called
core prices, which exclude food and energy costs, rose 0.2
percent, more than forecast.  “The implications of CPI are not what they used to be,”
said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital
Markets America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade
directly with the U.S. central bank. “The figures were as
expected. There’s very little market reaction.”  Inflation Bets  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and TIPS, a
gauge of trader expectations for consumer prices over the life
of the debt, decreased for a fourth day, the longest stretch in
a month, reaching 1.91 percentage points. The 10-year average is
2.13 percentage points.  The 10-year note yield will trade at about 2 percent
through mid-year, Citigroup Inc. forecast in a report today. It
said the yield may climb to 2.7 percent in late 2012.  The Treasury will sell next week $35 billion of two-year
notes, the same amount of five-year debt and $29 billion of
seven-year securities. The amounts were unchanged from the last
auctions of the notes in November.  The government auctioned $12 billion in five-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities yesterday at a record low yield
of negative 0.877 percent.  The offering capped the sale of $78 billion in notes, bonds
and inflation-linked debt this week. The government sold $13
billion in 30-year bonds Dec. 14 at a  record low  auction yield
of 2.925 percent, drawing 3.05 times the bids as the amount
sold, the highest level since August 2000. Auctions of 10- and
three-year notes also drew stronger-than-average demand as
investors sought refuge.  The Fed purchased $2.5 billion of Treasuries today due from
2036 to 2041 and bought $4.6 billion of the securities maturing
from 2020 through 2021 as part of a program to lower borrowing
costs, according to the New York Fed’s website.  The central bank is replacing $400 billion of shorter
maturities in its holdings of Treasuries with longer-term debt
in a plan that traders call Operation Twist.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  