-- Treasuries Set for Weekly Gain as European Debt Concern Lingers
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2011-12-16T06:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/treasuries-set-for-weekly-gain-on-concern-europe-can-t-contain-debt-crisis.html
Treasuries  were set for the biggest
weekly advance in a month on concern European countries are
struggling to contain the region’s debt crisis, boosting demand
for  U.S. government debt  as a haven.  The benchmark 10-year yield was six basis points from a
two-month low as  France , Spain and  Greece  prepare to sell bills
next week. BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager,
forecasts the European economy is set for a recession in 2012.  “The U.S. has attractions as a haven, so Treasury yields
will continue to be weighed down,” said Yoshinori Shigemi, a
strategist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “Market participants are
focused on headlines about developments in  Europe .”  The yield on the  10-year note  was little changed at 1.92
percent as of 6:45 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent security due in November 2021
changed hands at 100 23/32. The rate reached 1.86 percent
yesterday, the least since Oct. 5.  Ten-year yields have fallen 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, since Dec. 9, set for the biggest weekly slide
since the period ended Nov. 4.  France is scheduled to sell as much as 7 billion euros
($9.1 billion) of bills on Dec. 19. Spain and Greece will offer
short-term  government securities  on Dec. 20.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
that a short-term contraction may be “unavoidable” for the
euro-area economy.  ‘Modest Contraction’  “I don’t think there’s anything that we’re going to see in
Europe over the next couple of quarters other than probably, at
the very least, a modest contraction,”  Russ Koesterich , global
chief investment strategist at the IShares unit of BlackRock,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York President William C.
Dudley said yesterday he doesn’t foresee the U.S. central bank
taking additional steps to curb the impact of the sovereign-debt
crisis in Europe.  “At this time, although I do not anticipate further
efforts by the Federal Reserve to address the potential
spillover effects of Europe on the  United States , we will
continue to monitor the situation closely,” Dudley said in
prepared testimony.  U.S. Economy  Demand for U.S. bonds was limited before a government
report today forecast to show consumer prices rose in November
after dipping the previous month. The  consumer price index 
climbed 0.1 percent month-on-month in November, according to a
survey of economists before the Labor Department report.  Inflation-linked debt has returned 14 percent to investors
this year, set for the biggest annual gain since 2002, an index
compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch shows.  Manufacturing in the New York and Philadelphia regions has
improved, according to regional central bank reports released
yesterday. The New York Fed’s so-called Empire State Index
reached its highest level since May, while the Philadelphia
Fed’s gauge reached a level unseen since April.  “U.S. economic indicators are resilient,” said RBS’s
Shigemi. “Should an easing of European tensions spur risk-on
sentiment in markets and U.S. economic data show significant
improvement, there’s a decent chance 10-year yields will touch
2.4 percent.”  The government is scheduled to sell $35 billion of two-year
notes on Dec. 19, the same amount of five-year securities the
next day and $29 billion of seven-year debt on Dec. 21.  The two-year notes being sold next week yielded 0.25
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.28 percent at
the  prior sale  in November. Investors bid for 4.07 times the
amount for sale last month, more than the average of 3.38 for
the past 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders,  the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 42 percent of the notes, the
highest level since February 2010.  Direct bidders , non-primary
dealers buying for their own accounts, purchased 11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 