-- Trends in Asia: `Trickle Up' Economics
-- B y   S c o t t   A n t h o n y
-- 2011-12-16T23:29:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/trends-in-asia-trickle-up-economics.html
I recently participated in a panel
discussion hosted by the Economist Corporate Network in  Singapore 
about innovation in  Asia .  I started my portion of the discussion by sharing three
observations about what I had found unique about innovating in
Asia: its unbelievable diversity, both between and within
countries (and sometimes even cities); the historical focus of
many Asian organizations on replication and cost reduction;
and Asia's inconsistent infrastructure (Singapore is
amazing, but don't try to schedule more than two meetings a
day in  Mumbai ).  But what I really wanted to discuss were the three
biggest trends I see affecting innovation in the region.  The race for the middle. As my colleagues noted in
a Harvard Business Review article earlier this year, the
extremes in most Asian markets are well served. Wealthy
consumers can enjoy luxury brands, world-class
restaurants, and high-end automobiles. Cost-conscious
consumers can access incredibly affordable, often inventive
solutions. But the middle class remains overlooked. And that
middle class is surging. A recent OECD study projected that
spending by Asian middle class consumers will have grown from
$4.9 trillion in 2009 to more than $30 trillion in 2020. That
latter figure would constitute about 60% of global middle
class spending (compared to 20% in 2009).  Some companies are explicitly targeting this growing
opportunity. In 2009, Godrej & Boyce launched ChotuKool, a $70
refrigerator targeting the 85% of Indians who found existing
models too bulky, expensive, and power hungry. The
portable, battery-powered refrigerator has been a huge hit.
Godrej now plans to extend the Chotu brand to washing machines
and other household appliances.  The shift to localization. Multinationals are
increasingly tasking their Asian outposts with developing
regionally appropriate solutions that might "trickle up" to
established markets. Tuck Professor Vijay Govindarajan calls
this reverse innovation. For example, Kraft struggled for
years to bring its Oreo-branded cookies to  China . Over the
past few years a local team of R&D scientists has re-imagined
the product, putting the Oreo brand on products with wafer
form factors and using flavors that are more suited to local
tastes.  Homegrown companies are also increasingly introducing
innovative ideas. For example, the  Tata Group 's sprawling
empire has churned out innovative automobiles and hotel
formats, reframed the watch industry, and brought innovative
IT services to overlooked small and medium businesses.  A focus on business models. Less willingness to pay and
inconsistent infrastructure means that companies looking to
reach the emerging middle class from the ground up have to
look beyond the core product and service to succeed. For
example, when GE introduced a low-cost electrocardiogram
machine in  India , it also developed innovative ways to finance
and distribute the device. Some of the emerging Asian giants
also feature innovative business models. Have you heard of
Tencent? It's China's biggest Internet company that churns out
$1 billion in revenue quarterly. Its core product — an instant
messenger service called QQ — is free. The company makes a
significant portion of its money when consumers pay a few
Renminbi to deck their avatar out with accessories and so
forth. Expect to see more inventive business models honed in
the unique conditions found in Asia.  As I approach the two-year mark of my time in
Asia, nothing has dimmed my optimism about the region's
potential. Geopolitical uncertainty remains an issue;
infrastructure and cultural barriers might constrain growth.
But the overarching trend is a shift in the world's innovation
energy. If you are a Western executive making New Year's
resolutions, consider adding a visit to
Mumbai,  Manila , Bangkok, Singapore,  Hong
Kong ,  Shanghai ,  Seoul , or Jakarta to your list.  Scott Anthony leads Innosight’s Asian operations. His
fourth book on innovation, The Little Black Book of
Innovation, will be released in early 2012.
 