-- Representative Sessions Sees Months-Long Payroll Tax Extension
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/representative-sessions-sees-months-long-payroll-tax-extension.html
Congress probably will pass a
months-long extension of an expiring  payroll  tax cut and
expanded  unemployment  benefits as lawmakers finish work for the
year, said Representative Pete Sessions of  Texas , a member of
the Republican leadership team.  “I think it will be short-term,” Sessions said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. Sessions, 56, who earlier
criticized the idea of extending the current reduction in
payroll taxes that fund Social Security, said he views it now as
a “good deal” if it’s paired with other aspects of a plan to
boost job growth.  Sessions, chairman of the  National Republican Congressional
Committee , the political and fundraising arm of the  House
Republicans , said he is optimistic his party’s House candidates
will perform well next year, regardless of whether former
Speaker  Newt Gingrich , the current front-runner, or former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney  is at the top of the ticket.
Both can effectively make a case they can expand the economy
while taming  government spending , he said.  “Newt Gingrich understands exactly how to get this done,
and so does Mitt Romney,” Sessions said. “They’ve both proven
it, and Mitt Romney grew a lot of jobs.”  Sessions, a member of the House Republican “Values Action
Team” that coordinates legislation with Christian conservative
groups, also defended Gingrich’s personal past, which includes
two divorces and acknowledged adultery.  ‘Family Values System’  “If you look at him in aggregate or in the substance
behind him, he deeply believes in the value of the American
people, our family values system, which is directly related to
growing jobs and having families be responsible for their own
problems,” Sessions said.  Sessions said he is convinced the Republican party can
regain an edge with the public before 2012’s presidential and
congressional elections, though Republicans are taking a hit in
polls. A Dec. 7-11 Pew Research Center survey found 40 percent
of adults blame Republican leaders for a “do-nothing”
Congress, while 23 percent blame Democrats.  Sessions said the lower approval ratings stem in part from
more than two dozen debates among Republican presidential
candidate in recent months, in which candidates attacked each
other. He also pointed to the rise and fall of various
contenders in polls.  “We’ve had a candidate up for two or three weeks and then
a candidate down for two or three weeks,” he said.  “We’ll get
our footing real quickly.”  Payroll Tax  Sessions spoke as Congress worked to complete its business
at the end of an unproductive year. Both parties were working to
resolve disputes on the payroll-tax measure, which also will
postpone looming cuts in Medicare reimbursements to doctors.
Republican leaders in both chambers have favored a one-year
extension, while Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, is proposing a two-month continuation as a fall-back.  Sessions also ran the NRCC in 2010 when House Republicans
gained a net 63 seats and took the House majority.  In the interview, he credited House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California Democrat, with a fundraising advantage
during this election cycle. While the NRCC has raised $48.7
million so far, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee
has raised $52 million.  Credit to Pelosi  “Let’s give credit to Nancy Pelosi,” he said, pointing to
her longstanding ability to reap campaign donations, including
during a stint in the mid-1980s as national finance chairman for
Senate Democrats’ campaign committee. “She is out all over this
country talking to the left wing of this country. They love
her.”  Sessions also defended Representative Vern Buchanan of
 Florida , his own finance chairman, against ethics allegations.  The  Federal Election Commission , in a May report, said a
Florida car dealership formerly owned by Buchanan illegally
reimbursed employees’ donations to his congressional campaigns.
The FEC asked a federal judge in Florida to fine the company
$67,900.  News organizations, including Politico, have reported that
Buchanan is the subject of a Justice Department investigation
into the matter, and that the House Office of Congressional
Ethics is also looking into the allegations.  “Vern Buchanan has been forthright and brought the
information to the committee and to the  Department of Justice 
himself,” Sessions said, adding that he has “confidence” in
Buchanan.  Sessions said he remains optimistic that Republicans will
expand their 25-seat House majority in next year’s elections. He
predicted Republicans will gain 16 seats, even as House
Democrats and many political analysts project they will lose
some districts.  “I’ve been saying for quite some time, publicly, plus-
16,” Sessions said. “We’re going to pick up seats across this
country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  