-- Republican Candidates Can’t Run From Iraq War: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2011-12-16T15:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/republican-candidates-can-t-run-from-iraq-war-jonathan-alter.html
All U.S. ground troops will be out
of  Iraq  by Dec. 31, and soon this sorry conflict will fade
quietly into the past, the second-dumbest war in American
history. Yet the Iraq War has been missing in action during the
Republican presidential campaign.  Like “body counts,” “Khe Sanh” and “My Lai” from  Vietnam ,
“IEDs,” “Fallujah” and “Abu Ghraib” are already meaningless to
many younger Americans. Today’s young voters were preteens when
the war began in 2003.  The forgetting will be faster than with Vietnam because
Iraq never penetrated our consciousness in the same way --
unless you were among the 30,000 who came back physically
wounded or the more than 100,000 with psychological problems. If
you add these 130,000 to the  4,500 dead  and include the toll on
their families, more than half a million Americans were directly
affected by this war.  Our soldiers served with great courage, and they deserve
respect (and jobs) when they return. But only now are we
learning some of the chilling consequences of what took place.
The New York Times revealed this week  an internal report  that
details massacres of civilians in Haditha by U.S. forces. One
U.S. officer, Major General Steve Johnson, described the
killings as “a cost of doing business.”  Speaking of cost, the  full price  of the wars in Iraq and
 Afghanistan  is at least $1 trillion, which President  George W. Bush  and the Republican Congress put on the  credit card .  Raising an Army  Recall the ancient expression “to raise an army.” Part of
its meaning is raising taxes to arm and clothe that army. Iraq
and Afghanistan were the first wars in our history where we
didn’t raise taxes to pay for them, and our Army was endangered
by the failure to include proper body armor and other equipment
for our soldiers. Historians will view with  shock and awe  the
juxtaposition of $1 trillion wars and huge tax cuts.  Is Iraq better off? Yes, we removed Saddam Hussein, but the
Arab Spring might have done that by now without us. The Iraqis
viewed us as occupiers not liberators, and recently refused even
a residual force of 10,000 U.S. troops to help protect them. The
Iraqi prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki, heads the most pro-
Iranian government in the Arab world, other than  Syria . For all
of the diplomatic niceties when he visited with President  Barack Obama  this week, Maliki has trampled on the rule of law and
assumed quasi-dictatorial powers. Iraq is a democracy in name
only.  If we knew in 2003 what we know now -- about the absence of
weapons of mass destruction, the cost in blood and treasure, the
length of hostilities, the blow to American prestige -- would we
do it all again? Of course not. Even those like me who  supported
the war at the outset  must admit the whole thing was a fiasco.  You won’t hear anyone saying anything like this in the
presidential debates. In fact,  Newt Gingrich  and  Mitt Romney 
have both been sounding lately as if they’re itching for another
big war -- with Iran -- though it’s hard to imagine either of
them raising taxes to pay for that one, either.  Gingrich, now calling for “regime change” in Tehran, has
been down this road before. In the weeks after the Sept. 11
attacks, he was quoted in the New York Times saying, “If we
don’t use this as the moment to replace Saddam after we replace
the Taliban, we are setting the stage for disaster.” He was
right about the disaster part, and not much else.  Over the years, Gingrich was wrong when he argued that the
U.S. Army wasn’t overextended, wrong when he backed Secretary of
Defense Donald Rumsfeld to the hilt, wrong when he claimed that
democratizing Iraq would weaken  Iran . Nowadays, Gingrich is
 merely contradictory , alternating between saying “the president
is right” in following through on Bush’s timetable for
withdrawal and  arguing that  “Iran is stronger” without the
slightest admission that he once said the opposite.  Failure or Not  Romney isn’t  any more consistent . He went from claiming
withdrawal was “an astonishing failure” for Obama to a grudging
acknowledgment that withdrawal is “appropriate.”  One might imagine that having been colossally wrong about
Iraq, the Republican front-runners would want to hire advisers
who got it right. Nope. Gingrich says that John Bolton, former
U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , would be his secretary of
state. In 1998, Bolton, who makes Donald Rumsfeld look like
 Michael Moore , was among the  18 signers  of a Project for the New
American Century letter that kicked off the movement for regime
change in Iraq. Romney’s top foreign-policy adviser on the
 Middle East  is Walid Phares, a stridently anti-Islamic lobbyist
for  Israel  who pushed hard for the Iraq War by lumping in  Saddam
Hussein  with  Osama bin Laden  and Yasser Arafat. Both foreign-
policy “experts” are now leading the charge to invade Iran.  Unfortunately, Iraq has been mentioned only two or three
times in passing in all of the Republican debates. If the folly
of the war were better known, maybe  Ron Paul  and  Jon Huntsman 
wouldn’t be the only Republican candidates worried about unwise
foreign adventures.     I have interviewed many Iraq veterans and
parents of dead service members over the years. I’ll never
forget how one weeping father, sitting at the kitchen table in
his Cleveland home, explained to me that he and his late son
shared a birthday. “I’ll never have a happy birthday again,” he
said.  When will his voice be heard in Republican politics?  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 