-- Republicans Spar Over Credentials at Debate
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 2011-12-16T16:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/republicans-spar-over-their-credentials-to-challenge-obama-in-final-debate.html
Newt Gingrich  sought to defend his
front-runner status in the Republican presidential race as his
rivals, led by  Michele Bachmann , questioned his electability and
record in the final debate before the Iowa caucuses.  Mitt Romney , Gingrich’s chief rival who has been trying to
stop his momentum, eased off charges he leveled against the
former U.S. House speaker and argued that his business
background gives him the best chance to beat President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  Bachmann, a Minnesota congresswoman who needs a strong
showing in the Jan. 3 caucuses that start the nomination process
to remain viable, asserted herself as Gingrich’s most aggressive
attacker in the debate last night in Sioux City, Iowa.  Saying Gingrich had sold his influence, she criticized him
for the $1.6 million in consulting fees he received after
leaving Congress from  Freddie Mac , the government-backed
mortgage company.  “We can’t have as our nominee for the Republican Party
someone who continues to stand for Freddie Mac and  Fannie Mae ,”
she said, referring to a second government-backed mortgage
company. “They need to be shut down, not built up.”  Gingrich, who said he now advocates breaking up the two
companies, insisted his work involved no lobbying while
defending his fees as legitimate compensation for a private
business person.  ‘Factually Not True’  “What she just said is factually not true,” he said of
Bachmann’s attacks. “I never lobbied under any circumstance.”  Bachmann, 55, also said Gingrich, 68, hasn’t taken strong
enough anti-abortion stances to be the Republican nominee. She
focused her criticism on his stated willingness while a
congressional leader to campaign for Republicans who supported
what she called the “barbaric” procedure of partial-birth
abortion.  “The  Republican Party  can’t get the issue of life wrong,”
she said. “This is a seminal issue.”  Gingrich said his anti-abortion voting record was close to
100 percent during his 20 years as a House member. He also said
that, while he was opposed to partial-birth abortion, he hadn’t
been in the business of trying to decide which members of his
party to “purge.”  As he again accused Bachmann of getting her facts wrong, he
drew a rebuke from her.  Serious Candidate  “It’s outrageous to continue to say over and over through
the debate that I don’t have my facts right,” she said. “I’m a
serious candidate for president of the United States, and my
facts are accurate.”  Gingrich at the start of the two-hour debate was called
upon to defend his conservative credentials, which have been
questioned by his opponents as he has risen in polls during the
last month.  He defended himself by saying “it’s sort of laughable to
suggest that somebody who campaigned with  Ronald Reagan ” and
“had a 30-year record of conservatism is somehow not a
conservative.”  Romney, 64, a former Massachusetts governor and business
executive, argued that his decades of experience in the private
sector would help him debate Obama next year and sought to use
to his advantage an attack by Gingrich in recent days.  Lost Jobs  Gingrich had said Romney, co-founder of the Boston-based
private-equity fund Bain Capital LLC, made part of his fortune
through moves that destroyed jobs.  “The president is going to level the same attack,” Romney
said. “He’s going to go after me and say, you know, in
businesses that you’ve invested in, they didn’t all succeed.
Some failed, some laid people off. And he’ll be absolutely
right. But if you look at all the businesses we invested in,
over 100 different businesses, they added tens of thousands of
jobs.”  Earlier today, Romney’s campaign announced he had won the
endorsement of  South Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley, the top
official in the state that holds the third contest in the 2012
Republican presidential nominating race.  The endorsement from Haley, a favorite of the small-
government  Tea Party  movement, may help Romney as he confronts
questions about whether he is too moderate for his party.  ‘It’s Huge’  “I think it’s huge,” Romney said when asked about the
endorsement following an event today at a steel manufacturing
company in Sioux City. “It’s great.”  Romney is scheduled to appear with Haley later today in
Greenville, South Carolina. The South Carolina primary will be
on Jan. 21, after the  Iowa  caucuses and the New Hampshire
primary, which is scheduled for Jan. 10.  U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  said he doesn’t think
Republicans need to worry too much about electability.  “Anybody up here could probably beat Obama,” Paul said
during the debate. “I think he’s beating himself.”  Former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania took a
subtle jab at Gingrich when discussing electability.  “We need someone who is strong in their political and
personal life,” said Santorum, 53.  Romney and his wife, Ann, have also started to talk more
about their 42-year marriage, an indirect contrast to Gingrich’s
three marriages and admission of an extramarital affair.  Sometimes Wrong  Asked about changes on issues he has made during his
political career -- including moving from being a supporter of
abortion rights to an opponent -- Romney denied he switched
views for political reasons.  “Sometimes I was wrong,” he said. “Where I was wrong,
I’ve tried to correct myself.”  Paul, 76, said he would be reflecting the will of most
voters when he was asked about his concerns that U.S. policy
toward  Iran  is too belligerent.  “I’d be running with the American people because it would
be a much better policy,” he said. “It’s another  Iraq  coming.
It’s war propaganda going on.”  That drew fire, again from Bachmann.  “I have never heard a more dangerous answer for American
security than the one that we just heard from Ron Paul,” she
said to a mixture of cheers and boos. “We know without a shadow
of a doubt that Iran will take a nuclear weapon, they will use
it to wipe our ally,  Israel , off the face of the map and they’ve
stated they will use it against the  United States  of America.”  Medicare Plan  Gingrich and Romney praised Republican Representative Paul Ryan of  Wisconsin  and Democratic Senator Ron Wyden of  Oregon  for
releasing yesterday a bipartisan plan to overhaul Medicare, the
government health program for the elderly. The plan would give
people turning 65 years old starting in 2022 the ability to
choose between the existing system, where the government pays
hospital and doctors’ bills for seniors, and an alternative
system of regulated private insurance plans.  Gingrich gave Romney credit for suggesting an idea adopted
in the plan, and called the proposal “a big step forward.”
Romney termed it “an enormous achievement.”  Texas Governor Rick Perry, who has struggled in the
previous debates, compared himself with Denver Broncos
quarterback  Tim Tebow , who faced questions about whether he
could play well enough in the  National Football League  and has
amassed a winning record.  Tebow of Caucuses  “I’m kind of getting where I like these debates,” said
Perry, 61. “I hope I am the Tim Tebow of the Iowa caucuses.”  Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr., who isn’t actively
campaigning in Iowa while focusing on New Hampshire, said the
nation has both an economic and trust deficit.  “We are getting screwed as Americans,” said Huntsman, 51.  Bret Baier of Fox News moderated the debate, broadcast live
from a convention center in Sioux City. Located in Iowa’s
northwest corner, the area has the state’s greatest
concentration of registered Republicans.  It was the 13th formal Republican debate this year and is
the final session before Iowa’s caucuses. It also could be the
last for one or more of the candidates, since poor performances
in the caucuses have immediately winnowed the field in the past.  Helping shape the race’s storyline this weekend will be an
endorsement from the Des Moines Register, Iowa’s largest
newspaper. The paper also is expected to conduct one final Iowa
Poll that will offer a snapshot of the race in its closing days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  