-- Roche’s Zelboraf Melanoma Drug Wins Backing of EU Regulator
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2011-12-16T13:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/roche-s-zelboraf-melanoma-drug-wins-backing-of-eu-regulator-1-.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Zelboraf
treatment for a specific type of melanoma was recommended for
approval by the European Union’s drug regulator.  Zelboraf may be used on metastatic or unresectable
melanoma, a form of the skin cancer with lower rates of survival
than localized melanoma, the European Medicines Agency said in a
 statement  today.  The drug, a so-called BRAF inhibitor that was cleared for
sale in the U.S. in August, works by blocking a protein that
fuels tumor growth in about half of patients with advanced forms
of the skin cancer. Zelboraf would help treat a disease that
kills 8,300 men and 7,600 women a year in  Europe , according to
the EMA.  “There is a high unmet medical need for alternative
treatments for metastatic melanoma that improve survival of
patients,” the London-based agency said. About 25 percent of
patients diagnosed with metastic or unresectable melanoma
survive a year after diagnosis, compared with 90 percent of
patients with localized melanoma, it said.  The recommendation to approve Zelboraf “represents an
important milestone for people with metastatic melanoma who
until recently had limited treatment options,” Hal Barron,
chief medical officer at Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, said in
a statement. “We are working closely with health authorities
worldwide to bring Zelboraf to people with this deadly disease
as soon as possible.”  BRAF-Inhibitor Work  Zelboraf was developed by Roche and Plexxikon Inc., which
was acquired this year by Tokyo-based  Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568)  Other
companies working on BRAF inhibitors include  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , according to
the Bloomberg drug database.  The agency’s recommendations are the final stage before the
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, approves or rejects
a drug for sale to patients in the 27-nation region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  