-- Romney Wins Backing of South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-12-16T22:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/romney-wins-backing-of-south-carolina-governor-nikki-haley.html
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney won the endorsement of  South Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley, the top official in the state that holds the third
contest in the 2012 Republican presidential nominating race.  Haley, a Republican favorite of the Tea Party movement,
announced her support for Romney today on Fox News Channel ahead
of accompanying Romney to her home state later today.  “I think it’s huge,” Romney said when asked about the
endorsement after a campaign event at a steel manufacturing
company in Sioux City,  Iowa . “It’s great.”  Romney and Haley appeared together later today at a
firehouse near Greenville,  South Carolina . That state’s primary
is Jan. 21, after the Jan. 3  Iowa  caucuses and Jan. 10  New
Hampshire  primary.  “I wanted someone with proven results,” Haley told a
cheering crowd of about 500, standing on a podium with Romney
and their spouses. “I wanted someone who knew how to run a
business.”  Support from Haley, who was elected last year with backing
from anti-tax, small-government Tea Party activists, may help
Romney as he confronts challengers appealing to voters who
consider him too moderate.  Romney, 64, who has fallen behind former U.S. House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  in state and national polls, said in a statement
that he and Haley have much in common.  Smaller Government  “As a successful businesswoman who entered public service
so government could better serve the people, Governor Haley’s
career-long efforts to reform government, make government more
accountable to the taxpayers, and fight wasteful spending should
be examples for leaders across the country,” he said. “These
conservative principles of smaller government are what I am
fighting for in my campaign.”  All of the major Republican presidential candidates had
courted Haley for her endorsement.  Speaking to reporters today in Sioux City, Representative
 Michele Bachmann  said she would have “loved” to have had
Haley’s endorsement.  “She’s a marvelous woman and a terrific governor and I
respect her choice that she made today,” Bachmann said. “I
think we will do very well here in Iowa and that will be a
cannon shot into South Carolina.”  Bus Tour  Bachmann started a bus tour today that is scheduled to take
her to all 99 Iowa counties by Jan. 3.  She continued to attack Gingrich, after asserting herself
in last night’s debate in Sioux City as Gingrich’s most
aggressive critic.  In the debate, she criticized him for the $1.6 million in
consulting fees he received after leaving Congress from  Freddie
Mac , the government-backed mortgage company.  Gingrich, who said he now advocates breaking up Freddie Mac
and  Fannie Mae , insisted his work involved no lobbying while
defending his fees as legitimate compensation for a private
business person.  “What she just said is factually not true,” he said of
Bachmann’s attacks. “I never lobbied under any circumstance.”  Bachmann, 55, also said Gingrich, 68, hasn’t taken strong
enough anti-abortion stances to be the Republican nominee. She
focused her criticism on his stated willingness while a
congressional leader to campaign for Republicans who supported
what she called the “barbaric” procedure of partial-birth
abortion.  Abortion Opposition  Gingrich yesterday defended his anti-abortion voting record
by saying it was close to 100 percent during his 20 years as a
House member. He also said that, while he was opposed to
partial-birth abortion, he hadn’t been in the business of trying
to decide which members of his party to “purge.”  Bachmann told reporters today she was tired of being
lectured by Gingrich, a former college professor.  “I am not a student of his,” she said. “I’m a serious
candidate for the presidency and I think it’s important that I
be treated as an equal on that stage.”  Bachmann demurred when asked whether Gingrich was being
sexist in his treatment of her.  “People looking at that would have to make that
observation if that is so,” she said.  Bachmann also said Gingrich isn’t a true conservative.  “I don’t think that his record is one of being a
conservative,” she said, before reprising her description of
the front-runners as “Newt Romney.”  “I was looking at both of their records and there really
wasn’t a dime’s worth of difference between either of them,”
she said. “They’re both moderates.”  Gingrich stepped off the campaign trail today, traveling
from Iowa to  Washington . His next scheduled campaign events are
Dec. 19 in Iowa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Sioux City, Iowa, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.ne.t  