-- Rupee Jumps Most Since May 2010 on Central Bank’s Move to Curb Speculation
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s   a n d   V   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2011-12-16T11:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/rupee-jumps-most-since-may-2009-on-central-bank-s-move-to-curb-speculation.html
India ’s rupee surged the most in 19
months, extending its rebound from an all-time low reached
yesterday, after the central bank announced measures to curb
speculation in the foreign-exchange market.  The currency, this year’s worst performer in the region,
strengthened the most among Asian currencies after the  Reserve
Bank of India  said companies can’t enter into multiple forward
contracts to cover a single overseas transaction. It pared gains
as the monetary authority, which has raised  interest rates  13
times since the start of 2010 to cool inflation, kept them
unchanged at a policy review in Mumbai today.  “The RBI has taken decisive measures to reduce onshore
speculation against the rupee,” said Olivier Desbarres, head of
foreign-exchange strategy for the region at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore . “These measures have certainly caught the market’s
attention and it reduces the chances of a rapid weakening of the
rupee.”  The rupee jumped 1.7 percent to 52.7450 per dollar in
Mumbai, the biggest gain since May 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It rose as much as 2.7 percent earlier.
The currency, which fell to an all-time low of 54.3050
yesterday, has lost 1.3 percent this week and 15.2 percent in
2011.  The new rule applies to domestic as well as foreign
investors and takes effect immediately, according to a central
bank statement published after the market closed yesterday.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. The RBI also said it will reduce the amount of open
positions dealers can maintain overnight.  ‘Buy Time’  The  Reserve Bank ’s move will be positive for the rupee in
the “short-term,” increasing transaction costs and showing the
RBI is looking to curb currency-market speculation, according to
 Standard Chartered  Bank Plc.  “This, along with some intervention from the RBI, will buy
time for the country to address medium-term issues such as the
current-account deficit and capital outflows,” said Ananth Narayan G., head of South Asia currency and bonds trading at
Standard Chartered in Mumbai. Those are the “root causes of the
rupee’s weakness.”  Overseas funds cut holdings of Indian shares by $353
million this year after adding $29 billion in 2010, exchange
data show. The nation’s  current-account  shortfall, which was
$14.2 billion in the three months ended June 30, may widen to
3.5 percent of gross domestic product in the year ending March,
Commerce Secretary  Rahul Khullar  said this month.  ‘Line in the Sand’  “The step is likely to stem the fall in the rupee but is
unlikely to put on an appreciating bias,”  Indranil Pan , chief
economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. in Mumbai, wrote in a
report published today. “The aim is to reduce speculative
positions and demand for dollars.”  The Reserve Bank may not boost the rupee beyond 52 because
“it understands fundamentals are working against currency
appreciation” in India now, Barclays Capital’s Desbarres said.  The curbs on forwards trading are in addition to steps
taken by the central bank last month to boost the supply of
dollars in the local market. The Reserve Bank eased rules in
November for companies to borrow abroad and sell foreign
currencies through swaps and raised the interest rate on  bank
deposits  for Indians living overseas.  A further decline in the rupee threatens to stoke  inflation 
that has stayed above 9 percent for 12 months. Every 1 percent
depreciation in the currency boosts the rate of gains in
wholesale prices by 6 to 10 basis points, according to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The central bank’s latest measures show “the commitment of
the RBI to fight further rupee depreciation,” said  Sebastien Barbe , chief emerging-market strategist in Paris at Credit
Agricole CIB. “I think this draws a line in the sand at close
to 54 per dollar.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in  Mumbai  at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net ;
V Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  