-- Rupiah, Bonds Gain as Fitch Upgrades Rating to Investment Grade
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2011-12-16T09:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/rupiah-bonds-gain-as-fitch-upgrades-rating-to-investment-grade.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah had its first
weekly gain since October after  Fitch Ratings  upgraded the
country to investment grade, fueling optimism foreign funds will
add to their holdings of the nation’s debt. Bonds advanced.  Fitch raised Indonesia’s rating by one level to BBB- late
yesterday, citing strong economic growth and declining public
debt. Overseas investors have increased their holdings of local
bonds by 4.2 percent so far this month. The benchmark  stock
index  rallied 1.8 percent today, the most since Nov. 4.  “It’s a positive development that helps build sentiment
and should make the rupiah stronger,” said  Enrico Tanuwidjaja ,
a currency strategist in Singapore at Malayan Banking Bhd. “The
country will now attract a broader range of investors, giving
the government and corporates more funding sources.”  The rupiah gained 0.5 percent this week to 9,035 per dollar
as of 4:05 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency rose 0.6 percent today and
touched 9,010, the strongest level since Dec. 8.  The yield on the nation’s 8.8 percent Islamic dollar notes
due 2014 dropped 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point, to a
one-week low of 3.41 percent, based on prices from Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. The yield on the 7.5 percent non-Islamic
bond due 2016 declined 22 basis points to 3.36 percent.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy will expand more than 6
percent a year through 2013 as domestic demand insulates it from
the global turmoil, Philip McNicholas, Fitch’s Hong Kong-based
director of Asia-Pacific Sovereigns, said in a statement.
Indonesia lost its investment-grade status at Fitch in December
1997 during the Asian financial crisis.  Banking Stocks Rise  Foreign funds held 223.85 trillion rupiah ($24.8 billion)
of Indonesia’s government bonds on Dec. 15, compared with 214.79
trillion rupiah at the end of November, according to  statistics 
published by the debt management office. The government plans to
sell dollar- and yen-denominated debt next year,  Rahmat Waluyanto , director-general of the office, said on Dec. 5.  Banking stocks provided the biggest boost to the composite
index. PT Bank Central Asia, the nation’s largest bank by market
value, rose 2.6 percent, the most this month. PT Astra
International, the biggest stock by value, climbed 3 percent.  “The rating upgrade was something we’ve been waiting for a
long time,” said Soni Wibowo, who helps manage about $2 billion
of assets as vice president at PT Bahana TCW Investment
Management in Jakarta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  