-- Russia, India Agree on Loan for Nuclear Reactors Amid Protests
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2011-12-16T13:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/russia-india-agree-on-loan-for-nuclear-reactors-amid-protests.html
Russia  and  India  agreed on the loan
terms for two additional nuclear reactors at the Kudankulam
power plant as villagers protest the site on the Asian nation’s
southern tip over safety concerns.  Talks on funding the second two units at the atomic power
plant, which Russia’s state-owned Rosatom Corp. is helping to
build, are now in the final stages, according to a joint
statement distributed while Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
met Russian President Dmitry Medvedev today in Moscow.  Kudankulam’s first reactor will start generating power in
“a couple” weeks, and the second may be ready in six months,
Singh said.  Nuclear Power Corp. of India, the state-owned monopoly, is
building the first two 1,000-megawatt units at a cost of $2.6
billion on Tamil Nadu’s coast. Operations may be delayed during
talks with villagers who oppose the project, V. Narayanasamy, a
minister in the premier’s office, said last month. Homes near
the site were destroyed by the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, and
protests intensified after  Japan ’s nuclear crisis in March.  “We are confident that we will be able to persuade some of
those people that their concerns are adequately taken care of,”
Singh said, referring to “agitation” by people worried about
nuclear safety and the impact on their livelihood. “There is
nothing to worry about.”  Russia and India delayed signing the contract for the
second two reactors because of the local unrest, Interfax said,
citing an unidentified official in the Russian delegation.  Russia plans to extend “billions of dollars” for the
expansion, the news service said, citing Rosatom Chief Executive
Officer  Sergei Kiriyenko .  Nuclear Power Corp. Chairman S.K. Jain did not answer two
calls to his mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  