-- Russia Seizes Radioactive Metals From Moscow Passenger Traveling to Iran
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-12-16T17:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/russia-seizes-radioactive-metals-from-moscow-passenger-traveling-to-iran.html
Russian customs officials at
Moscow’s Sheremetyevo airport stopped an Iranian citizen who was
trying to board a flight to Tehran with luggage containing a
radioactive substance used for medical purposes.  The young man was stopped at the airport in mid-November
because his luggage was found to contain substances exceeding
the natural background radiation level 20-fold, Ksenia
Grebenkina, a spokeswoman for the airport’s customs office, said
by telephone today. Further study found the substance was
sodium-22 and a criminal case was opened, she said.  “At the time when he was checked, there was an elevated
radiation level, but an analysis had to be conducted,”
Grebenkina said. “There wasn’t enough evidence to open a
criminal case, so there were no grounds to hold the young man.”  Russian leaders oppose new sanctions on the Persian Gulf
state, which was seeking to develop atomic weapons until at
least last year, according to the United Nations nuclear
watchdog. President Dmitry Medvedev today reiterated  Russia ’s
opposition to unilateral sanctions against Iran, saying they are
“counterproductive.”  Customs officers found “18 industrially produced metal
items individually wrapped in steel containers” in the
passenger’s luggage, the Federal Customs Service said on its
 website  earlier today. Sodium-22 doesn’t occur naturally and
must be produced in cyclotron facilities, according to the
customs service.  ‘Raises Flags’  A man who answered the phone at Iran’s embassy in Moscow
said the press service had already left.  There are between 600 and 800 seizures of radioactive
substances each year in Russia, either of contaminated materials
or items that weren’t properly declared, Elena Sokova,  executive
director  at the Vienna-based Center for Disarmament Non-
Proliferation, said by phone today. “It just raises flags
because it’s  Iran ,” she said.  Iran denies accusations by the U.S. and its European allies
that its civilian nuclear program is a cover for building
warheads, saying the activity is needed to produce electricity.
Russia built Iran’s first nuclear power station, located in the
southern port city of Bushehr, which started generating
electricity in September.  “The radioactive isotope itself is something that is used
for medical purposes, in tomography machines,” Sokova said.
“It’s not something that is suitable for a military program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.n  