-- HSBC Global Asset’s Morris Cuts Gold Holdings; Lowers Risk
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2011-12-16T16:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/hsbc-global-asset-s-morris-cuts-gold-holdings-lowers-risk.html
HSBC Global Asset Management’s $2.2
billion Absolute Return fund reduced its gold holdings by more
than a half, while cutting risk exposure in the portfolio to the
lowest ever, according to  Charles Morris , the  fund manager .  The fund cut its bullion holdings to 6 percent at the end
of November from 15 percent six month ago, Morris said. The fund
had 22 percent in cash, with the  U.S. dollar  being the favorite
currency, and 31 percent in  government bonds , he said.  “Our portfolio risk exposure is extremely low, the lowest
it’s ever been, because we think that the risks in the next few
months are high,” Morris said in a telephone interview from
London. “It’s not until we get evidence there is a meaningful
sustainable macro recovery that we are going to increase risk in
our portfolio.”  Risky assets, including equities and commodities, may
bottom out in the second half of 2012, Morris said. Slumping
growth is the biggest challenge to commodities in the short
term, while in the longer term falling infrastructure spending
in  China  is a concern, Morris said. Gold and oil will be the
strongest subsectors in the sector for the next several years,
he said. Bullion may rise to a new record in late 2012, leading
gains among commodities, he said.  Spot gold, up 12 percent in 2011, is heading for an 11th
year of gains as investors seek protection from weaker
currencies and the European sovereign-debt crisis. It traded at
$1,593.07 an ounce by 4:12 p.m. in London compared with the all-
time high of $1,921.15 on Sept. 6  Holdings  in exchange-traded products backed by bullion
dropped from a record yesterday, falling 13.3 metric tons to
2,347.5 tons, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
biggest decline since Aug. 24.  ‘Overbought’  “It’s not that we are bearish on gold, it’s just that gold
got very overbought a couple of months ago,” Morris said,
adding that he expects gold prices to “consolidate” for 12 to
18 months before reaching a new high.  The volatility in silver is “horrendous and it needs some
time to rest” before it becomes attractive again, Morris said.
“Also, we’d like to see the gold-silver ratio closer to 60 than
the current level,” he said. An ounce of gold bought 53.6
ounces of silver in  London  today. The ratio has averaged 44.8
this year, compared with a five-year average of 57.3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  