-- Man Who Inspired ‘Rudy’ Film Will Pay $382,000 to Settle Sports-Drink Case
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2011-12-16T20:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/sec-accuses-man-who-inspired-rudy-of-fraud.html
Daniel Ruettiger, the former walk-on
football player at the  University of Notre Dame  who inspired the
1993 film “Rudy,” agreed to pay $382,000 to resolve U.S.
regulatory claims he defrauded investors in his sports-drink
company by touting fake taste tests and sales.  Ruettiger and 12 others generated more than $11 million in
illicit profits by artificially pumping up the stock of  Rudy
Nutrition , the firm Ruettiger founded, the SEC said in a
complaint filed today at U.S. District Court in  Las Vegas .  The company sent promotional press releases falsely
claiming that Rudy Nutrition outsold sports-drink Gatorade by 2
to 1 in the Southwest and outperformed Gatorade and Powerade in
several blind taste tests, according to the complaint. At the
same time, the promoters traded Rudy Nutrition stock to inflate
the price of unregistered shares they were selling to investors,
the SEC said.  Rudy Nutrition used the slogan “Dream Big! Never Quit!”
to market the drink, an apparent reference to the film that
tells Ruettiger’s story of overcoming obstacles to fulfill his
dream of playing football for  Notre Dame , the SEC said.  “Investors were lured into the scheme by Mr. Ruettiger’s
well-known, feel-good story but found themselves in a situation
that did not have a happy ending,”  Scott Friestad , an associate
director in the SEC’s enforcement division, said in a statement.
“The tall tales in this elaborate scheme included phony taste
tests and other false information that was used to convince
investors they were investing in something special.”  Billions of Shares  The scheme ended in September 2008, when the SEC halted
trading in Rudy Nutrition because of delinquent public filings,
the agency said. The suspension blocked the participants’ plan
to issue another 2 billion shares at the end of that month, the
SEC said.  A phone call to Michael Eldredge, Ruettiger’s attorney,
wasn’t immediately returned.  In the film, Ruettiger is portrayed as earning a place on
the Notre Dame football team with determination that helped him
overcome his smaller size and lack of talent.  The movie depicts him being carried off the field by his
teammates after sacking the opposition’s quarterback on the
final play of the last game of his time at the university. It
was the only time Ruettiger played in a Notre Dame game.  After leaving Notre Dame, Ruettiger went on to found the
Rudy Foundation to support “those who aspire to fulfill their
dreams through character, courage, contribution and
commitment,” according to the Rudy International website. He
has co-written at least three books and has received honors from
a range of institutions, including the White House, the website
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  