-- Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae Ex-CEOs Sued for Understating Loans
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2011-12-16T20:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/sec-sues-former-freddie-mac-chief-executive-richard-syron-in-new-york.html
Daniel Mudd , the former chief
executive officer of  Fannie Mae , and  Richard Syron , ex-CEO of
Freddie Mac, were sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for understating by hundreds of billions of dollars
the subprime loans held by the firms.  The lawsuits filed today in Manhattan federal court were
followed by an SEC statement that it had entered into “non-
prosecution agreements” with each company. Fannie Mae, the
government-sponsored enterprise which issues almost half of all
mortgage-backed securities, and Freddie Mac, the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company, had “agreed to accept
responsibility” for their conduct, the SEC said.  The agency said in the lawsuits that Syron, Mudd and other
executives understated exposure to subprime  mortgage loans . From
2007 to 2008,  Freddie Mac  executives said the company’s exposure
was from $2 billion to $6 billion when it was actually as high
as $244 billion, according to one SEC complaint.  From 2006 to 2008, Washington-based Fannie Mae executives
said the firm’s exposure to subprime mortgage and reduced-
documentation loans was about $4.8 billion when it was almost 10
times greater, according to the regulator.  ‘Told the World’  “Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives told the world that
their subprime exposure was substantially smaller than it really
was,”  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s enforcement
division, said in a statement. “These material misstatements
occurred during a time of acute investor interest in financial
institutions’ exposure to subprime loans, and misled the market
about the amount of risk on the company’s books.”  The lawsuits, which together name six former executives at
the government-sponsored entities, come amid criticism from
judges and lawmakers that the SEC hasn’t done enough to hold
individuals responsible for misconduct related to the housing
crisis and financial-market collapse that followed.  Fannie Mae, based in  Washington , and Freddie Mac were
seized and placed under U.S. control in 2008 as losses on soured
loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency. The two have been
sustained by more than $150 billion in U.S. aid. Congress and
the Obama administration are examining plans for winding down
the firms and building a new system for financing housing debt.  The two non-prosecution agreements require Freddie Mac and
Fannie Mae to “accept responsibility” for their conduct and to
cooperate with the SEC probe of the former executives.  Legal Fees  “Under the agreement, without admitting or denying
liability, Fannie Mae has offered to accept responsibility for
its conduct and to not dispute, contest or contradict a set of
factual statements regarding the disclosures,” Fannie Mae said
today in a securities filing.  “The SEC will not initiate an enforcement action against
Freddie Mac or require the company to pay a monetary penalty,”
the company said in a statement. Fannie Mae said in a statement
that it is “pleased to bring the SEC inquiry to a close.”  At least part of the ex-executives’ legal fees will be
covered by indemnification policies, said  Michael Cosgrove , a
spokesman for Freddie Mac, and  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for
Fannie Mae. Cosgrove declined to comment on whether Freddie Mac
will be responsible for covering a damage award. Wilson said it
wasn’t clear if Fannie Mae will be responsible for damages.  In the suits against the former executives, the SEC wants
financial penalties and disgorgement, and an order barring them
from serving as officers or directors of other companies.  Fortress Investment Group  Also named as defendants are Patricia Cook, Freddie Mac’s
former executive vice president; Donald Bisenius, ex-senior vice
president at Freddie Mac; Enrico Dallavecchia, who was chief
risk officer for Fannie Mae; and Thomas Lund, Fannie’s Mae’s
former executive vice president.  Mudd, now CEO of  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , was ousted
when Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were seized by regulators in
September 2008. In a statement, he said the U.S. government and
investors were aware of “every piece of material data about
loans held by Fannie Mae.”  “The government reviewed and approved the company’s
disclosures during my tenure, and through the present,” Mudd
said. “Now it appears that the government has negotiated a deal
to hold the government, and government-appointed executives who
have signed the same disclosures since my departure, blameless -
- so that it can sue individuals it fired years ago.”  ‘Thorough Review’  Fortress said in a statement that the complaint against
Mudd “does not relate to Fortress, and this matter has not
impacted our company or our business operations. We are
undertaking a thorough review of the matters.”  Michael Levy, Lund’s attorney at Bingham McCutchen LLP in
Washington, said his client “did not mislead anyone. During a
period of unprecedented disruption in the housing market, nobody
worked more diligently or honestly to serve the best interests
of both investors and homeowners.”  Tom Green, Syron’s attorney at Sidley Austin LLP in
Washington, said there was “no uniform definition” of
“subprime” in 2007 and that Freddie Mac included in its
disclosures tables detailing credit risks. “There was no
shortage of meaningful disclosures,” he said in a statement.  Dallavecchia is now chief risk officer at PNC Financial
Services Group. His lawyer, Kelly Kramer, said in a statement
that Dallavecchia warned in 2007 that subprime loans “could
infect the entire housing market” and made clear that “Fannie
Mae’s credit risks were not limited to its subprime holdings.”  Easier Loans  Steven Salky, Cook’s lawyer at Zuckerman Spaeder LLP, and
Walter Ricciardi, an attorney for Bisenius at Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, didn’t immediately return calls
for comment on the lawsuits.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were created by Congress to
encourage homeownership by making it easier for people to get
loans. The firms now own or guarantee less than half of all U.S.
mortgage debt, most of which they pool and sell on the secondary
market.  During Mudd’s tenure as CEO of Fannie Mae, from 2004
through its government takeover in 2008, the firm expanded its
business with lower-quality mortgages. Mudd said in a 2006
interview that he planned to expand the companies’ holdings to
include more higher-risk loans. Anything else would be
“counterproductive,” he told investors in March of that year.  In April 2007, Mudd said in testimony before lawmakers that
the firm’s exposure to subprime loans “remains minimal, less
than 2.5 percent of our book.”  At the same hearing, Syron, who ran Freddie Mac from 2004
to 2008, said his firm hadn’t “been heavily involved in
subprime all along.”  Within 18 months, regulators seized Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac after losses on soured loans pushed them to the brink of
insolvency.  The cases are SEC v. Syron, 11-cv-09201, and SEC v. Mudd,
11-cv-09202, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
 New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at   jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Lawrence Roberts  at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 