-- Citigroup Suit Should Be Put on Hold During Appeal, SEC Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/sec-seeks-stay-of-citigroup-trial-pending-appeal-in-u-s-court.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission asked to put on hold its case against  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
over mortgage-backed securities while the agency appeals a
federal judge’s rejection of a $285 million settlement.  The appeal, filed in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York,
challenged U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff’s refusal last month
to approve an accord resolving claims that Citigroup misled
investors in a $1 billion financial product linked to risky
mortgages.  Rakoff criticized the agency’s practice of settling without
requiring the subject of the allegations to admit wrongdoing.
The  Manhattan  judge said the Citigroup settlement didn’t provide
him with “any proven or admitted facts” to inform his
judgment. The SEC said it wanted to preserve agency resources by
putting the case on hold while the appeals court considers
Rakoff’s ruling.  “In addition, if this action is not stayed, the commission
may lose permanently the benefits of the proposed settlement and
be forced to incur the risks and costs of this litigation
avoided by the proposed consent judgment,” the SEC said in
court papers filed yesterday.  SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a Dec. 15
statement announcing the appeal that the judge’s decision “is
at odds with decades of court decisions that have upheld similar
settlements.”  Monetary Penalty  In suits such as the one against Citigroup, the law doesn’t
entitle the SEC to recover the amount lost by investors and
instead only allows a monetary penalty up to the amount of a
defendant’s ill-gotten gain, Khuzami said.  Rakoff’s approach “could in practical terms press the SEC
to trial in many more instances, likely resulting in fewer cases
overall and less money being returned to investors,” he said.  The commission said yesterday that it was unaware any court
has ever before required that “proven or acknowledged facts”
be established as a condition to the approval of a proposed
consent judgment submitted by a federal government agency.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a Citigroup spokeswoman, said
yesterday in a statement that the New York-based bank disagrees
with the court’s rejection of the settlement. The agreement
“fully complies with long-established legal standards,” she
said.  If the case went to trial, she said, “we would present
substantial factual and legal defenses to the charges.”  Former Prosecutor  Rakoff, a former federal prosecutor and civil litigator,
has previously criticized the SEC’s practice of allowing
financial institutions to settle enforcement actions without
admitting or denying the agency’s allegations. In 2009, he
rejected a $33 million agreement between the SEC and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   In his Citigroup ruling, Rakoff consolidated the SEC’s case
against the bank with its lawsuit against Brian Stoker, former
director of the company’s collateralized debt obligation
structuring group. Stoker was responsible for structuring and
marketing the investment, according to an SEC complaint filed
last month.  The judge said that in its complaint against Stoker, the
SEC claimed Citigroup knowingly withheld information from
investors that it intended the fund to include poorly rated
assets, an allegation missing from the agency’s complaint
against the bank.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-cv-07387, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  