-- Singapore’s Exports Unexpectedly Rose in November on Pharmaceutical Boost
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2011-12-16T02:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/singapore-s-exports-unexpectedly-rose-in-november-on-pharmaceutical-boost.html
Singapore ’s exports unexpectedly
rose in November as pharmaceutical sales countered weak demand
for electronics amid a faltering global recovery.  Non-oil domestic  exports  climbed 1.6 percent from a year
earlier, after a revised 16.3 percent slide in October, the
island’s trade promotion agency said in a statement today. The
median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 1.2
percent decline.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis has curbed demand for Asian
goods, prompting nations from Indonesia to  China  to shield
expansion by easing monetary policy in recent weeks. Singapore’s
government has forecast the city state’s gross domestic product
may grow as little as 1 percent in 2012.  “The data shows we are near bottom, but we don’t think the
outlook points to a strong recovery,” said Kun Lung Wu, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The
recovery will be very fragile and surprises in the  euro zone , a
disorderly unraveling, could easily derail it.”  The  Singapore dollar  strengthened 0.3 percent to S$1.3025
against its U.S. counterpart as of 9.53 a.m. local time, while
the benchmark  Straits Times  stock index advanced 0.2 percent.  Electronics shipments  by companies such as contract
manufacturer Venture Corp. gained 0.1 percent in November from a
year earlier, after declining 31.2 percent the previous month.  Non-electronics shipments, which include petrochemicals and
pharmaceuticals, increased 2.4 percent. Petrochemicals exports
fell 12.6 percent, while pharmaceutical shipments climbed 21.5
percent after gaining 7.8 percent in October.  The performance of Singapore’s pharmaceutical industry is
volatile as production swings by companies such as
GlaxoSmithKline Plc can cause  industrial output  to fluctuate
from month to month. Drug companies sometimes shut plants for
cleaning before making different products.  Singapore’s non-oil  exports  gained a seasonally adjusted
5.9 percent last month from October, when they fell a revised 6
percent, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  