-- Skanska Preys on U.S. Acquisitions as Orders Point to Recovery
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2011-12-16T08:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/skanska-preys-on-u-s-acquisitions-as-orders-point-to-recovery.html
Skanska AB (SKAB) , the Nordic region’s
biggest builder, is getting closer to bolstering its U.S.
presence by buying a rival with revenue of as much as $1 billion
to win infrastructure contracts for roads and railways.  Adding a business in  Texas  or somewhere in the Midwest
region like  Chicago  would be ideal, Mike McNally, head of the
Swedish company’s operation in the U.S., said in an interview. 
Both private and publicly listed companies make viable targets, 
and approaches have already been made, he said.  “We’ve got the fishing lines out and we have some that
might be on the hook,” McNally said yesterday at Skanska’s 
headquarters in Stockholm.  While the U.S. is Skanska’s largest market, accounting for
about 27 percent of revenue, its last acquisition there was a
Californian roadbuilder a decade ago. Skanska is among European
builders that have entered the U.S., with mixed success.
 Hochtief AG (HOT)  is a major player with its Turner Corp. subsidiary
while Dutch builder Royal BAM Groep NV sold its bridge builder
Flatiron in 2007 and Bilfinger Berger SE sold its remaining
construction activities there this year.  Skanska does little infrastructure construction outside  New
York ,  Virginia  and southern  California , and McNally said he’s
seeking to broaden its nationwide workload beyond just managing
building projects such as hospitals. Companies targeted by
Skanska are likely to have revenue of $500 million to $700
million, and they could even touch $1 billion, he added.  To help plant its flag in the country, Skanska is also
pursuing a marquee contract to build  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s second campus
in Cupertino, California to house 13,000 employees.  Throwing the Net Wide  Skanska is the eighth biggest construction firm in the
U.S., according to Engineering News-Record. Its bigger rivals
include  Fluor Corp. (FLR)  and Kiewit Construction Group Inc.  McNally said he’s “talked to everybody” except the very
biggest in his quest to make an acquisition. The ideal purchase
would add a business where Skanska has little presence, such as
power-plant construction.  “I’d like to see an acquisition in the U.S. so they beef
up their infrastructure business,” said David Zaudy, a
Stockholm-based analyst at Pareto Ohman, who recommends
investors buy Skanska’s shares. “An acquisition, for example,
in Chicago would be appreciated.”  Skanska’s U.S. orders are continuing on a good level, with
“quite strong” bookings in the second half that are pointing
to a “promising” few months entering into 2012, Pontus Winqvist, head of Skanska’s investor relations, said at the
interview.  Bridges, Rail Lines  U.S. construction spending in October fell 0.4 percent from
a year ago to $799 billion, the Commerce Department said Dec. 1.
The  U.S. economy  is “expanding moderately,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said Dec. 13.  “For the small and medium-sized contractor it’ll be tough
going,” McNally said. “There’s not a lot of the small stuff
and there’s enormous competition. But the market for the big
contractors is better than it’s been for a while,” driven by
decisions in recent years to boost investments in bridges and
light-rail mass transit systems, he said.  Federal and state infrastructure spending is set to decline
over the next couple years, leaving the “short-term future
looking bumpy,” McNally said. President  Barack Obama  and his
Republican opponent are likely to promise more construction
investments during the election to boost jobs, which may come to
fruition starting in 2014, McNally said.  In early 2010 Skanska entered the commercial development
business in the U.S., building offices to lease and then sell
them. It operates this business in Houston, Boston, Seattle and
Washington, D.C.  Skanska is now trying to sell its office building that’s
located five blocks east of the White House, seeking to close
that deal in early 2012, McNally said.  “Our ability now to get sites is fantastic because the
banks are not loaning to the local developers” due to the weak
economy, McNally said.  “We’re going in with our own cash,
we’re not going to any banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  