-- Slovenian Lawmakers to Hold First Session After Vote on Dec. 21
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2011-12-16T14:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/slovenian-lawmakers-to-hold-first-session-after-vote-on-dec-21.html
Slovenian lawmakers will meet Dec.
21 for the first time since Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic won a
snap election as the nation struggles to tackle rising debt to
stave off a downgrade of its  credit rating .  President Danilo Turk will convene parliament after he
received official voting results from the election commission
today, Bostjan Lajovic, the president’s spokesman said by phone
in Ljubljana. After consulting party leaders, the president will
give a mandate to the leader that “is most likely to form the
government, probably by year’s end,” he said.  Jankovic’s Positive Slovenia won 28 seats in the 90-member
assembly, while the Slovenian Democratic Party of Janez Jansa
will have 26 lawmakers, according to the final results by the
 state election commission . Jankovic is seeking support from
other groups to gain more than a 45-member majority.  Slovenia’s next government will need to tackle rising debt,
a possible  recession  and the threat of a downgrade from  Standard
& Poor’s  and other ratings services. S&P said Dec. 5 it may
lower the credit score of 15 members of the euro region after
assessing measures adopted by European leaders in Brussels on
Dec. 9 to contain the sovereign debt crisis.  The new Cabinet will also need to decide on Slovenia’s
share of the 200 billion euros ($260 billion) that euro-region
nations pledged to the  International Monetary Fund  at the
Brussels summit.  “Banka Slovenije, in principle, supports the increase of
funds to the IMF even though we have second thoughts on sharing
the burden in new quotas as the proposed amount is
disproportionally high,” the central bank in Ljubljana said in
an e-mailed response to questions. The bank declined to specify
the amount Slovenia will need to contribute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia, at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  