-- Solar Producers ‘Wary’ of Polysilicon Prices, Solairedirect Says
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2011-12-16T14:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/solar-producers-wary-of-polysilicon-prices-solairedirect-says.html
Polysilicon  may be headed for a
surprise recovery by 2015 that could push up the prices of solar
panels, said Solairedirect SA,  France ’s second-biggest sun-
powered generator.  Suppliers of the commodity used in solar panels and
microchips have been shutting down capacity or delaying new
plants, which can take at least three years to build, said
Thierry Lepercq, chairman of the Paris-based utility backed by
 Schneider Electric SA (SU) ’s venture capital arm.  That could coincide with a surge in demand for solar panels
as the price of sun-based electricity converges with fossil
fuel-based power in many markets by 2015, he said.  “We have to be wary about it,” Lepercq, referring to an
unexpected rise that could cause a surge in equipment and
project costs, said in an interview in Mumbai. “Even if it
doubles, it changes the picture.”  Polysilicon prices have plunged 94 percent in three years
as the top five producers, led by Hemlock Semiconductor Corp.
and  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , more than doubled output, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance  data . Prices may be stuck near the
cost of production for years,  Paul Leming , director of research
at Ticonderoga Securities in  New York , said in November.  Global polysilicon production capacity is likely to settle
at about 300,000 metric tons, Lepercq said this week. Wacker of
Munich, OCI Co. of  South Korea ,  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800)  of
China and Renewable Energy Corp. ASA of Norway had the capacity
to make 131,000 tons of polysilicon last year, up from 50,000
tons in 2008, Bloomberg data shows.  ‘It Happened Once’  Polysilicon suppliers that survive the supply glut will
likely become profitable businesses again unlike equipment
makers using the material such as  China ’s Suntech Power Holdings
Co. and JA Solar Holdings Co., the largest solar cell maker,
Lepercq said.  “Cells and modules are the absolute commodity,” he said.
“People in that business who earned money have to put that in
their memories, say it happened once and honestly it won’t
happen again.”  The shares of the five-biggest panel makers are down 69
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
overcapacity slashes margins and shrinking clean-energy
subsidies in  Europe  deflate demand in their biggest market.  “You can increase cell and module capacity at the snap of
a finger, unlike polysilicon,” Lepercq said.  Some of the biggest Chinese manufacturers of silicon-based
panels such as Suntech and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  bought equipment and
signed long-term supply contracts preventing them from taking
advantage of falling costs, he said. Their prices can be 20
percent higher than nimbler Chinese rivals, Lepercq said.  Source Material Cheaply?  Solairedirect and co-bidder Jupiter Solar Power Ltd. won an
auction on Dec. 2 to sell photovoltaic power to  India  at 7,490
rupees ($138) a megawatt-hour, about 30 percent cheaper than the
world average. It’s also in talks about a 10-megawatt site in
 Chile  to supply electricity at $92 a megawatt-hour, avoiding the
need for the buyer to subsidize generation, Lepercq said.  An ability to source materials cheaply is behind such
record-low bids, Lepercq said. Solairedirect plans to help
Kolkata-based Jupiter buy wafers at “extremely competitive”
prices, he said. It’s also a long-time buyer of equipment from
India’s  Websol Energy System Ltd (WESL) , he said.  “If you take the best-in-class wafer prices and process in
India, you’re more or less matching Chinese costs,” he said.  The decision to buy Indian panels bucks a trend among local
developers of using imports to cut costs and gain financing from
foreign state-backed banks eager to boost global sales. Reliance
Power Ltd. in August received an $84 million loan from the U.S.
Export-Import Bank to buy First Solar modules. The  lender’s
interest rate  then was 3.96 percent.  ‘Artificial Help’  “We’re not playing with American or French or any other
finance to give us artificial help,” said Lepercq of
subsidized, below-market loans. Solairedirect’s average cost of
capital is 6 percent, he said. “We want solar to be taken
seriously, not like some child that’s receiving subsidies.”  The company seeks low-risk commercial paper to fund
operations and will finance the project entirely with equity if
needed to avoid Indian lending rates of 13 percent, he said.  Solairedirect, which since its founding in 2006 has raised
500 million euros ($650 million), keeps its financing costs low
by managing investors’ expectations of returns, Lepercq said.  “People want to maximize their internal rates of return
but we try to minimize them,” he said. Indian borrowing costs
and  inflation  will decline and “the right level of financial
return to expect is maybe a range of 12 to 15 percent.”  ‘Convince’ Investors  “If you can convince your investors and lenders that it’s
low risk, you can do that,” Lepercq said.  The company, unlike most, sets aside a provision to replace
panels midway through a project’s lifetime rather than assuming
they’ll last for 20 to 30 years because it expects improved
technology to double panel power output in 15 years.  “That means a 5-megawatt plant today will become a 7.5-
megawatt plant,” Lepercq said. Extra output may be sold in the
market as the cost of solar converges with conventional
generation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  