-- South Korea Expands Economic Sanctions Against Iran Over Nuclear Program
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2011-12-16T08:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/south-korea-expands-economic-sanctions-against-iran-over-nuclear-program.html
South Korea  said it will expand
sanctions against  Iran  and cautioned companies against importing
petrochemicals as the U.S. leads efforts to pressure the country
to reverse its suspected atomic weapons program.  South Korea added 99 Iranian groups and six individuals to
a list of people and organizations banned from foreign-exchange
transactions without approval from the  Bank of Korea , the
finance ministry said in a statement today.  The U.S. approved additional curbs on Iran’s banking system
and oil industry last month and the European Union added 180
Iranian officials and companies to a blacklist this month. The
EU is still discussing a possible halt to purchases of crude oil
from Iran, which denies it is seeking technology to build
nuclear weapons.  “We will ask domestic companies to pay attention to
international sanctions when purchasing petrochemical products
from Iran,” Eun Sung Soo, a director-general at the  finance
ministry , told reporters. South Korean companies should be
mindful of sanctions imposed by the U.S. government to avoid
souring their business with the world’s biggest economy, he said.  Crude oil imports are not affected by today’s curbs on
transactions with Iran. Like  Japan , which refrained from
restricting crude purchases to its list of additional Iranian
sanctions announced last week, South Korea imports all its oil.  Petrochemical Imports  South Korea imported about $333 million of petrochemicals
from Iran in 2010, accounting for around 2.5 percent of imports
of the products, according to the Korea Petrochemical Industry
Association and the Korea International Trade Association. The
nation exported about $466 million of petrochemicals to Iran in
the same year, or 1.3 percent of sales of these products
overseas.  Iran is South  Korea ’s fourth-largest supplier of crude oil
and accounted for 8.3 percent of the 870 million barrels
imported in 2010, according to state-run Korea National Oil Corp.
The nation depends entirely on imports for oil.  South Korea followed UN sanctions last year banning any new
investments in Iranian oil, gas and construction projects. It
also put 102 Iranian organizations including Tehran-based Bank
Mellat and 24 individuals on a list banning financial
transactions without central bank approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  