-- Sovereign Credit-Default Swaps Decline as Crisis Bets Pared
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2011-12-16T14:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/sovereign-credit-default-swaps-decline-as-crisis-bets-pared.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European sovereign debt fell for a second day as investors
pared bets the region’s crisis is worsening.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments declined 9.5 basis points to 365
at 2:30 p.m. in London, the biggest drop in more than two weeks.
A decline signals improvement in perceptions of  credit quality .  Markets extended yesterday’s rally, which was triggered by
a successful Spanish government bond auction and U.S. data that
signaled the world’s biggest economy is strengthening. Sovereign
swaps approached a record earlier this week as cracks emerged in
last week’s agreement to resolve the debt crisis and investors
braced for the region’s strongest economies to lose their top
credit ratings.  “There’s improvement in sentiment across the board,” said
 Brian Barry , an analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.
“Whether it will last is another question, given European
sovereign downgrades are on the horizon and the conclusions from
last week’s summit do not exactly look to be water tight. There
is significant risk that things could turn the opposite
direction.”  Italian Swaps  The sovereign gauge has soared from 207.5 basis points so
far this year and is little changed on the week and month.
Credit-default swaps on  Italy  dropped 23.5 basis points to 534
and  Spain  fell 24 to 409, according to CMA.  The cost of insuring financial debt also fell as  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) ,  France ’s second-largest bank by assets, and  Old
Mutual Plc (OML) , the third-biggest U.K. insurer, announced deals to
sell assets.  Credit Agricole  is selling its private-equity unit to
Coller Capital for an undisclosed sum to boost capital. Old
Mutual said yesterday it’s selling its Nordic unit to Skandia
Liv for 2.1 billion pounds ($3.3 billion) to reduce debt and
return capital to investors.  “At a time when every bank is deleveraging and trying to
sell assets, the fact that Old Mutual was able to sell its
Nordic assets at a decent price is a good sign,” Barry said.
“More transactions are going through and that helps generate a
bit of confidence.”  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers decreased three basis points to 312 and
the subordinated index dropped 6.5 to 556, both the lowest in a
week, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings increased one
basis point to 789.5. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings fell 0.75 basis point to
185 basis points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13 million) of debt from default for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  