-- Spain Unpaid Bills May Haunt Rajoy as States Crave Liquidity
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2011-12-16T12:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/spain-s-unpaid-bills-may-haunt-rajoy-as-regions-crave-liquidity.html
Spanish Prime Minister-electMariano Rajoy is set to inherit billions of euros of unpaid bills along
with the euro region’s third-largest budget deficit.  Spain ’s 8,000 municipalities and 17 semi-autonomous regions
are suffering from a cash squeeze as many are shut out of
markets, prompting them to delay paying suppliers. Regions’ debt
rose 1.5 percent to 135 billion euros ($176 billion) in the
third quarter the  Bank of Spain  said today. Catalonia had the
highest debt, at 39.3 billion euros.  Companies are being paid 157 days late on average, about
three times the legal payment delay, according to the Platform
Against Late Payment, a federation of employer groups, and
pharmaceutical companies say they are owed 5.83 billion euros by
public hospitals. While Rajoy has pledged to help local
administrations pay suppliers, that may add to the state’s debt
burden and undermine efforts to lower sovereign  borrowing costs .  “Rising commercial debt means there is more deficit and
that the risk of missing deficit targets increases,” said
Marisol Blazquez, an analyst at the ratings company Moody’s
Investors Service in  Madrid . “Apart from the Basque country,
the Madrid region and Galicia, all the regions we rate are
having liquidity issues.”  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bonds eased to 5.108 percent
as of 1:20 p.m. in Madrid from 5.433 percent yesterday. It rose
to a euro-era record of 6.78 percent on Nov. 17.  Markets Limited  The outgoing government will make its regular transfer to
the regions three days early this month to ease liquidity
tensions, Finance Minister  Elena Salgado  told reporters
yesterday, and the government said today it will also bring
forward the regular transfer to town halls.  Valencia only managed to sell 75 percent of the bonds it
offered to its citizens in a sale due to close today, state
newswire Efe reported, and Catalonia may ask the government for
an extraordinary loan, Barcelona-based La Vanguardia said.  The  regions’ debt load  increased to 135 billion euros in
the third quarter from 133 billion in the previous quarter.
That’s the smallest increase since the third quarter of 2008.  “This confirms our perception that markets are limited to
all but Treasury debt,” Jose Luis Martinez, a strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in Madrid, said in a telephone interview.  Payment Delay  Rajoy’s  People’s Party  takes over on Dec. 21 after winning
a national election last month. Companies from multinational
pharmaceutical laboratories to one-person cleaning firms will
press the new government for a solution to the mounting bills.
Unesa, which represents  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,  Endesa SA (ELE) ,  Germany ’s  E.ON
AG ,  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  and HC Energia, says town halls owe the
five power companies about 500 million euros.  Ana Bujaldon, the chairwoman of the Spanish women
executives’ group Fedepe, said the delays are “unbalancing
companies’ accounts” and some firms have had to freeze wages as
they await payments. Farmaindustria, the association of health
companies, said its members are waiting more than a year on
average to get paid and has proposed securitizing the debt in a
state-backed program.  Spain’s 23 percent unemployment rate, the highest in the
European Union, and weak  consumer spending  led to the economy
stalling in the third quarter. The slowdown is curbing  tax
revenue , while tightening market conditions mean the regions are
facing tougher funding options.  They have also fallen behind schedule on spending cuts that
are crucial to Spain’s efforts to lower its budget gap. Rajoy
has pledged to impose stricter fiscal rules on their
administrations.  ‘Mounting Payables’  “Mounting payables are a consequence of running deficits
and difficult access to financial markets,” said Lorenzo Pareja, a credit analyst for Spain at  Standard & Poor’s  in
Milan. “ Capital markets  are no longer a reliable source of
funding even for regions such as Valencia or Catalonia which
have a long track record of issuing bonds.”  Luis de Guindos, a former deputy economy minister and a
possible candidate for finance minister, has said the government
may be able to use the situation to extract deeper cuts from the
regions in return for liquidity support.  “There’s a unique opportunity to sort out the finances of
the territorial administrations,” Guindos, director of the PwC
and IE Business School Center for Finance in Madrid, said before
the election. Delays are “financially suffocating” companies.  ‘Liquidity Tensions’  There is no centralized data for the total amount of bills
unpaid by all Spanish administrations. The figures are included
in Spain’s quarterly budget data and don’t constitute a “hidden
debt,” said a spokesman for the  finance ministry , who declined
to be named in line with policy.  Fitch Ratings  said Dec. 2 there are “clear liquidity
tensions” in the regions. They “are funding themselves by
extending the payment period,” it said, noting that Castilla-La
Mancha and Murcia are settling only 73 percent and 78 percent of
recognized current expenditure respectively.  In its electoral pledge, the PP promised a  credit line  with
the state-run Official Credit Institute to help municipalities
pay small companies. The Platform Against Late Payment estimates
a 30 billion-euro credit line would resolve the liquidity crunch
in two or three years.  Unpaid bills are “a negative signal to the markets,” said
Fadi Zaher, a fixed-income strategist at  Barclays Wealth  in
 London . “The bottom line is there has to be a push at the state
level to support regions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  