-- St. Jude’s Defibrillator Lead Garners FDA Recall Based on Risk of Death
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-12-16T00:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/st-jude-s-defibrillator-lead-garners-fda-recall-based-on-risk-of-death.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s Riata
defibrillator leads, which the company stopped selling last
year, were recalled by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
because of their potential to injure or kill patients.  The devices remain implanted in an estimated 79,000 U.S.
patients,  St. Paul , Minnesota-based St. Jude said today in a
statement. The company voluntarily sent a letter to doctors on
Nov. 28 informing them that the wires used to connect the
devices to the heart have a higher failure rate than was
previously known.  The  FDA  deemed the letter a Class 1 recall, its most
serious designation, because of its potential risk of serious
injury or patient death, the company said. The wires inside some
leads can penetrate the insulation, compromising the device’s
integrity. The devices may inappropriately shock some patients
and fail to deliver necessary therapy to others, the company
said. It’s not clear what health complications may stem from
damaged leads that are still electrically intact, St. Jude said.  “At this time, no blanket statement can be made about
clinical recommendations,” said Anne Curtis, chairwoman of
medicine at the University at Buffalo in  New York  and a member
of St. Jude’s medical advisory board, in the statement. “Until
more data are collected, physicians should follow standard
practice of care to manage their patients with Riata silicone
leads.”  Patients who need frequent shocks from their defibrillator
to restore a normal heart rhythm and those who are dependent on
pacemakers may be at greater risk, the company said. Doctors may
design individual treatment plans for those with the damaged
wires based on their risk level and options should be discussed
with patients, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  