-- Standard Life Sees Weaker Euro as ECB Expected to Step Up Bond Purchases
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2011-12-16T14:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/standard-life-sees-weaker-euro-as-ecb-expected-to-step-up-bond-purchases.html
Standard Life Investments,
Edinburgh’s largest money manager, expects the euro to extend
its decline because the  European Central Bank  will eventually
drop its objection to stepping up bond purchases.  ECB policy makers are under pressure from politicians and
investors to do more to stabilize markets while European leaders
seek a longer-term solution involving tighter budget rules. The
central bank, which started buying Spanish and Italian bonds in
the second half of this year, may relent should the countries
struggle to find buyers for their debt next year, said Jack Kelly, investment director at Standard Life.  “Many taboos have been broken already in  Europe  in the
last 18 months,” Kelly, who helps manage about 3.5 billion
euros ($4.6 billion) in European  government bonds , said at the
company’s office in the Scottish capital on Dec. 13, a day
before the euro fell below $1.30 for the first time since
January. “If auctions were to perform particularly poorly, the
likelihood of greater ECB involvement would increase.”  The ECB needs to play a greater role in solving the
region’s debt crisis, Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said on
Nov. 30, adding that even countries with “unquestionably sound
finances” are being tested. The central bank has resisted calls
to backstop the currency bloc, saying it’s up to governments to
sort out the crisis and that rescuing states would compromise
its independence and credibility, while fueling inflation.  Europe’s 17-nation currency gained 0.4 percent to $1.3060
as of 2:06 p.m. London time, leaving it 2.5 percent lower in the
week, the biggest decline since the five days through Nov. 4.  More Pressure  “One of the key trades and strategies we have on is to be
underweight the currency,” Kelly said. “If you analyze the
various scenarios in Europe, good or bad, the euro should come
under some sustained pressure.”  Standard Life’s 131 million-euro  Euro-zone Government Bond
Fund , which can also hold a proportion of its assets outside the
euro region, declined 0.5 percent in the year to Sept. 30,
according to the company’s website. Its largest four holdings at
that time were Swedish, U.K., French and Italian bonds.  Citigroup Inc. estimates  Spain  and  Italy  need to sell 20
billion euros of debt in January.  While Italy paid the highest rate since 1997 at an auction
of securities due in five years this week, Spain sold 6.03
billion euros of debt, almost twice its maximum target.  Spanish Bonds  Borrowing costs on the Spanish offering of five-year paper
yesterday dropped to 4.023 percent from 5.276 percent on similar
maturity auctioned on Dec. 1. Bonds due in 2020 were sold at a
higher rate, yielding an average 5.239 percent, compared with
5.006 percent in September. The U.K. sold 2017 securities at
1.125 percent yesterday.  The euro may drop to as low as $1.20 in the first half of
2012, Ken Dickson, investment director of currencies at Standard
Life, said last week. He cited the possibility of more interest-
rate cuts by the ECB, after it lowered the refinancing rate
twice since November to 1 percent.  In addition to its stance on the euro, Standard Life is
unlikely to invest Europe’s so-called peripheral bond markets
until its sees signs of governments moving toward issuing common
bonds or the ECB increasing bond purchases, Kelly said.  Standard Life prefers “fiscally strong countries with high
ratings,” including Australia and  Norway , while U.S. Treasuries
will benefit from their status as a haven in times of turmoil,
Kelly said. Within Europe, Standard Life was still
“constructive” on  Germany , as demand is likely to be supported
by slowing growth in the euro area, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  