-- Stanford University Withdraws Its Bid to Build New York Engineering Campus
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2011-12-16T21:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/stanford-university-withdraws-its-bid-to-build-new-york-engineering-campus.html
Stanford University  withdrew its
application from  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s competition
to bring an engineering school to the city.  The California university pulled out of the bidding after
three weeks of negotiations with city officials starting the
week after Thanksgiving, said Lisa Lapin, a university
spokeswoman. President  John Hennessy  was personally involved in
the discussions, she said.  “The whole effort of the university was behind it,” Lapin
said in a telephone interview. “It was disappointing.”  Bloomberg has offered universities around the world the
right to compete to create a new engineering campus on city-
owned land. New York plans to provide $100 million for
infrastructure improvements at the site.  Columbia University ,
 New York University ,  Carnegie Mellon University ,  Cornell
University  and Amity University of India also are among the 15
schools that entered bids. Results will be announced in January,
city officials have said.  Stanford and New York officials failed to reach an
agreement on a number of points, including whether the school
could withdraw from the project without penalties, said a person
familiar with some of the negotiations who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly. The impasse was partly a result of the different
cultures and expectations of a private university and a major
city, the person said.  An earlier stumbling block over environmental liability was
settled and not the reason for the withdrawal, the person said.  Roosevelt Island  Stanford had proposed a $2.5 billion campus on Roosevelt
Island to be built over 30 years to house 200 professors and
2,000 students. The university planned to invest $100 million of
its own money and embark on a 10-year fundraising campaign to
build the campus. The university had announced a partnership
with  City College  of New York, which would be its temporary home
when it opened 2013.  In a statement, Stanford said its board of trustees decided
it wouldn’t be in Stanford’s best interest to pursue the
project. The school couldn’t “be certain that it could proceed
in a way that ensured the success of the campus,” the statement
said.  ‘World-Class’ Campus  The mayor invited proposals in July for the right to open a
“world-class” campus for engineering and applied science, and
on Oct. 27 he said he may award multiple winners. The project
may generate $6 billion in economic activity with as many as 400
new companies and 22,000 permanent jobs in its first 30 years,
Bloomberg said.  “We are in serious negotiations with several of the other
applicants, each of whom has a game-changing project queued
up,” said Julie Wood, a spokeswoman for the mayor. “We look
forward to announcing a winner soon.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
parent of Bloomberg News.  Stanford’s endowment was $16.5 billion as Aug. 31. The
school’s main campus is near  Palo Alto .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at   mschoifet@bloomberg.net  or
Jonathan Kaufman in Boston at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  