-- States May Set Coverage Rules for Health Plans in 2014
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2011-12-16T20:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/states-may-set-coverage-rules-for-health-plans-in-2014.html
States may decide whether health
plans sold to the uninsured have to cover more benefits than
those offered by a small business when provisions of the 2010
health-care law take effect, the U.S. said.  The law required Health and Human Services Secretary
 Kathleen Sebelius  to develop a list of “essential benefits”
that insurers will have to cover beginning in 2014, when
taxpayer-subsidized plans will be available to the uninsured in
new state-based marketplaces called exchanges.  States will decide coverage levels, according to guidelines
issued today. They may benchmark plans offered in the exchanges
against small business plans in the state, state employee plans,
federal employee plans or the largest commercial managed-care
plan.  “Our approach will protect consumers and give states the
flexibility to design coverage options that meet their unique
needs,” Sebelius said in a statement.  Small business plans sometimes offer less-generous benefits
than government employee plans and those offered by large
employers. Plans in the exchanges could “modify” the benefits
they offer “so long as they do not reduce the value of
coverage,” according to a document explaining the policy.  While state and federal employee health plans cover
prescription drugs, 16 percent of small business plans offer the
coverage as an option at added cost, according to a  study 
Sebelius’ agency conducted.  State Specifics  “Coverage that works in  Florida  may not work in
 Nebraska ,” Sebelius said in a conference call with reporters.  The policy “exempts the administration from building an
essential benefits package of its own,” said Stephen Finan,
senior director of policy for the Cancer Action Network, in a
statement. The quality of care for cancer patients is “less
certain” under small business and state employee plans than
under the federal employee health plans, he said.  Every plan will have to cover 10 areas, such as
hospitalization and pediatrics, that Congress identified when it
wrote the health-care law, said Sherry Glied, assistant
secretary for planning and evaluation, at the department.  Lobbyists will focus efforts on trying to persuade states
to adopt narrow packages of required benefits, said Neil Trautwein, a vice president at the  National Retail Federation  in
 Washington .  The policy “shifts the argument back to the state arena
where insurance has always been regulated,” he said in a phone
interview. He called the announcement a “trial balloon”
because Sebelius issued it as guidance, not as a rule.
Regulations used to enact the policy into law won’t come until
next year, once the department weighs public reaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  