-- Steve Hansen Replaces Henry as Coach of Rugby’s World Champion All Blacks
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2011-12-16T04:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/steve-hansen-replaces-henry-as-coach-of-rugby-s-world-champion-all-blacks.html
New Zealand  hired Steve Hansen as
head coach, promoting him to the top job after  Graham Henry 
stepped down last month following the All Blacks’ drought-
breaking Rugby World Cup victory.  The New Zealand Rugby Union said its board unanimously
decided to appoint Hansen on a two-year contract after
interviewing him today. The 52-year-old former Wales coach had
served as one of Henry’s two assistant coaches for eight years.  During that time, New Zealand won 88 of its 103 elite Test
matches -- an 85 percent success rate. As well as guiding the
All Blacks to their first World Cup triumph since 1987, Henry
and his assistants oversaw five Tri-Nations titles, three so-
called Grand Slam sweeps of the U.K. and Ireland and a 3-0
series rout of the British and Irish Lions in 2005.  “I feel humbled and proud to be given the opportunity to
lead the team into its next phase,” Hansen said in an e-mailed
 statement . “My aim will be to leave the team in a better shape
than how I found it and to enhance its legacy.”  Henry stepped down Nov. 1, nine days after the All Blacks
defeated France 8-7 in the  World Cup  final in Auckland, saying
that he’d “had enough.” He endorsed Hansen as his successor,
saying that continuity was crucial in elite rugby.  “You learn a lot by being in this position and if you have
complete change of the coaching team you lose that,” Henry said
Nov. 1. “You have to start from scratch again so I think Steve
Hansen should do the job. It does give us continuity from what’s
happened over the last eight years.”  ‘Seamless Transition’  NZRU Chairman Mike Eagle said Hansen’s appointment would
allow for a “seamless transition.” The support staff will be
named as soon as Hansen’s preferred main assistant completes
negotiations with the NZRU, Eagle said.  While he was part of a coaching trio dubbed the “three
wise men” by local media, Hansen said he opted for just one
main aide after assessing the available personnel.  “I would loved to have had two if we’d had the dream team
people available,” Hansen said at a news conference. “But
doing the research I did in trying to get this team together, it
became obvious and clear that wasn’t the case. So the team’s
needs were better suited by one and one.”  Henry to Hansen  It’s the second time Hansen succeeded Henry as a national
team head coach after taking the  Wales  job in 2002 when Henry
resigned 3 1/2 years into a five-year contract.  Although Wales lost 20 of its 31 matches during his tenure,
including a national record run of 10 straight defeats, Hansen
was credited with helping to professionalize Welsh rugby.  Hansen left that post after the 2004 Six Nations tournament
to join the All Blacks setup alongside Henry and Wayne Smith,
during which time he mostly coached the forwards. Smith wasn’t
available for the All Blacks top job after taking a role with
the Chiefs Super Rugby team.  Hansen’s coaching career began with Canterbury, whom he
helped to New Zealand provincial championships in 1997 and 2001.
He was assistant coach of the Crusaders Super Rugby team during
title-winning seasons in 1999 and 2000.  Hansen has been “a key part of a hugely successful All
Blacks team” since joining the coaching staff, Eagle added.  “He has huge respect and backing from the team and his
peers and is the right man to now lead the team,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  