-- Swiss Stocks Drop Amid Europe Recession Concerns; Swatch Falls
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2011-12-16T17:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/swiss-stocks-rise-for-second-day-as-abb-givaudan-actelion-gain.html
Swiss stocks  declined, sending the
nation’s benchmark gauge lower for the third time this week, as
 Standard & Poor’s  warned European exporters may see a larger
contraction in 2012.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  led a decline in financial shares,
falling 2.2 percent. Exporters Cie. Financiere Richemont SA and
 Swatch Group AG (UHR)  also retreated.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of Switzerland’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, fell 0.9 percent to 5,733.5
at the close of Zurich trading, extending this week’s retreat to
1 percent. The broader Swiss Performance Index lost 0.7 percent.  S&P said  Germany , the Netherlands,  Belgium , Austria and
Finland -- European nations that are net exporters -- face a
risk of a bigger contraction compared with countries in the
region that are net importers. The austerity measures adopted
across the euro region imply that there won’t be any fiscal
support for growth, it said.  The SMI rallied the most in two weeks yesterday after
better-than-forecast reports on U.S. manufacturing and initial
jobless claims boosted optimism in the world’s largest economy.
A report today showed the cost of living in the U.S. stagnated
in November as gasoline prices fell.  Italian Confidence Vote  In  Europe , Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government
won a confidence vote in Parliament on a 30 billion-euro ($39
billion) emergency budget plan aimed at spurring growth and
cutting the euro-area’s second-biggest debt.  The SMI has declined 11 percent this year, led by a selloff
in banks, amid concern that the euro area’s sovereign debt
crisis is spreading to core economies.  Credit Suisse and  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest banks,
dropped 2.2 percent to 21.41 francs and 1.4 percent to 10.86
francs today, respectively. Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-
biggest reinsurer, fell 2.4 percent to 47 francs.  Swatch Group, which generates about 40 percent of its
revenue from Europe, fell 1.1 percent to 323.90 francs while
Richemont, which makes about 38 percent of sales from the
region, lost 1.4 percent to 45.05 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  