-- Switzerland’s Franc Depreciates as U.S. Data Optimism Boosts Risk Appetite
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2011-12-16T16:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/swiss-franc-declines-versus-high-yielding-peers-as-risk-appetite-improves.html
The Swiss  franc  weakened against
higher-yielding currencies as optimism the U.S. recovery is
gaining strength damped demand for haven assets.  Switzerland ’s currency depreciated against 9 of its 16
major peers tracked by Bloomberg, falling most against the  New
Zealand dollar  and the Swedish krona. The franc climbed to the
strongest level in six weeks against the euro yesterday after
the  Swiss National Bank  held the currency’s trading cap at 1.20
per euro. Swiss growth will almost stagnate next year, the KOF
Institute said today.  “Currencies such as the Aussie dollar and the kiwi are
faring a bit better today and Asian stocks were a little higher,
but there clearly hasn’t been a huge improvement in risk
appetite,” said Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “Yesterday’s
SNB decision clearly brought a knee-jerk reaction, but I don’t
think the intent of SNB policy has altered much.”  The franc was 0.9 percent weaker at 71.48 centimes against
the so-called kiwi at 4:37 p.m. London time and depreciated 0.4
percent to 7.3925 krona.  It was 0.2 percent stronger at 1.2212 per euro after
reaching 1.2207, the strongest since Nov. 4.  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 93.65 centimes per
dollar. It dropped to 95.48 centimes before the central bank’s
announcement yesterday, the weakest since Feb. 17.  U.S. Data  U.S. initial jobless claims fell by 19,000 to 366,000 last
week, the least since May 2008, the Labor Department said
yesterday. Other reports showed manufacturing in the regions
covered by the Federal Reserve Banks of  New York  and
Philadelphia accelerated more than forecast in December.  Switzerland’s economic growth will almost grind to a halt
next year as the franc’s appreciation and foundering global
demand for the nation’s goods hurt exports, the KOF Economic
Institute said.  Swiss gross domestic product will probably rise 0.2 percent
next year and 1.9 percent in 2013 from September forecasts of
1.5 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively, the Zurich-based
institute said today.  “Obviously there was some hope that the SNB would raise
the floor, although I was not anticipating it despite the fact
that deflationary pressures are increasing and growth is
slowing,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in London. “I don’t expect a
sharp fall lower, with verbal rhetoric likely to continue to be
forthcoming.”  The Swiss currency has weakened 2.3 percent in the past
three months, paring its gain for the year to 1.4 percent,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  