-- Switzerland Joins Global Suffering as Europe Debt Crisis Ripples: Economy
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2011-12-16T15:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/swiss-join-global-suffering-as-europe-crisis-throttles-expansion-economy.html
Switzerland ’s  economic growth  will
almost grind to a halt next year as the franc’s appreciation and
floundering global demand hurt exports, according to the KOF
Economic Institute.  The economy will expand 0.2 percent next year and 1.9
percent in 2013, the Zurich-based institute said in a statement
today, cutting previous projections. Swiss National Bank
President Philipp Hildebrand will meet with the government today
after the SNB yesterday maintained its cap of 1.20 francs per
euro to fight deflation and help exporters.  Hildebrand said he can’t rule out an escalation of  Europe ’s
debt turmoil, which is threatening the outlook in countries from
India to the U.K. The Bank of England cut its growth forecasts
last month, while  India ’s central bank refrained from raising
 interest rates  today for the first time in eight meetings,
warning of an “uncertain global environment.”  “The euro-area problems are dragging down everyone and the
SNB can’t escape that,” Martin Gueth, an economist at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart, said by phone.
“They are having the same problem as everyone else; trying to
protect themselves from the fallout in Europe.”  The franc was little changed against the euro at 1.226 as
of 4:14 p.m. in Zurich. It rose 1.1 percent yesterday after the
SNB announcement. The euro rose 0.1 percent against the dollar.  Ireland Shrinks  Euro-area exports  fell 1.9 percent in October, led by
declines in  Germany  and  Spain , data today showed.  Standard &
Poor’s  said that failure by European leaders to resolve the debt
crisis “could lead to a more pronounced economic downturn.” It
also said that net exporting euro nations  Netherlands , Germany,
Belgium, Austria, and Finland face a risk of a bigger
contraction than net importers from “deteriorating external
demand.”  European car sales fell the most in five months in
November, the Brussels-based European Automobile Manufacturers
Association said today. Ireland’s economy shrank 1.9 percent in
the third quarter, the most in more than two years, according to
a separate report.  The  Reserve Bank  of India left the repurchase rate at 8.5
percent as inflation cools and the fallout from Europe’s debt
crisis threatens growth. The decision was predicted by all 14
analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Growth is clearly decelerating,” the central bank said.
“This reflects the combined impact of several factors: the
uncertain global environment, the cumulative impact of past
monetary policy tightening and domestic policy uncertainties.”  U.S. Hopes  As Europe struggles, the U.S. is showing signs of
strengthening heading into 2012, with  jobless-benefit
applications  falling last week to the lowest in three years.
Manufacturing accelerated in December, according to regional
reports from the Federal Reserve Banks of  New York  and
Philadelphia. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.1 percent
today, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.1 percent.  “If there were no euro-zone problem, we would be pretty
upbeat on the prospects for the U.S.,” said  James Knightley , an
economist at ING Group in  London . “The problem is that we
cannot be, and we are concerned that a euro-zone recession will
crimp demand.”  In Zurich yesterday, the SNB forecast Swiss economic growth
of 0.5 percent in 2012 and Hildebrand said “the situation for a
big part of the economy remains difficult.”  The KOF’s new forecasts compared with September projections
for expansion of 1.5 percent and 2.5 percent in the next two
years. The institute also cut its forecast for 2012 export
growth to 0.8 percent from 2.3 percent.  The export-led economy is suffering as the franc’s
appreciation threatens foreign sales. The government lowered its
growth projections this week, saying that the currency “curbs
Swiss companies’ international competitiveness.”  “The Swiss economy will be developing at a snail’s pace in
the coming year,” KOF said. The weaker global development and
the franc’s strength “will dent the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  