-- U.S. Senate Nears Vote on Two-Month Payroll-Tax Cut Extension
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2011-12-17T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/u-s-senate-leaders-said-to-agree-to-payroll-tax-cut-extension.html
The  U.S. Senate  will vote today on
two-month extensions of a  payroll tax  cut, expanded unemployment
benefits and a provision preventing doctors from having their
Medicare reimbursements cut.  The bipartisan agreement reached after a day of
negotiations yesterday is a scaled-back version of a $202.4
billion yearlong extension of the expiring laws passed by the
 House of Representatives  on Dec. 13. The vote, which will end a
congressional stalemate, is set for 9 a.m. in Washington. It
will be followed by votes on spending bills to keep the
government open through Sept. 30, 2012.  The cost of the tax legislation, estimated at more than $30
billion, will be offset by raising guarantee fees that  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac charge to home mortgage lenders. The bill
will include language aimed at forcing President  Barack Obama  to
decide within 60 days whether to approve TransCanada Corp.’s
Keystone XL oil pipeline. Democratic Senator  Charles Schumer  of
 New York  called it a “Pyrrhic victory” for Republicans because
the Obama administration won’t agree to build the pipeline if
forced into a decision.  “It’s an agreement I can recommend to my conference,”
Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican,
said of the overall deal. “I’m very optimistic that we’re going
to have good Republican support for the package.”  No Tax Increase  The agreement means that workers won’t see their payroll
taxes increase by 2 percentage points come January, giving Obama
a partial victory. The president has been traveling around the
country promoting the  tax cut , arguing that without it there
would be a tax increase of $1,000 for someone making $50,000
that would hurt workers and the economy.  The deal is “a significant victory for the American people
and the economy,”  Dan Pfeiffer , the White House communications
director, said in a statement. An administration official, who
spoke on condition of anonymity, said the administration hadn’t
changed its earlier stance that it would reject the application
for Keystone if forced to act within a 60-day window.  To get the extension, Democrats had to agree to the
Keystone provision that many of them dislike on environmental
grounds, jettison a surtax on income over $1 million and agree
to offset the cost of extending  unemployment benefits .  The deal, said Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , is “the
best that we could get.”  Environmental Opposition  The Keystone provision is a “special-interest” rider that
doesn’t belong in the agreement, said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz of
the  Natural Resources Defense Council . It’s a “year-end bonus to
big oil,” she said in a statement for environmental group. “The
president went along in order to save hard-working Americans
from a tax increase.”  The short-term agreement will put the payroll tax cut and
related issues back before Congress early in 2012, and lawmakers
will reprise the same themes they have been using for months.  Schumer, the Senate’s third-ranking Democrat, said
Republicans would suffer political consequences for continuing
to oppose a  payroll-tax  cut extension, adding that Democrats
would continue to push the surtax. He said Democrats would
benefit in February because the issue wouldn’t be linked with a
spending bill to keep the government open, which the Senate will
also consider this weekend.  “We’re in really good shape because the leverage they’ve
always had is about shutting down the government or not raising
the debt ceiling,” Schumer said. “But now the fight is on the
payroll tax, which is something where we have strength.”  Earlier yesterday, lawmakers had been discussing a yearlong
extension of the expiring provisions. To cover the cost of those
items, the House bill included provisions that many Democrats
disliked, including a pay freeze on federal civilian workers,
higher Medicare premiums for high-income senior citizens and
changes to federal employees’ retirement contributions.  Expiring Tax Breaks  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, had said Dec. 13 that he wanted to
include $35 billion worth of extensions of expiring tax breaks.
Those miscellaneous breaks include a research and development
tax credit and a benefit for financial services companies’
overseas operations. They aren’t part of the agreement.  A larger, longer-term deal in the Senate proved difficult,
said Senator  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota Democrat, because of
disagreements over how to cover the cost of the measure.  “The fundamental issue is how do you get pay-fors that
everyone can agree to,” Conrad said. “That is extremely
difficult.”  Democrats offered $120 billion in cuts identified by
Congress’s deficit-reduction supercommittee, said a Senate
Democratic leadership aide familiar with the private talks. The
one-year extension failed, the aide said, because Republicans
and Democrats couldn’t agree on another $70 billion to finance
it. The aide said Republicans rejected ending tax breaks for
corporate jets and sought to cap Medicare payments for
outpatient therapy of stroke victims.  McConnell said Democrats had “difficulty” offering
“credible” proposals to cover the cost of the bill.  No Gimmicks  “We wanted to make sure that we didn’t have any gimmicks,
that the pay-fors were legitimate and would be viewed by
everyone as legitimate,” he said. “The universe of pay-fors
that were legitimate that we could agree to only covered a two
month extension of unemployment and the payroll tax holiday.
We’ll be back discussing the same issues in a couple of months.
But from our point of view, the Keystone pipeline is a very
important job-creating measure in the private sector that
doesn’t cost a penny. And that was important to our members.”  House members left  Washington  yesterday and aren’t expected
back before Dec. 19. They could then quickly act on the Senate
bill.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat, said she
would support the agreement.  “I have some concerns about it just being two months,”
she said. “On the other hand, we have to get it done.”  The Senate hasn’t released the text of the bill.  The House bill is HR 3630.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  