-- U.S. Treasuries Set for Biggest Gain in Six Weeks as Euro Concern Lingers
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2011-12-16T12:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/u-s-treasuries-set-for-biggest-gain-in-six-weeks-as-euro-concern-lingers.html
Treasuries  headed for the biggest
weekly gain in six weeks on speculation European countries are
struggling to contain the region’s debt crisis, boosting demand
for the safety of  U.S. government debt .  The benchmark 10-year yield was six basis points from a
two-month low after Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said the region is
close to a recession. Treasuries pared this week’s gains today
as speculation the U.S. economy is gaining momentum reduced
investor appetite for safer assets.  “Investors are growing increasingly skeptical a solution
will be found to the euro-land problems, hence we saw a renewed
flight to quality and Treasuries seem to be the primary
beneficiary” this week, said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Ten-year
Treasuries will struggle to hold below 2 percent given the
improving near-term outlook for the  U.S. economy .”  The  10-year yield  climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.92 percent at 7:25 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent note
due November 2021 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 22/32.  The yield has dropped 14 basis points this week, set for
the biggest weekly slide since the period ended Nov. 4. It
declined to 1.86 percent yesterday, the lowest since Oct. 5.  Europe Recession  The euro region is “on the brink of a recession,” Juncker
told reporters today in Luxembourg. European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday a short-term contraction
in the euro-area may be “unavoidable.”  “I don’t think there’s anything that we’re going to see in
 Europe  over the next couple of quarters other than probably, at
the very least, a modest contraction,”  Russ Koesterich , global
chief investment strategist at the IShares unit of BlackRock
Inc., the world’s biggest asset manager, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  Treasuries have returned 9.8 percent this year, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds gained 9 percent.  Ten-year notes trimmed this week’s gains today amid
optimism the world’s largest economy is gaining momentum.  U.S. consumer prices rose 0.1 percent last month after
falling 0.1 percent in October, according to a Bloomberg survey
of economists before today’s Labor Department report. Gross
domestic product will expand 2.19 percent in 2012 after growing
1.8 percent this year, according to Bloomberg forecasts.  Jobless claims  U.S. data yesterday showed initial jobless claims fell and
manufacturing in the regions covered by the Federal Reserve
Banks of  New York  and Philadelphia improved more than forecast
in December.  “It’s a bit of risk very lightly creeping back on and
that’s just taking some of the wind out of Treasuries’ sails,”
said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London. “Collateral demand is there across
all the markets so that should keep the front end of the
Treasury curve relatively underpinned and 10-years will probably
take most of the strain if we do see some decent data.”  The 10-year yield will increase to 2.17 percent by March 31
and 2.36 percent by the end of June, according to a Bloomberg
survey of financial companies with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  Biggest Gain  Inflation-linked debt has returned 14 percent to investors
this year, set for the biggest annual gain since 2002, according
to an index compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The government is scheduled to sell $35 billion of two-year
notes on Dec. 19, the same amount of five-year securities the
next day and $29 billion of seven-year debt on Dec. 21.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter maturities in
its holdings of Treasuries with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs in a plan it announced in September.  The central bank is today scheduled to buy as much as $2.75
billion of debt due from 2036 to 2041, and up to $5 billion of
notes maturing between 2020 and 2021 as part of the program,
according to the New York Fed’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  