-- U.S. November Consumer Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2011-12-16T13:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/u-s-november-consumer-price-index-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Nov. consumer prices from the Labor Department.  The Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-
U) was unchanged in November on a seasonally adjusted basis,
the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today. Over the
last 12 months, the all items index increased 3.4 percent
before seasonal adjustment.  The energy index declined for the second month in a row
and offset increases in the indexes for food and all items
less food and energy. As in October, the gasoline index fell
sharply and the index for household energy declined as well.
The food index rose slightly in November, though the index
for food at home declined as four of the six major grocery
store food group indexes fell.  The index for all items less food and energy increased
0.2 percent in November following increases of 0.1 percent
in each of the prior two months. The indexes for shelter,
medical care, apparel, and personal care all rose. These
increases more than offset declines in the indexes for new
vehicles and used cars and trucks.  The all items index has risen 3.4 percent over the last
12 months. This is a slightly smaller increase than last
month's 3.5 percent figure, as the 12-month change in the
energy index declined from 14.2 percent to 12.4 percent. The
12-month change in the food index also declined slightly,
from 4.7 percent to 4.6 percent. In contrast, the 12-month
change in the index for all items less food and energy
continued to rise, reaching 2.2 percent in November.  Consumer Price Index  Data for November 2011  Food  The food index rose 0.1 percent in November, the same
increase as in October. The index for food at home, however,
declined for the first time since June 2010, falling 0.1
percent. The fruits and vegetables index, which fell 1.7
percent in October, declined 0.6 percent in November, as
both the fresh fruits and fresh vegetables indexes continued
to decline. The index for dairy and related products fell
0.3 percent in November while the indexes for meats,
poultry, fish, and eggs and for other food at home both
decreased 0.1 percent. The only major grocery store food
groups to post increases were cereal and bakery products,
which rose 0.3 percent, and nonalcoholic beverages, which
increased 0.2 percent. Despite the November decrease, the
index for food at home has risen 5.9 percent over the past
year with all six major grocery store food groups up at
least 4.4 percent. The index for food away from home
increased 0.3 percent in November after rising 0.2 percent
in October and has risen 2.9 percent over the past year.  Energy  The energy index, which fell 2.0 percent in October,
declined 1.6 percent in November as gasoline prices
continued to fall. The gasoline index decreased 2.4 percent
in November following a 3.1 percent decline in October.
(Before seasonal adjustment, gasoline prices fell 1.1
percent in November.) The household energy index declined in
November as well, falling 0.4 percent. A 4.4 percent decline
in the index for natural gas more than offset a 2.7 percent
increase in the fuel oil index and a 0.4 percent rise in the
index for electricity. Energy indexes are still mostly up
over the past year despite the November declines. The
gasoline index has increased 19.7 percent, while the
household energy index has risen 3.1 percent with the fuel
oil index up 25.0 percent, the electricity index up 2.7
percent, but the natural gas index down 1.3 percent.  All items less food and energy  The index for all items less food and energy increased
0.2 percent in November, the largest increase since August.
As was the case last month, increases in the indexes for
shelter, medical care, and apparel accounted for most of the
increase. The shelter index rose 0.2 percent, the same
increase as in October, as the rent index rose 0.2 percent
and the index for owners' equivalent rent increased 0.1
percent. The index for medical care, which rose 0.5 percent
in October, rose 0.4 percent in November with the medical
care services index repeating its October increase of 0.5
percent. The apparel index increased 0.6 percent in November
following a 0.4 percent increase in October and has now
risen in seven of the last eight months. The index for
personal care rose notably in November, increasing 0.6
percent, while the tobacco and recreation indexes both
posted slight increases. In contrast, the new vehicles index
fell 0.3 percent and the index for used cars and trucks
declined 0.1 percent.  The index for all items less food and energy has
increased 2.2 percent over the last 12 months, the largest
such increase since 2008. The 12-month change in the shelter
index has been steadily increasing and reached 1.8 percent
in November. The 12-month change in the medical care index
was 3.4 percent, its highest level in over a year, while the
apparel index has risen 4.8 percent over the last 12 months,
the largest figure since 1991.  Not seasonally adjusted CPI measures  The Consumer  Price Index  for All Urban Consumers (CPI-
U) increased 3.4 percent over the last 12 months to an index
level of 226.230 (1982-84=100). For the month, the index
declined 0.1 percent prior to seasonal adjustment.  The Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers (CPI-W) increased 3.8 percent over the last
12 months to an index level of 222.813  (1982-84=100). For
the month, the index declined 0.1 percent prior to seasonal
adjustment.  The Chained Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers (C-CPI-U) increased 3.2 percent over the last 12
months. For the month, the index declined 0.1 percent on a
not seasonally adjusted basis. Please note that the indexes
for the post-2009 period are subject to revision.  The Consumer Price Index for December 2011 is scheduled
to be released on Thursday, January 19, 2012, at 8:30 a.m.
(EST). Releases for the remainder of 2012 are scheduled on
the following dates:
Feb. 17
March 16
April 13
May 15
June 14
July 17
Aug. 15
Sept. 14
Oct. 16
Nov. 15
Dec. 14  Brief Explanation of the CPI  The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is a measure of the
average change in prices over time of goods and services
purchased by households.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics
publishes CPIs for two population groups: (1) the CPI for
Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W), which
covers households of wage earners and clerical workers that
comprise approximately 32 percent of the total population
and (2) the CPI for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U) and the
Chained CPI for All Urban Consumers (C-CPI-U), which cover
approximately 87 percent of the total population and include
in addition to wage earners and clerical worker households,
groups such as professional, managerial, and technical
workers, the self-employed, short-term workers, the
unemployed, and retirees and others not in the labor force.  The CPIs are based on prices of food, clothing,
shelter, and fuels, transportation fares, charges for
doctors' and dentists' services, drugs, and other goods and
services that people buy for day-to-day living.  Prices are
collected each month in 87 urban areas across the country
from about 4,000 housing units and approximately 26,000
retail establishments-department stores, supermarkets,
hospitals, filling stations, and other types of stores and
service establishments.  All taxes directly associated with
the purchase and use of items are included in the index.
Prices of fuels and a few other items are obtained every
month in all 87 locations.  Prices of most other commodities
and services are collected every month in the three largest
geographic areas and every other month in other areas.
Prices of most goods and services are obtained by personal
visits or telephone calls of the Bureau's trained
representatives.  In calculating the index, price changes for the various
items in each location are averaged together with weights,
which represent their importance in the spending of the
appropriate population group.  Local data are then combined
to obtain a U.S. city average.  For the CPI-U and CPI-W
separate indexes are also published by size of city, by
region of the country, for cross-classifications of regions
and population-size classes, and for 27 local areas.  Area
indexes do not measure differences in the level of prices
among cities; they only measure the average change in prices
for each area since the base period.  For the C-CPI-U data
are issued only at the national level. It is important to
note that the CPI-U and CPI-W are considered final when
released, but the C-CPI-U is issued in preliminary form and
subject to two annual revisions.  The index measures price change from a designed
reference date.  For the CPI-U and the CPI-W the reference
base is 1982-84 equals 100.  The reference base for the C-
CPI-U is December 1999 equals 100.  An increase of 16.5
percent from the reference base, for example, is shown as
116.500.  This change can also be expressed in dollars as
follows:  the price of a base period market basket of goods
and services in the CPI has risen from $10 in 1982-84 to
$11.65.  For further details visit the CPI home page on the
Internet at  http://www.bls.gov/cpi/  or contact our CPI
Information and Analysis Section on (202) 691-7000.  Note on Sampling Error in the Consumer Price Index  The CPI is a statistical estimate that is subject to
sampling error because it is based upon a sample of retail
prices and not the complete universe of all prices.  BLS
calculates and publishes estimates of the 1-month, 2-month,
6-month and 12-month percent change standard errors
annually, for the CPI-U.  These standard error estimates can
be used to construct confidence intervals for hypothesis
testing.  For example, the estimated standard error of the 1
month percent change is 0.03 percent for the U.S. All Items
Consumer Price Index.  This means that if we repeatedly
sample from the universe of all retail prices using the same
methodology, and estimate a percentage change for each
sample, then 95% of these estimates would be within 0.06
percent of the 1 month percentage change based on all retail
prices.  For example, for a 1-month change of 0.2 percent in
the All Items CPI for All Urban Consumers, we are 95 percent
confident that the actual percent change based on all retail
prices would fall between 0.14 and 0.26 percent.  For the
latest data, including information on how to use the
estimates of standard error, see "Variance Estimates for
Price Changes in the Consumer Price Index, January-December
2010".  These data are available on the CPI home page
( http://www.bls.gov/cpi ), or by using the following link
 http://www.bls.gov/cpi/cpivar2010.pdf   Calculating Index Changes  Movements of the indexes from one month to another are
usually expressed as percent changes rather than changes in
index points, because index point changes are affected by
the level of the index in relation to its base period while
percent changes are not.  The example below illustrates the
computation of index point and percent changes.  Percent changes for 3-month and 6-month periods are
expressed as annual rates and are computed according to the
standard formula for compound growth rates.  These data
indicate what the percent change would be if the current
rate were maintained for a 12-month period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  