-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Gains by Producers
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2011-12-16T21:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/u-s-stock-futures-climb-before-inflation-report-rim-sinks-on-phone-delay.html
U.S. stocks rose, paring a weekly
loss in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as gains among
commodity producers helped overcome debt-crisis concerns after
Fitch Ratings said it may cut ratings of European nations.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  increased at least 1.2
percent, pacing gains among energy companies. Banking shares in
the  S&P 500  rose 1.2 percent as a group, trimming an earlier
rally.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell 11 percent after the company
delayed the release of a new generation of BlackBerry devices.
Zynga Inc., the largest maker of games for Facebook, declined 5
percent in its first day of trading.  The S&P 500 rose 0.3 percent to 1,219.66 at 4 p.m. New York
time, after jumping as much as 1.3 percent earlier. The
benchmark index has fallen 3 percent since Dec. 31 after being
up for the year on nine days since Oct. 27. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slipped 2.42 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 11,866.39 today.  “We’re seeing a market in which there’s very little long-
term investor interest,”  David Kelly , who helps oversee $394
billion as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “Europe is still dodging
all the major decisions it needs to make in order to fix the
problem and I think that the disappointment in that is still
dogging the markets right now.”  The S&P 500 lost 2.8 percent this week. It slumped Dec. 13
after the  Federal Reserve  refrained from taking new actions to
bolster growth, saying the  U.S. economy  is maintaining its
expansion even as the global economy slows. Stocks rose
yesterday after data showed improvements in jobless claims and
manufacturing. The U.S. economy will expand at a 3.5 percent
annual rate this quarter, up from a prior estimate of 3 percent,
according to estimates today by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  economists.  Rating Outlook  Stocks trimmed an early rally after Fitch Ratings lowered
France’s rating outlook to negative and put the grades of
Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus on review
for a downgrade, citing Europe’s failure to find a
“comprehensive solution” to the debt crisis. It also said all
investment-grade countries in the euro region rated below AAA
are subject to a “Rating Watch Negative” review, which Fitch
expects to complete by the end of January.  Moody’s Investors Service said Dec. 12 it would review the
ratings of all European Union countries after a summit of
leaders last week did little to ease pressure on the governments
in Europe. S&P placed the ratings of 15 nations, including
France and Germany, on review for possible downgrade on Dec. 5.  Funding Deadline  Gains in stocks were propelled earlier by optimism the
European Union will meet a Dec. 19 deadline for funding a
crisis-fighting package. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who
leads a group of finance ministers from the region, said the EU
should meet the goal for arranging loans to the  International
Monetary Fund . An hour after Juncker’s comments, the Bundesbank
said it won’t rush to a decision on the loans, which are to be
provided by EU national central banks.  “Going into a weekend, people take money off the table for
fear of not knowing what’s going to happen, chiefly in Europe,”
Peter Tuz, who helps manage about $800 million as president of
Chase Investment Counsel Corp. in Charlottesville, Virginia,
said in a telephone interview.  Energy and raw material companies advanced at least 0.7
percent among groups in the S&P 500. Chevron added 1.2 percent
to $100.86. Halliburton jumped 1.6 percent to $31.76.  Banks climbed the most among 24 S&P groups.  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  jumped 1.4 percent to $25.98. JPMorgan Chase rose 0.4
percent to $31.89, after rallying as much as 2.6 percent
earlier.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  lost 1.1 percent to $5.20.  Options Expiration  Today is the expiration of futures and options contracts on
indexes and individual stocks, an event known as quadruple
witching, which occurs once every three months.  A measure of expected stock-market volatility declined 3.3
percent today, trading at the farthest below its 200-day average
since July. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
or  VIX (VIX) , dropped to 24.29, or 5.5 percent below its 200-day
average.  The S&P 500 is trading for 12.8 times reported earnings, 22
percent lower than the six-decade average of 16.4, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. American companies have topped Wall
Street profit estimates for 11 straight quarters.  Adobe Rises  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest maker of graphic-design
software, rose the most in the S&P 500 after saying first-
quarter sales forecast beat some estimates, boosted by demand
for tools that design Web pages and create online video. The
stock advanced 6.6 percent to $28.20.  RIM (RIMM)  dropped 11 percent to $13.44 after saying a new
generation of BlackBerrys designed to fuel a comeback won’t be
out until the “latter part” of 2012. The smartphone maker,
which originally planned to release the new devices in the firs
quarter of next year, also gave sales and profit forecasts that
missed analysts’ estimates.  Zynga slipped 5 percent to $9.50 in its first day of
trading, after raising $1 billion in an initial public offering
that gave it a greater valuation than rival Electronic Arts Inc.
The developer of games such as “CityVille,” “FarmVille” and
“Mafia Wars” sold 100 million shares for $10 each, the top end
of a proposed range.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  tumbled 8.5 percent to $12.75. Th
U.S. cable-television provider’s chief operating officer, Tom Rutledge, will step down this month for undisclosed reasons, in
what  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
calls a “staggering loss” for the company.  Accenture Plc (ACN)  fell 3.5 percent to $54.15. The world’s
second-largest technology-consulting company lowered its full-
year earnings forecast on currency fluctuations, after beating
analysts’ estimates for the first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  