-- Huaneng Lifts Stocks in U.S. From Two-Month Low: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2011-12-16T21:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/huaneng-power-boosts-stocks-in-u-s-from-a-two-month-low-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks trading in the U.S.
rose from a two-month low, led by gains in  Huaneng Power
International Inc. (HNP)  and  China Eastern Airlines Ltd., (CEA)  on
speculation policy makers may take steps to spur growth.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks rose 0.8 percent to 94.19, from 93.46 on Dec. 15, the
lowest closing level since Oct. 7. Huaneng, China’s largest
power group, gained 4.7 percent to $21.02, trading at a 35-cent
discount to equivalent shares listed in Hong Kong.  Sina Corp (SINA) ,
owner of the Twitter-like Weibo service in China, advanced 4.3
percent after earlier falling as much as 11 percent on a move by
Beijing’s municipal government to tighten regulation on
microblog users.  Speculation is growing that policy makers may cut the
lenders’ reserve requirement ratio for a second time since
November after the money supply grew in November the least in a
decade and the manufacturing industry contracted in December.
Fitch Ratings put credit ratings for European nations, including
France, Spain and Italy, under review for a downgrade,
underscoring the needs for China to revive domestic demand as
the  European debt crisis  hurts exports.  “They are probably slowing down a bit too much perhaps for
their own taste, so they are easing the monetary policy,” said
Angel Gurria, secretary general of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “External demand around the world is dropping.
Therefore, China is going to have to do more of domestic demand
push.”  Domestic Shares  The Shanghai Composite Index of domestic shares gained 2
percent, rebounding from the lowest close since March 2009. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks Chinese
companies trading in Hong Kong, rose for the first time in seven
days, gaining 1.9 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
U.S. shares climbed 0.3 percent, while the  IShares FTSE China 25
Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese exchange-traded fund in the
U.S., advanced 1.3 percent to $34.53.  21Vianet Group Inc., (VNET)  an Internet data center services
provider, jumped 9.7 percent to $9.58. The company said that it
has exercised its option to acquire the remaining 49 percent
equity interest in two companies that provide managed network
services.  Huaneng’s advance extended the gain this week to 5.4
percent. China may introduce more measures to relieve power
shortages in the country following a recent power price
increase, Han Wenke, director general at the Energy Research
Institute of the National Development and Reform Commission,
said after a forum in Beijing on Dec. 14.  Sina, China’s biggest Internet portal, said Beijing’s
municipal government will force microblog users to verify their
identities.  Internet Rules  The new rules, effective today, ban users from setting up
accounts with aliases and sending public messages containing
state secrets or information that could harm national security.
Sina is “evaluating the impact” the changes may have on the
Weibo operation, the company said in a statement.  Chinese officials have pressured microblog services to
strengthen supervision after a fatal rail crash in July sparked
an outburst of criticism of the government on the Internet.
 Microblogs , which are used to publish short messages on the
Internet, have at least 300 million registered users in China.
Sina’s Weibo accounted for 66 percent of the market in August,
according to a Sept. 15 report by BOCOM International.  The news isn’t the “worst case scenario” for Sina as
investors had already anticipated the tightening of government
regulations, according to Adam Krejcik, an analyst at Roth
Capital Partners.  “Following months of speculation we believe Sina’s
management is relatively prepared and also believe the actual
reporting of this news, versus numerous rumors, is better for
the market,” Krejcik wrote in a note to clients. “We do not
believe this signals the end of Weibo in China.”  Tencent, Sohu  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , based in Shenzhen, is the second-
biggest operator of microblogs with a 25 percent share,
according to BOCOM International. Beijing-based  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ,
owner of the country’s fifth-most visited website, also offers
similar services. Tencent rose 0.9 percent to $19.33 in New
York, while Sohu added 3.9 percent to $48.18.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  rose 3.7 percent after the
semiconductor company said it will buy back up to $50 million in
shares.  Youku.com Inc., (YOKU)  China’s biggest online-video website,
gained 5.1 percent to $18.05. The company filed a copyright
infringement lawsuit against rival Tudou Holdings Ltd. at the
People’s Court in Shanghai, Youku said in an e-mailed statement.
Tudou declined 1.2 percent to $11.12.  Economic Outlook  China’s domestic bourse has lost 21 percent this year,
following a 14 percent decline in 2010, as policy makers raised
borrowing costs to combat inflation and took measures to curb
housing prices. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  is trading at 10.7
times forecast earnings in the next 12 months, compared with
13.4 in India, 4.8 in Russia and 10 in Brazil.  Reports this week show that the economic slowdown in the
world’s second-biggest economy is gathering momentum. Foreign
direct investment dropped for the first time since 2009. The
Conference Board’s leading index for China, which captures
prospects over the next six months, fell in October.  The central bank reduced the reserve requirement ratio for
lenders on Nov. 30 for the first time since 2008 to temper the
pace of the economic slowdown. The central bank will lower
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios once more this year and five
times in 2012, Li Wei and Stephen Green, economists at Standard
Chartered Plc., wrote in a note to clients this week.  In a sign that credit restrictions are loosening, the
Securities Times reported yesterday that banks in Shenzhen are
joining peers in Beijing and Shanghai in offering mortgage rates
for first-time home buyers.  The Chinese  yuan  gained 0.4 percent to 6.3484 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  