-- United Rentals Agrees to Buy RSC Holdings for $1.9 Billion in Cash, Stock
-- B y   N a t a l i e   D o s s
-- 2011-12-16T14:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/united-rentals-agrees-to-buy-rsc-holdings-for-1-9-billion-in-cash-stock.html
United Rentals Inc. (URI) , the biggest
U.S. equipment rental company, agreed to buy RSC Holdings Inc.
for $1.9 billion to add sales from more stable industrial
customers.  The offer of $18 a share is a 58 percent premium to RSC’s
closing price yesterday, the companies said in a statement
today. That compares with an average premium of 55 percent in
more than four dozen acquisitions of automotive and equipment
rental companies announced since the end of 2008, Bloomberg data
show. RSC shares climbed the most ever in intraday trading.  United Rentals, whose sales last year were 32 percent below
a pre-financial crisis high amid declining construction, said
the purchase will provide “less volatile” revenue. The
combined company expects to benefit from “continued strength”
in manufacturing and a recovery in construction.  “This transaction marks a transformative moment in our
company’s history,” United Rentals Chief Executive Officer
Michael Kneeland said in the statement. “We have a tremendous
opportunity to become the supplier of choice for customers
throughout  North America .”  For each RSC share, investors would receive $10.80 in cash
and 0.2783 share of United Rentals, the companies said. The
company plans to authorize a $200 million share buyback and
complete it within six to 12 months after closing. The deal is
subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.  United Rentals Management  United Rentals’ offer is equivalent to 3.8 times the target
company’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, compared with a median multiple of 3.4 times
ebitda in seven acquisitions since 2008.  Including $2.3 billion of RSC’s debt, the deal would have
an enterprise value of $4.2 billion, the companies said. The
combination may generate annual cost savings of as much as $200
million.  United Rentals CEO Kneeland and Chairman Jenne Britell will
keep their positions after completion of the acquisition, which
the companies said they expect to close in the first six months
of 2012.  RSC’s  largest shareholder (RRR) , Oak Hill  Capital Partners ,
agreed to vote its 33.5 percent stake in favor of the
acquisition, according to the statement.  RSC climbed 54 percent to $17.54 at 9:54 a.m. in New York
trading, after jumping 56 percent for the biggest intraday gain
since the company went public in 2007. United Rentals increased
2 percent to $26.57.  Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and  Wells Fargo & Co .
agreed to provide financing to United Rentals. Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services reaffirmed its “B” grade on the company’s
credit, six steps below investment level.  Centerview Partners  and Morgan Stanley advised United
Rentals, and  Sullivan & Cromwell  was its legal adviser. Barclays
Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. were RSC’s lead financial
advisers, and Deutsche Bank AG also advised. Paul, Weiss,
Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison as well as Debevoise & Plimpton were
the company’s legal advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Doss in New York at 
 ndoss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  