-- Utilities in Power Squeeze as States Tie Mergers to Clean Energy
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2011-12-16T19:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/utilities-in-power-squeeze-as-states-tie-mergers-to-clean-energy.html
The surging pace of power-industry
consolidation, with more than $31 billion in transactions
pending in the U.S., is giving state officials such as Maryland
Governor Martin O’Malley leverage to wrest more clean-energy
investments from merging companies.  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  said yesterday it will invest $1 billion in
Maryland, almost doubling its previous offer, to gain O’Malley’s
support for the company’s $8.05 billion takeover of Baltimore-
based  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  Chicago-based Exelon
agreed to develop as much as 180 megawatts of new electric
generation from wind, solar and poultry litter, more than seven
times its initial pledge of a 25-megawatt project.  “Five years ago, you wouldn’t have seen a renewable
commitment as the core element of a merger settlement,” said
Howard Learner, executive director of the Environmental Law and
Policy Center in Chicago. “That reflects the renewed importance
that governors and states are putting on renewable development:
it’s good for the environment and jobs.”  O’Malley had presented the greatest obstacle to the merger
with his demands for a slate of sweeteners from Exelon. His
sign-off now clears the way for state regulators to approve the
deal. Regulators in  New York , where the company also supplies
power, voted yesterday to allow the merger to proceed.  The governor’s success in gaining the additional investment
for Maryland may encourage other state officials to turn to
industry to boost clean energy at a time when federal funding is
constrained, Learner said.  Northeast Utilities (NU)   Similar discussions are under way in  Massachusetts , where
Governor Deval Patrick’s administration is in talks with Boston-
based  Nstar (NST)  and Northeast Utilities over how their combined
companies would help meet the state’s renewable energy goals.
Northeast Utilities, which is based in Springfield,
Massachusetts, and run from Hartford,  Connecticut , is in the
process of buying Boston-based Nstar.  Tying state approval for mergers to investments in wind and
solar may raise costs for utilities and drive more spending on
renewable energy at a time when projects are faltering because
of falling fuel prices,  Paul Patterson , a New York-based analyst
with Glenrock Associates, said in a telephone interview.  “You need a tremendous amount of government support, one
way or another,” Patterson said. “Renewables are politically
very popular. It’s just an example of trying to effectuate
policy through regulatory approval.”  Decision Delayed  The  Maryland  Public Service Commission today delayed a
decision date on the merger to Feb. 17 from Jan. 5, allowing
time for three public hearings, Regina Davis, a commission
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  Environmental groups led by the  Sierra Club  “support the
principles of the settlement” although further review is needed
before approval, Joshua Berman, an attorney for the Sierra Club,
said yesterday in a filing.  Exelon’s agreement to build 125 megawatts of wind power
will more than double Maryland’s land-based wind generation,
O’Malley said in a statement yesterday. One megawatt of
electricity is enough to power 800 homes, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  Exelon also agreed to help develop at least 30 megawatts of
solar power in Baltimore, and build the first plant in Maryland
to turn chicken litter, a bedding material commonly made from
woodshavings or straw, into a fuel source.  “This deal represents an unprecedented commitment on
Exelon’s part to become part of Maryland’s future,” O’Malley
said.  Lower Gas Prices  State officials and regulators have traditionally used
their approval authority for utility mergers to protect the
interests of consumers, often demanding concessions such as
lower electrical rates or customer rebates.  As natural gas prices have fallen amid a U.S. production
glut, renewable energy has become a more expensive option. Many
projects aren’t commercially feasible without government
incentives, so companies may need to be forced to invest, Sam Brothwell, senior utilities analyst with Bloomberg Industries,
said in an interview.  When considering whether a utility merger is in consumers’
best interests, it’s appropriate for states to add renewable
energy to the mix of considerations that include electric rates
and reliability, said Maryland State Senator James Rosapepe, a
Democrat.  “The issue in Maryland is that the merger can only be
approved if it’s in the public interest,” he said.  O’Malley’s Role  O’Malley, who squelched a previous Constellation merger,
brokered the agreement with Exelon executives who had scuttled
three previous transactions rather than agree to costly demands
by regulators.  In addition to the clean energy investments, the agreement
gives Maryland’s utility regulator the authority to order Exelon
to sell Baltimore Gas & Electric Co. in the event of a severe
nuclear accident at any of Exelon’s reactors, according to a
summary provided by the governor’s office. Exelon is the largest
owner and operator of U.S. nuclear power plants.  The state also can require Exelon to sell the utility if
the company files for  bankruptcy protection  or allows its  credit
rating  to drop six levels below investment grade, according to
the summary.  Federal Regulators  Even with the richer concessions in Maryland, the deal is
expected to be economical for Exelon, Dorothea Matthews,
utilities analyst for CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone
interview.  “Exelon has walked away from other mergers when they’ve
said, ‘We’ve made our last concession,’” Matthews said. “I
think that helped them here.”  The merger still must pass muster with federal regulators,
and is awaiting approval from the U.S. Justice Department, U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission .  The agreement with Maryland, though, “is the last real
hurdle,” CreditSights analyst Matthews said.  On Dec. 14, FERC rejected  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s plan for
easing competitive concerns associated with its $16.2 billion
acquisition of  Progress Energy Inc. (PGN)  Duke said yesterday the
companies remain committed to the transaction and will submit a
new plan to federal regulators soon.  While renewable energy hasn’t proven to be an obstacle to
the merger, North Carolina Governor Beverly Eaves Perdue asked
the companies last month to purchase power from a proposed wind
farm, saying the long-term contracts were “urgently needed” to
start the project.  Progress explored the wind purchase earlier this year
before deciding against it.  “We have to do what’s in the best interest of our
customers,” said Scott Sutton, a spokesman for the Raleigh,
North Carolina-based power company, in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in  Chicago  at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net 
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  