-- Velarde Sees No ‘Clear Signs’ of Peru Economy Slowing
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2011-12-16T18:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/velarde-sees-no-clear-signs-of-peru-economy-slowing-correct-.html
(Corrects to add ‘No’ to headline.)  Peruvian central bank President
Julio Velarde said he sees no clear signs of deceleration of the
country’s economy.  The bank president, speaking during a presentation of the
central bank’s quarterly inflation report today in Lima, said
that the country’s economy would post year-on-year  growth  of 5
percent in the fourth quarter  South America ’s sixth-biggest economy will expand 6.8
percent in 2011 and 5.5 percent next year, according to today’s
report, compared with the Sept. 16 forecasts of 6.3 percent and
5.7 percent respectively. He said that the economy’s potential
is for 6.4 percent growth.  Velarde attributed the revisions to the global economic
slowdown, adding that global demand concerns will affect
investment more than concern about anti-mining protests locally.  Peru ’s recent manufacturing decline is worrying, Velarde
said, but he expects it to be temporary given U.S. economic
growth. The decline is more a result of a “fear of recession in
the U.S. rather than actual recession.” Velarde said that he
doesn’t perceive any significant slowdown in credit growth.  Mining, Commodities, Rates  The bank chief said that he does see a deceleration in
mining investment projects in Cajamarca region though if all
projects are completed this will be “the most exceptional”
decade for mining investment. He sees exports dipping next year,
and a rise in 2013 as new mines start production.  Velarde said he expects commodity prices to stay at high
levels on  China  next year on the whole, with copper lower while
gold and oil will be higher. He sees lower import prices for
Peru.  Regarding central bank monetary policy, Velarde said that
policy makers have kept rates on hold because they see demand
and economic growth staying below potential at the same time
that inflation expectations are within target.  The bank has kept the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent since
a quarter point increase at its May 12 meeting.  Peru rate policy is neutral and what happens in the world
economy will determine whether next move is a rate rise or rate
cut.  The sol was little changed at 2.6974 per dollar at 1:26
p.m. New York time from 2.6962 yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  