-- Vietnam’s Coffee Trades at Premium on Futures, Delayed Sales
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2011-12-16T16:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/vietnam-s-coffee-trades-at-premium-on-futures-delayed-sales.html
Coffee beans from  Vietnam , the
world’s largest producer of the robusta variety, are trading at
a premium to the price in  London  after futures fell and farmers
delayed sales, three traders said.  Vietnamese beans for shipment from January onward were at a
premium of $30 to $50 a metric ton above the price on the NYSE
Liffe exchange, according to the traders, who declined to be
identified because they’re not authorized to speak to the media.
That compares with a discount of $10 to $30 a ton on Dec. 8,
another three traders said then.  The local market remains “very firm,” Volcafe, the
Winterthur, Switzerland-based coffee unit of commodities trader
ED&F Man Holdings Ltd., said in a report e-mailed today, adding
that there was demand for the beans and that coffee was
available “only if one is willing to meet the current prices.”  Robusta coffee for March delivery fell 0.1 percent to
$1,900 a ton by 3:45 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in London. The contract
slid 3.7 percent from the high of $1,974 a ton on Dec. 8, when
traders reported discounts, and declined 9.4 percent this year.  Vietnam’s coffee farmers are slowing sales from the latest
crop because of low prices, Do Ha Nam, general director of
Vietnam’s Intimex Joint-Stock Corp., the biggest shipper from
the previous crop, said at a conference in  Ho Chi Minh City  last
week. Exports will be spread over the whole year and not just in
the first half, he said.  The nation is set to produce 22.1 million bags of 60-
kilograms in the season started in October, up from 20 million
bags in 2010-11, Volcafe estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 