-- Web-Name Expansion Should Be Reduced to Avoid Fraud, FTC Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2011-12-16T22:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/web-name-expansion-should-be-reduced-to-avoid-fraud-ftc-says.html
A plan to add hundreds of Internet
domain names beyond .com and .org should be scaled back to avoid
fraud, the Federal Trade Commission said.  The FTC said in a letter today to the Internet Corporation
for Assigned Names and Numbers, the non-profit that manages the
Web’s address system, the project may create “dramatically
increased opportunity for consumer fraud.” Icann should
introduce the expansion as a pilot program and reduce the number
of domains created, the agency said.  Icann, working under a U.S. Commerce Department contract,
approved a plan in June to expand the number of top-level
domains beyond the commonly used .com, .net and .org in a move
to spur online innovation.  The group, based in  Marina del Rey ,  California , will start
accepting applications for Web suffixes including company and
brand names, cities and words like .apple and .book, starting
Jan. 12 for three months. Applications will cost $185,000 for
each domain.  General Electric Co. (GE) , Johnson & Johnson and Coca-Cola Co.
are among more than 40 companies that last month joined with the
Association of National Advertisers to oppose the expansion,
saying it will increase costs for companies, confuse customers
and create new risks of Internet fraud.  Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz said last
week the planned addition of top-level domains may be a
“disaster,” allowing con artists to set up fraudulent
websites. The FTC, which has no direct authority over Icann, can
act when companies engage in deceptive trade practices.  The domain-name expansion has also drawn scrutiny from
lawmakers.  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who leads
the Senate’s commerce committee, said at a hearing last week
that Icann should proceed slowly with the program, given the
potential for fraud and consumer confusion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steve Walsh  at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  