-- Whitney’s Armageddon Belied by ’11 Returns
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2011-12-16T16:37:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/whitney-s-armageddon-belied-by-best-returns-of-2011-muni-credit.html
This was supposed to be the year the
$3.7 trillion state and local debt market would be rocked by an
exploding pension time bomb and “hundreds of billions of
dollars” of defaults, according to analyst  Meredith Whitney .  Whitney’s Armageddon never came. Instead, munis became the
star performers of 2011.  An investor who bought $10,000 of munis the day after
Whitney’s Dec. 19 prediction on CBS’s “60 Minutes” television
program would have made about $1,050, based on the 10.5 percent
gain in the Merrill Lynch Municipal Master Index, which
calculates price changes and interest income. That beats U.S.
Treasuries, stocks, corporate bonds and commodities. The muni
return is better still because interest income is tax-exempt.  Public debt benefited as Treasury yields plunged and
investors fled volatile stocks, powering the Merrill muni index
to its third-best showing in a decade. As the  U.S. economy 
recovered from the longest contraction since the 1930s, revenue
rebounded, state and local governments raised the taxes backing
their bonds, addressed underfunded pensions, cut spending and
borrowed 30 percent less than the record amount of 2010.  “Politicians have actually done a pretty good job of
stepping up and making pretty difficult decisions,” said Lyle Fitterer, who helps manage $28 billion of municipal bonds at
Wells Capital Management in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin .  In the last four fiscal years, states closed more than $325
billion of deficits, according to the  National Association of
State Budget Officers.  All but  Vermont  are required to have
balanced budgets, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  Budget Measures  Rhode Island lopped $3 billion from pension costs by
lowering benefits. California passed a budget with automatic
spending cuts if revenue doesn’t meet projections. Illinois
raised income and corporate taxes by $7 billion. State and local
governments also eliminated 648,000 jobs since their pre-
recession heights, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics .  “Governments managed through a very difficult budget
season,” said Chris Mauro, head of municipal strategy at RBC
Capital Markets LLC in  New York . “They did what they needed to
do. These budgets were balanced with tough love.”  No tally of actual municipal-bond defaults this year comes
close to Whitney’s prediction.  Richard Lehmann , publisher of the Distressed Debt
Securities Newsletter in Miami Lakes,  Florida , counts $24.6
billion, almost five times more than last year. That includes
issuers that used reserves to make interest payments.  Lower Figure  The figure is far lower when only those that missed
payments are counted. By that measure, defaults fell to $2.1
billion this year from about $2.8 billion in 2010, according to
Matt Fabian, a managing director at Municipal Market Advisors in
Concord,  Massachusetts .  Defaults concentrated in bonds of community development
districts, nursing homes and other small and unrated parts of
the market are “manageable,” said Judy Temel, director of
credit research at Samson Capital Advisors LLC in New York.  Not only did the municipal market survive Whitney, it
shrugged off the bankruptcies of Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , and
Jefferson County,  Alabama , the largest for a government in U.S.
history. The failures were the culmination of years of fiscal
stress and were anticipated, Temel said.  Withstanding Blows  Nor did the market falter when  Standard & Poor’s  stripped
the U.S. of its AAA credit rating, raising the possibility that
top-ranked state and local borrowers would be downgraded as
well. It also withstood a congressional committee’s failure to
agree on steps to reduce the U.S. deficit, which may trigger
billions of dollars of cuts in federal aid to states.  Yesterday, the yield of the S&P National AMT-Free Municipal
Bond Index fell to a  record low  of 3.37 percent.  “The relative high quality and diversification seen in the
municipal-bond market has created an avenue for investors
seeking safety, less volatility and comparably good yields,”
J.R. Rieger, vice president for fixed-income indexes at S&P,
wrote in a research note.  To be sure, concerns about U.S. public finances remain.
Many states and cities are still grappling with budgets squeezed
by the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009. Rising costs
for health care and the impact of federal deficit cuts will also
weigh on future budgets.  Inadequate Pensions  Thirty-three states had pension assets last year of less
than the 80 percent considered adequate to pay benefits,
according to a 2011 study by Bloomberg Rankings. Median funding
fell to 73.7 percent from 76.2 percent in 2009, the data show.  And while state tax collections in the third quarter  rose
7.3 percent,  according to the  Albany , New York-based Nelson A.
Rockefeller Institute of Government, they remain below peak
levels of 2007 and 2008.  For 2011 at least, the 10.5 percent total return of
municipal bonds beats Treasuries, which earned 9.6 percent, and
corporate debt, up 6.9 percent, Merrill indexes show. The  S&P
500 (SPX)  stock index has fallen 3.3 percent, while the S&P GSCI Spot
Index of commodities lost 2.2 percent.  When returns are adjusted for price volatility, municipal
bonds returned about three times more than corporate bonds and
twice as much as Treasuries, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch and Bloomberg data.  Behind Outperformance  The outperformance comes down to supply and demand, said
Matt Dalton, who oversees $925 million of munis as chief
executive officer of Belle Haven Investments Inc. in  White
Plains , New York.  “Demand has continued to increase in part because we
haven’t had the multiple defaults that Meredith pointed to,”
Dalton said.  After suffering $44 billion in withdrawals from November
2010 through May 2011, tax-exempt municipal-bond mutual funds
have taken in about $8.3 billion through Dec. 7,  according to
the Investment Company Institute .  That’s as individual investors, who make up 75 percent of
municipal-bond holders, pulled $153 billion from stock funds in
the last 7 1/2 months, according to the ICI.  At the same time, state and local borrowing fell to $285
billion this year from $407.7 billion in 2010, RBC’s Mauro
estimates, as officials put off capital projects and the
federally subsidized Build America Bonds program expired.  Benefits Reinforced  Tax increases in high-wealth states such as New York and
 Connecticut  reinforced the benefits of municipals, as did low
rates on taxable securities. The yield on top-rated 30-year tax-
exempt bonds  exceeded that  of comparable Treasuries in all but
10 days of the year.  “Munis make too much sense versus CDs, corporates and
Treasuries,” Dalton said. “When you’re looking at 10-year
Treasury bonds at 2 percent and you can buy a 10-year muni bond
at 2 percent, a taxable buyer moves to the tax-exempt side of
the ledger.”  Whitney, 42, gained prominence after her 2007 prediction
that Citigroup Inc. would cut its dividend because of mortgage-
related losses proved correct in 2008. Her recommendation to
sell bank stocks before the credit crisis hit with full force
propelled her to fame. Fortune magazine dubbed her “The Woman
Who Called Wall Street’s Meltdown.”  A graduate of  Brown University  in Providence,  Rhode Island ,
she started New York-based Meredith Whitney Advisory Group LLC
in 2009 after leaving Oppenheimer & Co.  Debt Warning  She said last year after her September report entitled
“Tragedy of the Commons” that state and local borrowers had
too much debt and were a systemic risk to financial markets. She
didn’t return a telephone call or respond to an e-mail seeking
comment yesterday.  Part of the reason the municipal market performed well was
because of, not despite, Whitney, said Priscilla Hancock,
municipal strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management.  In the fourth quarter of last year, Whitney’s doomsaying
collided with rising debt sales stemming from the soon-to-end
 Build America Bonds program  to depress the market. That helped
spark the withdrawal of $20 billion from municipal-bond funds in
the quarter. By the end of April, investors had pulled out
another $23 billion.  Merrill Lynch’s Municipal Master Index lost 4.5 percent in
the quarter, the most since the first quarter of 1994.  “This set the market up for good performance as those
factors changed,” said Hancock. “The market benefitted from
both low rates and from a correction.”  Investors chasing 2011’s returns will be hard-pressed to
get them in 2012, said Fitterer of Wells Capital.  “That’s the sad part,” he said. “They got out of the
asset class when there was great value, and now in some cases
they’re buying back in when the numbers look good again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  