-- Will Israel Declare War on Violent Settlers?: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2011-12-16T00:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/will-israel-declare-war-on-violent-settlers-jeffrey-goldberg.html
The Israeli Defense Forces are
increasingly confronting a truth that many Palestinians
learned awhile ago: A not-insignificant number of the
Israelis who have settled on the  West Bank  are unhinged
zealots who, in their self-righteousness, myopia and
contempt for those with whom they disagree, comprise a kind
of Jewish Hamas.  The Israeli army deploys a great deal of manpower to
protect settlers from Arab terrorism. There is no
conceivable way the settlers would be alive today without
the protection of Israel’s soldiers, many of whom object to
settlements but are doing their duty.  Yet the army has now become a target of a violent band
of settlers called the Hilltop Youth. These “youth,” many
in their 20s and even 30s by now (and guided by rabbis in
their 70s and 80s), are the offspring of the first and
second generation of religious settlers. They reject what
they see as their parents’ bourgeois lifestyle and despise
the government in  Jerusalem  to which their parents are more
or less loyal.  The Hilltop Youth became a source of great anguish in
Israel this week after a gang of 50 settlers stormed an
army base adjacent to the Kedumim settlement in the
northern West Bank and threw rocks at both soldiers and
Palestinians. The commander of the army’s Ephraim Brigade
was struck in the head with a rock.  Violent bands of settlers have been throwing rocks at
Palestinians, and on occasion defacing their mosques and
ripping up their olive trees, for some time. These are
known as “price tag” attacks, meant to scare the government
of Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  out of making
concessions on settlements. (Every demolition of an
unauthorized “hilltop” settlement comes with a price, in
other words.)  Many Israelis have been aghast at the notion of Jews
behaving like Cossacks, but many others were blithely
unaware of these attacks, when they were launched against
Arabs. Now, there should be no ignoring these berserkers.
The army is sacrosanct in  Israel ; it is a citizens’ army.
An attack on the army is an attack on the state itself.  I know many of these Hilltop Youth well; some are
degenerate pot smokers, but others are focused and
fanatical. Israel has the ability to smother this movement,
if it chooses. There are a finite number of hyperviolent
settlers -- hundreds at the core of the movement, and
perhaps a few thousand fellow travelers. During the first
Palestinian uprising, the army showed an enormous capacity
to collect and warehouse Palestinian rock-throwers and
mayhem-makers. It could do the same now with these settler
gangs. And I know just the place to warehouse them.  More than 20 years ago, as a young draftee in the
Israeli army, I was assigned briefly to serve as a military
policeman at Israel’s largest prison camp, a place called
Ketziot, in the Negev desert, by the Egyptian border. It
was an unhappy assignment, for a number of reasons,
including the heat, the isolation and the fact that I was
opposed to the occupation of the West Bank and the  Gaza
Strip .  But I learned a great deal in Ketziot about
Palestinian nationalism, about the desert and about the
Israeli army’s organizational capabilities. The prison --
an open-air tent camp, actually -- held, at any given
moment, 6,000 Palestinians, serving sentences from two
months to several years.  Ketziot was no picnic; it was overcrowded and
occasionally violent, but the prisoners were often left to
their own devices. There was a tacit ceasefire between the
Israeli authorities and members of the  Palestine Liberation
Organization  inside the prison that allowed the
Palestinians to manage their own affairs (a metaphor for
the Oslo peace process, in retrospect), and the army
provided the prisoners with basic health care, hot showers
and adequate food.  Kosher food, actually -- the Israeli army is a kosher
army -- and this fact, among others, makes Ketziot ready-
made to accept violent settlers who need to be taught that
their society will no longer abide their hooliganism.  The Netanyahu government has said it will take a few
new legal measures in response to these incidents,
including holding settlers under administrative detention
laws and trying them in military courts. But so far it
seems only modestly outraged. It doesn’t seem to grasp that
it is only a matter of time before the price-tag campaign
escalates.  These fanatics represent a perverse branch of Zionism.
There is a war in Israel between Jews who believe that
Zionism is a movement seeking Jewish national equality, and
those who believe that Zionism is about the redemption of
the lands of the Bible -- all the lands of the Bible,
ideally -- in the name of God. This maximalist view, which
would be alien to Zionism’s founders, is a catastrophe for
Israel, Jews and Judaism.  If the Netanyahu government were to announce that it
was repurposing Ketziot to accept violent settlers, and
that settlers who attack a soldier -- or uproot an olive
tree, or burn down a mosque -- would be buying themselves a
long-term stay in an unforgiving prison, it would send a
clear message. And it would show the world that the Israeli
government, and not a collection of racist and extremist
rabbis, makes Israeli policy.  There is one other advantage to this plan. The Negev
desert is a depopulated place. And Ketziot is near the spot
where Moses and the Children of Israel camped during the
exodus from  Egypt . It is holy soil, and it could use a good
Jewish settlement or two.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 