-- Hypocrisy Proves Bipartisan in Payroll Tax Debate: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2011-12-16T00:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/hypocrisy-proves-bipartisan-in-payroll-tax-debate-caroline-baum.html
If you were asked to describe, in 10
words or less, the single issue driving the two major political
parties in the U.S. today, I imagine you’d say something like
this: Republicans never met a tax cut they didn’t like;
Democrats won’t touch entitlement programs, even to make them
solvent.  Consider, then, the counterintuitive positions revealed in
the current debate on the expiring payroll tax cut. The
Democrats appear happy to raid the Social Security trust funds
for a second consecutive year while the Republicans have
actually found a tax cut they can only swallow with additives!  Let’s start with the Democrats. The White House has
installed a  clock  on the top of its homepage, informing us how
many days, hours, minutes and seconds remain until the 2
percentage point cut in the employee portion of the payroll tax
expires on Dec. 31. There’s even a handy-dandy  calculator  to see
how the cut affects you. (The calculator does not accept commas,
so enter your salary without them.)  President  Barack Obama  says the increase in employee-paid
payroll taxes (back to 6.2 percent from the current 4.2 percent)
will raise the average American family’s tax liability by
$1,000, which translates to $83.34 per month or $38.46 per
paycheck for those who get paid biweekly.  In other words, this is not a lot of money. And while I’m
not unsympathetic to those who have to choose between putting
food on the table and paying the rent, the typical family is not
going to notice a $19.23 reduction in weekly take-home pay. It’s
“a temporary gimmick, not a long-term solution,” as Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann  said Dec. 10 at the ABC News
Republican  debate  in  Iowa .  Role Reversal  Obama could have embedded the U.S.  national debt clock  --
$15.1 trillion and ticking -- on the White House website. Even
more relevant would have been a link to the 2011  annual report 
on the status of the Social Security trust funds, which, while
lacking the urgency of the countdown to Dec. 31, is a real
ticking time bomb for future generations.  The benefits paid by Social Security  exceeded  taxes
received last year for the first time since 1983, according to
the trustees report. Prior-year surpluses were never saved.
There’s no  lockbox  full of cash for a rainy day, as  Al Gore 
wanted us to believe. The government deposits an IOU in the
trust funds and uses the surplus for various purposes.  The $49 billion Social Security deficit in 2010 and the $46
billion one projected for this year will shrink to about $20
billion in years 2012-2014, according to the trustees. It’s all
downhill from there, with deficits growing along with the number
of retiring baby boomers until the fund is exhausted in 2036.
Yet Democrats insist we need to extend the payroll tax cut,
which will sap an additional  $120 billion  from the trust funds.  Across the aisle, Republicans who signed a pledge to never-
raise-taxes-on-anyone-ever-no-matter-what aren’t so sure about
this one. That’s why House Speaker  John Boehner  had to lard the
bill extending the payroll tax cut (and  unemployment benefits )
with a provision to accelerate the construction of the Keystone
XL oil pipeline from  Canada  to  Texas . Last month, Obama put that
project on hold either (take your pick) for environmental review
or to appease his base.  Now, to square the circle,  House Republicans  have passed a
measure that Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  said was dead on
arrival and Obama threatened to veto because of spending cuts
and the oil pipeline add-on.  Hypocritical Oath  Republicans are reluctant to admit that the payroll tax cut
is the wrong kind of cut. They favor reductions in marginal and
capital gains tax rates to encourage work, saving and
investment. In their world, tax cuts are an incentive to
increase the  supply of labor  -- one’s willingness to work -- not
the demand for goods and services.  In order to deflect attention from their philosophical
aversion to tax cuts that merely “put money in the pocket of
people who will spend it,” as Obama is wont to say, Republicans
are touting the Keystone pipeline as a “job creator” in an
attempt to make the president look indifferent to  long-term
unemployment  with his veto threat.  And that’s not all. Earlier this month, Senate Republicans
rejected measures that would have paid for the payroll tax cut
by imposing a surtax on millionaires. Obama turned that to his
advantage, charging tax-cut-loving Republicans with refusing to
help the middle class while protecting the wealthy.  Round and round it goes. The two parties are so intent on
scoring political points and playing gotcha, they can’t even see
to what extent their current behavior is countercultural (at
least counter to their particular culture).  So the next time you hear someone complain about the lack
of bipartisanship in  Washington , tell him, nonsense. Hypocrisy
is as bipartisan as it gets.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 