-- China’s Yuan Strengthens Most in Two Months on Signs Credit Curbs Easing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-16T09:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-16/yuan-strengthens-most-since-dollar-peg-ended-in-july-05-on-policy-outlook.html
China ’s yuan strengthened the most
in two months on speculation the central bank will permit
appreciation to help prevent capital outflows from the world’s
second-largest economy.  The People’s Bank of China set its daily reference rate 0.1
percent stronger at 6.3352 per dollar, after fixing it weaker
for three days. Two days ago, the central bank pledged to keep
stability in the yuan’s exchange rate, according to a statement
on its website summarizing the results an annual economic
planning meeting of Communist Party leaders in Beijing.  “Today’s sharp appreciation shows the central bank sent a
strong signal that the yuan’s appreciation trend won’t change,”
said  Liu Dongliang , a senior analyst in Shenzhen at China
Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender. “The
PBOC knows that  currency depreciation  would weaken investors,
traders and even average people’s confidence in the economy.”  The currency gained 0.4 percent to 6.3484 per dollar as of
the close in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. It earlier rose as much as 0.7 percent to 6.3294,
the strongest level since China unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  told journalists in
Geneva yesterday that he is “not too optimistic” about exports
next year. The country should use multiple monetary tools to
adjust money and loan supply, according to a front-page
commentary by an unidentified writer at the Financial News,
published by the central bank.  The currency is allowed to trade as much as 0.5 percent on
either side of the central bank’s  reference rate . The yuan
touched the weaker end of the trading range in the last 12 days.  “The fixing was firmer and at market open there was solid
dollar offer interest, in particular by Chinese banks,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, Hong Kong-based senior strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “Improved sentiment in global markets is helping
as is news that China is easing curbs in the property sector
which will limit downside risks to growth.”  Reserve Ratios  The People’s Bank of China this month cut the amount of
cash that banks must set aside as  reserves  for the first time
since 2008 as  Europe ’s debt crisis dimmed the outlook for
exports and growth. The 50 basis-point decrease in reserve-
requirement ratios took effect last week, before central bank
data showing  money supply  expanded in November at the slowest
pace in a decade.  The  Shanghai Composite index (SHCOMP)  has tumbled 21 percent in 2011,
exceeding last year’s 14 percent decline, as shipments to Europe,
China’s biggest export market, slowed because of the region’s
debt crisis and the government raised  interest rates  to curb
inflation.  Nomura Holdings Inc. on Dec. 6 cut its estimate for China’s
economic growth next year to 7.9 percent from 8.6 percent.
Annual expansion averaged 10.5 percent in the last decade,
government figures show.  Annual economic growth will average 7 percent to 8 percent
through 2015, Yu Bin, director of macroeconomic research at the
State Council’s Development Research Center, said yesterday.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards strengthened 0.5
percent to 6.4195 per dollar, a 1.1 percent discount to the
onshore spot rate. In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan
advanced 0.38 percent to 6.3740.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  