-- 
‘Battlestar Galactica’ to Boost Genting Singapore’s Profit

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-02-22T15:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/-battlestar-galactica-may-help-double-genting-singapore-profit.html
Paul Wilkie was out of breath as he
got off the  Battlestar Galactica  roller coaster at  Universal
Studios Singapore . “It was unbelievable, I’m still dizzy.”  Wilkie, 28, who works at a radio station in  Australia , also
plans to drop by the casinos run by  Genting Singapore Plc  and
Las Vegas Sands Corp., where he and his friends will bet on
poker, blackjack and “really anything and everything.”  Genting  Singapore , which runs the theme park, reported
recurring profit of S$657 million ($514 million) in the first
year of its Resorts World Sentosa, and is relying on visitors
like Wilkie to boost revenue. Earnings at the world’s third-
biggest casino company by market value may surge this year,
according analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Singapore’s two casinos are benefiting from the attractions
at  Resorts World Sentosa ’s theme park, said Aaron Fischer, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at CLSA Ltd. “The casinos are a major
draw card, but  Universal Studios  is also providing Resorts World
and Las Vegas Sands’ Marina Bay with new customers, which
provide a more predictable revenue base and generate higher
margins.”  Component Failure  Tickets to the park were sold out on online yesterday as
 Universal Studios  staged an official reopening of the attraction
based on the Battlestar Galactica television series after
shutting it down for almost a year to fix a “ ride component
failure .”  Genting Singapore has surged almost fivefold in the past
two years in Singapore trading, making it Asia’s second-biggest
casino company by market value.  Full-year profit for the casino operator announced today
missed the $615 million average forecast of 21 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg as financing costs increased and high-stakes
gamblers got lucky. Net income will reach S$1.12 billion this
year, according to the analysts’ average estimate.  “We are not changing our positive view, which is based on
the huge free  cash flow  generated by the property,” Fischer
said after the earnings announcement. Last year’s profit from
continuing operations of S$657 million, compares with a year-ago
loss of S$282 million.  Fourth-quarter adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization of S$386 million matched his
estimate, Fischer said.  Transformers Ride  The $4.7 billion Resorts World also plans to open a marine
museum, a water park and two hotels starting from the middle of
the year. Another ride based on the Transformers movies may open
by the end of the year, according to the company.  Singapore’s casinos have provided “a new leg of growth for
the Singapore economy,” said Song Seng-Wun, an economist at
CIMB Research Pte. in Singapore. “If the macro environment
continues to stay favorable, there’s no reason that the resorts
won’t be able to attract a steady stream of visitors.”  The city state’s economy grew by a record 14.5 percent last
year, helped by the S$420 million in net revenue contributed by
Genting Singapore and  Las Vegas Sands Corp .  Genting Singapore’s “more holistic approach” will help
growth in the coming year, said  Carey Wong , senior investment
analyst at OCBC Investment Research Pte. “Somebody with the
excuse to bring their families for an outing to Universal
Studios is also more prepared to spend money at the casino.”  Cash Flow  Today’s earnings report “threw our numbers a little bit,”
Wong said. Still, “cash flow wise, they’re pretty good," he
said, citing Genting Singapore’s S$298.7 million net cash inflow
from operating activities in the fourth quarter. For the full
year, cash flow was S$1.41 billion.  The reopening of the Battlestar Galactica ride ‘‘will allow
for a 20 to 25 percent increase in ticket sales,” said Fischer,
who forecast earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of S$2 billion this year for Genting Singapore.  Some of the visitors to the theme park will visit the
casinos, said Huei Suen Ng, who covers gambling companies with
Fischer at CLSA. They recommend buying Genting Singapore’s
stock.  Vincent Khoo, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian Holdings Ltd.,
predicts a more modest profit of S$886 million, because of the
“fairly developed market” the company operates in. “I can’t
see how the industry can grow leaps and bounds,” and the non-
casino businesses may contribute less than 10 percent to the
company’s growth, he said.  Tourism Revenue    Genting Bhd ., owner of a controlling stake in the Resorts
World operator, on Feb. 7 fell 3.9 percent to 10.90 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur trading after Citigroup Inc. cut its revenue
forecast for the Singapore casino unit.  Still, Singapore aims to attract 17 million visitors and
triple annual tourism revenue to S$30 billion by 2015. Tourism
revenue in the Southeast Asian economy with the highest gross
domestic product per capita rose 49 percent to S$18.8 billion
last year.  Las Vegas Sands announced on Feb. 17 it plans to ask
Singapore for more land because it’s running out of space at its
$6 billion  Marina Bay Sands , which houses a sky park and a 160
meter-long swimming pool atop three 55-floor hotel towers, along
with its casino, convention facilities, shops and restaurants.  The casino resorts’ “amenities will result in attracting
higher volumes of mass-market tourism traffic,” said  Jonathan Galaviz , who analyzes tourism and the gambling industry as
managing director of Galaviz & Co. “Multibillion dollar
integrated resorts need thousands of people providing foot
traffic everyday. Having only a few hundred millionaires roaming
around won’t cut it in the long-run.”  Out of Singapore’s 11.6 million visitors last year, 4.8
million, or 41 percent, were from Southeast  Asia , according to
government  figures.  Chinese tourists came in second at 1.2
million, or 10 percent.  Hentje Pongoh, a coal trader from  Indonesia , spent a whole
day at  Universal Studios Singapore , drawn by rides such as the
 Battlestar Galactica  roller coaster. While he ran out of time to
gamble, the 39-year-old said he will return “maybe next month”
to visit Resorts World Sentosa’s casino.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  