-- 
‘Green Economy’ Needs $1.3 Trillion Investment Per Year, UN Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-02-21T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/-green-economy-needs-1-3-trillion-investment-per-year-un-says.html
Nations can kick-start a “green
economy” by redirecting $1.3 trillion a year from industries
that overuse resources to 10 areas ranging from forestry to
buildings, the United Nations Environment Program said.  The expense -- about 2 percent of economic output -- would
help cut greenhouse gases and avoid price shocks associated with
a dependence on fossil fuels and other commodities, UNEP said
today in a report.  “Governments have a central role in changing laws and
policies, and in investing public money in public wealth to make
the transition possible,” said Pavan Sukhdev, a Deutsche Bank
AG banker temporarily serving as head of UNEP’s green economy
initiative. “By doing so, they can also unleash the trillions
of dollars of private capital in favor of a green economy.”  The study examined measures to make buildings and vehicles
more energy efficient, boost renewable energy and promote more
sustainable farming and fishing. The new policies could be
brought in without diminishing growth prospects, while also
reducing greenhouse gas emissions to “safer” levels and
helping the UN towards development goals such as halving the
number of people without access to safe drinking water, it said.  Countries are already spending billions of dollars to
reduce emissions and promote renewable energy. Low-carbon energy
investment surged to a record $243 billion last year, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said on Jan. 11.  $521 Billion  The  International Energy Agency  said last year that global
subsidies for clean and low-carbon energy totaled $57 billion in
2009. HSBC Holdings Plc in 2009 estimated that world governments
had allocated about $521 billion over five years in so-called
green stimulus spending as they tried to promote more efficient
industries in the wake of the financial crisis.  The transition would lead to job losses in industries such
as fisheries, and investment will be needed to re-train workers,
according to the study. At current levels of global domestic
product, the study recommended the following levels of spending:  -- Agriculture: $108 billion a year on measures such as
making the soil more fertile and cutting wasted irrigation
water.  -- Buildings: $134 billion for emissions-cutting
technologies such as insulation and double-glazing.  -- Energy Supply: Over $360 billion on renewables and
cutting emissions from existing power plants.  -- Fisheries: $110 billion for measures such as setting up
marine protected areas and reducing fleet capacity.  -- Forestry: $15 billion to protect trees.  -- Industry: More than $75 billion to make manufacturing
more energy efficient.  -- Tourism: About $135 billion to promote more
environmentally-friendly tourism.  -- Transport: More than $190 billion to promote public
transportation, cleaner cars, and non-motorized modes of travel
such as cycling.  -- Waste: Almost $110 billion to promote recycling and cut
methane emissions from landfill sites.  -- Water: $110 billion on improved sanitation and access to
clean water for poorer people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  