-- 
Abu Dhabi Said to Lower Asia Naphtha Offers for April Term

-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-02-21T07:38:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/abu-dhabi-said-to-lower-asia-naphtha-offers-for-april-term-1-.html
  Abu Dhabi  National Oil Co. has
lowered its offers for naphtha supplies delivered to  Asia  in the
year starting April, according to four people with knowledge of
the negotiations.  The company is offering to sell its Splitter naphtha at a
premium of $17.50 a ton to Middle East naphtha prices, down from
$19 on Feb. 14, the people said, declining to be identified
because the discussions are confidential. The premium for Low-
Sulfur grade was cut to $18.50 a ton from $20, while the price
for Pentane-Plus naphtha dropped to $20 a ton from $21. A
company spokesman in Abu Dhabi declined to comment when
contacted by telephone.  The state-run producer in the capital of the  United Arab
Emirates  offers term cargoes in annual contracts starting from
January, April and July. Last year the company offered naphtha
for supply starting from October for the first time.  Kuwait Petroleum Corp. has also cut its offer for Full-
Range naphtha supplies to Asia, according to two traders
directly involved in the talks. The company offered to sell a
year’s supply of naphtha starting April at a premium of $18.50 a
ton, down from $21 a ton on Feb. 16, they said. Two officials in
the company’s media relations department in  Kuwait City  were not
available when contacted by telephone today.  Adnoc, as the company is known, set premiums of $16.50 a
ton to $18.50 a ton above Middle East benchmarks for the most
recent January contract during its last round of term talks in
November, traders involved in those negotiations said.  Persian Gulf oil producers like Abu Dhabi sell most of
their crude and refined products under long-term contracts.
Naphtha, used in making petrochemicals and gasoline, is mainly
sold under annual contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ; Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  