-- 
Dubai Shares Drop to 6-Month Low as Mideast Unrest Spreads; Morocco Slips

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-02-21T13:42:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/abu-dhabi-shares-fall-to-3-week-low-as-mideast-unrest-spreads-oman-drops.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
dropped to the lowest level in almost six months, leading a
decline in the Persian Gulf, as unrest in the Middle East
spread. Morocco’s measure dropped to the lowest this year.    Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC , the United Arab Emirates’ biggest
Shariah-compliant lender, declined 1.8 percent and  Emaar
Properties PJSC , builder of the world’s tallest skyscraper,
tumbled to the lowest in almost a year. Dubai’s  DFM General
Index  lost 1.3 percent to 1,516.43, the lowest since Sept. 2, at
the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. Morocco’s  MADEX Free Float Index 
dropped 2.1 percent to the lowest since Dec. 3 at 1:24 p.m. in
Casablanca.  “Foreign investors are exiting the region as risk
increases,” said Ziad Dabbas, a financial analyst at  National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC , the U.A.E.’s second-largest lender by
assets. “They are turning to markets with more political
stability as the region faces this transitional period, from
both a political and security perspective.”  Libya, holder of the largest crude oil reserves on the
African continent, has become the focal point of region-wide
protests ignited by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month
and energized by the fall of Egypt’s president on Feb. 11. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  has lost 5.1 percent since Hosni Mubarak
stepped down. Demonstrations have also spread to Bahrain, Yemen
Iran and Morocco.  Oil Climbs  Analysts warned yesterday of the risk of unrest spreading
to  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter. Oil for April
delivery rose for a fourth day in  New York  on concern supplies
will be disrupted by turmoil in the region.  Crude surged as much as 4.5 percent to $93.75 a barrel in
electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The six
nations of the Gulf Cooperation Council, including Saudi Arabia
and Qatar, supply about a fifth of the world’s oil.  In Bahrain, thousands of protesters yesterday poured back
into the central square after tanks, armored personnel carriers
and riot police withdrew on the orders of the crown prince. In
response unions called off a general strike planned for today.
The Island nation’s benchmark stock index fell 0.4 percent, the
most since Feb. 3. After the market closed, Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services lowered its sovereign credit ratings for the
country by one level and placed them on creditwatch with
negative implications.  Bahrain Cut  “We expect the demonstrations that have taken place over
the past month will persist, despite the government’s use of
force to clear the protesters from central Manama,” S&P said.  Bahrain’s 10-year dollar bond maturing in 2020 fell for a
10th day with the yield rising 12 basis points to a record 6.75
percent.  Dubai Islamic fell to 2.21 dirhams, the lowest since Feb.
1. Emaar retreated 1.3 percent to 2.98 dirhams, the lowest since
March.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  retreated 0.5 percent and
Oman’s  MSM30 Index  fell 0.9 percent. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul
slipped 0.6 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index  lost 0.9 percent.
Kuwait’s measure rose 0.5 percent. Jordan’s ASE General Index
dropped 0.2 percent.  Egypt’s bourse has been closed since the end of trading on
Jan. 27. The exchange hasn’t decided when to open and found no
legal grounds to cancel Jan. 27 trades, Chairman Khaled Seyam
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  