-- 
Abu Dhabi Royal to Invest in Chechnya as Putin Drives Post-War Rebuilding

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r ,   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-02-22T09:25:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/abu-dhabi-royal-to-invest-in-chechnya-as-putin-pushes-rebuild.html
Royal Group, run by the brother of  Abu Dhabi ’s ruler, may invest several hundred million dollars in
housing and agriculture projects in Chechnya, said Ramzan Kadyrov, the Russian region’s leader.  Royal Group, which invested in Al-Reem, a $60 billion
island project in Abu Dhabi, recently sent a delegation to the
region, Kadyrov said in an interview with Bloomberg News in
Moscow on Feb. 19.  “We proposed some projects to them and they really liked
them,” said Kadyrov, who has spearheaded Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s campaign to rebuild infrastructure devastated
by two wars since 1994. “They said they are ready to
participate in building homes and in the agricultural sector.”  Russia is trying to lure investment to the North Caucasus
region, which has seen almost daily attacks on government
officials and police. With the Winter Olympics taking place in
the nearby resort of Sochi in 2014, Putin has tried to drum up
investment in the mostly Muslim region.  “The federal government is trying to attract investments
although Chechnya isn’t normally the kind of place where
businesses would like to put their money,” said  Nikolai Petrov ,
an analyst from the Moscow Carnegie Center.  Then-President Putin groomed Kadyrov to lead Chechnya after
his father Akhmad was killed in a bomb attack on the regional
capital Grozny’s main soccer stadium in 2004.  Human Rights
Watch , which tracks government abuse, has accused Kadyrov of
ordering abductions and torture, which he has denied.  ‘$100 Million’  Royal Group will spend as much as $100 million in the first
phase of a housing project, said Samia Bou Azza, a spokeswoman.
The total value “may go up in different phases” and the
company is considering investment in livestock, the dairy and
power industries, she said by phone yesterday.  The plan is part of growing interest in Russian investment
in the Gulf region. United Arab Emirates investors, including
Gulftainer Company Ltd., a port operator in Sharjah, and Dubai-
based Damac Properties last year agreed to spend $800 million in  Russia . The deals were sealed during Putin’s investment forum in
Sochi.  Verno Capital, a Moscow-based hedge fund, in November won a
mandate to manage $100 million for Abu Dhabi sovereign wealth
fund Mubadala Development. Roland Nash in December quit after 14
years as chief strategist of  Renaissance Capital  to join Verno
in the same capacity.  June Meeting  The Chechen leader, 34, said he first discussed investment
opportunities at a meeting in June last year with the crown
prince of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan. He
then met Sheikh Tahnoon bin Zayed al Nahyan, who is chairman of
Royal Group and another son of Abu Dhabi ruler Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan, last year.  Royal Group  is active in media, trade, financing, real
estate, manufacturing, construction and technology.  One of Kadyrov’s aides, Adam Delimkhanov, is wanted by
 Interpol  for allegedly masterminding the March 2009 murder of a
leading rival of the Chechen president in Dubai. Sulim Yamadayev
was gunned down in an elite seafront housing complex, in a high-
profile case for the main business and tourist hub in the Gulf,
a popular destination for wealthy Russians and other foreigners.  Dubai Trial  Dubai authorities tried two men for the murder, including
an Iranian who worked as a groom for Kadyrov’s horses in the
city state. After they were convicted of the crime and sentenced
to  life imprisonment , a Dubai court in December reduced the
prison term to 27 months; with time served, they are due for
release in mid-2011.  The cases of other suspects in the murder are being
reviewed by the court and decisions on whether to pursue
suspects through Interpol depend on the judgments, Major-General
Khamis al Mazinah, deputy commander of Dubai police, said by
phone yesterday.  Kadyrov said accusations against Delimkhanov, whom he
described as a “friend and a brother,” are “untrue” and
“unfounded.” According to Dubai police, the Kadyrov aide
arranged the delivery of the  murder weapon , a gold-plated
Makarov pistol.  The potential business ties between Abu Dhabi and Chechnya
show the controversy surrounding the murder is being forgotten,
said Petrov at the Carnegie Center.  Abu Dhabi and Dubai are the two biggest members of the  United Arab Emirates , the second-largest Arab economy. In 2004,
another Gulf state, Qatar, allowed two Russian agents to return
home after sentencing them to life for the murder of a former
president of breakaway Chechnya, Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  