-- 
Madagascar's Ravalomanana Wants AU to Make Government Lift Ban on Return

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-02-21T12:33:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/madagascar-s-ravalomanana-wants-au-to-make-government-lift-ban-on-return.html
Madagascar’s exiled former
president,  Marc Ravalomanana , called on the  African Union  to
force the government to lift restrictions on his return to the
country, his political party said.  The ban on Ravalomanana and his family traveling to
Madagascar should be removed immediately, it said yesterday in a
statement from Antananarivo, the capital.  Madagascar’s government had threatened to bar
Ravalomanana’s plane for the planned journey on Feb. 19 from
landing if he was on board, the party said. Other attempts to
travel to Madagascar were also blocked, it said.  Ravalomanana announced on Feb. 17 he was to go back to the
Indian Ocean island nation after two years in exile in  South
Africa , even though the government threatened to arrest him on
his arrival. He was ousted as president by  Andry Rajoelina , the
former mayor of Antananarivo, with the help of the military in
2009. The coup lead to the country’s suspension from the African
Union and the Southern African Development Community.  Police used tear gas to remove about 5,000 supporters who
had waited for Ravalomanana to travel along the road from the
airport to Antananarivo after his expected arrival on Feb. 19,
Defense Minister Lucien Rakotoarimasy said by phone today.  SADC negotiators proposed last month that Rajoelina remain
as president of an interim administration until elections before
November and that Ravalomanana should only return once security
is ensured. Ravalomanana was last year sentenced in absentia to  life imprisonment  with hard labor for a February 2009 shooting
by guards that killed protesters marching on the president’s
office.  The mediators are due in Madagascar today to continue
negotiations with parties on resolving the country’s political
crisis, Peter Metcalf, the  United Nations ’ resident coordinator
in Madagascar, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Johannesburg at 
 hmcneish@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  