-- 
Lagarde Visit to Tunisia Shows French `Disarray' Over Middle East Unrest

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-21T23:01:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/lagarde-visit-to-tunisia-shows-french-disarray-over-middle-east-unrest.html
The first French ministers to visit
Tunisia’s provisional government arrive in Tunis today with one
notable absence: Foreign Minister Michele Alliot-Marie.  The delegation will be led by Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  and European Affairs Minister Laurent Wauquiez.  Alliot-Marie became a symbol of French missteps in the
handling of unrest in North Africa and the Middle East, when she
suggested on Jan. 11, at the height of the Tunisian revolt, that
her government was ready to provide advice to local police on
crowd control. She acknowledged she had accepted two flights in
a private plane from an associate of Tunisian dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, who was forced out of office Jan. 14.  “It would have been a total provocation for Alliot-Marie
to go given her comments about helping the police, given her
links to the former regime,” said Philippe Moreau-Defarges, a
researcher at the French Institute of International Affairs and
a professor of international affairs at Pantheon-Assas
University in Paris. “Alliot-Marie is a problem all of her own,
but the wider concern is the total disarray of French diplomacy
faced with these Arab revolts.”  The French have been caught wrong-footed during the
turmoil, taken by surprise at the intensity and speed of the
changes even in  Tunisia , a former colony. “Behind the
emancipation of women, the drive for education, the economic
dynamism, the emergence of a middle class, there was a despair,
a suffering and a sense of suffocation,” President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a press conference Jan. 24. “We have to
recognize that we underestimated it.”  Fillon in Egypt  Foreign Ministry spokesman Bernard Valero said yesterday
that Alliot-Marie won’t go to Tunisia because she is on a
scheduled trip to  Brazil , where France is seeking to sell
Dassault Aviation SA Rafale fighter jets.  Alliot-Marie isn’t the only French minister who was close
to North Africa’s leaders. After a French newspaper said it was
about to publish details of his trip, Prime Minister Francois Fillon said Feb. 8 that he was a guest of the Egyptian
government during the New Year’s holiday. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  was ousted on Feb. 11.  France’s reputation and links to the region were further
damaged in recent days. Boris Boillon, hand-picked by Sarkozy to
be France’s new ambassador to Tunisia, was so rude to local
journalists that he  sparked protests  and calls for him to leave.
Boillon was previously France’s ambassador in  Iraq  and a
 supporter  of the U.S.-led invasion.  Arab World  The series of gaffes have helped drain the goodwill that
France built up under President  Jacques Chirac  by opposing the  Iraq war .  “Since 2007, when Sarkozy was elected, France has failed
to capitalize on the support it gained in the Arab world,” said
Karim Bitar, an analyst at the Institute for international and
Strategic Relations in Pairs. “For Tunisians, after Alliot-
Marie’s statements, they wanted an ambassador who could show
discretion and humility. Instead they got more cowboy diplomacy
just when the U.S. was going in the other direction.”  The deterioration of relations is also starting to hurt
Sarkozy politically at home. His approval rating fell 4 points
to 30 percent this month, the lowest since he won the presidency
in 2007, according to a  Viavoice poll  published in today’s
Liberation newspaper.  Only 35 percent of voters say they have confidence in
Sarkozy’s ability to deal with international relations,
according to the pollster, which surveyed 1,010 adults on Feb.
17 and 19.  “One of the regal elements of the president’s role is that
he is France’s representative to the world,” said Francois Miquet-Marty, a Viavoice pollster. “He’s  France ’s face in the
world and the image he’s projecting right now is tarnished.”  Lagarde said yesterday that her trip is intended to show
support for Tunisia’s new government and a transition to
democracy after 23 years of rule by Ben Ali.  “France can turn the page quite quickly in Tunisia if the
government addresses the situation,” Bitar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  