-- 
Thai Economy Grew 1.2% Last Quarter, Adding Rate Pressure

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-02-21T04:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/thai-economy-expanded-1-2-in-fourth-quarter-of-2010-more-than-estimates.html
  Thailand ’s economy strengthened in
the fourth quarter on exports and  consumer spending , capping the
fastest annual expansion in 15 years and adding to the central
bank’s case to raise borrowing costs further.  Gross domestic product rose 1.2 percent from the previous
three months, the National Economic and Social Development Board
said in Bangkok today. That compared with a revised 0.3 percent
decline in the third quarter, which reflected a mid-2010 slump
stemming from political unrest and flooding, and the 0.9 percent
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists.  The Bank of Thailand is poised to extend interest-rate
increases after saying inflation is a threat, as counterparts
from  Indonesia  to  China  also strive to damp jumps in the cost of
living. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has raised the minimum
wage and will boost civil service pay, which may push up prices
ahead of an election he plans to hold by the end of June.  “A recovery in developed economies toward the year-end
supported external demand and export-oriented countries like
Thailand will continue to see benefit from that,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in Tokyo.  The baht climbed 0.1 percent to 30.56 per dollar as of
11:06 a.m. in Bangkok from Feb. 17 and has risen about 3.2
percent in the past six months, the least apart from the  Hong
Kong dollar  and Indonesia’s rupiah in a basket of 10 major Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, excluding the yen.  Asian Tightening  On a year-on-year basis, the expansion slowed to 3.8
percent from a revised 6.6 percent advance in the three months
through September. Growth also eased last quarter from a year
earlier in neighbor  Malaysia  while quickening in Indonesia, the  Philippines  and  Vietnam . Thailand has joined Indonesia,  South
Korea ,  India  and China in boosting borrowing costs this year.  The central bank is expected to raise rates further to tame
price pressures, Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, secretary-general at
the development board, told a news conference in Bangkok today.  Economic “growth momentum will continue this year,”
supported by the global recovery, rising incomes and
agricultural prices, Arkhom said, adding the board assumed
borrowing costs would rise a total of 1 percentage point in 2011
so that they exceed the pace of inflation.  The agency raised its consumer-price growth forecast for
this year to a range of 2.8 percent to 3.8 percent from the 2.5
percent to 3.5 percent estimated in September. The board said
the baht would trade from 29.5 to 30.5 per dollar in 2011.  Rising Rates  Private consumption rose 3.8 percent last quarter from a
year earlier, manufacturing expanded 4.8 percent and total
investment advanced 6.4 percent, according to today’s report.  Exports climbed 22.3 percent in January from a year earlier
and may gain 15 percent in the first quarter of 2011, the
commerce ministry said separately today.  The Bank of Thailand raised its one-day bond repurchase
rate for the fourth time in seven months on Jan. 12, by a
quarter of a percentage point to 2.25 percent.  Stocks and bonds across Asia have declined this year amid
concern that accelerating inflation will erode purchasing power
and spur further rate increases. The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Excluding
Japan Index is down approximately 1.3 percent. Asian local-
currency bonds have lost about 0.2 percent, based on an index
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  Central bank Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last
month the monetary authority needs to raise rates to damp
inflation. Consumer prices increased 3.03 percent in January
from a year earlier, compared with 3 percent the previous month.  Political Risk  The economy grew 7.8 percent last year, the strongest pace
since 1995, today’s report showed. The development board, also
known as the state planning agency, maintained its 2011 growth
forecast of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent. The agency, the  finance
ministry  and the central bank release separate projections.  Disputes over the outcome of the last election in 2007 have
fueled protests in the country of 67 million citizens, killing
about 100 people and souring the investment climate. The
government said this month a vote will be held within the first
half of 2011, as Abhisit moves to ease the political turmoil.  “Politics remains the main question mark for the Thai
economy. It’s very hard to predict what will come out,” said
Santitarn Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit
Suisse Group AG.  Still, rising private consumption backed by higher
agricultural prices will help the economy expand 4.6 percent
this year, according to the company’s projections. Government
efforts to boost incomes and curb costs will help, he said.  Abhisit increased the  minimum wage  last month and will
raise the salaries of civil servants in April. The
administration subsidizes the cost of diesel, cooking gas and
electricity, and in January approved price controls on 39
products including pork and eggs.    Consumer confidence  is rising, climbing for the second
consecutive month in January. Central Group, controller of the
nation’s biggest operator of shopping malls, said this month it
plans to lift investment by 57 percent to tap into higher
consumer spending. Sentiment fell in November after the worst
flooding in five decades affected a 10th of the population.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  