-- 
Takefuji Overcharged Clients $29 Billion Before Collapse, Document Shows

-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-02-21T09:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/takefuji-overcharged-clients-29-billion-before-collapse-document-shows.html
  Takefuji Corp ., the bankrupt
Japanese consumer lender, overcharged customers a total of 2.4
trillion yen ($29 billion) in interest as of Oct. 31, according
to a court document obtained by Bloomberg News.  That’s more than eight times the 273 billion yen Takefuji
set aside for repayment claims as of March 2010, according to
the document filed by the Tokyo-based company on Jan. 31. If
Takefuji repaid all the overcharged interest, that would leave
it with 75 billion yen in outstanding loans, the document said.
Kentaro Itai, a spokesman for Takefuji, declined to comment.  The filing comes as Takefuji approaches its Feb. 28
deadline for customer repayment claims and seeks a sponsor to
resume operations. Takefuji went bankrupt in September, becoming
the biggest casualty of a government crackdown that capped  interest rates  at 20 percent and restricted lending to about a
third of a borrower’s annual income.  “The figure of 2.4 trillion yen is a bit higher than
earlier expected,” said Takehiro Tsuda, a Tokyo-based analyst
at Citigroup Global Markets Japan. “But the reduced balance of
outstanding loans is unlikely to dissuade potential sponsors”
because the actual amount of interest repayments will probably
be smaller, he said.  Takefuji has shortlisted five potential sponsors, or
acquirers, and set March 10 as a deadline for final bids, Eiichi
Obata, the company’s court administrator, told reporters on Feb.
1. The company is also considering the sale of its Tokyo
headquarters building and other real estate assets, he said.  Surviving Lenders  Takefuji received 330,000 claims for refunds as of the end
of January, or about 17 percent of the 2 million it expects, he
said. Obata said last September that the lender is liable for as
much as 2 trillion yen of overcharged interest. Takefuji had
outstanding loans valued at 589.5 billion yen as of March 31,
according to an earnings report filed in May.  Japan’s three largest surviving consumer lenders -- Acom
Co., Promise Co. and  Aiful Corp . -- are among the 10 best
performers on the Topix stock index this year on speculation
they will withstand the tighter rules and interest refunds.
About 30 lawmakers began a review of the law change last week to
determine whether it has squeezed credit for small businesses.  Acom, the biggest of the three, climbed 70 percent this
year. Promise gained 88 percent and Aiful advanced 149 percent.  Takefuji’s 9.2 percent dollar-denominated bonds due April
15 were quoted at 10 cents on the dollar today by Nomura
Securities Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  