-- 
Alibaba CEO Wei Quits After Probe Into Fraudulent Suppliers

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-02-21T10:01:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/alibaba-says-ceo-wei-quits-after-probe-finds-fraud-committed-by-suppliers.html
  Alibaba.com Ltd ., operator of
China’s biggest electronic-commerce website, said Chief
Executive Officer David Wei resigned after a company probe found
more than 2,000 subscribers engaged in fraudulent sales.  Wei and Chief Operating Officer Elvis Lee quit to take
responsibility for the "systemic breakdown" in the company’s
culture of integrity, though they weren’t involved in activities
that led to fraud, Hangzhou, China-based Alibaba said in a
statement today. Jonathan Lu, who heads the Taobao.com
affiliate, was named Wei’s replacement.  The probe found some suppliers offered bulk orders of
consumer electronics at "very attractive prices, a low minimum
order quantity and less reliable payment transfer methods,"
according to the statement. The findings are a blow to
Alibaba.com, whose site is used by companies from  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc . to  Procter & Gamble Co . to find Chinese exporters,
analysts said.  “This is not good news” for Alibaba.com’s stock, said
Muzhi Li, who rates the shares “buy” at Mizuho Securities Co.
in Hong Kong. In the long term, the company will likely benefit
from Lu’s leadership as the executive is experienced in e-
commerce, Li said.  Alibaba.com shares fell 3.5 percent to HK$16.68 in Hong
Kong trading today before the announcement. The stock
underperformed those of Chinese Internet rivals including  Tencent Holdings Ltd . and Baidu Inc. last year.  The frauds, noticed by senior management from late 2009,
won’t have a "material financial impact" and the value of the
average claim was below $1,200, Alibaba said. The company found
1,219 of its "gold" suppliers in 2009 and 1,107 in 2010 engaged
in fraud, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  