-- 
U.S. Consulate Employee Arrested in Pakistan Is Said to Work for the CIA

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-02-21T23:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/american-arrested-in-pakistan-is-said-to-work-as-cia-security-contractor.html
An American described by the U.S.
government as a diplomat, who was arrested in  Pakistan  for the
shooting of two men, worked as a security contractor for the
Central Intelligence Agency, a U.S. official said today.  The American, Raymond Davis, provided security to U.S.
personnel in Pakistan, according to the official, who spoke on
the condition of anonymity because the case is pending. Davis is
being held in a jail in the Lahore area with about 4,000
inmates, the official said.  The disclosure of a CIA connection to Davis may complicate
a case that triggered street protests in Pakistan and strained
U.S.-Pakistani relations. The U.S. government contends Davis has
diplomatic immunity and acted in self-defense when he was
approached in an attempted robbery last month in Lahore.
Pakistani authorities have held Davis since Jan. 27 as the U.S.
works for his release.  “We still believe earnestly that Mr. Davis is a member of
the administrative and technical staff of the embassy in
Islamabad and should not be arrested or detained,” said  Philip J. Crowley , a spokesman with the U.S. State Department, in a
conference call with reporters today. He declined to comment on
reports earlier today in the Washington Post and New York Times
of Davis’s involvement with the CIA.  Senator  John Kerry , a Democrat from  Massachusetts  who is
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, pushed for
Davis’s release in a visit to Pakistan last week. He said the
U.S. State Department would conduct its own investigation into
the killings and may hold hearings.  Safety Concerns  U.S. officials are concerned with the safety of Davis,
Crowley said.  Dogs taste or smell his food to make sure it doesn’t
contain poison, the official said.  Pakistan’s only legal recourse against Davis, under the
Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, would be to find his
status with the embassy “unacceptable” and expel him from the
country, according to a senior administration official who
requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 