-- 
Man With Spear Saves Religious Nuts, Comedy Breaks Race Taboo

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/man-with-spear-saves-religious-nuts-comedy-breaks-race-taboo.html
After a run of poor shows, at last
the  English National Opera  has something to celebrate, and very
welcome it is too.  Wagner’s “Parsifal” tells the story of a knight who saves
a religious military brotherhood from decay after he renounces
sex and finds a holy spear. As you do.  If that all sounds unduly ascetic,  Nikolaus Lehnhoff ’s
powerful interpretation is set in a cold rubble-strewn wasteland
where no actions are reduced to simplistic interpretations.  ENO has presented a series of dead-duck productions
recently by inexperienced, blundering directors with more
foolhardiness than talent. So it is heartening to welcome back a
complex staging (first seen at ENO in 1999) by a man who has
chalked up dozens of superb realizations of opera. The sad news
is that he’s ill: the good news is that this closely duplicated
revival is directed by his assistant Dan Dooner.  There are two sides to every coin here: The religious-
military knights, who are presented as gray-clad Japanese
warriors, seem cultish and insular. Their rituals are also shown
to be beautiful and spiritually inspiring. Heaven be thanked for
a director who allows an audience to make up its own mind about
what it sees.  Stuart Skelton (Parsifal) has a thrillingly heroic tenor
voice, and his beauty and power are matched by  Jane Dutton  as
Kundry, his self-loathing temptress. John Tomlinson proves once
again what a fine Wagnerian actor and singer he is as the
narrator-figure Gurnemanz, and  Iain Paterson  makes a great
impact as the wounded king Amfortas.  Mark Wigglesworth ’s conducting keeps the tension high, and
still allows for moments of ecstatic luxury.  Rating: ****.  ‘Clybourne Park’  Bruce Norris’s clever belly-laugh comedy “Clybourne Park”
was a hit in  New York  last year. Now a new sell-out production
at London’s Royal Court Theatre transfers into the  West End .  In Act 1, a white couple in suburban  Chicago  in 1959 face
resentment from their neighbors when they sell their house to a
black family. Act 2 is set in the same house fifty years later,
when the majority-black area is facing white gentrification. A
prosperous young white couple meet simmering hostility from
their black neighbors.  Norris is a master at pulling the rug from under your feet.
Just when you think you’re in for an issues-based scene about
race, he’ll throw the situation sideways and you’ll be laughing
about gender politics. Then sexual frustrations are revealed to
be rooted in the consequences of America’s military past. And so
on and so on, all beautifully layered. Pathos mingles with
laugh-out-loud, squirm-inducing jokes.  Did I mention it’s funny? Really, really funny? The Act 2
scene in which the black and white couples swap racist jokes
climaxes in a line so filthy and so taboo-breaking, that on the
night I was there, there was some choking among the shocked
screams of laughter. Under Norris’s forensic gaze, nobody comes
out clean, and the humor and drama are all the better for it.  Rating: ****.  “Parsifal” is in repertory at English National Opera
until March 12.  Information:  http://www.eno.org  or +44-871-911-0200.  “Clybourne Park” is at Wyndham’s Theatre. Information:
 http://www.clybournepark.co.uk  or +44-844-482-5120  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 