-- 
Asia Stocks Drop as Steelmakers Retreat; Oil Rises on Middle East Protests

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-02-21T10:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/asia-stocks-drop-on-china-tightening-oil-rises-as-mid-east-unrest-spreads.html
Asian stocks fell, snapping three
days of gains, as BlueScope Steel Ltd. led steelmakers lower
after saying rising raw material costs triggered a wider loss,
tempering gains by oil producers amid increasing tensions in the
Middle East and North Africa.  BlueScope,  Australia ’s largest steelmaker, dropped 3
percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s biggest mining company,
lost 1.5 percent as copper futures fell as much as 0.8 percent
on speculation China may act further to contain inflation.
Hyflux Ltd., which is building desalination plants in  Algeria 
and the Middle East, fell 5 percent in Singapore amid mounting
tensions in the region. Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s No. 1 offshore oil
producer, gained 1.7 percent in Hong Kong as crude  oil prices 
rose.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 0.1 percent to 139.72
as of 7:52 p.m. in Tokyo, with about three stocks declining for
every two that advanced. The gauge climbed 3 percent last week,
the most since the period ended Dec. 3, after intensified anti-
government protests in  Egypt  forced President Hosni Mubarak to
resign and reports showed the U.S. economic recovery and
corporate earnings are improving.  “The relief markets felt after Egypt’s President Mubarak
resigned was shortlived as unrest continues in North Africa and
the Middle East amid concern it might spread to other countries
where democracy isn’t established,” said Sydney-basedShane Oliver, head of investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which manages about $93 billion. “I think it’ll settle
down without major negative global consequences, but the tail
risk of an escalation is high enough to keep investors
nervous.”  China Reserve Ratio  China’s central bank on Feb. 18 raised reserve requirements
for lenders 10 days after boosting  interest rates  as Premier Wen
Jiabao tackles accelerating inflation and the risk of asset
bubbles in the fastest-growing major economy.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225  Stock Average rose 0.1 percent.  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index lost 0.4 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200
Index fell 0.7 percent, while New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index slid
0.9 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index dropped 0.5 percent,
while the Shanghai Composite Index increased 1.1 percent.  Arab governments are cracking down on pro-democracy
activists as uprisings that toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt
spread to Libya, Algeria, Yemen and  Bahrain . In  Libya , security
forces attacked anti-government protesters, increasing the
death-toll over five days of unrest to more than 170, according
to Human Rights Watch.  Chinese authorities acted to halt an online call for a
“Jasmine Revolution,” detaining activists and boosting police
on streets, the  Associated Press  reported, citing Chinese
websites and a  Hong Kong  human rights group.  U.S. Futures  “Investors are looking to see whether concern over the
situation in the Middle East will overshadow optimism about the
U.S. economic outlook,” said Kazuhiro Takahashi, a general
manager at Tokyo-based Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.3
percent. The index rose 0.2 percent in  New York  on Feb. 18, as
companies reported higher-than-estimated earnings.  BlueScope declined 3 percent to A$2.30. The company said
first-half net loss widened to A$55 million ($55.8 million) from
a A$28 million loss a year because of higher raw material costs
and lower domestic demand.  South Korean steelmaker Posco, which said on Feb. 18 it
aims to cut operating costs amid rising iron ore and coal prices,
dropped 3.3 percent to 472,500 won in  Seoul . JFE Holdings Inc.,
Japan’s No. 2 producer of the alloy by market capitalization,
sank 2.1 percent to 2,672.  U.S., Europe Stocks  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index increased 1.6 percent through
Feb. 18 in 2011, compared with gains of 6.8 percent by the S&P
500 and 5.5 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the
Asian benchmark are valued at 14.2 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 14 times for the S&P 500 and 11.5 times
for the Stoxx 600.  Gauges of raw-material producers posted the biggest decline
among the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.    BHP Billiton  declined 1.5 percent to A$45.85 in Sydney. Rio
Tinto Group, the world’s third-largest mining company, dropped
1.7 percent to A$86.14. Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No. 1
producer of the metal, fell 1.2 percent to HK$25.15.  Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange fell as much as 0.8 percent earlier on speculation
demand in China, the world’s biggest user of the metal, will
fall after the government stepped up measures to rein in
liquidity. The contract has since gained 0.3 percent.  China Property Curbs  Chinese banks and property developers dropped after the
reserve requirement ratio for domestic banks was increased by 50
basis points. The increase came 10 days after boosting interest
rates as Premier Wen Jiabao tackles accelerating inflation and
the risk of asset bubbles in the fastest-growing major economy.    China Construction Bank Corp ., the nation’s second-biggest
lender by market value, slipped 0.9 percent to HK$6.83. Smaller
rival Bank of China Ltd. lost 0.5 percent to HK$4.11.    Agile Property Holdings Ltd ., which builds villas and
apartments in China’s southern city of  Guangzhou , decreased 1.3
percent to HK$10.52 in Hong Kong. Hang Lung Properties Ltd., the
Hong Kong-based developer that gets 16 percent of sales from
China, slipped 1.4 percent to HK$32.75.  Shanghai and Guangzhou joined China’s capital, Beijing, in
announcing restrictions on home purchases, responding to
property curbs imposed by the central government aimed at
preventing a housing bubble.  ‘Rivers of Blood’  Asian companies with projects in the Middle East dropped as
Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, son of Libya’s leader, warned of a civil
war that could lead to “rivers of blood” as intensifying
protests posed the most serious challenge to his father’s 41
years of rule.  Hyflux, which counts the Middle East as one of its biggest
markets, declined 5 percent to S$2.10 in  Singapore . Samsung
Engineering Co., which won a sewage treatment plant contract in
Bahrain this month, dropped 4.3 percent to 188,000 won in Seoul.  Energy companies advanced as crude oil for March delivery
jumped as much as 1.8 percent in Asian trading today on
speculation rising tensions in the Middle East and North Africa
will disrupt crude oil shipments. Libya’s Nafoora oilfield
stopped production because of an employee strike, Al Jazeera
reported, without providing further details.  Cnooc Ltd., China’s biggest offshore oil producer, gained
1.7 percent to HK$17.58 in Hong Kong. Inpex Corp., Japan’s
largest oil explorer, climbed 1.7 percent to 597,000 yen in
Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 