-- 
Atlantia CEO Targets Italy, Emerging Market Investment

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-02-21T14:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/atlantia-ceo-targets-italy-emerging-market-investment-correct-.html
  Atlantia SpA , Italy’s biggest toll-
road operator, has 6 billion euros ($8.22 billion) in liquidity
that can be used for investments, most of which will be in  Italy , Chief Executive Officer Giovanni Castellucci said today.  “Capex projects in Italy remain the top priority,” the CEO
said in a phone interview. Some of the cash will “also be used
for international development.” The company plans to spend 1.5
billion euros in its home market per year, Castellucci said.  Atlantia, controlled by the Benetton family, has been both
expanding outside its home market and modernizing the Italian
network to offset “a macroeconomic environment that has still
to recover fully from the impact of the crisis,” according to a
statement today. The company, which manages the main highway
linking Milan with Naples as well as the Italian side of the
Mont Blanc tunnel under the Alps, in 2006 failed to merge with  Spain ’s Abertis Infraestructuras SA due to political opposition.  While “a significant part of the 6 billion euros is devoted
to existing contracts” in Italy, the CEO said, the company
expects to invest “at least 200 million euros a year abroad,
depending on opportunities.” Atlantia will continue to focus its
overseas investments on Chile, Brazil and  India , the CEO said.  “We want to go deeper in the penetration of growing
economies,” Castellucci told Bloomberg Television earlier
today. Rome-based Atlantia is also targeting an initial public
offering for its Chile unit before the end of this year, he
said.  Dividend Growth  Atlantia said today that 2010 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 7 percent to 2.29
billion euros, beating the 2.27 billion-euro average estimate of
17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Atlantia also said its
dividend will grow a minimum of 5 percent per year.  The company expects to increase Ebitda by 4 percent above
the rate of traffic growth per year to 2015, Casellucci said
today.  The shares fell 1.3 percent to 16.55 euros at 3:11 p.m. in
Milan, giving the company a market value of 9.9 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  