-- 
Attijariwafa Bank Closes Its Ivory Coast Unit Amid Crisis

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 
2011-02-21T12:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/attijariwafa-bank-closes-its-ivory-coast-unit-amid-financial-system-crisis.html
Morocco’s  Attijariwafa Bank  said it
has closed its unit in Ivory Coast, becoming at least the 10th
lender to halt operations as the West African nation’s financial
system collapses and concern mounts of renewed violence.  The unit, Societe Ivoirienne de Banque, closed because of
the “deterioration of the situation in the financial sector,”
according to a statement published late yesterday. The head
offices of other major banks were still closed this morning in
the commercial capital, Abidjan, including the units of  BNP
Paribas  SA,  Societe Generale  SA and  Ecobank Transnational Inc .  The banks closed last week citing security concerns
following a disputed Nov. 28 presidential election that left the
country with two rival administrations.  Alassane Ouattara  is the
internationally recognized winner of the vote, while Laurent Gbagbo refuses to cede power, alleging fraud in parts of the
north.  “The absence of a properly functioning banking system will
rapidly bring the entire economy to its knees,” said Samir Gadio, emerging-markets analyst at Standard Bank Plc, in an e-
mailed note Feb. 18.  Some shops in the  Abidjan  neighborhood of Adjame, a main
commercial hub, were closed today. “Everybody here is worried
about safety, we have been told it’s better to stay at home
today,” said Malick Konate, a shop owner, by phone.  Ivorian security forces used teargas and live ammunition to
prevent supporters of Ouattara from attending rallies in the
city on Feb. 19. Police trucks blocked protesters from marching
on Inch’Allah Square in the Koumassi neighborhood of Abidjan.
Witnesses reported fresh gunfire in the area this morning.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 