-- 
Australian Capital Territory Increases Support for Solar Power

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-02-21T08:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/australian-capital-territory-expands-support-program-for-solar-power.html
The  Australian Capital Territory 
parliament approved legislation to extend a feed-in tariff to
support the installation of medium-sized solar  power plants .  The law increases the size of projects eligible for feed-in
tariff support to as much as 200 kilowatts from 30 kilowatts,
with plans to extend the assistance to larger projects by the
end of the year, according to a  statement  from the territory’s
government.  Feed-in tariffs reward households and businesses for
installing solar panels by paying a premium over the price of
grid electricity for the power they generate.  The tariffs could open up a new avenue of growth for solar
companies in  Australia  and other states might soon follow suit
with their own programs, Kobad Bhavnagri, a Sydney-based analyst
from Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in an e-mail. "The
historic lack of commercial-scale policy incentives has resulted
in negligible installations in this segment, which makes up the
bulk of installed capacity in more mature markets like Germany
and the U.S."  The ACT government introduced feed-in tariffs for micro
solar power projects of as much as 30 kilowatts in 2009,
according to its  website . There have been more than 3,500
installations since they was introduced, the statement said.  The legislation will “give the solar industry the
certainty it needs to invest in medium and large scale
generation,” Simon Corbell, the ACT Minister for Environment,
Climate Change and Water, said in the statement. “These
amendments will enable both individuals and community
organizations greater access to the scheme.”  The bill also introduces caps to ensure feed-in tariffs
support a maximum of 15 megawatts of micro installations and 15
megawatts of medium-sized generators, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 