-- 
Australia Must Improve After Opening Cricket World Cup Win, Ponting Says

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-02-21T21:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/australia-must-improve-after-opening-cricket-world-cup-win-ponting-says.html
  Australia  captain Ricky Ponting said
his team needs to raise its game after opening its bid for a
fourth straight Cricket World Cup title with a 91-run victory
over Zimbabwe.  Opener Shane Watson hit 79 runs from 92 balls as top-ranked
Australia reached 262-6 off 50 overs in yesterday’s Group A
match in Ahmedabad,  India . Fast bowler Mitchell Johnson’s 4-19
helped Australia restrict Zimbabwe to 171 all out in reply.  The victory extended Australia’s winning streak at
cricket’s four-yearly championship to 24 matches, stretching
back to June 1999, when it tied with  South Africa . Its last
defeat came at the same edition against  Pakistan .  “As the tournament goes on, we’re going to need to be on
top of our games and we’re probably not quite there just yet,”
Ponting told reporters. “The more we play and the more we
become accustomed to these conditions then the better we’ll
be.”  Australia next faces  New Zealand  on Feb. 25 in Nagpur.  England  begins its campaign for a first World Cup title today
against the Netherlands in a Group B game in the same city.  Ponting, who’d not played a competitive match since
breaking his finger in the third Ashes Test against England on
Dec. 18, returned to play his record 40th World Cup game, one
more than former teammate Glenn McGrath. He hit 28 before being
run out by Chris Mpofu’s long throw.  His dismissal followed that of man-of-the-match Watson, who
was given out leg-before-wicket to a Graeme Cremer delivery
following a referral to the third umpire. Vice-captain Michael Clarke’s unbeaten 58 from 55 balls ensured Australia didn’t lose
momentum as it added 55 runs off the last 5 overs.  ‘Good Signs’  Zimbabwe sputtered in its reply as Johnson and fellow
paceman Shaun Tait claimed six wickets between them. Spinner
Jason Krejza also took two wickets. Cremer top scored for  Zimbabwe  with 37.  “There wasn’t much in it for the quicks,” Ponting said at
the presentation ceremony. “Johnson was outstanding. Tait’s
just working up to a bit of match fitness so to get eight or
nine overs out of him was a real bonus. Krejza looked very good
so there’s some good signs there for us.”  New Zealand and Sri Lanka opened Group A play two days ago
with victories over Kenya and  Canada . The top four from each of
the seven-team groups advance to the quarterfinals after a
round-robin competition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  