-- 
Aaron Baddeley Holds Off Singh to Claim First PGA Tour Title in Four Years

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-02-21T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/baddeley-wins-northern-trust-open-for-first-pga-tour-title-in-four-years.html
Aaron Baddeley claimed his first
U.S. PGA Tour title in four years, pulling away from  Vijay Singh 
and Fred Couples to win the Northern Trust Open at Riviera
Country Club.  Baddeley, a 29-year-old Australian, entered the final round
with a one-shot lead and closed with a 2-under-par 69 to finish
12-under for the tournament in Pacific Palisades,  California ,
two shots better than runner-up Singh.  Baddeley receives $1.17 million for the victory, his third
on the PGA Tour. He’d gone 96 starts since his last win on the
circuit, at the 2007 FBR Open, slipping to 224th in golf’s
Official World Ranking.  “It’s definitely been a couple of long years, but it was
worth every bit,” Baddeley, who changed his swing two years
ago, said at a news conference. “I really feel that the last
couple years is actually what made it easier just because of
having to battle and grow into so much.”  Singh, who turns 48 tomorrow, was second at 10-under -- his
best Tour finish since winning the Deutsche Bank Championship in
September 2008 -- followed by Kevin Na at 9-under.  Couples, seeking to become the  PGA Tour ’s oldest winner in
35 years at age 51, shot a final-round 73 to tie for seventh
place at 7-under par. Couples began the day one stroke off the
lead and opened with three straight birdies before making four
bogies and a double-bogey over his final 15 holes.  “Everybody was yelling out, ‘Freddie, Freddie, Freddie,’”
said Baddeley, who was grouped with Couples. “I knew he was
going to be the fan favorite, and no reason why he shouldn’t be.
He’s been such a great player over the years.”  Double-Bogey  Baddeley recovered from a double-bogey at the 12th hole --
his only dropped shots during the final round -- by sinking a
curling 27-foot birdie putt at the par-4 13th hole that extended
his lead to three strokes.  Tiger Woods returns to action Feb. 23 at the $8.5 million
World Golf Championships Accenture Match Play Championship in
Marana,  Arizona , where the 64-man field features all but one of
the top 64 players in the world rankings.  Woods, a three-time World Match Play winner who’s ranked
third, is scheduled to play Denmark’s Thomas Bjorn in the first
round. World No. 1 Lee Westwood of  England  is set to meet
Sweden’s Henrik Stenson, who secured the 64th spot when Japan’s
Toru Taniguchi withdrew because of a neck injury. Second-ranked  Martin Kaymer  of  Germany  faces  South Korea ’s Noh Seung-yul.  Defending champion Ian Poulter of England will open against
American Stewart Cink.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  