-- 
Formula 1 Season to Start in Australia After Bahrain Calls Off Grand Prix

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-02-22T00:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/bahrain-cancels-opening-formula-one-race-of-new-season-after-civil-unrest.html
The Formula One championship will
begin in  Australia  next month after Bahrain called off the
season-opening race because of anti-government protests in the
Gulf state.  The Bahrain Grand Prix, which was scheduled for March 13,
had been in doubt for more than a week following the civil
unrest. No decision has been made on rescheduling the race,
Formula One chief executive officer  Bernie Ecclestone  said. The
 2011 season  will instead begin March 27 in  Melbourne .  “We felt it was important for the country to focus on
immediate issues of national interest and leave the hosting of
Bahrain’s Formula 1 race to a later date,” Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa said in a statement yesterday.  Arab governments are cracking down on pro-democracy
activists after uprisings that toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  spread to Bahrain, Libya and  Algeria .  Bahrain’s army fired tear gas, buckshot and rubber bullets
on protesters in the capital, Manama, last week. At least five
people were killed in Bahrain and more than 100 people were
being treated at the Salmaniya Hospital after clashes four days
ago, said Ahmed Jamal, president of the Bahrain medical society.  “It is clear that to race in Bahrain at this time would be
inappropriate given the current circumstances,” Adam Parr,
chairman of the Williams F-1 team, said in a statement. Teams
agreed to switch a four-day test session scheduled to start
March 3 in Bahrain to Barcelona five days later, Parr said.  The Federation Internationale de l’Automobile, Formula
One’s governing body, said it supported the decision to postpone
the race, which was the outcome of “close cooperation” between
the Paris-based FIA, Formula One Management, the Bahrain Motor
Federation and the Bahrain International Circuit.  ‘Sad’ Withdrawal  The Crown Prince informed Ecclestone of the decision to
call off the event in a telephone call, his statement said.  “It is sad that Bahrain has had to withdraw from the
race,” Ecclestone said in the statement. “We wish the whole
nation well as they begin to heal their country. We look forward
to being back in Bahrain soon.”  Bahrain has hosted Formula One since 2004 at a purpose-
built $150 million racetrack in the desert south of Manama.  Australian driver  Mark Webber , who questioned last weekend
whether the race should go ahead, welcomed the postponement.  “The right decision was made, in light of what is going
on, so we look forward to Melbourne instead,” Webber, who
finished third for Red Bull in the 2010 world championship, said
in a team statement. “It’s my home race and I’m looking forward
to it. We’re in good shape as a team.”  Melbourne’s Albert Park circuit last hosted the season
opener two years ago before being replaced as the first race by
Bahrain.  “We will now amend our logistics accordingly and will get
ready for Australia,” Eric Boullier, managing director of the
Lotus Renault GP team, said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  