-- 
Bahrain, Libya Debt Ratings Cut on Protests; Mideast Stocks Fall

-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-02-21T17:39:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/bahrain-debt-rating-lowered-to-a-a-2-by-standard-poor-s-may-cut-again.html
Bahrain and Libya’s sovereign credit
ratings were cut as the two Arab countries struggle to contain
anti-government protests. Persian Gulf and North African stocks
declined.  Bahrain’s long-term rating was reduced by one level to A-,
the fourth-lowest investment grade, and the short-term rating
lowered to A-2 at Standard & Poor’s Ratings. Libya’s long-term
foreign and local currency issuer default ratings were cut to
BBB, two notches above non-investment grade, from BBB+ at  Fitch
Ratings . The  MADEX Free Float Index  in  Morocco  tumbled 3
percent, the most in two years, at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Casablanca. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf stocks lost 0.4
percent, bringing the seven-day drop to 5.3 percent.  “Certainly perception of risk is only increasing,” Alia Moubayed, senior economist at London-based  Barclays Capital ,
said in a telephone interview. “Investors will not take any
sort of half solutions to be enough for calming their sense of  risk aversion  in the region.”  In Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves, clashes
between protesters and security forces have left more than 200
people dead in the past week, according to Human Rights Watch.
The unrest followed popular uprisings that led to the toppling
of Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali and  Egypt ’s Hosni Mubarak this year. Demonstrators have also taken to the streets
in  Bahrain ,  Yemen , Morocco and  Iran .  Oil Climbs  Analysts warned of the risk of unrest spreading to  Saudi
Arabia , the world’s biggest oil exporter. Oil for April delivery
rose for a fourth day in New York on concern supplies will be
disrupted by turmoil in the region. Crude climbed as much as 5.3
percent to $94.47 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  In Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, seven
opposition groups were drawing up demands to put to the
government as they discussed the regime’s call for dialogue,
Ebrahim Sharif, head of the National Democratic Action Society,
said yesterday. Protests have been led by the Shiite Muslim
majority, which says it is discriminated against by Sunni
rulers.  “We expect the demonstrations that have taken place over
the past month will persist, despite the government’s use of
force to clear the protesters from central Manama,” S&P said in
an e-mailed statement today. The debt was placed on credit watch
with negative implications, meaning it may be lowered again.  Bahraini Yields Soar  Bahrain’s 10-year dollar bond maturing in 2020 fell for a
10th day, with the yield climbing 16 basis points to a record
6.79 percent at 8:04 p.m. in the capital Manama. The yield on
Bahrain’s 6.247 percent five-year Islamic bond rose 17 basis
points to 4.1 percent, according to Bloomberg composite prices.  “It is normal following any political or economic
development that the  credit rating agencies  would review the
ratings,” Central Bank Governor Rasheed al-Maraj said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. “However we believe that the
economic fundamentals of the Kingdom of Bahrain remain strong
and that the short-term economic and political developments
should not entirely reflect on the review.”  Bahrain’s benchmark stock index dropped 0.4 percent, the
most since Feb. 3. The market had closed by the time S&P cut the
rating. The cost of protection against a default by Bahrain rose
9 basis points from the Feb. 18 London close to 313, according
to CMA. Credit default swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a government or company fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.    Libya  Protests  Muammar Qaddafi’s son called on protesters in Libya to
engage in dialogue or face a civil war that risks the country’s
oil wealth, as violence escalated amid reports protesters seized
control of the second-biggest city. Security forces and
protesters fought overnight in the capital, Tripoli, with
snipers shooting from rooftops and gunmen opening fire from
vehicles carry pictures of the Libyan leader, the  Associated
Press  said, citing witnesses.  “The downgrade reflects the eruption of political risk
evidenced by the increasing momentum of the popular uprising
aimed at ending Qaddafi’s 42-year rule,” said Charles Seville,
director in Fitch’s Sovereign Ratings Group. “The rating watch
negative reflects the wide range of possible political
outcomes.” Libya has no government debt, Fitch said.  Dubai’s benchmark stock index dropped to the lowest level
in almost six months, leading a decline in the  Persian Gulf .
Tunisia’s measure fell 1 percent.  Egypt T-Bills  In Egypt, the Ministry of Finance raised 5.5 billion pounds
($934 million) in treasury bills at an auction today. The
ministry sold 3.5 billion pounds of 364-day bills at an average
yield of 12 percent, the highest since November 2008, compared
with 10.6 percent when the tenor was auctioned on Jan. 25,
according to central bank data on Bloomberg. Two billion pounds
of 182-day notes were sold at an average yield of 11.73 percent
from 11.78 percent last week, the data show.  Egypt’s stock exchange hasn’t decided when to resume
trading and hasn’t found any legal grounds to cancel trades that
took place on Jan. 27, the last day stocks traded, Chairman
Khaled Seyam said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net 
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  