-- 
Barclays ‘Driven Out’ of Russia as State-Run Lenders Advance

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-02-22T15:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/barclays-santander-are-driven-out-of-russia-as-state-owned-banks-expand.html
  Barclays Plc  and  Banco Santander SA 
are among western lenders abandoning retail operations in Russia
as state companies gain market share and expand into  investment
banking .  Barclays is disposing of the retail unit it acquired for
$745 million in 2008, the third-largest U.K. bank said last
week. Santander,  Spain ’s biggest lender, sold its Russian
consumer bank to auto-loan specialist Orient Express two months
earlier.  HSBC Holdings Plc  may close its Russian branches, the
Kommersant newspaper reported yesterday, citing unidentified
people familiar with the matter.  “Foreign players without sufficient scale are being driven
out of the country,” said Rustam Botashev, deputy head of
research at  UniCredit SpA  in Moscow. “They cannot successfully
compete with the domestic banks.”  OAO Sberbank, VTB Group,  Russia ’s top two banks, are
exerting a growing dominance. Sberbank has almost 20,000
branches nationwide and accounts for 27 percent of Russian
banking assets and 26 percent of banking capital. VTB’s retail
business, VTB-24, has more than 530 offices and its investment
banking unit is the biggest organizer of bond and equity sales.  JPMorgan, HSBC  VTB agreed to buy the Moscow government’s shares in Bank of
Moscow for $3.5 billion in the biggest acquisition by a lender
in the country. VTB is also purchasing OAO TransCreditBank,
while Sberbank pursues an investment bank. State banks will
control more than 60 percent of the underwriting market for
domestic bonds if these acquisitions are completed, according to
Bloomberg data. Barclays was the leading arranger of
international bonds out of Russia last year, followed by VTB
Capital and  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the data show.  Barclays,  Banco Santander  and HSBC aren’t alone in giving
up. Belgium’s  KBC Groep NV  has to sell part or all of its stake
in Moscow-based Absolut Bank as part of a 7 billion-euro bailout
agreement with the European Commission, according to KBC
spokesman Stef Leunens. Rabobank Groep NV,  Europe ’s biggest
farming lender, asked Russia’s central bank this month to annul
its license so it can concentrate on other countries, including
China, India and the U.S.  “We have changed our priorities,” Manel Vrijenhoek, a
spokeswoman for Rabobank, said by phone from Utrecht, the
Netherlands. “You have to make choices of how to deploy
resources and we see better opportunities in other markets.”  UniCredit, SocGen  Last year, Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest
brokerage, sold its local mortgage unit and  Swedbank AB , the
biggest Baltic lender, started curtailing its Russian retail
operations. Thomas Backteman, a spokesman for Swedbank, said the
Stockholm-based lender failed to secure enough scale to be
profitable. A Banco Santander official in  Madrid  declined to
comment on the bank’s decision to leave Russia.  HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank by market value, will probably
decide this month to abandon its consumer business in Russia,
after failing to gain market share in the two years it’s been
open,  Kommersant  said. “No decision has been made to exit one
of our businesses in Russia,” the bank said in a statement.  Barclays, based in  London , will focus on organizing bond
sales, initial public offerings and cross-border transactions,
Hans-Joerg Rudloff, the chairman of Barclays’ investment banking
arm, said in an interview on Feb. 16. Barclays is one of 22
banks the Russian government hired to help sell as much as 1
trillion rubles ($34 billion) of assets over the next three
years. The  Russian Auction House , a joint venture between
Sberbank and the St. Petersburg government, was also chosen as
an organizer. The Russian government raised $3.3 billion on Feb.
14 selling a 10 percent stake in VTB in the largest state asset
sale since the bank’s initial offering four years earlier.  “Subscale businesses don’t belong in our portfolio,”
Rudloff said. “We will concentrate on what we know best.”  ‘Huge Potential’  Other foreign banks have been more successful in building a
foothold.  France ’s Societe Generale, which gained almost 3
million clients by gaining control of Moscow-based OAO  Rosbank 
in 2008, saw a turnaround in its Russian business last year. Its
consumer unit posted a 13 million-euro profit in the fourth
quarter, following a loss of 58 million euros a year earlier,
according to the bank’s website.  Paris-based SocGen expects Russia to be the largest
contributor to international retail earnings by 2015, it said
last June. The company has more than 600 branches in Russia and
more than 16,000 employees, more than in any other country
outside of France.  UniCredit, Raiffeisen  UniCredit SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, raised its stake in
ZAO International Moscow Bank to 100 percent in June 2007.
Raiffeisen International Bank, Austria’s biggest by market
value, paid $500 million for Russian lender Impexbank in 2006,
making it the country’s largest foreign bank. UniCredit has more
than 100 branches and 3,700 employees in Russia, where it is a
“top 10 bank,” according to its website. Raiffseisen is the
ninth largest bank in Russia by assets.  “Foreign banks like UniCredit,  Societe Generale  and
Raiffeisen have been here a long time and have done well,” said
Leonid Slipchenko, a banking analyst at UralSib Financial Corp.
in Moscow. “Russia remains a growth story and there is huge
potential for banks to tap the rapidly growing consumer-lending
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  