-- 
BHP to Buy Chesapeake Shale Gas Assets for $4.75 Billion

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-02-22T23:27:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/bhp-buys-chesapeake-unit-for-4-75-billion-adding-u-s-shale-gas-assets.html
  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the world’s
biggest mining company, agreed to buy  Chesapeake Energy Corp .’s
Arkansas shale gas assets for $4.75 billion in cash, more than
doubling its U.S. oil and gas reserves.  BHP will add more than 10 trillion cubic feet of gas
resources through the purchase, J. Michael Yeager, chief
executive officer of BHP’s petroleum division, said on a call
with reporters today. The Fayetteville deal marks Melbourne-
based BHP’s first foray into U.S. shale gas.  “It’s a bet on long-term U.S. gas prices going higher,”
said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1.8 billion
including mining stocks at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in
Sydney. “They’ve entered a new business but have met the
criteria that they have articulated for acquisitions, that is,
tier-one, low-cost, long-life and expandable assets.”  Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  will expand oil and
gas reserves by 45 percent with the purchase, BHP’s largest
since it bought WMC Resources Ltd. for $7.6 billion in 2005.
There have been 135 oil and gas deals worth a combined $41
billion announced globally this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The $285.3 billion of transactions last year was
the second-highest on record, after 2007.  Share Prices  BHP rose 1.6 percent to A$46.58 by the 4:10 p.m. close in
Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index dropped 0.9
percent. BHP also completed a A$5 billion off-market share
buyback today as part of a $10 billion program it revealed on
Feb. 16. Chesapeake rose $1.58, or 5.2 percent, to $32.01 at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The Chesapeake transaction helps the company become a
“very, very powerful petroleum” producer, with natural gas
assets in Western  Australia  and stakes in U.S. Gulf of Mexico
oil projects, Yeager said.  Investor and regulatory concerns sank three investments
worth more than $100 billion proposed by Kloppers, 48, in the
past four years, including last year’s offer for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. The failed deals, combined with record first-
half profit, left BHP with $16.1 billion of cash on hand.  The company’s “credit profile can accommodate the proposed
acquisition and buyback, given the group’s strong cash flow
generation and conservative financial profile,” Standard &
Poor’s analysts May Zhong and Brenda Wardlaw wrote today in a
report. BHP’s credit rating of “A+” isn’t immediately affected
by the acquisition, S&P said.  BHP’s Reserves  Chesapeake agreed to sell all of its interests in about
487,000 net acres of properties in central  Arkansas , the company
said. Shale formations consist of dense rock that can be broken
apart to release oil and gas. The transaction is expected to
close in the first half of this year, Chesapeake said.  Fayetteville holds about 2.4 trillion cubic feet of gas,
equivalent to 456 million barrels of oil, compared with BHP’s
total proved U.S. reserves of 288 million barrels in its 2010
annual petroleum review.  BHP, Australia’s largest oil and gas company, paid about
$1.98 for each thousand cubic feet of estimated proven reserves,
said Michael Bodino, an analyst at Global Hunter Securities in  Fort Worth ,  Texas . In December,  Exxon Mobil Corp . paid $1.92 per
MCF of reserves when it acquired property in the Fayetteville
Shale from  Petrohawk Energy Corp .  Announced deal premiums this year have been at an average
of 24 percent, compared with 19 percent last year.  “The valuation looks full, but not over the top,
especially if and when U.S. gas prices start firming again,”
Platypus Asset’s Patkar said.  ‘Strategic Sense’  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , said Feb. 7 it planned
to raise $5 billion this year by selling its Fayetteville shale
holdings and its stakes in two companies to reduce debt.  The purchase “makes good strategic sense and is capable of
delivering BHP some very good growth and returns over the
medium-to-longer term,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage
$1 billion at Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “The deal is
not risking the company, shouldn’t run into regulatory hurdles,
and adds another leg for growth within the petroleum division.”  BP Plc paid $1.9 billion for 25 percent of Chesapeake’s
Fayetteville shale in 2008, a month after buying all of the
company’s operations in the Woodford Shale of  Oklahoma ’s Arkoma
Basin for $1.75 billion.    Chevron Corp . agreed to buy  Atlas Energy Inc . to add
acreage in the gas-rich Marcellus Shale in the U.S. East. Exxon
acquired XTO Energy Inc., a shale-gas producer, for $34.8
billion in stock and debt in June.  ‘Major Producer’    Cnooc Ltd .,  China ’s largest offshore energy producer, in
January agreed to pay $570 million in cash for a one-third stake
in Chesapeake’s Niobrara shale project in Colorado and  Wyoming .  BHP will take over the running of the asset through the
purchase, which also includes pipelines, and plans to spend as
much as $1 billion a year developing shale resources, Yeager
said on the call.  BHP expects to invest as much as $30 billion developing
Western Australian gas assets, which include the proposed Browse
LNG project led by  Woodside Petroleum Ltd . and the Scarborough
venture with Exxon Mobil Corp., he said.  “This will do nothing to our Gulf of Mexico focus, nor
will it do anything to our WA LNG focus,” he said. “This gives
us an instant, credible avenue to go do more of this.”  Chesapeake said Jan. 6 it wanted to cut its debt 25 percent
in two years by selling assets, while increasing production by
25 percent. The BHP announcement is a sign that Chesapeake is
following through, Bodino said.  “It’s like turning a big tanker in the ocean,” said
Bodino, who rates Chesapeake’s shares a “buy” and owns none.
“You know it’s going to be a big, wide turn, but once it picks
up steam it’s very powerful.”  Barclays Capital and  Bank of Nova Scotia  are advising BHP
on the transaction, and Jefferies Group Inc. is working with
Chesapeake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  