-- 
Blockbuster Agrees to Be Bought for $290 Million by Group of Debt Holders

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/blockbuster-gets-290-million-bid-from-debt-holders-who-will-try-auction.html
  Blockbuster Inc ., the bankrupt movie
rental chain, agreed to be bought by a group of debt holders for
as much as $290 million as part of a bankruptcy auction.  The Dallas-based company said the bid from Monarch
Alternative Capital LP, Owl Creek Asset Management LP, Stonehill
Capital Management LLC and Värde Partners Inc. would set the
minimum at an auction. The company will seek approval for the
plan from U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in  Manhattan  at a
hearing scheduled for March 2.  The sale will “allow for the consolidation of ownership of
the company to those with a clear and focused vision for
Blockbuster’s future,” Chief Executive Officer Jim Keyes said
in a statement.  The group, called Cobalt Video Holdco LLC, which holds more
than half of Blockbuster’s $630 million in 11.75 percent senior
secured notes, made no commitment to continue the business. A
provision in the agreement gives Cobalt the right to compel a
conversion of the Chapter 11 reorganization case to a Chapter 7
liquidation. The contract also calls for Blockbuster to begin
closing 609 stores by Feb. 28. The group can also compel a
liquidation of the inventory at any stores it doesn’t elect to
take.  Cobalt plans to buy all Blockbuster assets and its U.S. and
international subsidiaries, according to the statement. If the
plan is approved, interested bidders are required to submit
binding offers within about 30 days following court approval. A
final sale is expected to close no later than April 20, the
company said.  Expenses Frozen  As part of the deal, administrative expenses, other than
critical expenses, incurred during the bankruptcy before Feb. 24
will be frozen, according to court papers. After Feb. 25,
expenses will be paid only if provided in a budget. The sale
contract also requires the court to bar creditors from
taking any action at collecting on a claim before June 21.  In papers filed last week, Blockbuster said there is a
“possibility” it won’t be able to pay all suppliers for goods
provided after the Chapter 11 filing.  One supplier, Summit Entertainment LLC, said earlier this
month that Blockbuster can’t pay $1.6 million owed for DVDs of
“The Twilight Saga: Eclipse” and other bills and should be
liquidated. Summit, an independent production and distribution
studio, is owed $9.5 million, according to court papers filed
Feb. 3.  Poor Sales  Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 23 with the
outline of a reorganization plan supported by senior bondholders.
The effort failed, and the company blamed poor holiday sales and 
deteriorating business operations. The plan hashed out with a 
leading group of debt holders was not “feasible,” the company 
said in court papers.  Blockbuster entered bankruptcy with 5,600 stores, including
3,300 in the U.S. Among the U.S. stores, 3,000 are owned and the
rest franchised. About 200 stores closed before bankruptcy.  The company, which last reported a profit in the first
quarter of 2009, posted a net loss of $53.5 million on sales of
$736.6 million in the third quarter of 2010. Cash and cash
equivalents stood at $66 million as of Jan. 2, the company said
in court papers.  The bankruptcy petition listed assets of $1.02 billion
against debt of $1.46 billion. The company said owes $57 million
in accounts  Blockbuster said in September that sales fell in recent
years while Netflix Inc. grew by renting movies online and
through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc . put Redbox DVD vending
machines in supermarkets and drugstores.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  