-- 
BofA Doubles Credit-Card Unit's Writedown to $20.3 Billion

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-02-22T15:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/bofa-almost-doubles-credit-card-unit-writedown-to-20-3-billion.html
  Bank of America Corp ., the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, almost doubled a goodwill impairment for
its credit-card unit to $20.3 billion to reflect increased
defaults and an almost two-year-old change in rules.  The bank restated federal regulatory filings to record the
writedown to its FIA Card Services unit in 2009’s first half,
the firm said yesterday in a statement. The non-cash charge,
which replaced a $10.4 billion impairment booked on the unit
last year, doesn’t affect “the financial results, safety and
soundness or the capital position” of the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based parent company, said Robert Stickler, a
spokesman.  The writedown shows the credit-card unit’s prospects may
have deteriorated more than initially disclosed after the U.S.
passed legislation, known as the Card Act, in  May 2009  to curb
fees and interest-rate increases. In November, the bank said
some  measures  would cut annual revenue by $1 billion,
undermining efforts by Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, to improve returns for investors. The firm
yesterday said the act and “deteriorating  credit quality ”
caused the revision.  “This is another sign that the quality of the bank’s
consumer-credit book is weaker than what they previously
indicated,” said  Tony Plath , a finance professor at the
University of  North Carolina  at Charlotte. “It’s a huge number,
and the way they’re disclosing it erodes the bank’s credibility.
Why are we waiting until 2011 to do an impairment charge for two
years ago?”  Closer Look  The restatement, covering the eight quarters of 2009 and
2010, was made in reports filed with the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., Bank of America said.  The company declined 31 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $14.44 at
10:22 a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
stock is up 8.1 percent this year.  The lender had previously tested goodwill for entire
business segments rather than subsidiaries, Stickler said. The
company identified the charge to its credit-card unit last year
after “we changed our processes and looked more closely at
legal entities underlying the businesses,” he said.  Goodwill is an intangible asset on a firm’s balance sheet
representing the premium paid over the market value of assets in
an acquisition. Moynihan’s predecessor Kenneth D. Lewis spent
$35 billion for MBNA Corp. in 2006, then the largest U.S. card
issuer.  ‘Crazy Price’  “They’re trying to reevaluate their businesses in light of
changing regulations,” said Jonathan Finger, whose family-owned
investment company, Finger Interests Ltd., owns 1.1 million Bank
of America shares. “While it’s a non-cash charge, it does
perhaps signal weaker profitability in the card business, and
that concerns me.”  Bank of America said last month that the loss in its cards
division, which includes credit and debit units, widened to $6.6
billion in 2010, from $5.3 billion in 2009, on the $10.4 billion
writedown last year tied to debit-card regulation. Excluding the
charge, the business would’ve posted profit of $3.8 billion as
credit-card repayment rates improved, the company said.  Investors including Finger, who led a proxy fight that
helped drive Lewis into retirement at the end of 2009, have said
that the former CEO overpaid while seeking to expand Bank of
America’s operations.  Lewis agreed to pay $29 a share for Merrill Lynch & Co. the
weekend before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008.
The $50 billion deal was a “crazy price,” billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  told the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission,
according to remarks released this month.  Bank of America acquired Calabasas, California-based
Countrywide Financial in 2008 in a stock swap originally valued
at $4 billion. The company announced in January it would write
down those operations by about $2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at   hson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 