-- 
BP Pays $7.2 Billion for Stakes in Reliance Blocks in India

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-02-21T15:18:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/bp-pays-7-2-billion-for-stakes-in-23-reliance-blocks-in-india.html
  BP Plc ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
company, agreed to pay $7.2 billion for stakes in 23 blocks in
India from  Reliance Industries Ltd ., expanding operations in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy.  BP will acquire a 30 percent interest in the blocks as well
as form a venture with Reliance to market gas, the London-based
company said in a statement today. Future performance payments
and investment could increase the size of the deal to $20
billion, BP said.  BP expects energy consumption in India to grow by more than
4 percent a year for the next two decades, with demand for gas
rising more than 5 percent. Today’s deal is BP’s second this
year after agreeing to explore an area of  Russia ’s Arctic waters
about the size of the U.K.  North Sea  with OAO Rosneft.  “This gives BP exposure to a fast-growing economy and
access to large potential hydrocarbon reserves,” said  David Hart , an analyst at Westhouse Securities Ltd. in London.
“Despite what happened in the Gulf, they are an experienced
major in deepwater and this relies on their experience.”  BP last year sold its assets in neighboring  Pakistan  as
part of $22 billion in disposals worldwide to help pay for the
Gulf of Mexico spill.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley said today’s deal values
the reserves acquired at about $7.50 a barrel of oil equivalent,
about half the level BP achieved in its divestitures since the
spill.  Shares of BP were unchanged at 493 pence as of 2:59 p.m. in
London. Reliance,  India ’s biggest company by market value, rose
2 percent today in Mumbai trading. The stock is down about 10
percent this year.  ‘Behind Schedule’  “Reliance is cashing in on assets in India which have been
partially explored and production is behind schedule,” said
Walter Rossini, who manages $350 million of Indian assets,
including Reliance shares, at Aletti Gestielle SGR SpA in Milan.
“Maybe Reliance is de-risking its India business and will use
the money it gets to buy fields in other parts of the world.”  Reliance operates India’s biggest natural gas deposit off
the east coast. Reduced pressure at the reservoir has forced the
company to cut production. Chief Financial Officer Alok Agarwal
said July 27 Reliance is carrying out a review of the reservoir
and the company’s safety procedures.  Hurt Investment  Reliance has made 39 discoveries offshore India, but only
two have been developed as low gas prices hurt investment and
reservoir “uncertainties” crimped output, according to Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. analyst  Neil Beveridge  in a report Feb. 10.
The company has discovered 30 trillion cubic feet of gas even as
low prices stall development of areas in the east coast,
including NEC-25 in the region’s Mahanadi area, it said.  Reliance will remain the operator in the production sharing
contracts in the blocks in water depths of between 400 meters
(1,300 feet) to 3,000 meters. The assets currently produce 1.8
billion cubic feet of gas per day, more than 40 percent of
India’s output.  “India is one of the fastest-growing economies in the
world,” Dudley said in a statement. “By allying ourselves with
Reliance, we will access the most prolific gas basin in India
and secure a place in the fast-growing Indian gas markets.”  The deal will require government approval, said India’s Oil
Secretary S. Sundareshan, the top bureaucrat in the ministry.
“We will examine it on merit when it comes to us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  