-- 
Eni Declines as Libya Unrest Worsens, BP Stops Exploration

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-02-21T17:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/bp-suspends-oil-exploration-in-libya-as-violence-worsens-eni-shares-drop.html
  Eni SpA , the largest foreign oil
producer in Libya, fell the most in 19 months in Milan trading,
and  BP Plc  suspended exploration because of worsening violence
in the North African country.  Eni, which produced 244,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
in Libya in 2009, fell 5.1 percent, the most since July 2009.
The company said in a statement that production is continuing as
normal. BP has no producing assets in Libya and is evacuating
families and non-essential staff, said David Nicholas, a
spokesman for Europe’s second-largest oil company.  Libya holds the largest crude oil reserves in  Africa  and  oil prices  rose to a two-year high today. Saif al-Islam Qaddafi
called on protesters against his father Muammar Qaddafi’s 41-
year rule to engage in dialogue or face a civil war that risks
the country’s oil wealth, warning that “rivers of blood will
flow” if demonstrations continue.  “The violence is unsettling and it’s definitely right to
be cautious,” said Jason Kenney, head of oil and gas research
at ING Wholesale Banking in Edinburgh. “It seems like Eni is
most at risk. The gas coming into  Europe  is quite significant,
so it’s a concern.”  Shokri Ghanem, chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., said
he had no information about a disruption in oil production. Al
Jazeera reported earlier that Libya’s Nafoora oil field had
stopped producing because of an employee strike.  Pipeline to  Italy   Eni said that while “no problems at plants and operational
activities have been reported,” family members of its employees
are being relocated and repatriated. The company also operates
the Greenstream gas pipeline from Libya to Italy through the
Mediterranean Sea.  BP retreated 0.3 percent in  London . BP will remain
committed to doing business in Libya, Chief Executive Officer
Bob Dudley said at a press conference today after announcing an
agreement to buy stakes in licenses in  India .  Austria’s largest oil company  OMV AG  is withdrawing all
non-essential staff from Libya. The Vienna-based company
produced 34,000 barrels a day in Libya in the first nine months
of 2010, its third-biggest production country after Romania and
Austria. OMV fell 4.2 percent to 32.57 euros in Vienna.    BASF SE ’s Wintershall unit, which operates eight oil fields
in the Libyan desert, is making preparations together with
Libya’s National Oil Corp. to reduce its production in the
country and allow its international employees and their families
to repatriate, the company said in an e-mail response to
questions today.  Oil Gains  Oil rose to a two-year high today, with Brent crude prices
in London exceeding $105 a barrel. Price swings of the commodity
have doubled this year as unrest spreads through the Middle
East, source of one-third of global crude supply.  Libya has become the focal point of regional protests
ignited by the ouster of Tunisia’s president last month and
energized by the fall of Egypt’s President Hosni Mubarak on Feb.
11. Violence has flared in Yemen, Djibouti and Bahrain as
governments cracked down on calls for reform.  Thousands of people demonstrated yesterday in Benghazi,
Libya’s second-largest city. They were met by gunfire from
forces loyal to the 68-year-old Qaddafi, Human Rights Watch
said, citing reports from witnesses.  Statoil, Repsol    Statoil ASA , the Norwegian energy producer, closed its
office in Tripoli, spokesman Baard Glad Pedersen said by phone.
Statoil participates in land-based oil production and
exploration activities in the Mabruk field, operated by Total
SA, and in the Murzuk basin, operated by  Repsol YPF SA .  Repsol,  Spain ’s biggest oil company, is operating normally
in Libya and isn’t withdrawing staff, Kristian Rix, a Madrid-
based spokesman, said. Repsol had net production in Libya of
34,777 barrels a day in 2009 and has been present in that North
African country since the 1970s. Repsol dropped 2.6 percent in  Madrid .  RWE AG, which is working on developing fields in two
concessions in Libya, has suspended operations and recommended
that international employees and relatives return home, Carolin
Flemming, an RWE spokeswoman, said by e-mail. Some workers
returned home on the weekend of Feb. 19, she said.    Royal Dutch Shell Plc  said it temporarily evacuated the
families of expat workers in Libya. “We continue to monitor the
situation in the country very closely,” said Kirsten Smart, a
Shell spokeswoman, by e-mail.  Officials from more than 90 nations including Saudi Arabian
Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi and U.S. Deputy Energy Secretary
Daniel Poneman gather in Riyadh tomorrow to seek ways of curbing
oil-price fluctuations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  