-- 
Bundesbank Says Outlook for German Economy Remains ‘Positive’

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-02-21T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/bundesbank-says-outlook-for-german-economy-remains-positive-.html
The Bundesbank said the outlook for
the German economy remains “positive” as consumers step up
spending and demand in Asian markets boost exports.    Europe ’s largest economy “will be able to maintain a good
part of its momentum from the second half of 2010 into the
current year,” the Frankfurt-based central bank said in its
monthly report published today. “That’s because of buoyant new
orders” from non-euro area countries. “Private consumption
should also support economic growth over the coming months.”  The German economy, which has powered the euro region’s
expansion over the past year, may gather strength after a
construction slump hurt fourth-quarter growth. Business
confidence rose to a record this month and Infineon Technologies
AG, Europe’s second-largest chipmaker, said Feb. 17 the “volume
of orders is excellent.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said on Jan. 25 that the
German economy will probably expand 2.2 percent this year after
growing a record 3.6 percent in 2010. The 17-member euro-region
economy may expand 1.5 percent in 2011, with  France  growing 1.6
percent, the Washington-based fund forecast.  The Bundesbank, led by  Axel Weber , said that growth
“impulses from the euro region will probably remain rather
subdued” and that a “certain economic slowdown can’t be ruled
out” if orders fail to pick up. The outlook for the labor
market remains “positive,” supporting consumer demand.  The central bank also echoed remarks made by European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  on Feb. 3 to monitor
price developments “very carefully,” as surging commodity
costs threaten to push up inflationary risks in the euro region.
The ECB will hold its next assessment on March 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  