-- 
Bundesbank Says Merkel’s 2011 Budget Violates Debt-Brake Goal

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-02-21T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/bundesbank-says-merkel-s-2011-budget-violates-debt-brake-goal.html
The deficit ceiling in  Germany ’s
federal budget for 2011 “obviously contradicts” the intentions
of the country’s so-called debt brake even as the  shortfall
shrinks, the Bundesbank said.    Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government should “correct” a
deficit cap in the budget that’s 12 billion euros ($16.4
billion) too high because it’s based on outdated projections,
the Bundesbank said in its monthly report. Germany’s overall
shortfall will approach 2 percent this year, less than the
government expects.  “If this elevated sum were to be kept and hence additional
leeway for borrowing to be created,” the government’s budget
planning would be “in obvious contradiction to the clearly
documented regulation intention of the debt brake,” the
Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said today.  Germany’s economic recovery is helping its federal and
regional governments service ballooning debt, revenue statistics
show. Federal and state tax revenue grew a combined 5.5 percent
last month compared with a year earlier, the Berlin-based  Finance Ministry  said in its monthly report.  The federal government plans to borrow 48.5 billion euros
this year “even as the economy recovers rapidly,” the
Bundesbank said. Reducing the shortfall must be given “highest
priority,” and diverging from the planned consolidation path
through 2016 is “not justifiable,” it said.  Germany’s public debt jumped 18 percent to 2 trillion euros
last year, the Federal Statistics Office said today, the biggest
increase in liabilities since it started collecting data.  The federal government’s debt surged 21.9 percent to 1.3
trillion euros on Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the office said.
Debt accumulated by the 16 states climbed 13 percent to 595.3
billion euros while money owed by municipalities rose 4.9
percent to 119.4 billion euros, the office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  