-- 
Burgundy Fans Savor $7,000 Reds With Food by Boulud: Elin McCoy

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-02-21T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/burgundy-lovers-savor-7-000-reds-with-food-by-daniel-boulud-elin-mccoy.html
     Feb. 21 (Bloomberg) - At midnight, the Les Cadets de
Bourgogne singing troupe is belting out “New York,  New York ,”
as 370 Burgundy fans sip the region’s greatest wines, twirling
white napkins above their heads in time with the music. A disco
ball spins above, the light bouncing off the 1,000 or so rare
bottles littering tables.  This $1,400 dinner, cooked by four superstar chefs, is the
official finale of La Paulee de New York, a bi-annual three-day
extravaganza organized and hosted by Daniel Johnnes, wine
director at Restaurant Daniel. The event never fails to remind
us just how stunning Burgundy’s best pinots and chardonnays can
be.  If great Bordeaux is wine for investing, Burgundy is for
seduction and singing and, above all, drinking. Especially at
this BYOB party at New York’s  Metropolitan Pavilion , where
winemakers (there are 35 top producers here) and scores of
aficionados bring big bottles and old vintages to share.  Among them are violinist Itzhak Perlman and collector
Donald Stott, who sold his company Wagner Stott Mercator LLC to
Bear, Stearns a decade ago. Now in his 70s, Stott recalls
falling in love with Burgundy in 1963. “What grabbed me was the
people there,” he says, leaning back in his chair, glass in
hand, ready to tell a few stories.  Passionate Farmers  Unlike  Bordeaux ’s grand chateaux, the region’s tiny
domaines tend to be owned by unpretentious, passionate farmers
who work the land themselves.  Real estate entrepreneur and Champagne collector Rob “Big
Boy” Rosania, in striped jacket and scarf slung jauntily around
his neck, brought 15 bottles. His wine of the night, he says, is
a magnum of 1949 Domaine de la Conti Richebourg worth more than
$7,000.  The dozens of wines sloshed into my glass over the course
of the evening include an intense 2005 De Montille Chevalier-
Montrachet, 1964 Domaine de la Romanee Conti La Tache (poured
from 3-liter jeroboams selling for $13,000 at auction) and 1964
DRC Romanee Conti (latest auction price: $26,000). They’re
perfect matches with  Daniel Boulud ’s succulent poularde, Michel
Troisgros’ cream-laced lobster and Daniel Humm’s meltingly
tender braised veal cheeks with black truffle.  Oh, and there was a 1995 Musigny from J.F. Mugnier, one of
four jeroboams brought by private wine consultant Brian Orcutt.  “Wine lovers think about Burgundy differently than
Bordeaux,” he said by way of explaining his largesse.  $750 Lunch  Johnnes’s U.S. version of Burgundy’s La Paulee de Meursault
celebration alternates between New York and  San Francisco , with
an occasional stop in Aspen. It’s morphed into a series of very
pricy events, from collector dinner ($3,750) and lunch ($750) to
more affordable tastings ($125 to $300), so as to be “more
inclusive.”  Excess? Well, yes, but a charity auction during dinner does
raise $155,000 for  Citymeals on Wheels .  The week before,  New York City  was already awash in
Burgundy. Many of the attendees packed into  Zachys  two-day La
Paulee sale and bid big, setting records. Some of the 100 lots
of rare white Domaine Coche-Dury from Day 2’s single owner sale
brought nearly double the high estimates, like a case of 1996
Corton-Charlemagne for $46,000.  Around town, importers poured wines from 2008 and 2009 at
trade events such as the annual pre-release tasting for the
region’s superstar,  Domaine de la Romanee Conti . Votive candles
lit the staircase down to restaurant Del Posto’s cellar, which
seemed appropriate to the worshipful attitude adopted by most of
the three dozen attendees.  Soggy Grapes  What gives the DRC a magical aura is its seven vineyards in
the region’s best spots, or climats; its history and its
intense, long-lived wines. Co-owner Aubert de Villaine showed
off the about-to-go-on sale 2008 vintage, describing another
miracle year snatched from disaster, this time by wind that
dried soggy grapes in mid-September. To keep quality up, he
discarded about half the crop, so prices will be astronomical,
as usual. (Though ethereal Romanee-Conti is the vintage star, I
loved the exotic, spicy Richebourg.)  But I was even more curious to taste wines from the much-
buzzed-about 2009 vintage, now being sold as futures. The dozens
I sampled -- especially the reds -- mostly lived up to the hype.
The best have the alluring sensuality of luscious ripe fruit,
heady scents, and velvety fleshy textures that drive Burgundy
lovers to buy and buy and buy, whatever the price. I fell hard
for the layered Faiveley Clos des Cortons ($140), ditto the
succulent Domaine Armand Rousseau Chambertin (not yet priced).
Luckily, even examples of lowly $20 Bourgogne Rouge will offer
plenty of pinot pleasure.  Better Wines  Burgundy’s appeal has grown even stronger in the past
decade. Wine advisor Marc Lazar says that’s partly because the
region is producing better wine and more consistent wine than
ever.  So far, buyers in  Hong Kong  and  China  are focused almost
exclusively on Bordeaux and snap up only a few top Burgundy
brand names, like DRC, Maison Leroy, and Henri Jayer. There are
still bargains to be had.  Yet that may not last much longer. Johnnes and his team
plan to take La Paulee to Hong Kong.    Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 