-- 
Cameron Arrives in Egypt Unannounced to Urge Democracy

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-02-21T20:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/cameron-arrives-in-egypt-to-urge-army-to-complete-transition-to-democracy.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
urged Egypt’s military rulers to bring opposition leaders into
the government and end a state of emergency to demonstrate their
desire to move toward democracy after the ousting of President  Hosni Mubarak .  “We want them to complete this transition,” Cameron told
reporters in Cairo after talks with the military and opposition
figures. “It’s quite right, as a friend of Egypt, to ask lots
of questions about how, when and where. That’s what I did. If
Egypt can make this transition, it will have a huge positive and
useful impact elsewhere.”  The premier arrived in Cairo this afternoon on an
unannounced visit amid escalating tension in the Middle East,
with security forces attacking anti-government protesters in
Egypt’s neighbor, Libya, and Iran planning to send warships
through  Egypt ’s  Suez Canal . Oil rose to a two-year high and gold
climbed above $1,400 an ounce.  Cameron’s visit to Egypt was the first by a Western leader
since Mubarak fell on Feb. 11. Anti-government protests that led
to the ousting of  Tunisia ’s president last month have spread
across the region from  Algeria  to the Gulf. The premier, who’s
also seeking to boost trade on a regional tour, is counting on
greater economic and political openness to increase stability.
Later today, he arrived in  Kuwait .  ‘Evolving Societies’  “British foreign policy is focused on identifying emerging
markets, and they’re throwing their weight behind the idea that
emerging markets are also evolving societies,” Claire Spencer,
the head of the Middle East and Africa section at the Chatham
House research institute in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “Doing business with them doesn’t mean keeping
existing systems in place, especially if it means denying
opportunities to a new generation.”  Mubarak stepped down Feb. 11 after 30 years of autocratic
rule, bowing to the demands of protesters who occupied Tahrir
Square in central Cairo for 18 days. Egypt’s army dissolved the
country’s parliament and suspended the constitution, pledging to
hold elections in the Arab world’s most populous country.  “The more you let opposition members into the government,
the more you can take your time over elections,” Cameron said.
“You can only take that time if people have confidence that
there is a genuine transition taking place.”  The prime minister said the opposition leaders he met were
“genuinely inspiring. These are people who’ve risked a huge
amount for what they believe in. It made me think we should do
as much as we can to make sure this transition is a successful
one.”  Muslim Brotherhood  Cameron held talks with Field Marshal Mohammed Hussein Tantawi, head of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, and
Prime Minister Ahmed Shafik, as well as leaders of the protests
that ousted Mubarak, though he didn’t meet with representatives
of the opposition Muslim Brotherhood movement.  As Cameron visited Cairo, the rulers of  Libya  and Yemen
vowed to stand firm in the face of opposition protests. Saif al- Islam Qaddafi, one of the sons of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ,
who’s held power since 1969, called on demonstrators to engage
in dialogue or face civil war.  Security forces and protesters fought overnight in the
capital, Tripoli, the  Associated Press  said, citing witnesses.
Protesters in Benghazi, the second-biggest city, claimed to have
taken control after violent clashes yesterday, the AP said.  Human Rights Watch  put the number of dead in the Libyan protests
at more than 200.  “What’s happening in Libya is completely appalling and
unacceptable,” Cameron said on the plane from London to Cairo.
The protesters “want to see that country make progress -- one
of the most closed and autocratic.”  Ambassador Summoned  The Libyan ambassador in London was summoned to the Foreign
Office today, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
reporters in Brussels. Hague spoke by telephone yesterday with
Saif Qaddafi “to express our strong disapproval of the use of
force against protesters.”  West Texas Intermediate oil in New York gained as much as
2.5, trading up 2.4 percent at 10:40 a.m. in  New York . Gold
rallied for a sixth day, climbing 1.1 percent.  Cameron’s Middle East tour is aimed at promoting trade,
something he’s put at the heart of U.K. foreign policy.  The conflict between building business ties with
governments and pushing for democracy and human rights has been
highlighted by a British review of licenses to export arms to
the region. The U.K. revoked permits for sales to Libya and
Bahrain, where security forces also opened fire on protesters.  ‘Very Important’  “The Gulf and North Africa is a very important region for
the U.K.,” Cameron said. “We’ve got very important trading
relationships that we want to expand. We’ve got a very important
security relationship that we need to sharpen and increase.
Political and economic reform don’t run counter to those other
two objectives. Greater openness, greater reform and democracy
lead to greater stability.”  Security will be the third focus of Cameron’s tour,
according to his office. He raised with the Egyptian government
its approval of a request from  Iran  to send two warships through
the Suez Canal on their way to  Syria .  The  United Nations  has imposed four rounds of sanctions on
Iran over its nuclear development. The U.K., along with the four
other permanent UN Security Council members and  Germany , have
been holding talks with Iran to push it to abandon the program.
U.K. Defense Secretary Liam Fox said last month the West should
be prepared for Iran to develop a working nuclear weapon by next
year.  The 120-mile (190-kilometer) Suez Canal carries about 2.5
percent of world oil output, according to Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., and is a key route for ships carrying Asian  consumer goods 
to  Europe .  The waterway is a historical sore point between the U.K.
and Egypt. It was built by the British and the French in the
19th century, and the Egyptian decision to nationalize it in
1956 provoked both countries to invade. They pulled out after
the U.S. refused to back their action.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Cairo at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at   ebuckle@bloomberg.net  