-- 
Carlsberg Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates on Costs, Russian Sales Drop

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-02-21T12:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/carlsberg-quarterly-profit-misses-estimates-on-costs-russian-sales-drop.html
Carlsberg AS, the owner of  Russia ’s
biggest brewer, reported fourth-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates as a sales drop and increased costs for beer
ingredients led to a slump in eastern European earnings.  Net income fell 21 percent to 301 million kroner ($55
million), Copenhagen-based Carlsberg said today  in a statement .
That was less than the 424 million-krone average estimate of 18
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The brewer gets more than half its earnings from eastern
Europe, where operating profit dropped 56 percent in the
quarter. Record droughts cut the amount of grain harvested in
the region last year, leading to increases in the price of
commodities used to make and package its beer. Sales in Russia
fell last year following a 200 percent increase in tax on beer.  “A weak fourth quarter highlights that the cost of doing
business in eastern  Europe  has gone up,” Dirk Van Vlaanderen,
an analyst at Jefferies International in London with a “hold”
recommendation on the shares, said today in a report.  Carlsberg fell as much as 4.3 percent, the steepest
intraday drop since Nov. 9, and was down 1.1 percent at 555.5
kroner as of 1:05 p.m. in Copenhagen trading.  Fourth-quarter operating profit in eastern Europe fell to
482 million kroner. Earnings in the region this year will be
hurt by bigger increases in input costs than in the rest of the
world, Carlsberg said.  Commodity Hedges  The Danish brewer gets a larger proportion of profit from
eastern Europe than rivals  SABMiller Plc ,  Anheuser-Busch InBev
NV  and  Heineken NV , and is most exposed to supply-cost pressures
in the region. Commodity-price hedging agreements there are
usually shorter than in the rest of the world, with contracts
lasting three to six months, according to  Trevor Stirling , a
London-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.  The increased cost of commodities including malting barley
“will be mitigated by higher sales prices in all regions,”
Carlsberg said today.  Carlsberg’s Baltika unit had a 39.7 percent share of the
Russian market in the fourth quarter compared with 39.3 percent
a year earlier. Anheuser-Busch InBev’s Russian share increased
to 16.2 percent from 15.7 percent in the period, while
Heineken’s dropped to 11.6 percent from 13.9 percent, Carlsberg
said in an online  presentation , citing Nielsen research.  “When you have to take leadership” on price increases,
“it’s difficult to grow market share,” Baltika Chief Executive
Officer Anton Artemiev said on a conference call.  Operating Profit Rises  Full-year earnings before income and tax, and excluding
some one-time gains or costs, rose 9 percent to 10.3 billion
kroner. Carlsberg said it aims for operating profit in 2011 to
increase by a “high single-digit” percentage.  “For 2011, we believe market dynamics will improve
slightly, not least in eastern Europe where we anticipate the
Russian market to return to growth,” Carlsberg CEO Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said in the statement.  Russia’s beer market will expand 2 percent to 4 percent
this year, compared with a decline of a “low single-digit”
percentage in northern and western Europe, Carlsberg said.  Group sales rose 1 percent last year to 60.1 billion
kroner, the company said. Excluding acquisitions and currency
fluctuations, revenue fell 3 percent. Analysts had estimated
sales of 60.6 billion kroner. The volume of beer sold declined 2
percent, excluding acquisitions and disposals, led by a 9
percent drop in eastern Europe, it said in the presentation.
Volume on that basis was unchanged in northern and western
Europe amid a shrinking market, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  