-- 
Chavez’s Currency Market Takeover Spurs Lines for Dollars

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-02-21T19:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/chavez-s-dysfunctional-currency-market-spurs-queues-at-banks-for-dollars.html
Every weekday, Ricardo Matamoros
wakes up before dawn, travels to a branch of  Banco Mercantil  in
Caracas and gets in line seeking to buy dollars from the central
bank. It’s a futile effort, he says.  “They haven’t approved a single one of my requests during
45 days,” said Matamoros, 51, the president of a film
production company, as he stood outside the bank on Feb. 7.
“Let’s see if it happens today since I’m second in line.”  The  U.S. dollar  is becoming scarce in Venezuela nine months
after President  Hugo Chavez  took over the currency market to
slow capital flight and fight inflation. Companies including  Kellogg Co . and Pernod Ricard SA have reduced imports since the
central bank introduced a currency trading system that limits
purchases to $50,000 a day.  The rationing may lead Chavez to further devalue the
bolivar, said  Alberto Ramos , a senior Latin America economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in  New York . Chavez devalued the
currency twice in the past 13 months, pushing inflation to a
five-month high of 28.5 percent in January.  “There’s no doubt this foreign exchange regime is
dysfunctional,” Ramos said in a telephone interview.  The government set two exchange rates. Companies can pay
5.3 bolivars at the central bank  currency market , known as
Sitme, or the official rate of 4.3 bolivars at the government
 Foreign Exchange Board , called Cadivi. Because of rationing at
the official rate, the bolivar trades at more than 8 per dollar
in the black market.  Dollar Supply Falls  In the central bank market, dollar supply has fallen 26
percent this year to $28 million a day, slowing commerce in  South America ’s largest oil producer. Goldman’s Ramos said
Venezuela may devalue the Sitme rate to 6 per dollar this year.  The central bank said that $26.1 million in dollar-
denominated bonds were traded at Sitme today, and that $6.07
billion has been sold since the market opened in June.  While Chavez received about $55 billion from oil exports in
2010, according to  Barclays Capital  estimates, he’s rationing
the sale of dollars for imports and allotments for Venezuelans
traveling abroad as part of currency controls to protect
international reserves. Reserves have fallen 18 percent since
the beginning of 2010.  Private imports tumbled 22 percent last year through
September, according to the latest data available, as companies
struggle to obtain dollars to buy goods considered non-essential
such as cars, liquor and electronics. Total imports plunged to
$38 billion last year from a high of $49.5 billion in 2008.  Trading Volumes  Dollar trading volumes are below the $30 million to $40
million range that central bank director  Armando Leon  said would
be sold. A central bank official in Caracas who asked to not be
identified for internal policy said the supply of dollars is
falling because fewer are being sold by private companies
needing local currency.  Kellogg, the  Battle Creek , Michigan-based maker of Froot
Loops cereal and Soft Batch cookies, said on Feb. 3 that it can
no longer “cost effectively import” in  Venezuela . A Kellogg’s
unit bought an average of $15.8 million of dollars per year from
the government between 2004 and 2009, according to Cadivi’s
 website . Last year, it purchased $2.6 million.  Pernod Ricard said in a Feb. 17 earnings report that
currency hurdles led to a “sharp decline” in sales of Scotch
whisky in Venezuela. The Paris-based spirits maker’s local units
bought an average of $5.1 million a year from 2004 to 2009 and
didn’t purchase dollars in 2010, according to Cadivi.  Seeking to Import  Outside a Banco Mercantil branch in downtown Caracas at 8
p.m. on a weekday, Ander Penaloza is second in line to hold a
spot for his employer. Mercantil, one of about 20 institutions
that have government authorization to sell dollars, won’t open
until 8 a.m. the next day.  “If we don’t have the dollars, we can’t import, and if we
can’t import the company closes,” Penaloza, who works for a
company that sells brand name watches, said in an interview. “I
can’t allow myself to go without a job.”  Chavez’s currency policy creates frustration, said Jorge
Botti, a partner at telecommunications company Imr Netsystem CA
in Caracas.  “My partners go to the bank everyday at 5 a.m. to get in
line and maybe once a month are they given dollars for
imports,” Botti said in a telephone interview. “Managers are
spending more time in bank queues than working to make the
company more efficient.”  Brokerage Ban  An official at the  Banking Association  of Venezuela
declined to comment and e-mails and phone calls seeking comment
from Banco Mercantil weren’t returned.  The government banned brokerages from trading foreign
currency in May. Companies and individuals were able to buy
dollars at rates as high as 8.2 bolivars, while the official
rate was 4.3. About $100 million changed hands a day before the
ban, said  Russell Dallen , head trader at Caracas Capital Markets
at BBO Financial Services.  Matamoros, the film producer, said he won’t give up on his
quest for dollars. He has cut his requests to $10,000 a day from
$25,000.  “The guy ahead of me in line today got here at 4:30 a.m.,
but I won’t come until the sun comes out because of the crime,”
Matamoros said. “I stand in line myself because my company is
small.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  