-- 
Chilean Peso Fluctuates as Rate Expectations Offset Higher Oil

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-02-21T19:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/chilean-peso-fluctuates-as-rate-expectations-offset-higher-oil.html
  Chile ’s peso fluctuated as surging  oil prices  dimmed terms of trade for the energy-importing nation
while traders priced in expectations of interest-rate rises.  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 468.25 per  U.S. dollar  from
468.73 on Feb. 18. That’s the strongest closing level since Jan.
3, when the central bank said it would buy $12 billion of U.S.
dollars this year to stem the peso’s gains.  The central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by a
quarter percentage point on Feb. 17, citing rising commodity
prices and higher inflation forecasts. The U.S. currency gained
against most major counterparts and oil rose as much as 6.2
percent on political tension in the Middle East.  “The rate increase was expected but the market is pricing
in the greater emphasis on inflation in the language,” said
Osvaldo Cruz, an economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in
Santiago. “The bank highlighted inflation expectations. We
expect further rate rises.”  The central bank bought $50 million at an average of 468.4
pesos per dollar today. It has purchased $1.7 billion since Jan.
5 at an average 484.71.  The one-year interest-rate swap rate in pesos climbed five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.83 percent,
matching the two-year high set on Jan. 27. The rate reflects
traders’ expectations of the average of future interest rates.  Six-month and one-year breakeven inflation rates climbed as
inflation-linked interest-rate swap yields fell. The six-month
breakeven rate, which reflects expectations for average annual
inflation, climbed 12 basis points to 4.63 percent, the highest
since April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The one-
year rate climbed seven basis points to 4.40 percent.    Libya  Violence Escalates  Copper for delivery in May climbed 0.1 percent to $4.50 a
pound at 1:56 p.m. New York time, after dropping as much as 0.7
percent. Oil surged to the highest price in more than two years
in  London  as violence escalated in Libya.  Chile imports more than 99 percent of its oil. The peso’s
3.2 percent gain so far this month is the best performance of 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg as copper prices
reached records. Chile is the biggest producer of the metal.  Foreign investors in the forwards market had a net bet of
$1.5 billion that the peso would decline against the dollar as
of Feb. 17, according to data published today by the central
bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  