-- 
China May Force Banks to Set Up Crisis-Handling Procedures

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-21T08:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/china-may-force-banks-to-set-up-procedures-for-handling-potential-crisis.html
China’s banking regulator plans to
require lenders to set up procedures to allow them to restore
their finances in the event of a crisis, a person with knowledge
of the matter said.  Banks deemed systemically important, including  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China  Ltd., may have to sell debt convertible
into equity, the person said, declining to be identified because
the regulator’s deliberations are private. Regulators will also
be given  broader powers  to supervise those lenders in an effort
to discover risks early, the person said.  China is seeking to avoid a repeat of its last banking
crisis, when the government spent more than $650 billion over a
decade to bail out banks after years of state-directed lending.
Concerns that a deterioration of lenders’ asset quality could
derail the world’s fastest-growing major economy surfaced after
credit expansion surged to a record 96 percent in 2009,
prompting the banking regulator to tighten capital rules.  “The regulator is incorporating a crisis mentality into
its daily supervision of banks to make sure they have everything
in place when big trouble comes,” said Tang Yayun, a Shanghai-
based analyst at Northeast Securities Co.  China’s major banks cut their combined bad-loan ratio to
1.15 percent as of Dec. 31 from 17.2 percent in 2003, when the
China Banking Regulatory Commission was created, official data
show.  ‘Bail-in’ Debt  A CBRC official, who declined to be identified citing
agency policy, said in a text message response to questions that
the regulator is studying the issue of self-rescue mechanisms.  ICBC,  China Construction Bank Corp .,  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd .,  Bank of China Ltd . and Bank of Communications Co. --
the nation’s five largest lenders -- are currently designated as
systemically important by the Chinese government, the person
said. Spokespeople for the banks either declined to comment or
weren’t immediately available.  ICBC, the world’s largest bank by market value, was little
changed in Hong Kong trading today. Agricultural Bank and  Bank
of China  slipped 0.5 percent and Construction Bank declined 0.9
percent.  Setting up “self-rescue” mechanisms is part of efforts to
make sure equity- and bondholders take greater responsibility
for salvaging a bank should it encounter financial difficulties,
the person said. One possible measure is selling “bail-in”
debt, the person said without elaborating.  “Bail-in debt is a positive to banks because it gives them
a new channel for raising funds, given that big banks will be
subject to higher  capital requirements ,” Tang said. Such debt
could be counted as supplementary capital, according to Tang.  Law Revisions  Global regulators spent the past two years devising ways to
ensure taxpayers won’t be on the hook in the event of another
banking crisis.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision   announced  last
month that hybrid debt securities need to include triggers that
force banks to convert them into common stock or write them off,
averting government bailouts by providing capital buffers that
can fund a “bail-in” by stakeholders if a bank gets into
trouble. Hybrid securities blend characteristics of equity and
debt.    Credit Suisse Group AG  this month sold $2 billion of
contingent convertible notes, or CoCos. The securities
automatically convert to equity when a bank’s capital falls
below a preset limit.  Chinese regulators will have the power to decide when a
bank in trouble must activate its self-rescue mechanisms, the
person said. The government may seek revisions to China’s
Commercial Bank Law to accommodate the new requirements,
according to the person.  Capital Ratios  China’s systemically important banks may also be subject to
higher liquidity standards than domestic competitors, and may be
required to have lower concentration of loans to a single
borrower, the person said.  Should a troubled lender’s own measures fail to revive it,
the government would seek to broker an acquisition by a healthy
bank to avoid the consequences of a closure, providing support
with tax and credit policies if needed, the person said.  The CBRC may raise the five biggest state-controlled
lenders’ capital adequacy requirement to as high as 14 percent,
from 11.5 percent currently, if credit growth is deemed
excessive, a person familiar with the matter said last month.
That includes an additional 1 percent of capital charged on them
to reflect their systemic importance, the person then said.  Chinese banks’ weighted average capital adequacy ratio, a
measure of their ability to withstand financial stress, rose 0.8
percentage point last year to 12.2 percent as of Dec. 31, the
CBRC said last week on its website.  New loans in  China  more than doubled from December to 1.04
trillion yuan ($158 billion) in January, the central bank said
on Feb. 15. Credit expansion decreased from 1.39 trillion yuan
in the year-earlier month. Banks typically expand credit at a
faster pace at the start of a year.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  