-- 
Cirque du Soleil to Open $57 Million Circus in Kremlin

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-02-21T19:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/cirque-du-soleil-to-open-57-million-show-in-kremlin-with-elton-john-help.html
Cirque du Soleil , the circus whose
founder paid  Russia  $35 million for a trip into space, said it
reached an agreement with the Kremlin to perform inside the
country’s 500-year-old seat of power.  The entertainment company is spending $57 million to
develop a new show called “Zarkana” that will debut at  Radio
City Music Hall ,  New York , in June before beginning an
engagement at the Kremlin Palace from February to April next
year, the company said in a statement distributed at a news
conference in Moscow today. U.K. singer-songwriter Elton John
will organize the music for “Zarkana,” Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Lamarre told reporters.  Cirque du Soleil, based in  Montreal , has invested more than
$45 million in activities in Russia since 2008, when it first
performed in the country under a partnership with George Cohon,
who opened the first McDonald’s restaurant in Moscow in 1990,
before the  Soviet Union  collapsed, Lamarre said. Cohon was
correct when he insisted in 2008, at the height of the global
financial crisis, that Russians would be ready to see  Cirque du
Soleil , Lamarre said.  “For me Cirque du Soleil in Kremlin says it all,” Cohon
said today. A Kremlin Palace official confirmed the agreement by
telephone, declining to be identified in line with state policy.  The circus brought two large-scale touring shows to Moscow,  St. Petersburg  and Kazan and sold more than 510,000 tickets in
the past two years in Russia. The circus will continue touring
in the country with its signature arena show “Saltimbanco,”
bringing it to four major Russian cities in fall 2011.  Cirque du Soleil founder Guy Laliberte spent nine days as a
tourist on the  International Space Station  in October 2009 under
a  commercial agreement  with Russia’s Federal Space Agency, or
Roscosmos. Laliberte, a former fire-eater, said from space that
the $35 million price tag was “worth every penny.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 