-- 
Contact Energy Plans Rights Offer to Fund $475 Million Geothermal Project

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-02-22T11:48:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/contact-energy-plans-rights-offer-to-fund-475-million-geothermal-project.html
  Contact Energy Ltd ., New Zealand’s
biggest publicly traded energy company, plans a rights offer to
help fund a NZ$623 million ($475 million) geothermal generation
project on the central North Island.  The company today signed an engineering procurement and
construction contract for the 166-megawatt Te Mihi project,
Wellington-based Contact Energy said in a statement. The rights
offer will be in the near term, it said, without providing
further details. There will also be debt funding.  Contact, which is 52 percent owned by  Australia ’s  Origin
Energy Ltd ., will build the Te Mihi project near the 52-year-old
Wairakei plant, and when completed by mid-2013 will decommission
parts of the older site. The company is developing plants
powered by steam from underground vents amid concern that
hydroelectric and wind-powered generation is too reliant on
changeable weather.  “Geothermal energy is  New Zealand ’s most strategically
important energy source,” Chief Executive Officer David Baldwin
said. “It has a major advantage over other renewable energy
sources because it doesn’t depend on the weather and as such, is
always available to provide baseload electricity,” which is
power delivered around the clock.  Contact today said net income fell 3.9 percent to NZ$83.7
million in the six months ended Dec. 31. The stock declined 1.3
percent to close at NZ$6.11, giving the company a market value
of NZ$3.77 billion.  The successful Te Mihi group comprises McConnell Dowell
Constructors Ltd., SNC-Lavalin Constructors Inc. and PB New
Zealand, Contact said.  The company also has approval to build the Tauhara-2 steam
project, which could generate as much as 250 megawatts of
electricity, and is exploring the Taheke geothermal field also
in the central  North Island .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Iain Wilson at   iwilson2@bloomberg.net  