-- 
Deripaska Rebound From Near-Crash Stares Down Potanin

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B a k e r
-- 
2011-02-22T11:19:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/deripaska-rebounding-from-near-disaster-stares-down-potanin-as-metals-soar.html
On a Sunday afternoon in January,
Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska gets ready to leave his
sprawling mansion in Zhukovka, a wealthy suburb of Moscow where
his neighbors include President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin . His children, Pyotr, 9, and Marusia, 7,
burst in the door, greet their father and run happily down the
long hallway. His wife, Polina, who is publisher of the Russian
edition of the magazine  Hello!,  prepares to welcome guests for a
party celebrating the Russian Orthodox New Year, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its April issue.  As snow crunches underfoot, Deripaska, who heads Moscow-
based aluminum producer United Co. Rusal, walks around his
compound. The estate is surrounded by a 14-foot- (4-meter-) high
brick wall patrolled by beefy security guards. He points beyond
a white stucco building, saying his mother lives on the other
side.  The 43-year-old metals magnate grew up poor in a Cossack
village in southern  Russia , and he has re-created a slice of his
rural roots in Zhukovka. In addition to a pool and a studio
where he practices yoga in the morning, the compound houses
seven horses and six dogs, including one named Aristotle.  “I have my best horse here, a stud,” he says.  Deripaska has spent relatively little time in Zhukovka
since the financial crisis pummeled his metals empire in late
2008, pushing him off his perch as Russia’s richest man. Rusal
had accumulated $17 billion in debt in a bull market acquisition
binge and struggled to make payments when the value of the
assets that had been pledged as collateral collapsed.  War Room  Deripaska responded by creating what he calls a war room at
Rusal’s headquarters in Moscow, where he worked around the clock
for a year renegotiating his debts with more than 70 banks
before reaching a deal in December 2009.  Today, Deripaska is back. He owns 47.4 percent of Rusal,
the world’s biggest aluminum maker, which in turn has a 25
percent stake in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining
company.  The Norilsk stake has put Deripaska at the center of
Russia’s biggest corporate battle as the mining giant tries to
buy him out. In February, Norilsk offered Rusal $12.8 billion
for 20 percent of the company to end a feud over its management.
Norilsk produces both nickel and palladium, a mineral crucial to
the production of catalytic converters in automobiles.  A physics graduate who worked in security in the Soviet
Army, Deripaska survived the violent dividing of spoils after
the collapse of the Soviet Union through a combination of book
smarts and street smarts. Deripaska is still fighting his fellow
billionaires for primacy in the boardroom as he struggles for
control of Norilsk.  Billionaires Club  Deripaska is a leading member of a club of billionaires in
Russia and beyond that has won, lost and regained fortunes in
one of the greatest commodities booms in history. Prices of
commodities from metals to foods began rising in 2001, reaching
records in 2007 before plunging during the financial crisis.  They’re now flying high again. The price of aluminum rose
20 percent in the 12 months through Feb. 18. Nickel’s value
jumped 41 percent in the same period, palladium 94 percent.  Soaring commodities prices have enriched industrialists
such as Deripaska around the world. Others include Brazil’s Eike Batista, head of a commodities empire that includes iron ore
miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA; Anil Agarwal, founder of  Vedanta Resources Plc , India’s largest copper producer; and
Andrew Forrest, chief executive officer of Australian iron ore
producer  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd .  Transfer of Wealth  “There’s been an enormous demand from  China  for
commodities since 2001,” says Michael Lewis, head of
commodities research at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “It’s an
unprecedented event. There’s been a massive transfer of wealth
from the developed world, which is relatively resource poor, to
the emerging markets, which have an enormous share of
commodities.”  The boom has had its downside. The surge in prices has
helped ignite inflation from the U.K. to China and Russia,
creating a dilemma for central banks around the world worried
about how to stimulate economies while tempering price spirals.  The unrest that gripped Egypt beginning in January was
driven in part by skyrocketing food prices; annual food price
inflation in the country is 18.9 percent.  Like fellow Russian magnates  Mikhail Prokhorov  and  Vladimir Potanin , Deripaska remains resolutely bullish about demand for
the metals he produces. He says the gusher of new money will
eliminate Rusal’s remaining $12 billion in debt in the next four
years without doing a deal.  Thank You, Asia  “The whole industrial world should thank Asia,” he says,
sipping green tea while giving his first interview ever at his
home. “There are 3 billion people who are about to become more-
active participants in economic life: Chinese, Indians, Latin
Americans, Africans. They will demand much more infrastructure,
equipment, new plants.”  In January 2010, Deripaska listed Rusal’s shares on the
Hong Kong stock exchange, raising $2.24 billion. The company’s
full market capitalization as of Feb. 21 was $25.6 billion. The
listing attracted some big-name investors, including hedge-fund
manager John Paulson of Paulson & Co.;  Hong Kong  billionaire Li Ka-shing of Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd.; and Nathaniel Rothschild of NR Investments Ltd. Muammar Qaddafi’s Libyan
Investment Authority also bought shares, before the recent
turmoil in that country.  By doing the listing in Hong Kong, Deripaska made a gesture
toward what he regards as one of his principal markets, China.  “You have billionaires and very influential people around
the table,” says Rob Edwards, a London-based metals analyst for
Renaissance Capital in Moscow. “They’ve been effective about
opening these conduits between China and Russia.”  QE Helps Commodities  Deripaska says governments and central banks in Europe and
the U.S. have helped drive up prices through deficit spending on
stimulus packages; so has the U.S. Federal Reserve’s
quantitative easing program, in which it pumps money into the
economy by buying  government bonds .  “The whole package of stimulus measures and QE helped
us,” he says.  Beyond metals, Deripaska also owns a stake in one of
Russia’s largest insurance companies, OAO Ingosstrakh; a
Siberian power company called EuroSibEnergo that he is planning
to list in Hong Kong later this year; construction firms helping
to build infrastructure for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi;
and GAZ Group, a truck and bus producer that he acquired in
2000.  His empire now has assets worth $21 billion.  A Deal with GM  One potentially valuable holding is his 65 percent stake in
GAZ, which on Feb. 1 announced an agreement with  General Motors
Co . to produce 30,000 Chevrolet Aveo sedans and hatchbacks per
year at its plant in Nizhny Novgorod. GAZ and Wolfsburg,
Germany-based Volkswagen AG, Europe’s biggest carmaker, said in
January that they’re negotiating to build as many as 100,000 VWs
a year to feed the growing Russian car market.  Deripaska became a devotee of the lean production
techniques known as the Toyota Way as he sought to turn around
GAZ. He’s now using the principles in his aluminum smelters to
standardize production and cut costs.  Deripaska is tending to his smelters with one hand and
fighting Russia’s biggest investor battle with the other.
Potanin, Norilsk’s other major shareholder, wants him to sell
Rusal’s stake in the nickel giant. He has refused, only to get
higher and higher offers for Rusal’s 25 percent stake.  Price Inflation  In October, Potanin offered $9 billion for the holding. In
mid-February, Norilsk raised its offer, saying it would buy all
but 5 percent for $12.8 billion -- representing what was at the
time a 43 percent premium to the company’s share price. Norilsk
says it has lined up at least eight banks to finance the bid.
Rusal must decide on the offer by March 4.  The bid has split Rusal shareholders. Prokhorov, the
billionaire who owns 17 percent of Rusal, says the latest offer
is a fair price.  “The situation has obviously come to a dead end, so one of
the parties should take the decision to sell,” he said in a
statement.  Other major shareholders have remained silent, including  Viktor Vekselberg , whose Sual Partners owns 15.8 percent, and
Ivan Glasenberg of Glencore International AG, the world’s
largest commodities trader, which owns 9 percent.  Before the latest offer, Deripaska said he viewed his
holding as a strategic bet on the continuation of the
commodities rally.  “It’s a great asset,” he says. “We’re just at the
beginning of the new cycle.”  Gun Battles  The contest is being fought with shareholder votes and
strategic share purchases. Fifteen years ago, when Deripaska was
getting started in the metals trade, the fight for market share
was carried out with guns. In the “aluminum wars” of the
1990s, dozens died and many more were wounded, including two of
Deripaska’s managers.  President Medvedev and Prime Minister Putin haven’t
publicly taken sides in the contest. In the past, Medvedev has
encouraged Rusal and Norilsk to combine into a single national
champion to rival commodities companies such as Australia’s  BHP
Billiton Ltd .  Norilsk has strong Kremlin connections. Its chairman,
Vasily Titov, is also first deputy chairman of state-owned VTB
Group, Russia’s second-largest bank. Norilsk’s CEO is Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, a former head of Russia’s State Tourism Agency
who worked for the KGB in Leningrad, now  St. Petersburg , at the
same time as Putin.  Ian Hague, founder of New York-based hedge fund Firebird
Management LLC, which invests in Russia and the former Soviet
republics, says the government is pulling the strings at
Norilsk.  Dog’s Tails  “We don’t like incestuous situations with oligarchs and
the state,” Hague says, adding that Firebird, which has $1.6
billion under management, tendered its stock in Norilsk when the
company bought back shares in January. “None of these guys have
real political influence anymore,” Hague says. “They do what
they are told. They are the tail, not the dog. Russia is a
company town.”  Deripaska says it’s natural for the government to take an
interest in the biggest Russian corporations. His holding
company, Basic Element, employs more than 300,000 people, which
gives him de facto political influence. And he doesn’t hesitate
to use it.  “I’m very politically connected to every important figure
in Russia,” he says. “There is no one in Russia whom I can’t
reach in less than one hour.”  At the same time, Deripaska dismisses the idea that Putin
is calling the shots at Norilsk.  Social Issues  “There is a perception in the West that the government is
actively involved in everything, but in reality it’s very
different,” Deripaska says. “The government in Russia is more
focused on social issues now.”  Deripaska says his relationship with Putin, whom he first
met in 2000, isn’t personal.  “I’m not Putin’s friend,” he says. “We have a working
relationship.” Deripaska says he hosted Putin once in 2001 at a
ski resort he owns in Khakassia, Siberia, though he never skied
with him.  Powerful as Deripaska is in Russia, he’s not always welcome
in the U.S. He says he was officially denied a visa in 1998 and
has had difficulties obtaining visas since then. He says he was
allowed to travel to the U.S. in 2009, when he met with General
Motors CEO Fritz Henderson and Aurora, Ontario-based  Magna
International Inc . co-CEO Siegfried Wolf, whom he hired last
year as chairman of Russian Machines, the company that owns GAZ.  ‘State Department Game’  An October 2009 article in the Wall Street Journal, citing
two Obama administration officials, said the Federal Bureau of
Investigation arranged Deripaska’s visit and questioned him
about his possible links to Russian organized crime. Deripaska
says the report is wrong.  “This may be a State Department game,” he says. “This is
not about Rusal.”  During the violent turmoil in the aluminum industry in the
1990s, Deripaska says he paid protection money to a man named
Michael Cherney, who he alleges was part of organized criminal
groups in Russia that extorted money from him, according to
court documents.  Law Suit  Cherney is suing Deripaska in London’s High Court, claiming
he is a former partner who has a right to 13.2 percent of Rusal.
 Cherney , who lives in exile in Israel, is on Interpol’s wanted
list after Spain’s National Court issued a warrant for his
arrest on allegations of money laundering and links to organized
crime. Cherney’s London lawyer, Andrew Hearn, says that his
client hasn’t been formally charged with any crime in Spain, has
offered to be questioned in the Spanish investigation and denies
that he extorted money from Deripaska.  To clear up his visa status, Deripaska employed Washington
lobbying firm Endeavor Group, founded by Adam Waldman, a former
senior counselor at the U.S. Justice Department. Russian Foreign
Minister Sergei Lavrov wrote a letter of support in September.  “Mr. Deripaska is one of our country’s prominent business
leaders,” Lavrov wrote. “A persistent state of limbo regarding
Mr. Deripaska’s ability to travel freely between our two
countries has become an impediment to the promotion of mutually
advantageous contacts between the business communities of the
two countries.”  Hatha Yoga Devotee  Deripaska is welcome in Davos, Switzerland, where he works
his connections every year at the  World Economic Forum . This
year, he hosted a party in a local apartment complex. Female
guests were handed shots of vodka as they came through the door.
A Cossack band in full traditional costume sang.  Deripaska was seen at one point in intense conversation
with Jamie Dimon, CEO of  JPMorgan Chase & Co .  Deripaska’s image in the press is that of a tough tycoon
with a well-honed survivor instinct. In person, he’s soft-
spoken, with a baritone voice and a deadpan sense of humor. A
devotee of hatha yoga, which focuses on controlled breathing, he
rarely gets ruffled or loses his temper, friends and colleagues
say.  To relax, he swims in his pool when he’s not traveling; he
says he flew more than 800 hours last year in his Gulfstream V.
In more than five hours of interviews, he ate nothing, while
repeatedly offering piroshki and calling to his housekeeper
Masha to fetch apples and ryazhenka, a fermented milk drink that
he produces on his farm in southern Russia.  “You need to eat before it gets cold!” he urges his
guests.  Rural Upbringing  Deripaska was born in 1968 in Dzerzhinsk, a city 400
kilometers (250 miles) east of Moscow, where his mother worked
in a chemical lab. His parents divorced when he was a toddler
and at the age of 4 he moved to the Krasnodar region in southern
Russia to live with his mother’s parents. He says they died when
he was 8 and he then lived with his grandparents on his father’s
side.  His father, a military engineer, died -- he won’t say  how
-- when he was 12.  Raised in a small rural settlement where he rode horses and
tended chickens, pigs and cows, Deripaska says his grandparents
imbued him with the notion that one had to live off the land to
survive.  “They taught me everything about growing: what’s the right
time to plant seeds, how you should plant everything.”  ‘A Lot of Money’  His talent for math helped him overcome his difficult
upbringing. In 1985, when he was 17, he landed a place studying
physics at  Moscow State University . After a year, he took a
break to serve his compulsory military service in the Soviet
army’s Strategic Missile Forces in Chita, Siberia.  “I was in charge of security at a very big complex,” he
says. “I learned how to manage people in the army.”  When he returned to university in 1988, perestroika -- the
liberalization of Soviet politics and economics -- was in full
swing. Small enterprises sprang up, and Deripaska says he worked
nights and summers doing construction jobs around Russia and
Kazakhstan, as did many students struggling to make ends meet.  “We made a lot of money in those years,” he says.  In 1991, the Soviet Union collapsed, and Deripaska took
advantage of the ensuing chaos. That year, he says, he set up a
trading company called VTK, which he ran on the side while he
was finishing his degree.  “I represented a few companies that were selling and
buying materials,” he says.  Two Systems  He says he made his first million dollars on his second
transaction, which entailed buying steel at Russian prices and
selling it abroad at international market rates. He traded
through the newly independent Baltic state of Estonia at a time
when Russia’s system of export licenses and quotas was in
disarray.  “It was the reality of post-Soviet Union,” he says. “On
paper, you have one system. In reality, you had a completely
different system. You just sent cargo to Estonia, and then you
traded from the Estonian port all around the world and it was
already an independent country.”  With his new riches, he decided to invest in an aluminum
plant, and settled on Sayanogorsk, a smelter in southern
Siberia. In 1992, Russia began privatizing state enterprises by
handing out shares to employees and distributing vouchers that
could be converted into stock. He says he began buying shares
and vouchers in Sayanogorsk, building his stake until he became
the biggest shareholder after the state. In 1994, Deripaska took
over as general director at the age of 26.  An Armed Assault  As Deripaska was consolidating his hold on Sayanogorsk, gun
battles were breaking out across Siberia as different factions
competed for control of the region’s aluminum smelters.
Deripaska says he was on the receiving end of the violence.  He demurs when asked about a widely published tale that he
was attacked at Sayanogorsk with a grenade launcher and was
forced to camp out in the smelter to protect it from an armed
takeover.  “It’s a nice picture,” he says, smiling. “It’s nice for
the press to have this; otherwise, no one will read it.”  In the spring of 1995, Deripaska says, his deputy at
Sayanogorsk, Valery Tokarev, was shot and seriously injured
along with a colleague.  “It was a mistake when I didn’t pay enough attention,”
Deripaska says. Today, he says, “I pay a lot of attention to
how to secure my people.”  Deripaska’s account of his early years is being challenged
in London’s High Court by Cherney, a Ukrainian-born businessman.
A judge for London’s High Court, after ruling that Cherney
couldn’t get a fair trial in Russia, is scheduled to hear the
case in April 2012.  Krysha Payments  Deripaska’s version of what happened, according to
documents he filed in the case, is that starting in 1995 he was
forced to pay Cherney and another man named Anton Malevsky to be
his krysha, which literally means “roof” in Russian and is a
common term for protection from organized crime groups.  In court documents, Deripaska labels the payments as
extortion.  In March 2001, Cherney and Deripaska met at the
Lanesborough hotel near London’s Hyde Park. Deripaska says he
paid Cherney $254 million after that meeting to end the krysha
arrangement. He says he separately gave Malevsky a document
promising to pay him an additional amount. Malevsky died in a
parachute accident in  South Africa  later in 2001. Deripaska
continued to negotiate with other organized crime figures, his
court statement says, paying them $170 million from 2002 to 2004
to end the krysha arrangement.  Cherney’s Claim  Cherney, 59, tells a more complex story in his lawsuit. He
says that he and Deripaska bought shares in Sayanogorsk as
partners. He says they each later held a 40 percent beneficial
interest in OJSC United Co. Siberian Aluminium, or Sibal. In
late 2000, Sibal merged with the aluminum business of OAO
Sibneft, a company controlled by Russian businessman  Roman Abramovich .  The company formed by the merger was Russian Aluminum, or
Rusal, in which Sibal and Sibneft each had a 50 percent stake.  Cherney claims that when the merger was finished he owned
20 percent of Rusal, shares that Deripaska held in trust with
the understanding he would buy Cherney out later.  Deripaska says Cherney never owned any stock, nor gave him
any money to buy shares on his behalf.  Deripaska gradually bought out Abramovich and by 2007 had
merged Rusal with Russian aluminum rival OAO Sual Group and the
alumina assets of Glencore, making the enlarged company the
world’s biggest aluminum producer.  70 Percent Plunge  Deripaska considers Cherney’s suit a minor annoyance
compared with the fight for control of Norilsk Nickel. Deripaska
became a big investor in 2008 when he bought the shares of
Prokhorov. After feuding with Potanin about business strategy,
Prokhorov in April 2008 turned to Rusal, which bought his 25
percent stake in Norilsk in exchange for a 14 percent stake in
Rusal, $4.5 billion in cash and $2.7 billion to be paid later.  It turned out to be the top of the market. When the
financial crisis hit, Norilsk shares plunged, dropping more than
70 percent from April to the end of 2008. The syndicate of banks
that had financed the purchase came calling.  In November 2008, Deripaska secured a $4.5 billion loan
from state-owned Vnesheconombank, or VEB, to refinance the
syndicate loan. The Russian press has called the loan a
government bailout.  “It wasn’t free cheese,” Deripaska says. “We paid very
high  interest rates . VEB made a half a billion dollars in 18
months.”  War Room  In January 2009, Deripaska organized the war room to
negotiate with other creditors.  “I worked 16-hour days,” he says. “We were in default.
No one wanted to call it default. Of course we breached the
covenants.”  Deripaska says he never worried about the banks seizing his
assets. He knew they had no interest in running Rusal’s smelters
and mines, which span the globe from Siberia to Nigeria.  Instead, he cut costs at Rusal by 25 percent in 2009 by
looking everywhere for savings, from shutting smelters to
changing suppliers. He gave the banks a detailed accounting of
his moves.  “At night, from time to time, I brought them into the war
room,” he says. “I showed them: ‘This is the market; this is
the cost structure; this is the suppliers program; this is the
logistics, where we can save money. This is something you would
never get if this management will leave.’”  Gyrating Shares  By December 2009, he reached a final agreement with more
than 70 Russian and foreign banks to refinance $17 billion of
debt. Prokhorov agreed to swap some of his debt for a larger
stake in Rusal, and the company began lining up investors for
the company’s Hong Kong initial public offering.  After listing at HK$10.80, Rusal shares declined, dropping
to a low of HK$6 in June 2010. They recovered to HK$13.10 on
Feb. 21, buoyed by rising aluminum prices and the surge in
Norilsk’s share price, which rose 45 percent in the year ended
on Feb. 21.  Still to be resolved is Deripaska’s role at Norilsk Nickel.
The battle at Norilsk intensified as the value of the company
increased. At a Norilsk shareholders meeting in June 2010,
investors voted to reduce the number of Rusal representatives
from four to three, ending the parity between Deripaska and
Potanin.  Buy Back  In December, Norilsk agreed to sell an 8 percent stake that
the company held as Treasury shares to Amsterdam-based Trafigura
Beheer BV, the world’s second-largest trader of nonferrous
metals, for an undisclosed sum.  In January, Norilsk announced it had spent $3.47 billion to
buy back 7.2 percent of the company’s shares from minority
shareholders. Potanin and management “are concentrating
votes,” Renaissance’s Edwards says. “Their strategy is to make
Deripaska’s situation seem so weak that he capitulates and says,
‘OK, I’ll sell.’”  Rusal called an extraordinary Norilsk shareholder meeting
for March 11 to elect a new board. ISS Proxy Advisory Services,
a unit of MSCI Inc. which advises minority investors,
recommended that shareholders re-elect current independent non-
executive directors, Brad Mills and Gerard Holden, Norilsk said
on Feb 21.  Injunction  On Feb. 7, Rusal got an injunction from a court in St.
Kitts and Nevis in the Caribbean to block Norilsk subsidiaries
based there from selling or voting shares they acquired during
the January share buyback. The court also blocked the transfer
of shares to Trafigura. Both deals could have been used at the
March shareholder meeting in the fight for control.  Norilsk maintains that the court order blocks it from
completing the share buyback from investors who have not yet
transferred their shares or been paid. A hearing on the case is
scheduled for March 2.  Deripaska has also fought back by arguing that Norilsk
under Strzhalkovsky hasn’t come up with detailed operational
plans. He says the CEO is proposing $2.8 billion in capital
spending this year without spelling out how the money will be
allocated.  Rusal vs. Norilsk  “It was just a blunt number: $2.8 billion,” says Maxim Sokov, Rusal’s director of strategy and development and a
Norilsk board member. “At Rusal, we break it down by project,
and each project needs to be approved.”  The money will be invested in Norilsk’s mines above the
Arctic Circle, including construction of a new gas pipeline, a
Norilsk spokesman says.  Deripaska says that if Rusal management ran Norilsk, it
could easily be valued at $80 billion to $100 billion -- which
would make Rusal’s 25 percent stake worth from $20 billion to
$25 billion. At a marathon board meeting on Dec. 28 in Moscow,
Deripaska challenged Strzhalkovsky’s proposal to spend more than
$32 billion to expand Norilsk during a 15-year period, saying he
had failed to provide details.  Norilsk says the investment program is aimed at developing
new ore deposits, upgrading one of its smelting plants and
expanding production in Australia and Africa.  Deripaska himself is fixated on the kinds of production
efficiencies made popular by the Toyota Way. During the past
five years, his smelters have been trying to adopt the concept
of kaizen, which means continuous improvement and involves
training workers in standardized production techniques.  ‘Go and See’  On its shop floors, Rusal is implementing genchi genbutsu,
a term that means “go and see” and has led to steps including
reducing the amount of factory floor space so workers have to
move materials over the shortest possible distance.  “It’s important to change the company’s pyramid,”
Deripaska says. “Instead of top-down management, you should
understand everything is in the hands of your operator.”  As Deripaska sits in his office explaining Rusal’s effort
to achieve efficiencies, Andy Youmans, an American consultant
from Farmington, Connecticut, walks in, dressed in jeans and a
black sweatshirt. Youmans has been traveling to Russia off and
on for five years, implementing the Toyota Way at GAZ and Rusal
smelters along with his partners Scott Borg and Hajime Oba, a
former Toyota executive.  Focus on Quality  Youmans says the series of global recalls of Toyota cars
during the past two years does nothing to discredit the Toyota
Way.  “Top leadership took their eye off the ball for a while,”
he says. “It is precisely because Toyota refocused on the
Toyota Way that I am bullish on the company.”  Deripaska runs a vertically integrated aluminum producer.
Rusal mines bauxite, the raw material from which aluminum is
made, in places such as Guinea and Jamaica. The bauxite is
processed into a substance called alumina, which is then made
into aluminum -- an energy-intensive process where low-cost
power is the key to staying competitive.  In Russia, Deripaska’s overall strategy hinges on Rusal’s
smelters being located next to cheap Siberian hydropower
stations, many of which are part of EuroSibEnergo, his
independent energy company. EuroSibEnergo has a long-term
contract to supply Rusal with power at set rates. Deripaska
plans to sell shares in EuroSibEnergo in Hong Kong in the first
half of 2011, with a goal of raising $1.5 billion.  Hydro Power  He has already secured China Yangtze Power Co., the
country’s biggest hydro-dam operator, as a cornerstone investor
with an initial pledge of $168 million. The two companies agreed
to develop hydro- and thermal power stations in Siberia and the
Far East.  Rusal is aiming to generate 60 percent of its own power in
15 years, helped by the construction of a massive new hydro-
power station called Boguchanskaya on the Angara River in
eastern Siberia.  “The Siberian market has an oversupply of power, so we
have more generation capacity than we can use at the moment,”
Deripaska says. “There will be more connection with China, more
peak capacity transfer to China.”  China is also Deripaska’s target market for aluminum. Rusal
is betting on 12 percent growth in aluminum consumption in China
this year.  And what if the overheated Chinese economy loses steam and
demand for Russia’s metals dissolves? Deripaska says that’s
unlikely. He’s clearly a survivor -- whether he’s dueling with
fellow Russians or confronting overdue bank loans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Baker in London on 
 stebaker@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill in New York on 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net  