-- 
Dollar, Yen Advance on Middle-East Violence; Kiwi Slumps After Earthquake

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-02-22T09:12:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/dollar-holds-gain-as-concern-mid-east-tensions-to-rise-spurs-safety-demand.html
The dollar and the Swiss franc rose
against most of their major counterparts as violence in  Libya 
boosted demand for the currencies as a refuge.  The yen also advanced versus the majority of its peers even
as Moody’s Investors Service lowered the outlook on Japan’s debt
rating. The dollar climbed to a one-week high versus the euro
after reports that the Libyan government attacked protesters and
rebels claimed control of the second-biggest city, Benghazi. New
Zealand’s dollar slumped after an earthquake struck the nation’s
second-largest city Christchurch, killing at least 65 people.  The violence “is the root of the moves we’ve seen in  currency markets ,” said  Adam Cole , head of global currency
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London. “As long as the
focus is on the Middle East, the safe-haven currencies will
outperform.”  The dollar strengthened 0.9 percent to $1.3553 per euro as
of 9:10 a.m. in  London . It advanced earlier to $1.3525, the
strongest since Feb. 16. The franc jumped 1.1 percent to 1.2813
per euro, after reaching 1.2792, the strongest level since Jan.
31. The yen appreciated 1 percent to 112.57 per euro, the
biggest gain since Feb. 3. Japan’s currency traded at 83.05 per
dollar from 83.14.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid 1.9 percent,
while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell for a third day, sliding
0.9 percent. Brent crude oil gained as much as 2.7 percent to
the most since September 2008.  ‘Rivers of Blood’  The dollar strengthened versus 14 of its 16 major
counterparts after Libya erupted into violence yesterday when
Muammar Qaddafi’s son threatened “rivers of blood” and
deployed security forces on protesters. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said “the world is watching the situation in
Libya with alarm.”  Libya, holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves, has been
rocked by protests ignited by last month’s ousting of Tunisia’s
president and fanned by the Feb. 11 fall of Egyptian President
Hosni Mubarak.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon was “outraged
at press reports that the Libyan authorities have been firing at
demonstrators from warplanes and helicopters,” according to a
statement released yesterday by his spokesman.  Japan’s currency pared gains after Moody’s Investors
Service changed its outlook on the government’s credit rating to
negative from stable.  “The yen was sold briefly” after the Moody’s
announcement,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, a senior strategist in
Tokyo at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-
largest bank. “But the news wasn’t surprising after  Standard &
Poor’s  took similar action, limiting the impact.”  S&P cut Japan’s credit rating for the first time in nine
years last month, citing a lack of a “coherent strategy” to
address the nation’s debt burden.  Kiwi Slides  New Zealand’s dollar slid versus all its major
counterparts, dropping 2.4 percent versus the Swiss franc, after
the 6.3 earthquake caused multiple deaths and toppled buildings.  “The risk is that we see the market price out tightening
from the  Reserve Bank  in October, and that probably drags the  New Zealand dollar  down,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency
strategist in  Singapore  at Westpac Banking Corp, Australia’s
second-largest lender. “The earthquake has caught the market in
a risk-averse mood anyway with the yen strengthening and  oil
prices  rising on tensions in the Middle East.”    New Zealand ’s dollar fell 2.1 percent to 74.79 U.S. cents,
after falling to 74.72 cents, the weakest since Dec. 27. The so-
called kiwi fell to 62.04 yen from 63.51 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  