-- 
ECB Officials Signal They May Support Higher Rates on Inflation Concerns

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-02-21T19:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/ecb-officials-signal-they-may-back-higher-interest-rates-in-coming-months.html
European Central Bank policy makers
signaled they may support raising  interest rates  in coming
months as the economy recovers and imports fuel price pressures.  “We’re prepared to act decisively and immediately if
needed,” ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said at an
event in Frankfurt tonight. “The objective is pretty clear. In
order not to risk un-anchoring inflation expectations, we have
to change the monetary policy stance if need be.”  With inflation above the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling and its
benchmark rate at a record low of 1 percent, officials must
gauge whether the resulting liquidity situation “is still
appropriate,” fellow Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi
said in  Hong Kong  today. “Clearly as the economy is better,
maybe this assessment has to be revised.”  The ECB may be laying the groundwork for a shift in policy
bias on March 3, when it is due to publish its latest inflation
forecasts. Business confidence in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest
economy, surged to a record this month and expansion in the euro
region’s service and manufacturing industries accelerated to the
fastest pace in more than four years, reports showed today.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated on Feb. 19
that inflation risks could move to “the upside.” The same day,
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said inflation pressure is
increasing and “clearly there are risks to the upside.”  Bets on September  ECB council member Athanasios Orphanides also told Dow
Jones that inflation may stay above 2 percent “somewhat longer
than we expected before” and the bank “must be ready to act as
appropriate to safeguard price stability.”  The ECB may raise its key rate by a quarter-point to 1.25
percent in September, Eonia forward contracts show.  In December, the ECB predicted inflation will average 1.8
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2012. The inflation rate
jumped to 2.4 percent last month, the highest in more than two
years.  Stark said inflation is now “likely to stay” above 2
percent through 2011 before moderating in 2012. The ECB must
take “seriously” the warning signals for more persistent
upward pressure on prices, he said.  “If the increases in inflation we observe are of a
temporary nature and do not threaten  price stability  over the
medium term, then that’s no cause for alarm,” Orphanides said
in a text of the interview published by the Cypriot central
bank, which he heads. “But there is no room for complacency. It
will be valuable to study the upcoming ECB staff projections for
inflation -- not only for 2011, but also for 2012.”  Change in Tone  Orphanides was more relaxed about the price outlook in a
Bloomberg interview just a month ago, saying on Jan. 14 that the
ECB expected inflation to slow again and saw no need to change
its policy stance.  Crude  oil prices  have surged 24 percent over the past six
months, pushing up import prices and adding to pressure on labor
unions to secure bigger pay increases for workers.  “We have to see whether the inflation which is imported
and which is coming through the energy and food prices is going
to have an impact on domestic behavior, on wages, on
expectations of people,”  Bini Smaghi  said. “You need to be
credible and make sure you take the right decisions to ensure
that inflation will remain under control.”  Bini Smaghi told daily newsletter Bloomberg Brief:
Economics last week that as the economy recovers and global
inflation pressures mount, “the degree of accommodation of
monetary policy has to be monitored and, if needed, corrected.”  Those comments drove the euro up a cent against the dollar
as traders increased bets on higher interest rates. The euro was
at $1.3679 at 8:30 p.m. in Frankfurt.  “Latest economic developments suggest that the monetary
policy of the ECB, that has already been accommodative, has
become even more accommodative,” Stark said. “To the extent
that financial market conditions continue to improve and the
current economic recovery turns out to remain strong and self-
sustained, the stance would need to be normalized over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in  Frankfurt  at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  