-- 
ECB's Weber Says Debt-Burdened Nations May Yet Face `Most Painful' Time

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-02-21T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/ecb-s-weber-says-debt-nations-may-yet-face-most-painful-time.html
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said
debt-burdened nations may yet have to face the “most painful
passage” while calling on governments to include private state-
debt holders in any future bailouts.  “Compared with a marathon, problem countries have maybe
managed the first 15 kilometers,” Weber, who is also a European
Central Bank council member, said at an event in Dusseldorf
today. “Given my experience on this track, I can tell you that
the most painful passage will come at a later point.”  European finance ministers agreed on Feb. 14 to double the
lending capacity of the rescue fund for debt-hit states in 2013
and German ChancellorAngela Merkel has said that any future
bailout should include private bondholders. Ireland last year
became the second country to ask for external aid after investor
concerns about the health of the country’s banking sector pushed
up borrowing costs and eroded confidence in the euro region.  “One can’t dispute the fact that financial-market
participants are sometimes tending to exaggerate their risk
tolerance -- sometimes on the upside, sometimes on the
downside,” Weber said. “But at the end of the day, investors’
assessment reflects fundamental economic developments and in
this case policy mistakes made by governments.”    Germany , the biggest contributor to  Greece ’s 110 billion-
euro ($150 billion) rescue and Ireland’s 67.5 billion-euro
injection, is under domestic pressure to oppose generous bailout
terms or using the fund to enable distressed countries to retire
debt at a discount. Weber said “risk premia” on financial
markets have a “considerable disciplinary effect” on nations.  Fiscal Stabilization  “This effect needs to happen sooner and not as abruptly as
experienced during the crisis,” he said. “The condition that
creditors of countries not running sound policies need to expect
is that they would need to share costs of any fiscal
stabilization if needed.”  Weber, who will step down at the end of April, also said
that any future external aid should be tied to “tough
conditions” and that it’s “desirable” to have more automated
sanctions for breaches of the region’s budget rules. He also
opposed so-called Eurobonds or “too favorable credit
conditions,” saying they would undermine “market discipline.”  While the euro is facing a “serious test,” the region’s
fiscal crisis doesn’t threaten the future of the currency bloc,
Weber said. The euro is a “stable currency,” he said.  The permanent rescue mechanism will replace the region’s
European Financial Stability Facility in mid-2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Meier in Frankfurt at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 