-- 
Hedge Funds Increase Bullish Cocoa Bets on Ivory Coast Unrest

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-02-21T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/hedge-funds-increase-bullish-cocoa-bets-on-ivory-coast-unrest-spurs-rally.html
Hedge funds are the most bullish on
cocoa futures in almost seven months as political turmoil
threatens supplies from  Ivory Coast , the world’s biggest
producer, and prices jumped to the highest since 1979.  In the week ended Feb. 15, hedge funds and money managers
increased their net-long positions, or bets on rising prices, by
11 percent to 20,936 futures and options contracts, the highest
since July, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
The holdings have more than doubled in the past month.  Alassane Ouattara, the internationally recognized winner of
Ivory Coast’s Nov. 28 elections, told exporters to halt cocoa
shipments until Feb. 23 in a bid to cut off funds to his rival.
Prices surged to a 32-year high last week. The political
stalemate entered its third month as  Laurent Gbagbo , the
incumbent president who has ruled for a decade, refused to cede
power.  “The supply situation because of Ivory Coast problems is
worrisome,” said Luis Rangel, a vice president at ICAP Futures
LLC in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “Speculators are very active in
this counter.”  Cocoa futures for May delivery jumped $61, or 1.8 percent,
to settle at $3,499 a metric ton on Feb. 18 on ICE Futures U.S.
in  New York , after touching $3,511, the highest since February
1979.  The export ban may send prices as high as $3,720, according
to a Bloomberg survey of six analysts on Jan. 25. That would be
the highest since January 1979.  Managed-money positions include  hedge funds , commodity
pools and commodity-trading advisers. Analysts and investors
follow changes in speculator positions because such transactions
may reflect an expectation of a change in prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  