-- 
Institutions Damp Hedge Fund ‘Startup Spirit,’ Citi’s Roe Says

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-02-21T02:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/hedge-funds-startups-slow-as-investors-demand-track-record-citigroup-says.html
Hedge-fund startups are slowing as
institutional investors favor larger managers and regulators
increase oversight of the industry, according to  Citigroup Inc .  “We are seeing the larger funds getting larger and less of
the startup spirit that really typified the hedge fund industry
five to 10 years ago,” said Nick Roe, London-based global head
of prime finance at Citigroup. “A continuation of institutional
flows and increased regulation in international markets are
making the traditional entrepreneurial hedge fund startups more
difficult.”  The number of new hedge funds worldwide declined to about
150 in the fourth quarter, from almost 250 a year earlier,
according to a February report by Singapore-based  Eurekahedge
Pte.  More than 80 percent of the $55 billion put into hedge
funds last year went to those with more than $5 billion,
Chicago-based  Hedge Fund Research Inc.  said in January.  “Institutions stick to a certain profile of a manager that
comes with an experienced track record and certain operating
conditions,” Roe said in a Feb. 17 interview at Citigroup’s
Asia-Pacific investor conference in Singapore. “That tends to
play into the hands of the larger operators than it does the
traditional startup funds.”  There will be “slightly less startups” in Asia as
managers struggle to find  seed capital , Hannah Goodwin,
Citigroup’s Hong Kong-based head of prime finance in the region,
said in the same interview.  Prime brokerages provide services such as cash and
securities lending, custody, introduction to potential investors
and startup consulting services to hedge funds.  Bigger Startups  Global funds moving to Asia are hiring local talent “that
may have once started their own funds,” Goodwin said. Managers
such as New York-based Soros Fund Management LLC, founded by
billionaire  George Soros , and Fortress Investment Group LLC are
setting up shop in Asia as the region’s economic growth outpaces
the rest of the world.  “Locally, we’re not seeing a large number of startups,”
Goodwin said. “Those that are starting tend to be bigger; the
prop shops coming up and setting up their own businesses.”  Former proprietary traders from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and Credit Suisse Group AG are setting up hedge funds in  Asia .  While institutional money is starting to flow into Asian
hedge funds that manage between $200 million and $500 million as
bigger managers stop taking in assets, smaller firms are still
being left out, Goodwin said.  Smaller funds and startups will rely on wealthy individuals
and family offices for capital, Roe said.    Europe , U.S.  In Europe, managers put on hold their plans to set up hedge
funds last year as the European Union took months to agree on
new regulations for alternative investment managers, Roe said.
European lawmakers in November approved regulations requiring
hedge funds to set limits on their use of leverage and avoid pay
practices that encourage risk taking.  The  U.S. Congress  in July approved the Dodd-Frank Act,
which forces hedge funds to undergo routine inspections by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and requires firms that
manage more than $1 billion to disclose their investments,
leverage and risk profile to regulators.  The U.S. is “being dictated by institutional flow,” Roe
said. Citigroup is seeing fewer startups in the U.S. as
institutions prefer to invest in “well-run” managers, Roe
said.  A majority of assets under management by hedge funds
globally are from institutional investors such as pension funds
and university endowments, according to the London-based
Alternative Investment Management Association.  Industry ‘Institutionalization’  More money from institutional investors will continue to
flow into the hedge fund industry, as investments from fund of
funds decline, Roe said. Hedge funds are coming up with
products, including regulated fund formats known as UCITS, to
attract institutional investors, he added said.  “We’re seeing the institutionalization of the hedge fund
industry,” he said. “That hasn’t necessarily hit Asia in a big
way yet but we can certainly see it coming.”  Citigroup plans to hire more staff for its prime finance
business in Asia, focusing on services for hedge-fund clients in
the futures and over-the-counter market this year, Roe said. The
firm started its Asian prime brokerage business six years ago
and currently has a team of 70 in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  