-- 
Electrolux Chief Waiting in Wings to Buy Daewoo Electronics

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-02-21T11:01:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/electrolux-chief-preparing-to-buy-daewoo-electronics-should-entekhab-fail.html
  Electrolux AB  is interested in
buying Daewoo Electronics Corp. should the takeover of the
bankrupt South Korean appliance maker by an Iranian rival fall
through, Chief Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin said.  Creditors of Daewoo Electronics last year agreed to an
offer from  Entekhab Industrial Group  over a competing one from
Electrolux. Lenders have since extended the deadline for
Entekhab to pay the 471.5 billion won ($420 million) price tag
until April 7. Daewoo Electronics had sales of 1.13 trillion won
in 2009, according to the latest available regulatory filing.  “If they come back to us, we’ll certainly talk to them,”
McLoughlin said in a Feb. 17 interview at the Stockholm-based
company’s headquarters. “They knew we were interested, and
we’re still interested. If the phone rings, we’ll answer it.”  McLoughlin, who took the helm at the world’s second-biggest
home appliance maker at the start of this year, said talks are
under way with “more than a couple” potential takeover
targets. These may include companies that make air conditioners
and other “adjacent products” to Electrolux’s vacuum cleaners,
washing machines and refrigerators, he said.  Electrolux’s shares have fallen 16 percent this year,
valuing the Stockholm-based business at 50 billion kronor ($7.8
billion. That compares with a 6.1 percent slide at bigger rival  Whirlpool Corp .  Negotiations to buy a 52 percent stake in Egypt’s  Olympic
Group Financial Investments  remain on hold following political
unrest in the country, yet the asset is still of interest to
Electrolux, the CEO said.  Olympic Potential  Purchases in  South Korea  and Egypt would be part of
Electrolux’s strategy to expand in fast-growing markets. Sales
in Asia Pacific and Latin America helped counter a slowdown in
volumes in  Europe  and  North America  in the fourth quarter.  Under former CEO Hans Straaberg, Electrolux largely
refrained from acquisitions as it focused on cutting costs by
moving most production to low-wage countries. The company last
August agreed to buy a washing-machine manufacturer in the
Ukraine for 19 million euros ($25 million).  Buying  Egypt ’s Olympic Group still has the potential to
create value, McLoughlin said.  “We’ve got one huge caveat, which is the whole country
went to turmoil since we announced this,” the CEO said. “Our
intention would be to go forward as soon as there’s an orderly
transition” of the regime.  Electrolux continues to discuss the conditions of the deal,
McLoughlin said.  “Obviously we’re going to consider what’s happening in the
marketplace as we talk to the sellers,” the CEO said.  “We
need to have those discussions with them and comprehend the
current market conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  