-- 
Energy Trading Limits Won’t Help Prevent Price Swings, ICE Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-02-21T16:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/energy-trading-limits-won-t-help-prevent-price-swings-ice-says.html
Limits on the size of trading
positions that can be taken in energy markets won’t succeed in
preventing price swings, according to ICE Futures  Europe .  Regulators in the U.S. and Europe are considering capping
positions that can be held by traders in derivatives markets in
order to curb speculation. Last month, the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission voted to seek comments on a proposal
that will constrain the number of contracts one firm can hold.  “As far as reducing price volatility is concerned, we
simply do not believe that the imposition of position limits
would have any effect,” David Peniket, ICE Futures Europe’s
president and chief operating officer, said today at the
International Petroleum Week conference in London.    Oil prices  surged to a record $147.27 a barrel in  New York 
in July 2008 and then plunged to $32 in December of that year.
In July 2009, the U.K. and  France  called on the Group of Eight
nations to improve transparency and regulation in oil markets.  ICE operates the biggest trading platform for  Brent crude ,
the North Sea benchmark used to price two-thirds of the world’s
oil supply.  Brent, normally cheaper than the U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange, surged
to a record premium of $16.51 a barrel over WTI on Feb. 17 as
excessive supplies at the delivery point for WTI in Oklahoma
fanned doubts about its ability to reflect global market
conditions.  “WTI is trading at a discount and therefore its importance
is limited by that, at least for a period,” Peniket said. Use
of Brent, which unlike WTI can be transported by sea to
different markets, is becoming “wider and wider,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  