-- 
Lenzing Said to Plan 500 Million-Euro Offering by Late April

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-02-22T17:22:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/lenzing-said-to-plan-500-million-euro-share-sale-by-late-april.html
  Lenzing AG , an Austrian maker of
viscose fibers, will sell about 500 million euros ($684 million)
of shares by late April in a public offering of new and existing
stock, according to two people with knowledge of the sale.  The deal will help fund a 1.5 billion-euro investment to
build new plants and expand existing facilities in  Austria ,  China , India and Indonesia over the next four years, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the process is
confidential. B&C Industrieholding GmbH, which owns 90.5 percent
of the company, will also sell some of its stock, they said.  Lenzing, based in the Upper Austria town of the same name,
is seeking to increase production capacity as rising cotton
prices boost demand for substitute fibers. The company will
probably select  Morgan Stanley ,  UniCredit SpA  and  Deutsche Bank
AG  as bookrunners, the people said.  Spokesmen for all three banks declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News. Angelika Guldt, a spokeswoman for
Lenzing, also declined to comment. Chief Executive Officer Peter Untersperger told reporters yesterday that the company was
“keeping all options open” on the timing and volume of any
share sale.  Lenzing fell 1.5 percent to 87 euros in Vienna, valuing the
company at 2.24 billion euros.  Viscose Demand  Viscose fibers, made from wood and used in textiles and
fabrics such as baby wipes, are increasingly used in emerging
economies such as China and India in place of cotton, whose
price has doubled in the past five months as demand outpaces
supply. Lenzing’s shares jumped 75 percent over the same period,
while revenue and operating profit tripled in the past 10 years.  The company’s competitors include Jacksonville, Florida-
based  Rayonier Inc ., India’s  Grasim Industries Ltd . and Hong
Kong-listed  Sateri Holdings Ltd ., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  B&C’s dominant stake in Lenzing has curbed the stock’s
liquidity and reduced its weighting in stock indexes, limiting
investment by others. Only 54 million euros of the stock was
traded in 2010, according to  data from Vienna’s bourse .  A 500 million-euro share sale would raise Lenzing’s free
float to more than 700 million euros and qualify it for
membership on the bourse’s main ATX index, a goal identified by
Untersperger in a Jan. 13 interview with newspaper Die Presse.  Charity Holding  The company, founded in Nazi-occupied Austria in 1938, was
taken over by a group of Austrian banks after World War II. In
2000, the principal owner, a precursor to UniCredit Bank Austria
AG, endowed its industrial holdings to a charity, whose
investment vehicle B&C also owns stakes in Austrian rubber maker
Semperit AG and builder  Allgemeine Baugesellschaft Porr AG .  Lenzing holders approved a seven-for-one share split in
November to attract retail investors, and gave management
permission to issue new shares amounting to as much as 50
percent of its outstanding stock.  Lenzing’s net income more than doubled last year to 159
million euros as sales rose 45 percent. The company has forecast
a 15 percent to 20 percent increase in revenue this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  