-- 
EU Vows to Aid North Africa Amid Concern Over Illegal Migrants

-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 
2011-02-21T18:14:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/eu-says-it-can-t-intervene-in-libya-weighs-regional-aid-trade.html
The European Union pledged aid for
democratic and economic transformation in North  Africa  amid
concern that Libyan violence may fuel an exodus of illegal
immigrants seeking refuge in the 27-nation bloc.  “We’re ready to put together real support,” the EU’s
foreign-policy chief,  Catherine Ashton , told reporters after a
meeting of foreign ministers today in Brussels. A statement by
ministers pledged “support packages” yet didn’t include any
concrete sums of aid money or any mention of liberalizing trade
rules to allow more North African farm products enter the EU, as
was sought by  Germany .  The EU statement condemned “all acts of violence against
peaceful demonstrators” and called for an immediate halt to the
use of force against protesters in  Libya .  Violence in Libya, Africa’s biggest holder of crude-oil
reserves, has spread from the east of the country to the
capital, Tripoli, where security forces and protesters fought
overnight with snipers shooting from rooftops. Libyan unrest
follows popular protests that toppled autocratic rulers of
Tunisia and  Egypt . Unrest has also flared in Yemen, Djibouti and
Bahrain as governments have sought to crack down on calls for
political change.  The EU statement underlined the importance of strengthening
cooperation to address illegal immigration.  Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini warned that his
country is on the frontline for illegal migrants coming from
North Africa.  ‘Extremely Concerned’  “Italy, as you know, is the closest neighbor both of
Tunisia and Libya so we are extremely concerned about the
repercussions on the migratory situation in the southern
Mediterranean,” Frattini said.  In the past month, more than 5,000 North Africans have
reached the Italian island of Lampedusa, in the  Mediterranean
Sea , according to the Italian Interior Ministry. About 110
kilometers (70 miles) separates Lampedusa from  Tunisia , making
it a favored entry point for illegal migrants from Africa.  EU foreign ministers earlier said the bloc cannot intervene
in Libya.  “It’s not our job to change the leader of Libya,”
Finland’s Alexander Stubb told reporters. Frattini said  Europe 
“shouldn’t interfere,” while expressing alarm over what he
said was “the self-proclamation of the so-called Islamic
emirate of Benghazi.”  “Would you imagine to have an Islamic Arab emirate at the
borders of Europe?” Frattini said. “This would be a really
serious threat.”  Frattini said EU assistance will be crucial for North
Africa. EU aid for 10 North African states was 3.3 billion euros
($4.5 billion) in 2007-2010, with 2.8 billion euros planned for
2011-2013, according to EU data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Brussels at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  