-- 
Mexico's Economy Expands at Fastest Pace in a Decade as Growth Hits 5.5%

-- B y   J e n s   E r i k   G o u l d
-- 
2011-02-21T21:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/mexico-s-economy-expands-at-fastest-pace-in-a-decade-as-growth-hits-5-5-.html
  Mexico ’s gross domestic product
expanded last year at the fastest pace in a decade as Latin
America’s second-biggest economy recovered from a 2009 recession
provoked by the global financial crisis.  GDP, the broadest measure of a country’s output of goods
and services, grew 5.5 percent last year, the most since 2000,
the national statistics agency said on its website. GDP expanded
4.6 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier. The
economy was forecast to grow 4.4 percent in the final quarter,
according to a survey of 13 analysts by Bloomberg.  The economy grew more than forecast in the fourth quarter
because the U.S. performed better than analysts had expected, a
trend that will probably continue to boost growth in its
southern neighbor this year, said Sergio Martin, chief economist
for Mexico at HSBC Holding Plc.  “It was undoubtedly a high number,” Martin said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “The fourth-quarter
dynamic helps you see the boost from the U.S.” that will
continue in 2011.  In the U.S., rising consumer spending, business investment
and exports are ensuring the economy continues to grow even as
housing remains depressed. Federal Reserve policy makers said in
minutes released Feb. 16 that the U.S. recovery was on a
“firmer footing” while the labor market was improving
“gradually.”  Growth Outlook  Mexico’s economy will probably grow more than 4.5 percent
this year, Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  said in a
Feb. 18 interview. Same-store sales grew 4.8 percent in January,
according to the country’s retail association.  Mexican Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  said today that
while export growth was the main driver of the economy last
year, domestic demand is expected to play an equally important
role this year.  “It’s much more balanced growth with a much more dynamic
domestic sector,” Cordero told reporters in Mexico City.  Mexico’s peso fell 0.2 percent to 12.0621 per dollar at
3:13 p.m. New York time. The currency has strengthened 2.3
percent this year, the best performance against the dollar among
the major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  GDP grew 4.1 percent in December from a year earlier, the
statistics agency said. The economy expanded 1.3 percent in the
fourth quarter on a seasonally adjusted basis compared with the
previous quarter, the agency  said .  The manufacturing sector grew 6 percent and construction
expanded 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
the agency said. The services industry expanded 5 percent in
2010 and 4.2 percent in the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jens Erik Gould in Mexico City at 
 jgould9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net  