-- 
Five Ways to Bring Investors Back to Egypt: John Sfakianakis

-- B y   J o h n   S f a k i a n a k i s
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/five-ways-to-bring-investors-back-to-egypt-commentary-by-john-sfakianakis.html
What are investors to make of the
transfer of power in  Egypt ?  Confidence and credibility are important hallmarks that
international business needs to protect capital. The military
can instill a sense of security and safeguard the state, but
governments must create confidence in the system through deeds.  Although the U.S. has been Egypt’s ally, it failed to bring
any meaningful economic change to the North African country
since the 1980s. Decades of U.S. aid helped create a parasitic
class of beneficiaries and an economy that urgently needs to
discover new ways to revive its engines of growth.  How can it be that  Turkey  has a slightly smaller
population, but its gross domestic product is almost four times
bigger than Egypt’s? The answer lies in five obstacles that the
new regime in Cairo must tackle immediately.  First, the crony capitalism that defined business-state
relations since the 1970s and grew stronger during the Mubarak
era must be given clear limits. Favoritism was rampant under
President  Hosni Mubarak , so much so that even the businessmen
who are today touting democratic values were once the former
president’s beneficiaries. The new regime should be careful not
to embark on a witch-hunt that targets the very elements that
the country depends on for its economic recovery.  Justice for All  Weeding out corruption after the departure of  Ferdinand Marcos  in the  Philippines  and President Suharto in  Indonesia  has
been a long process. Bringing everyone to justice isn’t easy
because cronyism often doesn’t breach any laws. The government
must define the limits of the state in accordance with the
demands of the protesters.  The second challenge is Egypt’s economic direction. The
entrepreneurial spirit has to be enhanced. Banks must support
such efforts and gear less capital to large and well-established
firms, and more toward small and medium-sized enterprises.
Egypt’s advantage is clearly in tourism and services, and some
manufacturing. The nation can build on that and begin to
increase the opportunities for small entrepreneurs to create
businesses in the  tourism industry .  The third challenge for Egypt is job growth. Currently, the
country needs 650,000 to 700,000 new jobs each year and it
barely generates half that. Even with strong growth, the private
sector has failed to create enough employment. The labor market
suffers from a mismatch between demand and supply of adequate
skills. Underemployment is pervasive and the phenomenon of the
working poor is rising.  Impossible Task  Creating enough jobs in the short to medium term is almost
impossible. The economy will have to grow about 11 percent a
year in order to employ those currently out of work and new
arrivals in the labor market. The growth of the Egyptian economy
over the last few years was 5 percent to 7 percent but it didn’t
help much of the population. Income inequality rose and the
perception of inequality grew even more.  The fourth challenge is  income distribution . Society has to
realize that building an economy is much harder than just
destroying the figurehead of a regime. Inflation, particularly
food prices, is a sticky issue that has to be addressed as it
has hit people on low incomes. In a country where agriculture is
an important contributor to economic growth, it is baffling to
see food prices surge 18 percent.  Equitable Distribution  Inflation is unbearable for most Egyptians and has forced
real incomes to fall. At the same time, capital concentration in
the hands of the top 20 percent of the population has doubled
and, as a result, the middle class has shrunk. More equitable
wealth distribution will take time.  Fifth, red tape is stifling growth. In a policy speech in
1989, President Hosni Mubarak said Egypt’s bureaucracy “seeks
to make the easy difficult and the possible impossible.”
Bureaucratic procedures and an overlap of conflicting
jurisdictions among ministries is a structural problem with no
quick solutions.  Many people were ready to draw parallels with the fall of
the  Berlin Wall  in 1989. Yet few remember that once the euphoria
settled,  Germany  paid a hefty bill for its unification. Egypt
doesn’t have a much wealthier half in waiting.  Above all, Egypt needs a Mandela-like figure who can unite
the country and patiently push ahead. Even with such a leader --
and there are no signs of one so far -- the road won’t be easy.  (John Sfakianakis is chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi
in  Riyadh , Saudia Arabia. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Sfakianakis at  johns@alfransi.com.sa   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  