-- 
Fortescue Will Appeal Court Ruling on Misleading Investors

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-02-21T05:46:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/fortescue-ceo-forrest-will-appeal-court-decision-on-misleading-investors.html
  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd .,  Australia ’s third-biggest producer of  iron ore , and Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Forrest  will appeal a court ruling that
found they misled investors over accords with China.  Forrest and his team were “shocked” by the Feb. 18
decision of the Federal Court in Perth to uphold an appeal from
the  Australian Securities and Investments Commission  against an
earlier ruling for the Perth-based company, he told reporters
during a media call. “We will seek leave to appeal” to the
High Court, he said.  The regulator had alleged Forrest and Fortescue engaged in
misleading and deceptive conduct in 2004 by overstating
agreements with three Chinese companies for the development of
its A$2.8 billion ($2.84 billion) ore project. Forrest faces
possible penalties, including being barred as a director and
paying a fine.  Fortescue fell 2.5 percent to A$6.71 at the 4:10 p.m. close
of Sydney trading, the biggest share price decline since Jan. 20.  Fortescue and Forrest contravened parts of the Corporations
Act 2001, according to the ruling. The matter will be sent back
to a Federal Court judge for a decision on penalties, it said.  Forrest and Fortescue were also ordered to pay the cost of
the regulator’s appeal, according to a faxed copy of the court
orders by three judges of the Federal Court. The judges
overturned a Dec. 23, 2009, ruling in favor of Forrest and
Fortescue, who both denied the allegations.  The regulator alleged Fortescue had incorrectly claimed in
statements between Aug. 23, 2004, and Nov. 9, 2004, when its
shares jumped 35 percent, that it had agreed binding contracts
with China Railway Engineering Corp., China Harbour Engineering
Corp. and  China  Metallurgical Construction (Group).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  