-- 
Foxconn Hiring Workers to Expand Chinese Employee-Run Stores

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-02-21T03:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/foxconn-to-boost-hiring-by-60-at-employee-run-electronics-stores-in-china.html
Foxconn Technology Group, which
manufactures  Apple Inc .’s iPad, plans to increase staffing at
its employee-owned retail outlets by more than 60 percent over
the next two months as it expands in China’s smaller cities.  Wan Ma Ben Teng, the retailer whose stores are owned and
operated by Foxconn employees, seeks to hire more than 400
people, taking the total to about 1,000, Louis Woo, Chairman of
Taipei-based Foxconn’s retail division, said in a phone
interview today.  Foxconn, which also makes Hewlett-Packard Co. computers,
offers training, loans and subsidies for employees to open their
own electronics stores. Founder and Chairman Terry Gou is
looking to Wan Ma Ben Teng, or WMBT, to provide an incentive to
workers on its manufacturing line and help clients sell products
in  China ’s smaller cities.  “It’s a measure to expand our offering to customers and
tap into China’s growing domestic demand,” Woo said. Woo’s
division, called NC-IH, also operates electronics outlets in
larger cities through Media Markt stores, and an online shopping
website.  Wan Ma Ben Teng, which means “Full Steam Ahead” in
Mandarin, currently has more than 100 stores and will expand to
500 by the end of the year, Woo said. The hiring will help
expand WMBT to 12 provinces from seven, he said.  Foxconn last year doubled wages in the city of Shenzhen,
its southern Chinese manufacturing hub, and began migrating
production to inner China near its employees’ hometowns after a
series of suicides drew criticism from labor groups.  WMBT seeks to hire personnel managers, store clerks,
accountants and sales directors in cities including Hefei, Wuhan
and Yantai, according to job postings on  51job.com , which Woo
confirmed. The outlets will sell electronics from different
brands and will include products not made by Foxconn, Woo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 