-- 
G-20 Overcomes China Opposition to Agree on Yardsticks to Gauge Imbalances

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/g-20-overcomes-china-opposition-to-agree-on-yardsticks-to-gauge-imbalances.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs overcame
Chinese opposition to start crafting an early warning system to
detect when economic fault lines are opening that may imperil
global growth.  Seeking to smooth lopsided trade and investment flows which
helped plunge the world into a credit crisis and recession, the
G-20’s finance ministers and central bankers concluded talks in
Paris on Feb. 20 by listing the yardsticks they will monitor to
see whether imbalances are forming. Among them: budget deficit
levels, the external imbalance and private savings rates.  The scorecard, which will be enforced through peer pressure
rather than hard targets, hands the U.S. and Europe a new way of
alerting China to the economic impact of a yuan that U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  calls “substantially
undervalued.” After initially resisting the list in all-night
talks amid concern it would be used as a weapon against their
currency policy, the  Chinese  diluted some of its language and
secured the omission of foreign exchange reserves.  “The bottom line is that we see slow but steady progress
towards better international policy coordination aiming at
reduced global imbalances,” said  Thomas Stolper , chief currency
strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London. “The G-20
statements are visibly becoming the result of compromise about
words and specific expressions.”  Yuan Prospects  The roster of indicators may still be more than investors
expected and by encouraging a rebalancing of the world economy
away from U.S. demand may initially mean a weaker dollar, said
Callum Henderson, global head of currency research in  Singapore 
at Standard Chartered Plc. He predicts the yuan to rise to 6.20
per dollar by the end of the year from last week’s 13-year high
of 6.5732.  The  G-20  met for the first time this year under the
chairmanship of  France  as inflation begins to replace weak
growth as the biggest risk for some of its members, which
together account for about 85 percent of the global economy. The
officials signalled concern over the new threat by noting some
emerging markets are displaying “signs of overheating” and
agreeing to study the forces behind surging commodity prices,
which pushed oil to a 16-month high in January and world food
prices to a record.  The G-20’s statement maintained the view first established
last year that its members will enhance currency flexibility and
strive to avoid “disorderly movements in exchange rates.”
Officials spent most of their time crafting a framework to
underpin such rhetoric.  Global Recession  The intention is to avoid a repeat of the last expansion
when national trade imbalances opened that later helped trigger
the deepest global recession in seven decades. U.S. consumers
relied on the low  interest rates  resulting from foreign
borrowing to drive an unsustainable global spending spree and
record trade deficit, while  China  and other Asian nations
recycled the dollars from their trade surpluses into U.S. bonds,
depressing global yields and providing fresh impetus to the
cycle.  The concern now is that new distortions may begin building
as the global economic recovery gathers steam, yet does so with
engines firing at different speeds. The  International Monetary
Fund  predicts China will remain the world’s fastest-growing
major economy in 2011, with a 9.6 percent expansion. The
Washington-based lender sees 3 percent growth in the U.S. and
1.5 percent in the 17-nation euro area.  Indicator List  The new plan will require governments to better eye a list
of economic indicators that feature public debt and fiscal
deficits, private savings rate and debt, the external imbalance
composed of the  trade gap  and net investment income flows and
transfers “taking due consideration of  exchange rate , fiscal,
monetary and other policies.” The next step, at the G-20’s
meeting in mid-April, will be to turn these indicators into the
basis for a voluntary set of guidelines for economic policy.  The list of indicators will provide rich countries with an
alternative to telling emerging markets to “stop manipulating
currencies” by allowing them to highlight the “consequences of
supporting your currency artificially,” said  David Tulk , chief
rates and currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities unit.  U.S. and European officials maintain China’s exchange rate
management undermines the world economy by fuelling domestic
inflation, filling currency reserves and exacerbating western
trade gaps by handing Chinese exporters an edge in global
markets. China responds that low interest rates in the west are
propelling hot money capital into emerging markets such as
theirs and that a quick revaluation of the yuan would risk
decimating their economy’s growth.  Currency Reserves  Missing from the list of indicators is currency reserves
which now stand at $2.8 trillion in China alone, providing an
export-led symbol of its recent rise to become the world’s
second-largest economy. China, which had wanted to focus on the
smaller trade gap definition, also diluted the final language so
that it mentioned the current account’s components and not its
title.  “It wasn’t easy, there were obviously diverging
interests,” said French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde . The
goal is “to test economic policies and determine to what extent
they are favorable for all countries together and not just the
basis of domestic economic policy.”  Negotiating Power  Helping China push back in the talks were  Brazil ,  Russia 
and  India  in another sign of how such developing nations
increasingly wield negotiating power commensurate with their
recently-found economic strength. The tensions within the Paris
talks again suggest the G-20 nations may find it easier to fight
fires as they did during the recession than in preventing them.  “The organization is losing relevance,” said  Geoffrey Yu ,
a currency strategist at UBS AG in  London .  Geithner used his personal press conference to lambast the
Chinese for the yuan’s appreciation, which they have limited to
about 4 percent over the past year.  “China’s currency remains substantially undervalued, and
its real effective exchange rate -- the best measure to judge
its currency against all of its trading partners -- has not
moved much in this latest period of exchange-rate reform,”
Geithner said. China is “leaning heavily” against
appreciation, he also said.  Chinese Move  On the eve of the meeting, China raised bank-reserve 
requirements for the eighth time in a year and officials 
indicated in Paris that they will fight domestic inflation by 
extending a four-month-old cycle of interest-rate increases.  For all the time spent discussing their threat, imbalances
are ebbing. The IMF predicts that China’s current-account
surplus will narrow to 5.1 percent of gross domestic product in
2011 from as high as 10.6 percent in 2007, while the U.S.
shortfall slims to 2.6 percent from 5.1 percent. The risk is the
gaps re-open as the recovery strengthens.  There was little discussion of binding China more closely
into the world economy by adding the yuan to the IMF’s synthetic
currency basket, known as special drawing rights. Created in
1969 and last reweighted in November, the SDR is a composite of
the dollar, euro, Japanese yen and British pound, though its
role in markets is minimal.  Current SDR rules would require China to first make the
yuan fully convertible, a step that would put it on the upward
track desired by the U.S. and  Europe . The SDR’s future is on the
agenda of a lower-level working group.  “Some conditions have to be met before the Chinese
currency is ready,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
said. “The Chinese know this. This goal won’t be reached this
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Paris at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  