-- 
German Bonds Rise as Libya Unrest Drives Safety Bid, CDU Loses in Hamburg

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-02-21T16:42:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/german-10-year-bonds-gain-after-merkel-s-party-loses-election-in-hamburg.html
German  government bonds  advanced as
concern that unrest in the Middle East will spread spurred
demand for the euro region’s safest assets.  Bunds also rose as  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s  Christian
Democratic Union  lost an election in Hamburg, stoking concern
she may become less willing to support the euro region’s most
indebted nations in talks to stem the sovereign-debt crisis. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index of equities fell 1.3 percent after Libyan
leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s son warned of civil war as protesters
clashed with security forces. The demand for safety prompted the
bonds of  Portugal  and Spain to underperform relative to bunds.  “It’s safe-haven flows due to tensions in North Africa and
the Arab countries,” said Thomas Meissner, head of fixed-income
research at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt .  The yield on the 10-year bund, the euro region’s benchmark
government security, slid seven basis points to 3.19 percent as
of 4:28 p.m. in London. It dropped to 3.17 percent at the end of
last week, the lowest since Jan. 31, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The 2.5 percent security due January 2021 rose
0.55, or 5.5 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,369) face amount, to
94.26. The two-year yield fell two basis points to 1.38 percent.  Saif al-Islam Qaddafi called on Libyan protesters to engage
in dialogue or face a civil war that risks “hundreds of
thousands of dead,” as widening unrest posed the most serious
challenge to his father’s 41 years ruling the oil-exporting
North African nation. Brent crude oil surged past $105 a barrel
today for the first time since 2008.  Hamburg Election  Bunds gained even as data showed growth in European
services and manufacturing reached the fastest pace in more than
four years and German business confidence unexpectedly climbed
to a record. The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its business
climate index increased to 111.2 from 110.3 in January, the
highest since records for a reunified  Germany  began in 1991.  A composite index of manufacturing and services industries
based on a survey of euro-area purchasing managers in the 17-
nation euro region rose to 58.4 from 57 in January, London-based
Markit Economics said. That beat the 56.9 forecast by economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Merkel, aiming to balance public opposition to euro-region
bailouts with pressure from investors and other nations to help,
may have her scope to maneuver limited after the  Social
Democratic Party  ousted the CDU from power in Hamburg. The
chancellor’s voter support will be tested by six more state
elections this year.  ‘Harder Line’  “Merkel will have to adopt a harder line to try to win
round voters,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “This
may be positive for bunds.”  Germany’s central bank rejected giving the European rescue
fund and its successor from 2013, the European Stability
Mechanism, powers to buy government bonds in the secondary
market. Bond-buying by the rescue fund, known as the European
Financial Stability Facility, would lessen the pressure on
overspending governments to restore public finances, the
Frankfurt-based Bundesbank said today in its monthly report.  The difference in yield, or spread, investors demand to
hold 10-year Spanish securities instead of bunds widened to 217
basis points from 212 at the end of last week. The equivalent
Portuguese spread widened three basis points to 427 basis
points, and the Greek spread increased six basis points to 853.  Pimco on  Spain   The Spanish-German spread has widened 28 basis points since
Feb. 4, the last trading day before a European summit that
failed to resolve differences over a bailout fund. Portugal’s
10-year spread has increased 47 basis points in that time.    Andrew Bosomworth , a Munich-based money manager at Pacific
Investment Management Co., said Spanish bonds are “certainly
getting better” as a potential investment. They’re more
attractive relative to securities from other highly indebted
nations, as well as bonds from nations with top credit ratings,
such as Germany, that will end up paying for a bailout, he said.  “Real economic progress and healing is starting to take
place” in Spain, Bosomworth said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .  “For the core countries that are going to be writing that
big check, the implication is you don’t necessarily want to be
located in there,” he said. “They may be transferring more of
their resources to support the periphery. At the very other
extreme of the periphery, you still have that restructuring
risk.”  ECB Buying  The Spanish 10-year yield slipped one basis point to 5.36
percent today.  The  European Central Bank  resumed purchasing government
bonds after a three-week break as tensions in sovereign debt
markets intensified.  The Frankfurt-based central bank said today it settled
purchases worth 711 million euros last week, while 40 million
euros of bonds matured. The ECB will take seven-day term
deposits tomorrow to mop up 77 billion euros of liquidity
created by its bond program since its start on May 10.  ECB council member Athanasios Orphanides said inflation may
stay above 2 percent for longer than the bank expected, and
policy makers must be ready to take action. The ECB may be
laying the groundwork for a shift in policy bias next week, when
it is due to publish its latest inflation forecasts.  “The sharp increases in food and energy prices over the
last few months have been a surprise, and I don’t think we can
rule out further surprises that would result in inflation
staying above 2 percent for somewhat longer than what we
expected before,” Orphanides told Dow Jones Newswires.  German government bonds handed investors a loss of 1.8
percent this year, while Portuguese securities dropped 3.2
percent, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Greek debt
returned 3.2 percent, Spanish bonds gained 1.5 percent, while
Irish securities lost 0.2 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  