-- 
German Business Confidence Probably Stayed at a Record High

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/german-business-confidence-probably-stayed-at-a-record-high.html
German business confidence probably
stayed at a record high in February as booming exports spurred
hiring and consumer spending.  The  Ifo institute ’s business climate index, based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, held at 110.3, according to the
median of 38 forecasts in Bloomberg News survey. That’s the
highest since records for a reunified  Germany  began in 1991. Ifo
releases the report at 10 a.m. in Munich.  The German economy is driving the euro region’s expansion
after demand from faster-growing economies such as  China  boosted
exports and helped push unemployment to the lowest in almost two
decades. The government expects Europe’s largest economy to
expand 2.3 percent this year after record growth of 3.6 percent
in 2010. At the same time, demand from countries such as
Ireland, Greece, Portugal and Spain may wane as they cut
spending to rein in deficits during a sovereign debt crisis.  “We believe another improvement in the Ifo index is
possible, but at this level a decline wouldn’t be any reason for
concern,” said  Ralph Solveen , head of economic research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Growth will be driven by a robust
world economy and domestic investment.”  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation may increase to 113
from 112.8 in January, while an index measuring executives’
expectations probably eased to 107.5 from 107.8, the survey of
economists shows.  Investor Confidence  German investor confidence increased for a fourth month in
February and the benchmark DAX stock index has gained almost 20
percent in the past six months.    Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest
chipmaker, this month raised its full-year sales forecast.
“Infineon is firing on all cylinders,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  told shareholders on Feb. 17. “The volume of orders
is excellent, providing plenty of fuel for the coming quarters.”    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, said on Feb. 4 it expects “significant” sales
increases in the first half of this year on demand in Asia and
the U.S.  At the same time, demand from within the euro area,
Germany’s biggest export market, may suffer as governments from
Spain to Ireland struggle with a sovereign debt crisis. Euro
region growth will ease to 1.5 percent this year from 1.7
percent in 2010, the  European Central Bank  forecast in December.  “Sentiment in the German economy will weaken somewhat
during spring,” said Juergen Pfister, chief economist at
Munich-based lender Bayerische Landesbank. “Given the euphoric
mood, further improvements are hardly possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  