-- 
German Business Confidence Unexpectedly Climbed to Record High in February

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-02-21T10:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/german-business-confidence-unexpectedly-climbed-to-record-high-in-february.html
German business confidence
unexpectedly rose to a fresh record high in February as booming
exports spurred hiring and consumer spending.  The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its business climate
index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased to 111.2
from 110.3 in January. That’s the highest since records for a
reunified  Germany  began in 1991. Economists predicted the index
would hold steady, according to the median of 38 forecasts in
Bloomberg News survey.  The German economy is driving euro-region growth after
demand from faster-growing economies such as  China  boosted
exports, fueling company investment and helping push
unemployment to the lowest in almost two decades. At the same
time, sales to countries such as Ireland, Greece, Portugal and
Spain may wane as they cut spending to rein in budget deficits
during a sovereign debt crisis. The German government expects  Europe ’s largest economy to expand 2.3 percent this year after
record growth of 3.6 percent in 2010.  “The start to the New Year could hardly have been
better,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Groep in
Brussels. “The economy might not reach the stars, but it will
continue to fly high this year.”  The euro rose after the Ifo report before easing to trade
little changed at $1.3679 at 11:44 a.m. in Frankfurt.  Expectations  Ifo’s gauge of the current situation climbed to 114.7 from
112.8 in January, while an index measuring executives’
expectations gained to 107.9 from 107.8.  German investor confidence increased for a fourth month in
February and the benchmark DAX stock index has gained almost 20
percent in the past six months.  Growth in Europe’s service and manufacturing industries
accelerated to the fastest pace in more than four years in this
month, led by stronger output in Germany. A composite index
based on a survey of euro-area purchasing managers in both
industries rose to 58.4 from 57 in January, London-based Markit
Economics said in an initial estimate today.  “February’s euro-zone PMI and German Ifo surveys suggest
that the euro-zone and German economies have started the year
with a bang,” said  Ben May , an economist at Capital Economics
Ltd. in  London .  ‘All Cylinders’  Germany’s  Infineon Technologies AG , Europe’s second-largest
chipmaker, this month raised its full-year sales forecast.
“Infineon is firing on all cylinders,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  told shareholders on Feb. 17. “The volume of orders
is excellent, providing plenty of fuel for the coming
quarters.”    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, said on Feb. 4 it expects “significant” sales
increases in the first half of this year on demand in Asia and
the U.S.  Daimler AG , the world’s second-largest maker of luxury
vehicles, plans to invest more than 20 billion euros in new
models and factory upgrades in the next two years.  Ifo President Hans-Werner Sinn said the surge in company
investment in Germany is “unprecedented.”  “Of course it cannot continue forever,” Sinn said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “There must be some
ceiling, but I honestly don’t know where it is.”  Demand from within the euro area, Germany’s biggest export
market, may suffer as governments from  Spain  to Ireland struggle
with the debt crisis. Euro-region growth will ease to 1.5
percent this year from 1.7 percent in 2010, the  European Central
Bank  forecast in December.  “Sentiment in the German economy will weaken somewhat
during spring,” said Juergen Pfister, chief economist at
Munich-based lender Bayerische Landesbank. “Given the euphoric
mood, further improvements are hardly possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  