-- 
Libya Violence Escalates as Qaddafi's Son Vows `Rivers of Blood'

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m ,   M a s s o u d   D e r h a l l y   a n d   K e v i n   C o s t e l l o e
-- 
2011-02-21T23:20:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/libya-violence-worsens-as-protesters-claim-control-of-second-largest-city.html
  Libya  erupted into violence last
night after Muammar Qaddafi’s son threatened “rivers of blood”
and deployed security forces on protesters, some of whom claimed
control of the second-biggest city, Benghazi.  At least 250 people died in Tripoli alone, al-Jazeera
reported, citing witnesses. Troops attacked “terror” hideouts
and urged citizens to fight back the “organized gangs that are
destroying Libya,” state television said. Amid the violence
were signs that some officials and troops were deserting.  Oil surged to the highest in more than two years. Libya,
holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves, is the latest country
in the region to be rocked by protests ignited by last month’s
ouster of Tunisia’s president and energized by the Feb. 11 fall
of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . Violence has flared in
Yemen, Djibouti, Iran and Bahrain as governments cracked down on
demands for change.  “This is not a regime that will compromise,” said Dirk J.
Vandewalle, author of “A History of Modern Libya” and an
associate professor of government at Dartmouth College in New
Hampshire. “Whichever way this goes, we can expect a good
amount of chaos and bloodshed.”  Diplomats in several cities were reported to have abandoned
the Qaddafi regime to protest against the violence. Two Libyan
warplanes crossed to Malta and requested asylum after refusing
to bomb protesters, according to al-Jazeera.  ‘Genocide’  “We find it impossible to stay silent,” Libya’s deputy
ambassador to the  United Nations , Ibrahim Dabbashi, told
reporters. “The Libyan mission will be in the service of the
Libyan people rather than in the service of the regime.” He
accused the regime of “genocide.”    Brent crude  for April settlement adding as much as 2.5
percent to $105.08 a barrel. It traded at $104.87 at 5:08 p.m.
in  London  yesterday. Persian Gulf shares extended declines, with
Dubai’s benchmark index dropping to a six-month low.  “This is much, much worse chaos than we saw in Egypt or  Tunisia ,” said Daniel Byman, director of the Security Studies
Program at Georgetown University in  Washington . “They’re in a
civil war, at least a low-level one, right now. The question to
me is, does the regime capitulate or does the civil war
intensify.”    Arab League  Meeting  The Arab League will meet today to discuss the turmoil in
Libya, al-Jazeera said. The broadcaster televised pictures of
what it said were corpses of Libyan civilians killed in the
clashes, some charred and with bullet wounds.  “Instead of weeping over 84 dead people, we will weep over
hundreds of thousands of dead,” said Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, the
son of the Libyan leader. “Rivers of blood will flow.”  He said the army will “impose security and get things back
to normal, whatever the price,” and warned that the conflict
may drive oil companies away. Several international companies in
Libya announced evacuations or halted operations.  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc  said it evacuated the families of personnel in Libya,
and Norway’s Statoil ASA closed its offices and said it is
evacuating expatriate workers.  Shares in Italy’s  Eni SpA , which produced 244,000 barrels
of oil equivalent a day in Libya in 2009, fell 5 percent at 4:50
p.m. in Milan.  “Libya has oil,” Qaddafi’s son said. “This oil will be
burnt. Thugs, criminals, gangs and tribes will burn it.”  Vulnerable Regime  Protesters said they had taken over Benghazi, the  Associated Press  said, citing witnesses. The International
Federation for Human Rights said more than 300 people have been
killed in the past week.  The Quryna newspaper, based in Benghazi, reported that the
country’s top judicial official, Mustafa Abduljelil, resigned to
protest the violence. Libya’s representative to the Arab League
quit his post and sided with the protesters,  Egypt ’s state-run
Middle East News Agency reported yesterday. Libya’s ambassadors
in  China ,  India , the U.K.,  Indonesia , Bangladesh, Poland and the
Arab League also resigned, al-Jazeera said.  “The regime is exceptionally vulnerable right now,” Byman
said. “You’ve seen defections among the elite. That’s a good
sign the regime has problems.”  Thousands of people demonstrating yesterday in Benghazi
were met by gunfire from forces loyal to the regime, New York-
based Human Rights Watch said, citing reports from witnesses.  ‘An Obstinate Place’  “Benghazi is always known for resisting tyranny and
diktats, it’s an obstinate place,” said Faraj Najem, a
historian and author of “Tribes, Islam and State in Libya.”  The leader of the opposition Front for the Salvation of
Libya, Ibrahim Sahad, told ABC television that some army units
in Benghazi had defected to join the protesters and were helping
to protect them.  “The world is watching the situation in Libya with
alarm,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said last night.
“Now is the time to stop this unacceptable bloodshed.”  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron denounced the violence as
“appalling and unacceptable” while in Egypt yesterday, where he
was the first Western leader to visit since Mubarak’s fall.  Protesters across the region have focused on the same blend
of economic ills, political repression and unelected rulers in
power for decades.  In Yemen, the poorest country on the Arabian peninsula,
President Ali Abdullah Saleh held a press conference in the
capital, Sana’a, to rule out meeting the demands of protesters
seeking an end to his more than 30 years in office. People took
to the streets for an 11th day as Saleh said their calls for
regime change are “not logical.”  Regional Turmoil  Thousands gathered outside Sana’a University and in the
southern provinces of Aden and Taiz, while followers of the
Shiite Houthi rebel group joined in the protests by holding a
demonstration in the northern Saada province, according to
activists in Sana’a. At least five people have been killed.  In Bahrain, home to the  U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet , opposition
groups are drawing up demands and discussing the government’s
call for dialogue, said Ebrahim Sharif, head of the National
Democratic Action Society. Protests have been led by the Shiite
Muslim majority, which says it is discriminated against by Sunni
rulers.  Thousands of mainly Shiite demonstrators are camped in the
central Pearl Roundabout in the capital, Manama, after tanks,
armored personnel carriers and riot police withdrew on the
orders of Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa.    Saudi Arabia   Analysts including the Eurasia Group, a New York-based
company that assesses political risk, have warned of the risk of
unrest spreading to Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil
exporter.  Saudi Arabia neighbors Bahrain and has a Shiite minority
population in the east, where most of its oil is produced. It
was the lowest-ranked Middle Eastern country in the Economist
Intelligence Unit’s 2010 Democracy Index, which classified all
Gulf nations as authoritarian regimes.  Swap contracts for Saudi Arabia, used as a measure of
confidence although the country has no debt to insure, rose
basis points to 144 yesterday and have almost doubled since the
end of January, according to CMA prices. Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul
stock index fell for a seventh day, dropping 0.6 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index  of Gulf stocks fell 0.4 percent to a
four-month low.  “Perception of risk is only increasing,” said Alia Moubayed, senior economist at London-based  Barclays Capital .
“Investors will not take any sort of half solutions to be
enough for calming their sense of  risk aversion .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 