-- 
Iceland May Shelve Eurobonds as Grimsson Rejects Icesave Accord

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-02-21T13:41:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/iceland-may-shelve-eurobonds-as-president-blocks-depositor-bill.html
Iceland may shelve plans to sell its
first Eurobonds since 2006 after President Olafur R. Grimsson
refused to sign a $5 billion depositor debt accord with the U.K.
and Netherlands, Finance Minister Steingrimur Sigfusson said.  “We’ll obviously have to stop and evaluate the position
and see what the next days and weeks -- five, six weeks -- will
bring us,” Sigfusson said in an interview in Reykjavik
yesterday. “It’s clear that this means that we’re not
completing the matter in the next few days and that we’ll have
to re-evaluate many of the things we had been preparing.”  Iceland had hoped to tap international bond markets this
year as 713 million euros ($975 million) in bonds comes due,
Sigfusson said last month. The island’s efforts to repair
international  investor relations  after its 2008 banking collapse
helped push its credit default swaps lower than those on Spanish
debt this month. The cost of insuring against an Icelandic
default may now rise after Grimsson said his country’s voters
must have the final say on repaying British and Dutch depositor
losses stemming from the 2008 failure of Landsbanki Islands hf.  “The uncertainty that follows the decision could mean that
investors will demand higher premiums against covering for an
Icelandic default,” said Valdimar Armann, an economist at
Reykjavik-based asset manager GAMMA.  Yesterday’s announcement marks the second time Grimsson has
rejected an agreement designed to compensate the U.K. and
Netherlands. His Jan. 5, 2010, refusal to sign a prior depositor
accord prompted  Fitch Ratings  to cut Iceland’s credit grade to
junk. Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  give
Iceland’s debt the lowest investment grade.  Krona Slides  The krona, which the central bank tries to shield from
sudden swings through capital controls, dropped 0.2 percent
against the euro today to the lowest level since May last year.
It was trading at 159.81 per euro at 1:33 p.m. in Reykjavik.  A referendum on the depositor bill will be held as soon as
possible, Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir told reporters
yesterday. A previous accord was rejected by 93 percent of
voters in March last year.  According to a January poll, 56.4 percent of voters backed
the December depositor agreement, which would cost the state
less than a third of the earlier deal, Frettabladid reported on
Jan. 25. Still, Grimsson said he couldn’t sign the latest accord
after receiving a petition with more than 42,000 signatures
asking him not to.  Costs  It is unclear whether the British and Dutch will be willing
to resume talks should the bill be voted down in a referendum,
Sigfusson told reporters yesterday.  The latest accord, which was agreed between the governments
of Iceland, the U.K. and  Netherlands  in December and passed by
more than two thirds of the Reykjavik-based parliament last
week, will cost Iceland’s government 47 billion kronur ($403
million), compared with the 162 billion kronur the state was
facing under the previous accord, according to the negotiating
committee representing Iceland at the Icesave talks, named after
the high-yielding internet accounts offered by Landsbanki. The
rest will be covered by the proceeds from divesting Landsbanki
assets. The British and Dutch governments bore the initial cost
of backing the claims.  Grimsson’s decision also comes as the central bank is
preparing to remove capital controls that have shielded the
krona since the end of 2008. Sigfusson declined to comment on
what impact the setback of an Icesave accord may have on plans
to scale back currency restrictions.  ‘Obvious’ Impact  “We need time to consider and evaluate that,” he said.
“The relevant parties have to get an opportunity to do so. It’s
obvious that this has an impact on the situation that the
country is in.”  Capital controls, put in place after the krona lost as much
as 80 percent against the euro offshore after the October 2008
collapse of Iceland’s biggest banks, are preventing about $3.6
billion in krona assets from leaving the country, the central
bank estimates. It has said it may start easing the controls
sometime after March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar Valdimarsson in London at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  