-- 
India’s $555 Million Coal Tax May Fund Electricity Lines

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-02-21T11:52:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/india-coal-tax-may-be-used-to-fund-transmission-lines-for-renewable-plants.html
  India  may use part of the 25 billion
rupees ($555 million) it raises this year with a coal tax to
fund new electricity-transmission lines for helping distribute
power from clean energy projects.  The  Finance Ministry  is considering a plan to give the
money to states that don’t have the infrastructure to move the
power from planned renewable-energy plants, said Pramod Deo,
chairman of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission.  “It would provide viability funding to those states” to
extend their transmission networks to solar plants, wind farms
and other clean-energy projects being built, Deo said from  New
Delhi  in a telephone interview on Feb 18.  India took its first step to charge companies for fossil
fuel pollution with a tax on coal, lignite and peat that took
effect on July 1. The levy is expected to raise 25 billion
rupees in the first year for clean energy projects, Environment
Minister Jairam Ramesh said at the time.  Sumit Dutt Majumder, chairman of the Central Board of
Excise and Customs, declined to say how much the fund has raised
when contacted by telephone today. Finance officials are in a
“silent period” ahead of the government’s budget announcement
Feb. 28, he said. The government hasn’t specified exactly how
the funds will be used since announcing the tax during last
year’s budget proceedings.  Obstacle for Renewables  The lack of a robust nationwide electricity grid is the
biggest problem facing  renewable energy  projects and may
potentially freeze investments starting later this year in some
regions, Himraj Dang, director of environmental investments at
Olympus Capital Holdings  Asia , a Hong Kong private equity firm,
told a conference in New Delhi last week.  “This is a real need the central government must look
into,”  Deepak Gupta , secretary at the Ministry of New and
Renewable Energy, told a conference in Delhi last week. “This
money should probably come from the clean energy fund.”  India’s transmission network only delivers electricity to
one out of three Indians, an obstacle that threatens the growth
of Asia’s second-fastest growing major economy, the  International Energy Agency  said in September.  Both imported and domestically mined coal, which fires more
than half of the nation’s electricity generation, is taxed at 50
rupees a metric ton. Coal producers are required to pay the tax
on a monthly basis, according to a document on the  website  of
Coal India Ltd., the nation’s largest producer.  Part of the coal fund may also be allocated to states to
encourage them to set higher renewable targets for themselves,
Deo said.  State regulators require distribution utilities and large
industrial companies producing their own power to source 0.8
percent to 14 percent of their supplies from renewable sources.
States lacking wind or solar potential should be given financial
incentives to make those targets more ambitious, Deo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 