-- 
Iridium Climbs to Highest in at Least a Decade on Demand Growth

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-02-21T17:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/iridium-climbs-to-highest-in-at-least-a-decade-on-demand-growth.html
Iridium, used in spark plugs and for
growing metal oxide crystals, climbed to the highest price in at
least a decade as consumption increased.  Iridium demand more than doubled last year to 204,000
ounces, with electrical and electrochemical industries
accounting for about 74 percent of consumption, London-based
researcher and trader Johnson Matthey Plc estimated in November.
Based on today’s price, annual usage would be worth about $219.3
million.  “It’s very much economic driven and it’s a very tight
market,”  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodity research with
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said today by phone. “The investor
might be buying iridium as well. Since this is such a small
market, the impact of even small investment demand is much more
pronounced than on other markets.”  The metal for immediate delivery climbed $25, or 2.4
percent, to $1,075 an ounce by 5:05 p.m. in  London , according to
Johnson Matthey data on Bloomberg. That’s the highest price
since at least January 2001. Iridium has jumped 38 percent this
year after advancing 84 percent in 2010.  “It’s definitely due to the high demand from the
electronics and electrochemical industry,” Weinberg said.
“There are always supply bottlenecks” because it is largely
produced as a by-product of other metals, he said. Miners
“cannot easily react to this price increase by raising
production, it’s not so easy.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 25 increased its
forecast for 2011 global economic growth to 4.4 percent, from
4.2 percent. Iridium’s gain this year has outperformed gold,
silver, platinum and palladium. Rhodium, mainly used in auto
catalysts, is up 1 percent and ruthenium, used for coating
computer hard disks, is unchanged, Johnson Matthey data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Claudia
Carpenter at   ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 