-- 
Isle of Wight Applies for Funding for Tidal-Energy Test Sites

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-02-21T16:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/isle-of-wight-applies-for-funding-for-tidal-energy-test-sites.html
The Isle of Wight Council says it
has applied for a 21 million-pound ($34 million) grant from the
U.K.’s Regional Growth Fund to build tidal energy test
facilities in the Solent channel off Britain’s southern coast.  Investment in the facilities will be about 30 million
pounds and the outstanding money should be secured through
European match funding and private investors, Stephanie Merry,
environmental enterprise manager at EnviroBusiness, one of the
project partners, said today by telephone.  The project will have three sites, said Merry. The first
will be capable of hosting single full or part-scale devices for
testing with 1 megawatt connected to the grid. The second will
host arrays of up to 10 megawatts to enable developers to test
how their devices interact with each other.  The final phase will be a 100-megawatt commercial project,
which may be extended to 250 megawatts, Merry said. This would
be funded separately and cost about 1.1 billion pounds,
according to a  document on the council’s website . “We’d look to
partner with a large scale project developer or utility for
this,” said Merry.  An “onshore cluster” will also be built to support the
marine sites. It will comprise a port facility and a network of
local supply chain companies, Merry said. It will also have a
technology center for research and development purposes.  The council expects to hear whether its funding application
has been successful by June and it will then take more than a
year to secure planning consent.  “We should be in a position to start building in 2013 and
have the first devices in the water within the same year,”
Merry said. Meeting this timetable depends on planning consent
and securing the finance.  “We’ve had a lot of interest from technology developers
and utilities and have spoken to over 50 companies already,”
Merry said.  The Regional Growth Fund is a 1.4-billion pound fund for
U.K. private sector projects and companies.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net 
NI BNEF
NI ALTNRG
NI WEBEXCLUDE
NI UK
NI MAR
NI OFFSHORE
NI ELC
NI NRG
NI ENV
NI CLIMATE
NI UTI 