-- 
Ivory Coast Violence Flares as African Leaders Seek Resolution

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x   a n d   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 
2011-02-21T15:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/ivory-coast-violence-flares-as-african-leaders-seek-political-resolution.html
Security forces in  Ivory Coast ’s
commercial capital, Abidjan, fired on opposition protesters,
killing one as African presidents arrived in the country in a
new attempt to find a solution to the country’s political
impasse.  Violence flared in the neighborhoods of Koumassi and
Treichville where troops clashed with supporters of  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of a Nov. 28
election. Incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo  has refused to
resign, alleging electoral fraud, and has maintained the loyalty
of police and armed forces. At least 300 people have been killed
in clashes, according to the  United Nations .  “The security forces are here and they have been shooting
around, everybody is scared,” said Chantal Guehennot, a resident
of the Treichville neighborhood in southern Abidjan, by phone
today. She saw at least one body in the road after the gunfire
and saw another person dragged from a house and beaten with
rifle butts.  Alcide Djedje, the Foreign Affairs Minister in Gbagbo’s
government, didn’t answer calls made to his mobile phone today.
Ahoua Don Mello, a spokesman for Gbagbo, also didn’t answer
calls.  The army “reinforced the deployment” of troops in Abidjan
to prevent a deterioration in the security situation, said
Hilaire Babri Gohourou, army spokesman, on state-owned Radio
Television Ivoirienne today.  “All the security measures have been taken in order to
guard against any eventuality,” he said.  Gunfire and Protesters  Gunfire and heavy artillery was heard in Koumassi where
protesters were demonstrating, said Didier Houldesso, a member
of the youth wing of the opposition  Parti Democratique de Cote
d’Ivoire , which supports Ouattara, by phone today.  “The area is a battlefield,” Houldesso said. “Youth are
demonstrating, they’re setting up barricades.”  The renewed violence follows a month of relative calm as
Ouattara attempted to starve Gbagbo of money, preventing him
from paying state wages in an attempt to undermine the loyalty
of the army. Ouattara called for cocoa and coffee exporters to
halt shipments and convinced the West African central bank to
cut ties with the incumbent, who has ruled for a decade.  Morocco’s  Attijariwafa Bank  today became the 10th financial
institution to halt operations in the world’s biggest cocoa
producer, following the units of  BNP Paribas  SA,  Ecobank
Transnational Inc . and  Citigroup Inc . who closed their branches
last week amid security concerns.  Shops Closed  Shops were closed and traffic was quiet in many parts of
the city today. “Everybody here is worried about safety, we
have been told it’s better to stay at home today,” said Malick
Konate, a shop owner, by phone today.  South African President  Jacob Zuma , along with the leaders
of Mauritania, Chad and Tanzania, arrived in Abidjan today in an
African Union-mandated bid to find a resolution to the conflict.
Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  earlier traveled to the
country in at least two unsuccessful attempts to solve the
impasse as African Union mediator.  Cocoa for May delivery climbed for a second day, adding 14
pounds, or 0.6 percent, to 2,277 pounds per metric ton by 2:12
p.m. in London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 