-- 
Japan Hopes New Pandas Lead Way for Millions of China Tourists

-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 
2011-02-21T06:40:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/japan-hopes-new-pandas-lead-way-for-millions-of-china-tourists.html
Japan, set to receive two giant
pandas from  China  today, is seeking to attract more tourists
from its Asian neighbor to boost its economy as local consumers
cut back on spending and the population shrinks.  Japan aims to boost Chinese tourists more than four-fold to
6 million by 2016 from 1.4 million last year, according to the
Japan Tourism Agency. All Nippon Airways Co.’s low-cost
affiliate A&F Aviation Co., which plans to start flying as early
as October, is targeting Chinese demand and electronic stores in
Tokyo have added Mandarin-speaking assistants.  Chinese tourists surged 41 percent last year as Japan eased
visa requirements for visitors from the world’s second-largest
economy. The increase came amid bilateral tensions sparked by
the September collision of a Chinese fishing boat with a
Japanese Coast Guard vessel near islands claimed by both sides.  “In the future Chinese tourism will become more and more
important,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees the equivalent
of $1.9 billion in assets in Tokyo at Daiwa SB Investments Ltd.
“The pandas are a symbol but what’s more important is political
discussions between the two countries.’  Japan is set to receive two 5-year-old pandas today, the
first since the 2008 death of Ling Ling. Japan received its
first two Chinese pandas in 1972, after a peace treaty was
signed between the countries, according to the Ueno Zoo  website .  The two pandas were scheduled to arrive at the Shanghai
Airport at 10 a.m. local time today before a  scheduled  departure
at 5 p.m. on ANA flight NH960, according to the website. After
arriving at Narita around 9 p.m. Japan time, the pandas are
scheduled to reach Ueno Zoo around 11:30 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  