-- 
Japan's 10-Year Bond Futures Gain Most This Year on Middle-East Tensions

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 
2011-02-22T04:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/japanese-government-bonds-may-rise-as-middle-east-unrest-spurs-safety-bid.html
Japanese bond futures rose the most
this year as speculation that tensions in the Middle East will
keep escalating boosted demand for government debt.  Ten-year yields dropped to the lowest level in two weeks as
Asian shares fell before a U.S. report that economists said will
show  home prices  dropped the most in a year, undermining
confidence in a recovery in the world’s biggest economy. The
cost to insure Japanese debt against default rose after Moody’s
Investors Service cut its outlook for the nation’s sovereign-
debt rating.  “Rising tension over the Libya situation is leading to
falling stocks and rising bonds,” said  Yasunari Ueno , chief
market economist in Tokyo at Mizuho Securities Co., a unit of
Japan’s second-largest bank. “Moody’s announcement helps remind
overseas investors of the worsening of Japan’s finances over the
medium to long term.”  Ten-year bond futures for March delivery gained 0.54 to
139.51 as of 1:50 p.m. at the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest
gain since Dec. 30.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond fell four basis
points to 1.265 percent at Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.2 percent security due in
December 2020 rose 0.346 yen to 99.432 yen. The yield was the
lowest since Feb. 4.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slid 2 percent.  Libya 
erupted into violence yesterday when Muammar Qaddafi’s son
threatened “rivers of blood” and deployed security forces on
protesters, some of whom claimed control of the second-biggest
city, Benghazi.  Oil Rises  Oil futures for April delivery surged as much as 9.8
percent on concern crude supplies will be disrupted. Gold rose
for a seventh day, the longest run of gains since June.  “The market interprets political unrest in the Middle East
as a reason for a flight to quality, although there is a risk
that a higher oil price will stoke concern about inflation,”
said  Shinji Nomura , chief debt strategist at Nikko Cordial
Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Moody’s lowered its outlook for Japan’s Aa2 credit rating
to negative from stable, citing the risk the government won’t do
enough to tackle the nation’s debt burden. Five-year credit-
default swaps on Japan’s government bonds rose three basis
points to 84.5 basis points, Citigroup Inc. prices showed.  “The  bond market  is aware of the status of Japan’s
finances,” said  Takafumi Yamawaki , chief rate strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo. “Should the rating be cut to
single A, there would be investors to sell Japan’s bonds.”  Auction Demand  The gain in bonds was tempered as demand dropped at a 1.1
trillion-yen ($13.2 billion) sale of 20-year bonds today.  The auction drew bids for 2.64 times amount on offer, the
lowest since November. The  Finance Ministry  set a 2 percent
coupon on the debt, down from 2.1 percent at the Jan. 20 sale.  “A 2 percent coupon was lower than the market had expected
and made investors hesitate to buy the new securities,” said  Akitsugu Bandou , a senior economist in Tokyo at Okasan
Securities Co. “Higher bond prices earlier today due to risk
aversion also cut demand for the new issues.”  The yield on the previously issued 20-year bonds with a 2.1
percent coupon fell 1.5 basis points to 2.03 percent.  Mizuho, Nikko Cordial, JPMorgan and Okasan are among the 24
primary dealers obliged to bid at the government’s debt sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 