-- 
Jordan's King Abdullah Seeks Rapid Change From New Government Amid Protest

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-02-21T08:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/jordan-s-king-abdullah-demands-political-economic-change-from-government.html
  Jordan ’s  King Abdullah  said he wants
Prime Minister Marouf Bakhit’s government to implement political
and economic changes without hesitation.  Past opportunities for change were missed because of
“people with private agendas who resisted reform to guard their
own interests,” the monarch told the heads and members of
Jordan’s executive, legislative and judicial authorities
yesterday, according to a transcript provided by the  Royal
Court . “I will not allow that to happen again.”  King Abdullah swore in Bakhit’s government on Feb. 9,
replacing the previous administration headed by Samir Rifai. He
was responding to protests by Islamic and other opposition
groups that have been staged on Fridays since the revolt in  Tunisia  that forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali into exile
on Jan. 14. The unrest has also spread to  Egypt , where  Hosni Mubarak  stepped down as president after mass protests, and  Libya , Yemen, Bahrain and  Algeria .  The demonstrators in Jordan, which imports more than 90
percent of its oil and relies on foreign investment and grants
to finance its budget, have pointed to rising food prices and a
lack of jobs, complaints that echo those of the opposition in
Egypt and Tunisia. The protesters are also demanding that more
powers be vested in the country’s elected  parliament .  ‘Quick Results’  The  Islamic Action Front , the largest opposition group in
Jordan, declined to join Bakhit’s government.  “I want quick results,” Abdullah said, reiterating his
instructions in the designation letter to the new premier.
“When I talk about political reform, I want real reform
consistent with the spirit of the age.”  The “most important step is to study and develop all laws
governing political and civil activities,” as well as the
kingdom’s election law, he said. “There should be consensus on
this law and on its goals, which must encourage collective
political work and the emergence of political parties as well as
increasing public participation in decision making.”  Parliamentary elections should be carried out with parties
competing on the basis of programs, the king said. “This is
essential so we move to a new stage in the administration of the
state when governments will be formed by parties and on the
basis of the clear programs that these parties will present. To
get to that stage, there should be strong and efficient
political parties and continuous dialogue.”  Tribal Guidance  Many of Jordan’s 30 to 40 tribes usually reach a consensus
on candidates before legislative elections, with voters often
following the instructions of their tribal elders rather than
choosing on the basis of specific political and economic
platforms.  Jordan held its last vote in November. Pro-government and
tribal candidates swept the elections, as Islamists who form the
largest opposition movement boycotted the vote saying the
assembly lacks power, the voting system favors pro-
administration candidates and past counts have been fraudulent.
The government denied any interference in the election, which
was monitored by international observers including the
Washington-based  National Democratic Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 