-- 
Kenyan Drought Will Place `Severe Strain' on Economy, Fitch Ratings Says

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-02-21T12:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/kenyan-drought-will-place-severe-strain-on-economy-fitch-ratings-says.html
A drought in  Kenya  will place
“severe strain” on East Africa’s biggest economy, though it is
unlikely to affect the country’s  credit rating , said Roland
Cooper, director at Fitch Ratings.  Agriculture in Kenya, the world’s biggest exporter of black
tea and the largest shipper of flowers to  Europe , generates
about 25 percent of economic output and half the country’s
foreign-exchange earnings. The  World Bank  expects the economy to
grow 5.3 percent this year, compared with an estimated 5.2
percent in 2010.  Kenya had drier-than-usual weather in October through
December because of the La Nina phenomenon, in which the surface
of the Pacific Ocean cools and reduces moisture in the
atmosphere. The weather system may curb rainfall through 2011,
according to the Kenya Meteorological Department.  “The drought situation will put severe strain on Kenya’s
economy,” Cooper said in an interview today at a banking
conference in Nairobi, the capital. “Given that it’s cyclical,
it’s not likely to affect the country ratings.”    Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  both have a credit
rating for Kenya of B+, which are four levels below investment
grade.  Political instability in Kenya may dent investor confidence
in the country, Cooper said.  “Political risks over unresolved issues on implementation
of the new constitution will weigh on the investment
environment,” he said.  Dispute  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  are currently in dispute over the president’s nomination
of four key state officials whom the prime minister says he
wasn’t consulted on as stipulated in the country’s new
constitution.  The impasse over the appointment of a new chief justice,
director of public prosecutions, attorney general and budget
controller comes as the  International Criminal Court  considers
cases against six Kenyans accused of crimes against humanity in
violence that followed a disputed election in December 2007. At
least 1,500 people died and 300,000 were forced to flee their
homes in the ethnic clashes, which ended after Kibaki and Odinga
agreed to form a coalition government.  Kenya enacted a new constitution in August that aims to
spread political power across the country’s 42 ethnic groups,
achieve more equitable land distribution and place checks and
balances on the president. The new charter replaced one dating
to when Kenya gained independence from Britain in 1963.  “The ICC process and 2012 elections remain the major
weakness for Kenya,” Cooper said.  Kenya is scheduled to hold its next general election in
2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 