-- 
Kirch Court Fight With Deutsche Bank, Breuer a Battle of `Yesterday's Men'

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-02-21T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/kirch-court-fight-with-deutsche-bank-breuer-a-battle-of-yesterday-s-men-.html
  Deutsche Bank AG  faces two separate
court battles this week in its nine-year, 3.3 billion-euro
($4.5 billion) feud with  Leo Kirch , highlighted by appearances
by the lender’s former Chief Executive Officer Rolf Breuer and
Kirch.  The Munich Regional court is scheduled to rule tomorrow on
a 1.3 billon-euro suit over claims that comments by Breuer about
Kirch’s media group’s creditworthiness caused its 2002
bankruptcy. Three days later, Kirch, 84, and Breuer, 73, are
scheduled to testify at an appeals court in a case where Kirch
is seeking 2 billion euros.  “That’ll be like a showdown of yesterday’s men, because,
frankly, both Kirch and Breuer don’t play central roles in
Germany’s economy anymore,” said Hans-Peter Burghof, a
professor of banking at the University of Hohenheim in
Stuttgart. “Kirch is a patriarch who lost his empire and is now
going back again and again to look for answers.”  Kirch’s dispute with the Frankfurt-based bank stems from a
February 2002 Bloomberg television interview in which Breuer
said, “everything that you can read and hear” is that “the
financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further” loans or
equity to Kirch. Kirch Holding GmbH, which owned a controlling
stake in Formula One racing and more than 50 percent of  Germany ’s biggest TV broadcaster, filed the country’s biggest
bankruptcy case since World War II four months later.  Courts, Shareholder Meetings  Kirch has battled Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest bank,
inside and outside of courtrooms ever since. Kirch’s lawyers
attend every one of the lender’s annual shareholder meetings,
oppose its decisions and sue afterwards.  Kirch, a friend of former German chancellor Helmut Kohl,
founded the company in the 1950s after buying the rights to
Federico Fellini’s ``La Strada.'' He turned his one-man business
into Germany’s No. 2 media company before it faltered.  In tomorrow’s lawsuit, involving Kirch’s former
Printbeteiligungs unit, he claims that he was forced to sell a
40 percent stake in  Axel Springer AG  in an October 2002
foreclosure sale to Deutsche Bank. The shares were collateral
for a loan from the lender.  The Federal Court of Justice, Germany’s highest civil court
ruled in 2006 that Breuer was wrong to question the condition of
Kirch’s group in the interview. While dismissing two-thirds of
Kirch’s case, the court said Printbeteiligungs may be able to
seek compensation because it was the only company that had a
contract with Deutsche Bank.  More Loans  In a hearing in November, Presiding Judge Brigitte Pecher
said Kirch still had to prove that other banks didn’t provide
any more loans because of the Breuer interview.  Printbeteiligungs didn’t show that the remarks caused the
bankruptcy and the claimed damage, Deutsche Bank spokesman
Christian Streckert said in an e-mailed statement Feb. 18. Peter Heckel, who represents Breuer and the bank in the suits, said
the statement applies to the former CEO as well.  Later in the week, on Feb. 25, Kirch and Breuer are
scheduled to testify in a separate case filed by 17 of Kirch
Media’s units. The Munich appeals judges will question the men
on whether negotiations between the Kirch units and Deutsche
Bank progressed to a point that triggers the right to make
contractual claims under German law, court spokesman Wilhelm
Schneider said in an e-mailed statement last week.  Judge Pecher and her colleagues in March 2009 had dismissed
the suit, saying most of the Kirch units didn’t have contract
with Deutsche Bank and a statute of limitations applied to the
only one that did.  In the appeals case, Kirch can’t seek anything because the
companies didn’t have a contractual relationship with the
lender, Streckert said.  ‘Off the Cuff’  “The case shows that there aren’t really any off the cuff
remarks when it comes to the capital markets, every word
counts,” Burghof said. “But we also cannot know whether it was
actually that Breuer remark that triggered the demise of the
Kirch group or whether it was already on the way downwards.”  Breuer resigned as Deutsche Bank chairman in 2006, less
than three months after the top court ruling in the Kirch case.
He had spent his career at the lender, joining the company in
1956 as an apprentice and becoming CEO in 1997 and chairman in
2002.  He was charged by prosecutors in 2009. They claimed he lied
to judges in an effort to avoid liability in the Kirch suit. He
has rejected the allegations as unfounded. A Munich court has
been deliberating since that time whether to allow the charges
go to trial.  ‘Never-Ending Story’  This week’s events won’t end the saga. Whoever loses in
tomorrow’s or the Feb. 25 case is likely to appeal. Germany’s
top civil court will eventually get a chance to rule on the
issue again. Settlement talks suggested by Judge Pecher in 2009
didn’t yield any results.  “The problem that this seems to be a never-ending story
and the amount at stake here leaves the market with a feeling of
uncertainty,” said  Konrad Becker , a Munich-based analyst at
Merck Finck & Co. who recommends buying the stock. “It would be
good to get some closure here to allow that uncertainty to go.”  Tomorrow’s case is LG Muenchen, 33 O 9550/07. The Feb. 25
case is OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
   kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 