-- 
National Bank of Greece Says Alpha Takeover Bid ‘Compelling’

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-02-21T16:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/national-bank-says-offer-compelling-for-alpha-shareholders.html
  National Bank of Greece SA , the
nation’s largest lender, said its 3 billion-euro ($4.1 billion)
bid for Alpha Bank SA, the third-biggest, will be received
positively by investors after Alpha spurned the offer.  “The strategic and financial merits of the combination are
compelling to both banks and their respective shareholders,”
Chief Executive Officer Apostolos Tamvakakis said on a
conference call today. “We are confident that the market will
receive this proposal positively and express its position
accordingly.” He wouldn’t take questions from reporters.  Alpha’s board voted unanimously Feb. 18 to spurn National
Bank’s offer of about 5.53 euros a share, based on today’s
closing price. The bid prices Alpha at about half its book
value, a lower multiple than in the previous four European bank
takeovers of more than $1 billion in the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Alpha jumped as much as 19 percent in Athens trading today
after the Greek bourse regulator lifted a trading suspension
imposed on both stocks on Feb. 18. Alpha shares gained 5 percent
to 5.03 euros at the 5:20 p.m. close, while National Bank
climbed 0.4 percent to 7.60 euros.  “There’s a lot of value in merging banks in  Greece  because
of the attainment of scale, overlap in the domestic market and
strategic complementarity” in southern and eastern  Europe ,
Alexander Kyrtsis, an analyst at UBS AG in  London , said by
telephone today. Kyrtsis rates Alpha a “buy” with a price
target of 6.20 euros. Still, he said, “despite the sovereign
situation, it’s hard to explain to shareholders to sell below
book value.”  Government Efforts  The government is pushing the country’s banks to combine
after their capital was depleted by the sovereign debt crisis
and mounting loan losses. Previous attempts to create fewer,
stronger banks in Greece have stumbled: talks between National
Bank and Alpha collapsed in January 2002 after the two sides
failed to agree on how to share power in the combined company.
Piraeus Bank SA, the fourth-biggest bank, last year abandoned
its bid to buy two smaller state-controlled lenders after
failing to get a response from the government.  Tamvakakis told investors the bank was “surprised” at
Alpha’s rejection of the offer following two weeks of talks.  “Our proposal was always meant to be and remains
friendly,” he said.  National Bank Deputy Chief Executive Officer Anthimos Thomopoulos said the target for as much as 700 million euros of
cost savings was “conservative” and achievable and that
regulatory clearance wouldn’t be a hurdle to the takeover.    Bank of America Corp . and  Morgan Stanley  are advising
National Bank, while  Citigroup Inc . and  JPMorgan Chase & Co . are
advising Alpha Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  