-- 
New Zealand Dollar Approaches One-Week High on Outlook for Farmer Payouts

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-02-21T06:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/new-zealand-dollar-approaches-one-week-high-on-outlook-for-farmer-payouts.html
  New Zealand ’s dollar climbed toward
a one-week high against the greenback on speculation Auckland-
based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. will raise its forecast
for payouts to farmers, boosting the nation’s economic recovery.  The kiwi rose for a fourth day before the board of
Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, meets tomorrow
after whole milk powder prices climbed to a 31-month high. The
Australian dollar fell, retreating from within 0.1 percent of a
nine-month high against the yen, as Asian stocks declined after
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s son warned of a civil war
following attacks on anti-government protesters by security
forces.  “Fonterra could be announcing an upward revision to their
forecast dairy payout for this season sometime this week,” said
Khoon Goh, head of market economics at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington. “That should be taken positively by the  currency
markets  and could see the  New Zealand dollar  well supported.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose to 76.44 U.S. cents as of 4:34
p.m. in Sydney from 76.16 cents in  New York  last week, after
advancing to 76.57 on Feb. 18, the highest since Feb. 10. The
currency gained to 63.54 yen from 63.36 yen. Its Australian
counterpart was at $1.0121 from $1.0147 on Feb. 18. The so-
called Aussie fell 0.3 percent to 84.12 yen. It touched 84.48
yen on Feb. 18, the most since May 13.  Fonterra raised its forecast payment to farmers by 4.5
percent on Dec. 10, citing higher international prices. Whole
milk powder prices reached the highest for a near-term contract
since July 2008, according to auction results published Feb. 16.  Sluggish Recovery  New Zealand’s dollar gained against all 16 of its most-
traded counterparts as credit card spending rose 3.8 percent in
January from December when it fell 1.7 percent, according to a
report released by the  Reserve Bank  today. Spending grew 5.6
percent from a year earlier, the report showed.  The currency has still weakened 2 percent this year against
the greenback amid a sluggish domestic recovery.  Consumers are more pessimistic, with 78 percent saying
economic conditions were “poor” or “not so good,” compared
with 69 percent in December, according to a UMR Research poll of
1,000 people released today. The poll showed more consumers said
it not a good time to buy items they need or want, UMR said in
an e-mailed statement.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  will release its first-
quarter inflation expectations survey tomorrow.  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard will raise the nation’s
key rate by 50 basis points over the next 12 months, according
to a Credit Suisse AG index based on swaps. That compares with
31 basis points for Australia, a separate index shows.  The kiwi dollar rose 0.6 percent to NZ$1.3240 per
Australian dollar, advancing for a second day.  Aussie Longs  Australia’s currency fell against the dollar and yen amid
escalating tensions in the Middle East. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index declined 0.2 percent, snapping a three-day rally.  “In the absence of major data flow, markets focused on the
deteriorating situation in  Libya , which kept a lid on risk
proxies,”  Sue Trinh , a Hong Kong-based senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada wrote in a report to clients.
Liquidity in foreign-exchange markets may be thin today due to a
holiday in the U.S., she wrote.  Futures traders decreased their bets that Aussie dollar
will gain against the U.S. currency, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by large speculators such as  hedge funds  on an advance in the Australian dollar compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 65,514 on Feb. 15,
compared with 71,979 a week earlier.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in  Australia  and
3 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates which is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, rose to 3.81 percent from 3.78 percent on Feb. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 