-- 
New York Jets Will Begin Employee Furloughs Without Labor Deal, Team Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-02-22T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/new-york-jets-will-begin-employee-furloughs-without-labor-deal-team-says.html
The  New York  Jets will begin
furloughing employees next week in the absence of a new labor
accord between the  National Football League  and its players’
union.  The Jets’ business operations employees will be forced to
take an unpaid one-week leave every month until a new collective
bargaining agreement is reached,  Matt Higgins , the team’s
executive vice president for business operations, confirmed in
an e-mail yesterday. The team’s decision was reported earlier by
the Sports Business Journal.  The NFL’s labor agreement expires March 3 and the league
could opt to lock out its players the next day. If no games are
lost by a work stoppage, the Jets are planning to reimburse the
furloughed employees for their lost income.  “Although we fully expect an agreement to be reached, it
just makes sense to plan for the worst and this plan is about
shared sacrifice across the organization to get through a period
of uncertainty,” Higgins said. “Rather than a straight
reduction in salary, furloughs enable us to cut back expenses
but also give employees some time off.”  Higgins will be among those furloughed on the business
operations side, while the football operations staff will look
to cut its budget by 25 percent, rather than enact furloughs, as
it prepares for the April 25 draft.  The NFL and NFL Players Association began their fourth
straight day of meetings with a federal mediator in  Washington 
yesterday, according to the  Associated Press .  “Our focus is on reaching a fair agreement by March 4,”  Greg Aiello , a spokesman for the NFL, said in an e-mail. “We
are not commenting on contingency plans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 