-- 
Newcrest, West Australian, Woodside Petroleum: Australian Stock Preview

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-02-21T22:06:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/newcrest-west-australian-woodside-petroleum-australian-stock-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may have unusual moves in  Australia . The preview
includes news announced after markets closed. All prices are
from yesterday’s close unless otherwise stated.  The S&P/ASX 200 Index futures contract due in March added
0.1 percent to 4,898 as of 11:57 p.m. in Sydney. The S&P/ASX 200
Index lost 0.7 percent to 4,900.  Gold producers: Gold climbed above $1,400 an ounce to the
highest price in almost seven weeks in  London  as unrest in the
Middle East and concern inflation will quicken boosted demand.    Newcrest Mining Ltd . (NCM AU), Australia’s biggest gold
producer, rose 1.8 percent to A$39.71.  Oil companies: Oil surged to the highest price in more than
two years in London as violence escalated in Libya, stoking
concern supplies will be disrupted as turmoil spreads through
the Middle East and North Africa.    Woodside Petroleum Ltd . (WPL AU), Australia’s second-
largest oil and gas producer, lost 0.4 percent to A$42.58.  Amcor Ltd. (AMC AU): Australia’s biggest packaging company
has asked BNP Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG to arrange
meetings with European bond investors ahead of a possible issue,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale. Amcor shares
gained 1.9 percent to A$6.85.    BHP Billiton Ltd . (BHP AU): BHP may offer discounted prices
for its coking coal as it seeks to shift Japanese steelmakers to
shorter term sales contracts for the raw material, UBS AG said.
The world’s No. 1 mining company dropped 1.5 percent to A$45.85.       Challenger Ltd. (CGF AU): The Australian investment manager
had its stock rating cut to “hold” from “buy” by analysts at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. The stock climbed 1 percent to
A$5.08.    Fantastic Holdings Ltd . (FAN AU): The furniture retailer
and manufacturer had its stock rating raised to “overweight”
from “neutral” by analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. The shares
advanced 2.7 percent to A$2.31.        Riversdale Mining Ltd . (RIV AU): Tata Steel Ltd.,  India ’s
biggest producer of the alloy, would like to retain its stake in
Australia’s Riversdale, Tata Managing Director H.M. Nerurkar
said in New Delhi yesterday. The stock gained 0.1 percent to
A$15.71.        UGL Ltd . (UGL AU): The company with businesses ranging from
engineering to property services had its stock rating raised to
“buy” from “hold” by analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. UGL shares slipped 0.5 percent to A$15.33.       West Australian Newspaper Holdings Ltd. (WAN AU): The
newspaper publisher had its stock rating cut to “sell” from
“hold” by analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. Its
shares rose 0.6 percent to A$6.34 when they last traded on Feb.
18.        Woolworths Ltd . (WOW AU): The retailer has two groups
remaining in contention to buy its A$1 billion shopping center
and development assets, including Charter Hall Group, the
Australian Financial Review reported, without saying where it
got the information. Woolworths shares fell 0.5 percent to
A$26.83.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at   sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 