-- 
Nigeria Resumes Oil Savings, Pledges Greater Transparency

-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 
2011-02-21T16:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/nigeria-resumes-saving-from-oil-revenue-pledges-transparency-aganga-says.html
Nigerian Finance Minister Olusegun Aganga said the government has resumed savings in its excess
crude account, after almost emptying the fund by September, and
pledged to be more open about foreign currency reserves.  The excess account swelled to $2.2 billion in December
after dropping to as little as $500 million in September from
$4.6 billion in April, Aganga said in an interview in Abuja, the
capital, on Feb. 18. The fund had reached as much as $20 billion
in 2007, the  Daily Trust  reported on Jan. 27.    Africa ’s top oil producer and the fifth-largest supplier of
U.S. crude imports relies on oil for 95 percent of its export
income, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Fitch Ratings  lowered
its outlook on Nigeria’s BB- rating to “negative” from
“stable” on Oct. 22, citing concern about withdrawals from the
excess crude account and a drop in foreign currency reserves.  “We’ve not been as transparent as we should be, but it’s
not because we’re trying to hide anything,” said Aganga, a
former executive of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “It’s just because
we’ve not captured our data in the way we should and have not
made them available as other countries have made them
available.”  The decline in foreign currency reserves increased the risk
to the economy from any renewed drop in  oil prices , Fitch said.  Reserves, including the excess crude account, slid to $32
billion in December from $42 billion in January 2010 because of
the government’s expansionary policy, Aganga said. Some of the
money was also used to stabilize the  exchange rate , he said.  Transparency  The government is meant to save money when oil prices
exceed the estimate in its annual budget. That forecast was set
at $65 a barrel for 2011, compared with the $92 oil is currently
trading at in New York.  “There should be a corresponding increase in the
reserves” whenever oil prices rise, said  Bismarck Rewane , chief
executive officer of Financial Derivatives Co., a Lagos-based  fund manager . Also, when the reserves are depleted, “we should
be able to see tangible assets on the other side which account
for that spending.”    Nigeria ’s Planning Ministry will soon be making information
on foreign currency reserves available to the public, Aganga
said. Reserves are now rising again, reaching $34 billion on
Feb. 16, he said.  Eurobonds  Nigeria, sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest economy after  South Africa , sold $500 million of Eurobonds last month,
attracting buyers from 18 countries in  Europe , the U.S., Asia
and Africa, the minister said in a statement on Jan. 21. It
wouldn’t have been successful if the country hadn’t given
investors all the information on its finances, according to
Aganga.  The Eurobond offer marked the beginning of Nigeria’s
“compliance with international standard on transparency,” he
said. “You’ll see more of that going forward.”  Nigerian lawmakers are currently working on a sovereign
wealth fund that will save some of the windfall crude revenue
for future generations and invest some in infrastructure,
ensuring that the government can’t use it to finance running
costs.  Nigeria has seen oil production stabilize at 2.16 million
barrels a day as a result of the relative calm in the Niger
River delta, the hub of the country’s oil industry, Information
Minister Labaran Maku said on Feb. 2.  Crude for April delivery on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange was up $3.77, or 4.2 percent, at $93.48 a barrel in
electronic trading today after rising as high as $93.75.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Okolo in Abuja at 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 