-- 
TNT Posts Higher Quarterly Net, Forecasts Dutch Mail Slump

-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e   a n d   F r e d   P a l s
-- 
2011-02-21T11:20:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/tnt-posts-higher-quarterly-net-forecasts-dutch-mail-slump.html
  TNT NV , the Dutch mail carrier
that’s planning to spin off its express business, reported
higher fourth-quarter profit and forecast Dutch addressed mail
volumes will decline as much as 10 percent in 2011.  Net income reached 127 million euros ($174 million),
compared with 23 million euros a year earlier, the Hoofddorp,
Netherlands-based company said today in a statement. Sales,
which now exclude contribution from the express unit, were
almost unchanged at 1.2 billion euros.  TNT, which had a legal monopoly on letter delivery in its
home country until 2009, aims to eliminate 11,000 jobs as
customers turn increasingly to domestic competitors or e-mail.
The mail unit’s addressed volume in the Netherlands will
probably drop by a range of 8 percent to 10 percent this year,
due to substitution and competition, TNT said today.  “The years 2011 and 2012 will be the most concentrated
years of the restructuring, requiring substantial cash outflow
and investment,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Bakker said in
the statement. “Declining volumes will not be fully offset by
savings from this redesign in these years.”  TNT fell as much as 70 cents, or 3.4 percent, to 19.76
euros and traded at 19.97 euros as of 12:15 p.m. in Amsterdam,
valuing the company at 7.5 billion euros.  Snow, Strikes  “The trading outlook is still uncertain, but early on in
the year,” Andy Chu, a London-based Deutsche Bank AG analyst,
wrote in a note today. The forecast of 8 percent to 10 percent
still is a large decline, although explained by the impact of
the second year of full postal liberalization, he added.  Fourth-quarter underlying earnings before interest and
taxes at the mail division dropped 18 percent to 184 million
euros. Business in the three months ended Dec. 31 was hurt by
snowy weather and walkouts by postal workers before Christmas.  The express business,  Europe ’s second-largest after  Deutsche Post AG ’s DHL division, said Ebit on that basis rose
1.1 percent to 95 million euros. Express aims for full-year
underlying operating income of as much as 420 million euros and
sales of as much as 7.5 billion euros, TNT said.  TNT began internally dividing the express unit from the
postal business in April 2010. Bakker reiterated today that TNT
plans to establish two separate listed companies rather than
seek buyers for the express business.  ’On Schedule’  “Preparations for the separation are on schedule,” Bakker
told reporters today. “We expect to have the listings of the
two companies ready by the end of May, after the shareholders
meeting” on May 25.  The 430 million-euro savings target will be reached but
maybe a bit later than planned, the CEO said. “I can’t give you
an exact timeline on that.”  TNT proposed a dividend of 29 cents a share, bringing the
full-year pay-out to 57 cents. Mail’s dividend guidelines for
the next few years will include a pay-out of around 75 percent
of underlying net cash income, with a minimum of 150 million
euros a year, TNT said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  