-- 
Oi Plans to Slash Debt Doubted by Bondholders: Brazil Credit

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 
2011-02-21T02:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/oi-plan-to-slash-debt-doubted-by-bondholders-as-yields-rise-brazil-credit.html
  Tele Norte Leste Participacoes SA ,
the holding company that controls  Brazil ’s largest fixed-line
telephone service provider and the most-indebted
telecommunications operator in Latin America, says it will cut
obligations relative to earnings by 50 percent this year.
Bondholders aren’t convinced.  The company’s 5.5 percent bonds due in 2020 lost 2.4
percent in the past month, compared with an average 0.4 percent
drop for Brazilian companies included in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
CEMBI index. The yield rose to 6.02 percent on Feb. 10, the
highest level since Dec. 20 and up from 5.67 percent on Jan. 21.  Chief Financial Officer Alex Zornig said Tele Norte Leste,
operating under the Oi brand, plans to cut debt per earnings
before interest to less than 1.7 by the end of 2011. The company
will use some of the 11 billion reais ($6.6 billion) it aims to
receive from share sales to investors and  Portugal Telecom SGPS
SA  by March 31 to help pay or refinance 7 billion reais in debt
coming due, he said in an interview. Obligations total 3.8 times
Ebitda, the highest in the region for telecom companies valued
at $200 million or more, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The fact that they are receiving money doesn’t prove
they’re going to use that money well,” Vinicius Pasquarelli, an
emerging-market debt trader for Tradition Asiel Securities Inc.,
a unit of Lausanne, Switzerland-based inter-dealer broker
Compagnie Financiere Tradition SA, said in a telephone interview
from New York. “So that makes the risk of the credit very
tricky.”  Investment Grade  Foreign bonds sold by Latin American telecom companies
yielded an average 5.87 percent as of Feb. 17, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG. The Brazilian company’s yields compare
with the 4.33 percent rates on investment-grade telecom bonds in
the U.S. market, according to Bank of America Corp.  Bonds issued by Telemar group, which includes Tele Norte
Leste and  Telemar Norte Leste SA , carry investment grade ratings
from Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings.  Long-term borrowings of Rio de Janeiro-based Tele Norte
Leste almost tripled to 22.8 billion reais in the third quarter
of 2010 from the same period three years earlier, after the
company agreed to take over former rival Brasil Telecom SA in
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Debt is not a problem for Oi,” Zornig said in a phone
interview from  Sao Paulo  on Feb. 17. “We are going to either
roll it or pay it, whatever is cheaper for us and better for the
stockholders.”  Because Telemar bonds are widely traded, they lead gains
and declines in JPMorgan’s index, he said.    Cash Flow   Telemar shares rose 1 per cent to 50.60 reais in the past
month in Sao Paulo trading, while Tele Norte Leste increased 0.6
percent to 27 reais. The advances compare with a 4 per cent drop
in the benchmark Bovespa index.  S&P expects Telemar group debt to decrease over time, given
the company’s cash flow and cash-in-hand position, Marcelo
Schwarz, a ratings analyst, said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo Feb. 17. Oi’s cash flow was at 5.7 times the company’s net
income in the third quarter. Oi also had 9.5 billion reais in
cash and near cash items and short-term investments by the same
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In our scenario, we incorporate that the company will
continue to deleverage,” said Schwarz, who has a BBB- rating on
Telemar with a stable outlook.    Portugal  Telecom’s deal with Telemar is also a positive for
the company, Moody’s analysts Marcos Schmidt and Ricardo Kovacs
said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo Feb. 17.  ‘Comfortable Position’  “It brings in cash, puts the company in a comfortable
position,” Kovacs said. “Now the company needs to execute what
it announced it would do.”  Moody’s has a Baa3 rating with a stable outlook on Tele
Norte Leste and a rating one level higher at Baa2 for Telemar.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Brazilian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 1 basis point to 176 on
Feb. 18, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years fell 1 basis point to 115, according to CMA prices.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real dropped 0.1 percent to 1.6621 per  U.S. dollar .  The yield on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2012 was unchanged at 12.37 percent.  Acquisition  Portugal Telecom, based in Lisbon, agreed to buy at least
22 percent of Telemar Norte Leste on Jan. 26 for 8.32 billion
reais in cash, six months after selling its stake in  Vivo
Participacoes SA , the country’s largest wireless operator, to
Madrid-based Telefonica SA for 7.5 billion euros ($10.2 billion).  Oi, which provides  Internet access , mobile, fixed-line and
pay-television services, had a 19.4 percent share of the
country’s wireless market in December, while market leader Vivo
had 29.7 percent, according to Brazil’s telecommunications
regulator.  Brazil, Africa and Portugal are Portugal Telecom’s
strategic focuses,  Zeinal Bava , the Lisbon-based company’s chief
executive officer, told reporters Jan. 26. Portugal Telecom aims
to replicate the turnaround it performed in Portugal of its own
fixed-line business.  Telemar’s bonds at current prices may reflect investor
concerns that the process of reducing debt may take longer than
previously anticipated, said Luz Padilla, who helps manage about
$7.5 billion at asset manager Doubleline Capital LP in  Los
Angeles .  “I’m not rushing out there to buy them,” she said.
“They’re fair at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in  New York  at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  