-- 
Oil-Price Swings Double as Unrest Spreads Before Saudi Talks

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-02-21T17:11:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/oil-price-swings-double-on-middle-east-unrest-as-producers-meet-in-riyadh.html
Oil-price swings have doubled this
year as unrest spreads through the Middle East, source of one-
third of global crude supply, hampering producer and consumer
efforts to stabilize the world’s biggest commodity market.  As officials from more than 90 nations including Saudi
Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi and U.S. Deputy Energy
Secretary Daniel Poneman gather in  Riyadh  tomorrow to seek ways
of curbing fluctuations, oil’s 20-day historical volatility has
risen to 29.4, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was
at 12.6, an all-time low, at the end of December. U.S. futures
for April jumped as much as 4.5 percent today as violence spread
in Libya, holder of Africa’s biggest crude reserves.  Oil has risen to a two-year high, with Brent crude prices
in London exceeding $105 a barrel today, as the Middle East
turmoil stoked concern that shipments from the region may be
disrupted. Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi’s son warned yesterday
that a civil war would risk the country’s oil wealth as security
forces attacked protesters, killing more than 200, according to
New York-based  Human Rights Watch . Nations including Iran and
Bahrain are cracking down on opposition groups demanding change
amid upheaval that’s toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia.  “Prices gyrate wildly with each new headline,” said Mike Fitzpatrick, Energy Overview editor in New York, and a former
futures broker at MF Global. “If more moderate and friendly-to-
the-West governments like Jordan or Bahrain topple, $100 may not
be so ridiculous as it seemed only a few days ago.”  Libyan Oil Production  Shokri Ghanem, chairman of Libya’s National Oil Corp., said
he didn’t know if unrest sweeping the North African nation has
affected its crude output. “Until now, we don’t have any
information,” he said in a brief telephone interview from the
country’s capital, Tripoli. An official at Milan-based Eni SpA,
the biggest foreign producer in Libya, said today that
operations in the country were normal.  Libya  pumps 1.59 million
barrels a day, according to Bloomberg estimates, the biggest
North African producer to experience mass protests so far.  In response to rising prices, OPEC is already pumping the
most oil since agreeing to production cuts in December 2008.
U.S. inventories are 6.4 percent higher than their five-year
average, storing up the possibility of a price plunge once the
winter-demand period ends.  Riyadh Meeting  Representatives meeting in the Saudi capital tomorrow will
include producers in the 12-nation Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, the 28 consuming countries of the
International Energy Agency, as well as  China ,  India  and  Brazil .
The  International Energy Forum meeting  will approve a charter
aimed at finding mechanisms to stabilize energy markets and
improve the collection and publication of supply, demand and
price data.  “We are not addressing prices at our meeting, we are
discussing volatility in the market,” Prince Abdulaziz bin
Salman,  Saudi Arabia ’s Assistant Minister of Petroleum Affairs, 
told reporters at a press conference in Riyadh.  So far 87 out of 95 countries have agreed to sign up to the
charter which is not a legally binding international treaty but
a politically enforced agreement between all countries signing
the treaty.  “The signing of the new  charter  comes at the right time and
place in conditions that witness some fluctuation in energy
markets,” al-Naimi said in a Feb. 18 statement e-mailed by the
Saudi Ministry of Petroleum and  Mineral Resources .  OPEC’s next policy-setting meeting is scheduled for early
June, in Vienna. The group has ignored output quotas as prices
have soared, pumping about 2 million barrels a day, or 8
percent, more than the official limit for 11 of its members.  Oil Surges  Crude for April delivery advanced as much as $4.76 to
$94.47 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange while April Brent on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe surged as much as 2.6 percent to $105.15, the highest for
a contract closest to expiration since Sept. 22, 2008.  The Paris-based IEA raised its forecast for 2011 global oil
demand for a fifth straight month in a Feb. 10 report, as
consumption recovers from the recession.  “The current wave of geopolitical uncertainty is affecting
both expectations of potential volatility in immediate oil flows
and the longer-term implications of a more uncertain investment
climate,” said  Paul Horsnell , London-based head of commodities
research at  Barclays Capital .  Price swings are also likely to be in focus at the
 International Petroleum Week  conference in  London  this week,
attended by oil traders and brokers from companies such as BP
Plc, ICAP Plc, Vitol Group and state-run Saudi Aramco.  London’s IP Week  The mood in London will probably be “positive,” with “a
lot of talk of OPEC capacity and the Middle East violence” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , a London-based analyst at VTB Capital.  Exporters are concerned there may still be a drop in prices
amid rising U.S. inventories and the onset of spring in the
northern hemisphere, when fuel consumption typically ebbs.  “The lesson is that until the market is confident that
risks have subsided, volatility will remain high,”  Lawrence Eagles , head of commodities research at JPMorgan & Chase Co.,
said in a note. “To this extent, the market is happy to absorb
the extra barrels that are coming from OPEC, despite the
beginning of seasonally lower demand for crude and heating
fuels.”  The widening discount of U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude
to North Sea Brent crude will be another “key theme” in
discussions in London, Horsnell said. “It is likely to be
difficult to get too far away from the gyrations in WTI prices,
and the severe stress that the Midwest oil market is under.”  WTI crude traded as much as $16 a barrel less than Brent
last week, comparing April contracts for both grades, as the
U.S. futures benchmark remained under pressure from a supply
glut at its delivery point in Cushing, Oklahoma.  The 20-day historic volatility index measures how much
crude fluctuates around its average price during that period.
OPEC’s 12 members are Algeria,  Angola , Ecuador,  Iran ,  Iraq ,  Kuwait , Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net 
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  