-- 
Oman Makes ‘Material’ Oil Discovery at Amal Southeast Site

-- B y   S y e d   F .   H a q u e   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-02-21T12:31:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/oman-makes-material-oil-discovery-at-amal-southeast-site-1-.html
Petroleum Development Oman , the
largest producer in the Persian Gulf country, announced a
“material” discovery of oil holding some 300 million barrels
as the nation seeks to boost output of crude and natural gas.  Production at the site called Amal Southeast will start
this year, Raoul Restucci, managing director of state-controlled
PDO, said at a news conference today in the Omani capital,
Muscat. Amal Southeast is near the existing Amal East onshore
field in southeastern Oman.  PDO made three additional oil finds, at Sayyah, Al Ghubar
East and Aqeeq in the country’s central region, Restucci said.
Aqeeq will be ready to produce this year, while two wells at
Sayyah are producing at a combined rate of more than 350 barrels
a day, he said.    Oman , the largest Arab oil producer that’s not a member of
OPEC, plans to pump 1 million barrels of oil a day within the
next five years, the country’s Oil Minister Mohammed Bin Hamed al-Rumhy said in November. National oil output rose 6.4 percent
last year to an average of 864,600 barrels a day, according to
the country’s Economy Ministry.  Restucci said PDO is committed to a long-term production
target of 550,000 barrels a day and plans to drill and test
about 140  oil wells  from 2011 through 2015.  “Over the next five years, PDO believes that there is
continued scope for some growth in total hydrocarbons
production, which by 2014 is expected to total 1.2 million
barrels of oil equivalent,” he said.  Shell, Total, Partex  The Sultanate of Oman is PDO’s largest shareholder with a
60 percent stake.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  owns 34 percent,  Total
SA  holds 4 percent and Partex has 2 percent. International
companies BP Plc and Occidental Petroleum Corp. are also
exploring for oil in the country.  Restucci said PDO has discovered an additional quantity of
gas at a site in northern Oman called Khulud West, though tests
are necessary before the company will know if the new volumes
are commercially viable.  PDO’s efforts to find new gas are focused on deep, tight
deposits. The venture plans to drill and test up to 30 tight-gas
wells in northern Oman alone over the next four years, he said.
PDO accounts for nearly all of Oman’s natural-gas output.  The country produced 91.1 million cubic meters of gas last
year, up 7 percent from 2009, said Ministry of Oil and Gas
Undersecretary Nasser Bin Khamis Al Jashmi. He said in an
interview today that he expected Oman’s gas production to
increase by 5 percent to 7 percent annually in coming years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faizul Haque in Dubai at 
 fhaque5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at  adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 