-- 
London May Be Losing `Economic Edge' to Edinburgh, Belfast, Report Finds

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/london-may-be-losing-edge-to-edinburgh-belfast-report-says.html
  London  may be losing its “economic
edge” to regional U.K. capitals such as Edinburgh and Belfast
as the impact of the global credit crisis weighs on the city,
according to accountancy group  UHY Hacker Young .  Measured by Gross Value Added, a gauge of a region’s
contribution to the U.K. economy, London contributed 538 pounds
($873) more per head of population than Edinburgh in the year to
Jan. 1, 2009, the latest comparative figures available,
according to the group. The gap narrowed by 32% percent from 708
pounds per head the previous year. Edinburgh contributed 34,652
pounds per head in the period, putting it second behind London.  “With the major restructuring that banks and financial
services companies went through following the credit crunch
crisis, London’s firepower has been weakened,” Marc Waterman, a
partner at UHY Hacker Young, said in the group’s report today.
“The fact that there is less focus on  investment banking  in
Edinburgh also spared it from the biggest blow.”  Should the trend continue Edinburgh will equal London’s
contribution by 2012, according to UHY Hacker Young. Belfast’s
GVA grew 4.4 percent to 32,264 pounds in the period, putting it
in third place out of 40 U.K. cities.  Belfast’s growth may be hampered by the impact of the worst
recession in the Republic of Ireland’s modern history, which has
left the country needing an 85 billion-euro aid package as it
struggles with the cost of rescuing its financial system and
narrowing a  budget deficit .  “Cross border trade with the Republic of Ireland is
important to the Northern Ireland economy,” Waterman said.
“Businesses in  Belfast  will be worried.”  Aberdeen, seventh in the list of 40 cities, was the only
top 10 city where Gross Value Added grew faster in the year to
Jan. 1, 2009, than in the previous year, as rising energy prices
boosted the city, the center of the U.K.’s oil and gas industry,
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  