-- 
London `Super-Prime' Home Prices to Rise as Much as 10%, Knight Frank Says

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-02-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/london-super-prime-home-prices-to-rise-as-much-as-10-knight-frank-says.html
Prices for  London ’s most-expensive
homes probably will rise as much as 10 percent this year as
overseas buyers compete for a limited number of available
“super-prime” properties,  Knight Frank  LLP said.  Prices of apartments and houses costing more than 10
million pounds ($16 million), most of which are near Hyde Park,
rose about 8 percent last year, the London-based real estate
adviser said today in an e-mailed report.  “There have been a number of very significant sales in the
first few weeks of the year, which point to the depth of wealth
which is looking to buy into the top end of the London market,”
Knight Frank said in the  report . Buyers from 50 different
countries bought homes through the brokerage last year, up from
about 30 in 2008, it said.  London’s super-prime market is attracting international
investors seeking to protect their wealth from financial or
political volatility at home, Knight Frank said. Buyers from  Russia  and other former Soviet republics will boost their share
of the market from 14 percent last year, the firm’s brokers
predict. Chinese and Indian buyers also are likely to increase
their ownership proportion, while instability in the Middle East
probably will build demand from that region, Knight Frank said.  “With inflation rising in  Asia , the desire to add tangible
assets to wealth portfolios is proving itself to be a key driver
of demand,” according to the report.  The financial crisis made it harder for luxury-home
developers to finance projects, limiting the number of new high-
end residences for sale.  Candy Brothers  Six apartments at  One Hyde Park , the luxury-condominium
complex in Knightsbridge that opened last month, sold late last
year at record average prices of 6,000 pounds a square foot,
according to Nick Candy, who oversaw the project with his
brother Christian. He wouldn’t give their size.  London’s status as the world’s most desirable residential
market may be eroded by the “popular backlash against wealth,”
which has helped lead the government to raise taxes for the most
affluent,  Liam Bailey , Knight Frank’s head of residential
research, said in the report.  Increased competition from such Asian cities as  Hong Kong 
and  Singapore  also may undermine London’s position as the top
global financial center, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 