-- 
Hong Kong's Tsang May Boost Budget Handouts to Give Relief From Inflation

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-02-22T05:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/hong-kong-s-tsang-may-boost-budget-handouts-to-give-relief-from-inflation.html
  Hong Kong  Financial Secretary John Tsang may expand handouts and increase land supply in tomorrow’s
budget after rising inflation and real-estate prices spurred
lawmakers to demand relief measures.  Tsang may announce HK$25 billion ($3.2 billion) of
giveaways, including electricity subsidies, for the year
starting April 1, compared with HK$20.4 billion in the previous
12 months, according to Ernst & Young LLP. The economy probably
grew an annual 5.5 percent in the fourth quarter, according to
the median estimate of 13 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Hong Kong would join Singapore in increasing benefits to
its citizens as accelerating inflation in  Asia  threatens to
erode purchasing power. Hong Kong’s property prices have
advanced more than 60 percent since the start of 2009, and
inflation may quicken to 3.7 percent this year, the fastest
since 2008, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “We are seeing increasing inflationary pressure that will
impact the lives of low-income earners and the middle-class,”
said Jennifer Wong, a Hong Kong-based tax partner at KPMG Tax
Ltd. “We have got better-than-expected revenue from land sales
and stamp duties because of the booming property and stock
markets. Why couldn’t we give out some to help?”  Chief Executive Donald Tsang said  last month  that Hong Kong
is “on guard against” inflation. His government, which Hang
Seng Bank Ltd. says has a record HK$579.3 billion in fiscal
reserves, may adopt measures to help the poor. Consumer prices
climbed at a 3.1 percent annual pace in December, the fastest in
23 months.  Property Curbs  The government may raise the cap on a salary-tax rebate to
HK$8,000 from HK$6,000, and give one-off allowances for the
elderly and the poor, according to KPMG.  Radio Television Hong
Kong  on Feb. 21 reported that the city will increase land supply
by auctioning at least 10 sites, and the  Hong Kong Economic
Times  said Feb. 18 the government plans to hold land auctions
almost once a month.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks the city’s seven
biggest builders including  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd . and  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., has declined 9.5 percent since the
government announced sales taxes and increased deposits for
mortgages in November.  Financial Secretary Tsang has said he may introduce more
property measures if needed.  Home prices  gained 2.1 percent in
the week ended Feb. 13 from the previous seven days, according
to Centaline Property Agency Ltd, the city’s largest closely
held real-estate broker.  Tightening Measures  “Protracted housing-price inflation, despite a slew of
heavy-handed tightening in November, means that more policy
actions can be expected,” said Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Daiwa Capital Markets.  The city is the world’s most expensive place to buy a home,
because of a supply shortage, according to a study released by
Savills Plc. last month.  Hong Kong is benefiting from growth in China, which last
year overtook Japan to become the world’s second-biggest economy.
Visitor arrivals from  China  jumped 26 percent last year to 22.7
million, helping retailers including  Chow Sang Sang Holdings
International Ltd . and Sa Sa International Holdings Ltd. sell
more jewelry and cosmetics.  While inflation is fueling concerns, Hong Kong households
are benefiting from an improved labor market. The jobless rate
was 3.8 percent in the three months ended January, a more than
two-year low.  Fiscal Surplus  Hong Kong’s fiscal surplus will rise to at least HK$60
billion in the 12 months through March this year, from HK$25.9
billion the previous fiscal year, KPMG said. Reserves may climb
to HK$598 billion by March, or 34 percent of gross domestic
product, according to Daiwa.  “The government is just holding on to its money and won’t
spend on the residents,” Lee Cheuk-yan told his fellow
lawmakers  last month . “Now in Hong Kong the officials are rich,
whereas residents are poor.”    Singapore  last week said it will spend S$6.6 billion ($5.2
billion) on benefits including tax cuts and rebates as the
government prepares to face elections within the next year.  Hong Kong is unlikely to cut tax rates for individuals and
companies, said Joseph Lau, an economist at Societe Generale SA
in Hong Kong.  “They are still very cautious because of the narrowness
and the volatility of the Hong Kong’s fiscal tax base.” he said.  -- With assistance from Michael Munoz. Editors: Tan Hwee Ann,
Paul Panckhurst  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  