-- 
OPEC Ministers May Comment on Supply This Week: Persian Gulf Oil

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-02-21T08:54:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/opec-ministers-may-comment-on-supply-this-week-persian-gulf-oil.html
OPEC is ready to raise crude supply
in line with demand, the  United Arab Emirates ’ oil minister said
ahead of a meeting of oil producers and consumers in Saudi
Arabia this week. Ministers from OPEC member countries will have
an opportunity to speak during an International Energy Forum
gathering in the Saudi capital,  Riyadh .  Kuwait followed Saudi Arabia in cutting crude prices to
Asia, as Middle Eastern producers pulled back from their highest
pricing levels in more than a year. Both Kuwait and  Abu Dhabi 
negotiated annual naphtha contracts with buyers last week.  The following is a weekly summary of Persian Gulf crude and
product market news and forthcoming events:    Crude Oil   Oil supply is sufficient and demand for crude is set to
grow gradually, U.A.E. Oil Minister Mohamed al-Hamli told
reporters in Abu Dhabi last week. Producers in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries are monitoring crude prices
because they don’t want rising costs to destroy demand, he said.  OPEC may boost supply as demand for oil rises along with a
recovery in global economic growth, al-Hamli said, echoing
comments last month by  Saudi Arabia ’s Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi.
Prices have risen in reaction to events such as the uprising in  Egypt  that led President  Hosni Mubarak  to step down after three
decades in power, al-Hamli said. He added that he sees a
“decoupling” of prices for Brent and U.S. benchmark West Texas
Intermediate.    Brent crude , a standard for Europe and  Africa , exceeded
$100 last month and has climbed 1.5 percent so far this month to
close at $102.52 a barrel Feb. 18. Brent continued to gain as
protests spread to oil-producing states such as Bahrain and  Libya  and intensified in Yemen. WTI for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  ended at $86.20 a barrel Feb. 18.  Kuwait Petroleum Corp. cut its official selling price
differential for March shipments of crude to  Asia  to a discount
of $1.35 a barrel below the average of the Oman and Dubai oil
benchmarks as assessed by pricing service Platts. The discount
for March cargoes widened by 10 cents a barrel from February.  Qatar International Petroleum Marketing Co. sold 2.4
million barrels of Al-Shaheen grade crude for loading in April
to Exxon Mobil Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Reliance
Industries Ltd., said three traders who participate in the
market. The state-run marketer known as Tasweeq will sell the
crude in four cargoes of 600,000 barrels each for a premium of
20 cents to 30 cents a barrel over the Dubai crude benchmark
published by Platts.  Light Products    Kuwait  Petroleum Corp. agreed to sell naphtha at a premium
of $18.50 a ton over regional benchmark prices for delivery from
April through March of next year, people familiar with the
negotiations said. The state-run oil-marketing company lowered
its offer from the original price of a $22 premium in talks that
took place in  Singapore  last week.  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co., the state-run producer based in
the U.A.E. capital, lowered prices of naphtha to buyers for
delivery from April through March of 2012, according to four
people with knowledge of the negotiations. The company is
offering its Splitter naphtha at a premium of $17.50 a ton to
Middle East prices, down from $19 on Feb. 14, the people said,
declining to be identified because the discussions are
confidential.  Adnoc cut its premium for Low-Sulfur grade naphtha to
$18.50 a ton from $20 and dropped price for Pentane-Plus naphtha
to $20 a ton from $21.  Refineries  State-owned Bahrain Petroleum Co. started a partial
maintenance shutdown of units at its 267,000 barrel-a-day
refinery. Operations at the facility and the maintenance there,
planned from Feb. 16 until early April, haven’t been affected by
anti-government protests in Bahrain, said an official at Bapco,
as the refiner is known. Bapco has shut a hydrocracker at the
refinery for servicing, the officials said Feb. 20.  Kuwait plans a full closure of its 200,000 barrel-a-day
Shuaiba refinery for 45 days starting April 3, Mohammed Al-Ajmi,
spokesman for the state-run refinery operator Kuwait National
Petroleum Co., said Feb. 15. Shuaiba is the oldest and smallest
of Kuwait’s three refineries.    Saudi Aramco  plans to start operating a new diesel-fuel
unit at its Ras Tanura refinery this month, two people with
knowledge of the project said. The hydrotreater will produce
low-sulfur diesel, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the plans haven’t been made public. Samsung
Engineering Co. won a contract in Dec. 2007 to build the 100,000
barrel-a-day unit.  The Saudi company also started a maintenance shutdown of a
unit that produces gasoline components at its 60,000 barrel-a-
day refinery in Jeddah, a person with knowledge of the plan
said. Aramco was set to close this platformer unit for about
three weeks starting Jan. 29, said the person, who asked not to
be identified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 