-- 
Osborne Says U.K. Inflation `Temporary,' Supporting Bank of England's King

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-02-21T08:39:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/osborne-says-u-k-inflation-temporary-supporting-bank-of-england-s-king.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the  Bank of England  is right to support the U.K.’s
economic recovery by looking beyond quicker inflation to
maintain interest rates at a record low.  The Treasury’s effort to reduce the deficit in part by
increasing value-added tax has added to consumer prices and the
central bank should focus on  price stability  further in the
future, Osborne said.  The bank last week said inflation, already at a two-year
high of 4 percent, will quicken further to about 4.4 percent
before easing by the middle of 2012.  “Any monetary authority and, certainly one with the
competence and capability of the Bank of England, can see
through temporary increases in  price levels  and look to
permanent threats,” Osborne told reporters in Paris yesterday
following talks with Group of 20 finance ministers.  Osborne’s words add to the erosion of decade-old
conventions of U.K. economic policymaking in which finance
ministers refrained from commenting on interest rates and
central bankers have held back from commenting on fiscal policy.
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  last week was attacked by
the opposition  Labour Party  for endorsing Osborne’s deficit-
reduction plan.  Inflation  The pound retreated from an almost three-week high against
the dollar today, falling 0.2 percent to $1.6229 as of 8:37 a.m.
in London. It reached $1.6263 at the end of last week, the most
since Feb. 3.  Osborne said the bank’s remit, which is to keep inflation
at 2 percent without undermining growth and jobs, is the right
one and that he’s not thinking of changing it.  “The remit is the correct one and I have got absolutely no
plans or thoughts about changing it,” Osborne said. “I am
happy with the approach that they are taking and I trust the
judgment of the Monetary Policy Committee.”  King last week said investors are “running ahead of
themselves” by suggesting the bank is preparing to raise its
interest rate. Instead, policy makers may need to keep borrowing
costs at a record low to aid a recovery that is “unlikely to be
smooth.”  Pressure on King  Osborne and Prime Minister  David Cameron  say they are
relying on King’s monetary policy to support growth as the
biggest squeeze on  government spending  since World War II
eliminates 330,000 jobs, exacerbating unemployment. That puts
pressure on King to restrain efforts by some members of the
bank’s MPC to boost borrowing rates.  Osborne attacked the Labour Party Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , for being “a little immature” in his attack on King.  Balls, in an interview with the Financial Times published
Feb. 17, said that King should avoid being “drawn into the
political arena” and associating himself “too closely” with
the government’s “extreme” deficit-reduction plans.  “It’s a little immature frankly,” Osborne said in Paris.
“What Ed Balls needs to come to terms with is the fact that he
is isolated on this issue of the British deficit.”  Bank of England policy maker  Adam Posen  said in November he
was “uncomfortable” with the bank’s support last year for the
government’s deficit plan. Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman said last week that King has “stepped way over the
line” by being a “cheerleader” for the program.  King said on May 12, a day after Cameron’s Conservatives
formed a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, that he was
“very pleased” with the new government’s budget proposals.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  