-- 
Papandreou Urges Merkel to Support Buybacks of Debt, Flexible Bailout Fund

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-02-22T13:50:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/papandreou-urges-merkel-to-support-debt-buybacks-flexible-fund.html
Prime Minister George Papandreou
challenged  Chancellor Angela Merkel  to ease Greece’s lending
terms, saying the European Union needs all available tools to
fight the sovereign debt crisis.  Papandreou, who is due to meet with Merkel in Berlin later
today, said that EU leaders working to finish a comprehensive
plan to stem the crisis by late March must consider changes to
the 440 billion-euro ($602 billion) rescue fund to allow Greece
to buy back debt and pay lower  interest rates .  “Buybacks and so on should be allowed on the table,” he
told an audience at Berlin’s Humboldt University late yesterday.
“This is what I mean when I say we should have all the tools.
We should as  Europe  give ourselves the powers needed to deal
with this debt crisis. That will calm the markets.”  Papandreou’s plea before two EU crisis summits next month
clashes with Merkel’s insistence that European governments take
steps to increase the region’s competitiveness before Germany
allows any boost in rescue efforts.  Germany ’s central bank said
yesterday that it opposes giving the rescue fund or its
successor from 2013 powers to buy  government bonds  in the
secondary market. Merkel and Papandreou are due to hold a news
conference at 7 p.m. Berlin time.  Bonds in high-deficit euro countries fell today. The
difference in yield, or spread, investors demand to hold 10-year
Greek, Spanish and Portuguese debt over similar German bonds
widened as unrest in  Libya  spurred demand for the safety of
bunds. The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.3668 at 2:20 p.m. in
Berlin.  ‘Service Its Debt’  “I see a general opinion now that Greece will not be able
to service its debt,” Hans-Werner Sinn, head of Germany’s Ifo
research institute, told reporters in Brussels today.  Greece  is
likely to be forced to restructure its debt because other
options for overcoming the crisis aren’t feasible, he said.  High-debt euro countries are stepping up pressure for
easier aid terms, underscoring Europe’s split. Ireland, the
second country to need a bailout after Greece, is also calling
for a lower markup on loan rates. Portuguese Finance Minister
Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said Feb. 15 the bailout fund
should be allowed to buy government bonds and offer different
types of loans.  While Germany has indicated it may consider lower rates in
return for a commitment across the euro region to tackle debt
and boost competitiveness, fellow governments have so far
blocked that German attempt to mold the EU in its image.  Portuguese Mission  As Papandreou made the rounds of German government and
opposition politicians in Berlin today, European officials were
due in Lisbon to assess  Portugal ’s budget and the strength of
its financial industry, Jornal de Negocios newspaper reported,
citing an unidentified person in the  Finance Ministry .  Greece’s debts are likely to be more than 156 percent of
gross domestic product when a 110 billion-euro EU-led aid
package runs out in 2013, according to EU forecasts. Greece pays
about 5 percent for European aid.  The EU “needs to strengthen” financial support for
nations such as Greece and Ireland as growth in most EU
economies gathers pace, European Central Bank Executive Board
member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in a speech in  Hong Kong .  Papandreou last night urged EU leaders to consider lower
interest rates on bailout loans as they discuss possible changes
in the rescue fund, known as the European Financial Stability
Facility, and the shape of the permanent system to stabilize the
euro after 2013, the European Stability Mechanism.  ‘Painful’ Cost  “If a country has been negligent, there could be an extra
cost,” he said. “That cost has to be painful, but not so much
that it derails the economy of that country. This is the type of
mechanism we should look at in the ESM and the EFSF.”  While it’s understandable that Germans “don’t want to
create incentives for other countries to spend too much,” they
must help put Greece in a “viable” situation, Papandreou said.
“That is what we are working on with  Angela Merkel .”  Merkel’s challenge is to balance Germans’ dissatisfaction
with bailouts for Greece and Ireland with her pledge to defend
the euro while fighting elections in seven of 16 states this
year. Support for her Christian Democrats plunged two days ago
in Hamburg, the first ballot of 2011. EU leaders will meet in
Brussels March 24-25 to decide on a comprehensive plan for
ending Europe’s debt crisis.  Greece is prepared to go through hard times to reduce the
country’s debt load, though it won’t sell state-owned islands to
do so, Papandreou said. His Berlin speech was interrupted on
several occasions by student protesters who jeered and chanted
slogans in Greek.  “We are ready to take this pain and make these changes for
the better of our country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  