-- 
Parkson to Accelerate Expansion in China as Consumption Rises

-- B y   W e n d y   L e u n g
-- 
2011-02-21T13:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/parkson-to-accelerate-expansion-in-china-as-consumption-rises.html
  Parkson Retail Group Ltd ., the
Beijing-based department-store chain controlled by Malaysia’s
Lion Group, will accelerate its expansion in China in the next
three years.  The company will open 8 to 9 stores a year through 2013,
after opening 5 last year, Managing Director Alfred Cheng told
reporters in Hong Kong today. The retailer said 2010 net income
jumped 9 percent to 992 million yuan ($151 million), compared
with the 1.07 billion yuan average of 13 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Parkson is opening more stores in China as spending on
clothes, cosmetics and home appliances surges. The number of
middle-income and affluent consumers in the nation, which
overtook Japan as the second-biggest economy in 2010, could
almost triple over the next 10 years, according to Boston
Consulting Group Inc.  The company will spend as much as 500 million yuan this
year on new stores and remodeling existing outlets, Cheng said.
It invested 300 million yuan on expansion last year.  “Of course the store opening program will bring short-term
pain,” Cheng said. “But we believe that in the longer term,
the strategy is correct.”  The company’s  China  expansion will “rejuvenate” its
stores and sustain earnings growth in the medium term although
startup costs will be a “drag,” Mabel Wong, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a research report Feb. 14.  Inflation ‘Issue’  The Hong Kong-listed company, founded in 1987, has 47 self-
owned and managed stores in 30 Chinese cities selling clothes,
cosmetics, accessories, groceries, and household and electrical
goods.  China’s inflation accelerated to 4.9 percent in January
from a year earlier as prices excluding food rose the most in at
least six years. There will be “an issue” for the company if
prices continue to go up, Cheng said.  Parkson’s sales rose 10 percent to 3.82 billion yuan last
year, the retailer said in a statement to  Hong Kong ’s stock
exchange today. Same-store sales, a measure that strips out the
effect of recently opened outlets, climbed 11 percent from a
year earlier.  Same-store sales growth this year is likely to remain at a
similar level to last year, Chief Financial Officer Clarence Wong said.  Parkson fell 1.3 percent to HK$11.96 in Hong Kong trading
after the earnings were released. The stock has declined 0.2
percent this year compared with a 2 percent gain in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The retailer agreed in November to borrow $250 million to
prepay bonds due in 2012 and for working capital, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company has no further financing
plan at the moment, Wong said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Leung in Hong Kong at 
 wleung12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  