-- 
Spanish Bonds Becoming More Attractive, Pimco’s Bosomworth Says

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 
2011-02-21T11:33:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/pimco-s-bosomworth-says-spain-is-certainly-getting-better-.html
Spanish bonds are “certainly
getting better” as a potential investment, according to Andrew Bosomworth, a money manager at Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Real economic progress and healing is starting to take
place” in  Spain , Bosomworth said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua . Pimco manages
the world’s largest bond fund.  Spain is stepping up efforts to convince investors it can
shore up its struggling savings banks without overburdening
public finances and avoid following Greece and Ireland in
seeking an international rescue. The yield difference, or
spread, investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish debt instead of
its German counterpart has narrowed 33 basis points this year
from the euro-era record of 298 basis points on Nov. 30.  Bosomworth said bonds from Spain may be becoming a better
investment than those from Greece and Ireland, and may also post
better returns than higher-rated securities given the potential
future burdens on German finances from bailouts to stem the
region’s debt crisis.  “For the core countries that are going to be writing that
big check, the implication is you don’t necessarily want to be
located in there,” said Bosomworth, who is based in Munich.
“They may be transferring more of their resources to support
the periphery. At the very other extreme of the periphery, you
still have that restructuring risk. I don’t think you want to be
there.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s  Christian Democratic
Union  lost power to the Social Democrats in the city-state of
Hamburg in an election last weekend. The loss may weaken
Merkel’s position as she negotiates a comprehensive plan to
contain the euro-region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Merkel and her coalition partners have opposed issuing
joint euro-region bonds, an idea proposed by proposed by some
European Union leaders including Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-
Claude Juncker. The SPD has supported issuing such debt.  The Hamburg vote “could have some European implications
for the way the crisis is going to be solved,” said Bosomworth.
Given the SPD is “pro-Eurobonds, it is going to lead to
compromises that will ultimately lead to  Germany  writing a
bigger check.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  