-- 
Pound Falls Versus Dollar, Gilts Rise as Libyan Turmoil Stokes Safety Bid

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-02-21T16:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/pound-retreats-from-three-week-high-against-dollar-house-prices-advance.html
The pound fell from a three-week
high against the dollar and gilts advanced as escalating
political unrest in the Middle East crimped demand for all but
the safest assets.  Sterling also slid against the Canadian dollar and the
Japanese yen as Brent crude oil topped $105 a barrel for the
first time since 2008. Libyan forces attacked anti-government
protesters overnight in Tripoli, drawing condemnation from the
U.S. and  Europe . The pound erased losses versus the euro after
Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said a small increase
to the key interest rate may prevent a more rapid tightening
later, according to a BBC Radio 4 interview broadcast today.  “Risk sentiment has softened, and that’s putting a cap on
the pound,” said Chris Walker, a foreign-exchange strategist at
UBS AG in London. “The market is in a generally concerned
state, especially with  oil prices  where they are.”  The pound was 0.2 percent lower at $1.6221 as of 4:06 p.m.
in London after reaching $1.6263 at the end of last week, the
highest level since Feb. 3. The British currency was little
changed at 84.25 pence per euro after depreciating to 84.45
pence earlier.  Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s son said the country may
face a civil war that would cripple the nation’s oil output. The
unrest followed clashes between government forces and
demonstrators in Bahrain, Yemen and Djibouti, uprisings sparked
by protests that toppled the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .  Yields Drop  Ten-year gilt yields declined to the lowest since Feb. 2.
The yield on the 4.75 percent security due March 2020 declined
seven basis points to 3.74 percent. The bond rose 0.55, or 5.5
pounds per 1,000-pound ($1,622) face amount, to 107.72. Two-year
yields fell less-than three basis points to 1.50 percent.  The pound is up almost 4 percent against the dollar this
year, while gilt yields have climbed amid mounting speculation
the  Bank of England  will be forced to raise rates to contain
inflation. Minutes from the central bank’s Feb. 10 meeting, when
it kept its benchmark rate unchanged at a record low 0.5
percent, will be released in two days.  “The outlook for the pound remains driven by interest-rate
expectations,” said Walker at UBS. “The release of the minutes
will be the main driver for the pound this week,” outweighing
news from the Middle East, he said.  Rate Speculation  Money markets signal the Monetary Policy Committee may
boost the key rate by more than 75 basis points by year-end,
according to the Sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia,
Tullett Prebon Plc data shows.  The implied yield on the December short-sterling futures
contract fell two basis points to 1.73 percent, indicating
traders reduced bets that borrowing costs in the U.K. will rise.
The yield was at 1.25 percent on Dec. 31.  “There’s a reasonable prospect of at least one more MPC
member shifting camps to join the hawks,” said Michael Derks,
chief strategist at FxPro Financial in  London . “The pound will
remain one of the better performing major currencies over the
course of the year, mainly from an interest-rate differential
perspective. It’s entirely plausible that we get a rate hike at
one of the next two MPC meetings.”  Policy makers have been split three ways since October,
with  Adam Posen  calling for an expansion of the bank’s bond-
purchase plan and Andrew Sentance voting to raise the key rate
25 basis points to 0.75 percent. Sentance was joined by Weale at
the central bank’s Jan. 13 rate decision.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said the Bank of
England is right to support the recovery by looking beyond
quicker inflation to maintain rates at a record low. “Any
monetary authority and, certainly one with the competence and
capability of the Bank of England, can see through temporary
increases in  price levels  and look to permanent threats,”
Osborne told reporters in Paris yesterday following talks with
Group of 20 finance ministers.  Gilts have lost 2.5 percent this year, compared with a 1.8
percent drop for German bunds, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. U.S. Treasuries fell 0.9 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  