-- 
Qaddafi's Son Says Protesters Must Chose Dialogue or Bloodshed in Speech

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   R i a d   H a m a d e
-- 
2011-02-21T05:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/qaddafi-s-son-says-protesters-must-chose-dialogue-or-bloodshed.html
Following are excerpts of the speech
given by Saif al-Islam Qaddafi, the son of Libyan leader  Muammar
Qaddafi , on state television.  "The region is experiencing an earthquake, a storm. This
part of the world must undoubtedly go through big changes,
coming from the people."  "We know there is opposition outside  Libya , who have copied
what happened elsewhere, what is called the Facebook
revolution."  Libyan security forces "preemptively" arrested some of the
organizers before Feb. 17, he said . Marches turned into
clashes, he said. "Shots were fired. Some people died," then
police stations and an army camp in Benghazi were targeted.  "People were attempting to break into these places. Police
and the army were defending" these locations. "There was a
mistake by the army."  "There were mistakes committed by both sides. The army
isn’t prepared nor ready to face angry people descending on its
headquarters. They were defending their headquarters and their
ammunition."  "People also had the right because they were upset and
angry because there were dead people." He said the media
exaggerated casualty figures, citing  Al Arabiya ,  Al Jazeera  and  BBC  in particular.  Things have developed into "a separatist movement."  "There are groups who want to establish a state in east
Libya and they want to rule." He said there were Islamic groups
in eastern town of Al Bayda who attacked army camps, killed
troops, "committed massacres," stole weapons and "announced the
establishment of a so-called Islamic emirate." Other forces at
play, he said, included "thugs" and criminals who fled prisons
who have an interest in chaos. He said security forces have
arrested dozens of Arabs and Africans who were instigating the
unrest.  "There is a conspiracy against Libya. Foreigners have been
involved in the unrest."  He said the protesters also included civil associations,
unions, who have certain demands, with which he had no problem,
and kids and other people who joined for a variety of reasons,
such as curiosity and excitement.  "Libya is not Tunisia and  Egypt . Libya has oil that has
united Libya."  "This oil will be burnt. Thugs, criminals, gangs and tribes
will burn it." He said drunk civilians were driving tanks in
Benghazi.  "How are you going to eat?"  "What could happen to Libya is very dangerous. Tomorrow
your children will not go to schools. There won’t be
universities. We won’t find flour to eat."  "If Libya were to splinter, the different parts won’t be
able to agree on sharing the oil, which will cause bloodshed."  "If Libya splinters, it may turn into a number of small
states. Libya is not a society of party politics, but a society
of clans and tribes."  He said in Libya everyone is armed and that after the
attacks in the east, even the thugs have machine guns and tanks.
"The force which wants to destroy Libya has weapons."  "Today we are at a crossroads."  "We either say we’re Libyans, we want reform, real
democracy" or "instead of weeping over 84 dead people, we will
weep over hundreds of thousands of dead. Rivers of blood will
flow."  "Oil will stop. Foreign companies will leave Libya
tomorrow."  Before sliding into civil war and chaos, "I say tomorrow we
undertake a historic initiative."  "The historic initiative includes the start of talks and a
national dialogue on a Libyan constitution, which is something
that had been agreed on already."  "The historic initiative also includes a return to local
governance to Libya. Instead of separation, Libya returns to
local governance -- call it governorates, call it provinces. The
system of local governance has to return, including the
municipalities."  "Furthermore, the initiative includes continuing the
development plan and to continue spending the 200 billion set
aside for projects being implemented across Libya and the urgent
measures undertaken by the general popular committee, including:
increasing wages, raising  unemployment benefits , expanding on
giving out loans to young people and the ability to repay for
purchases in installments, and other measures that can be
decided on immediately."  “That way we would have gotten all the reforms we wanted,
preserved our country and spared our blood.”  “We will agree on a new Libya, the Libya we all dream of
and love. Otherwise, prepare yourselves, oh Libyans, for getting
into confrontations, for the division of Libya piece by piece
and for a civil war. Forget that there’s a thing called oil or a
thing called gas.”  “There are problems now in Tunisia and Egypt. There is no
tourism. There is no work, no stability, no security. Our
situation will be worse.”  “Prepare for colonialism. Do you think Europe, NATO, the
U.S. will accept an Islamic emirate in the middle of the
Mediterranean. The West and  Europe  won’t allow chaos in Libya”
which could lead to terrorism and the export of drugs, nor will
they allow the oil to fall into the wrong hands.  “There’s a last, rare and historic opportunity to carry
out reform in Libya with the least amount of damage possible.”  Failure to seize this chance would lead to a “cycle of
violence” that is worse than what happened in  Iraq .  He said there were tens of thousands of Libyans who are
descending on Tripoli to defend the country and defend Muammar
Qaddafi. “Muammer Qaddafi is not a traditional leader like Ben
Ali and Mubarak.”  He said the army should “play a principle role in imposing
security and get things back to normal, whatever the price may
be.”  “The Libyan army is not the army of  Tunisia  or of Egypt."  ‘‘We have discovered many cells, Arabs, Libyans.’’ These
cells also included illegal immigrants and Egyptians, he said.  Libyans living abroad were instigating the unrest ‘‘to come
and rule us and rule Libya. They have health insurances and
foreign passports and your children die in front of camps.’’  ‘‘The Libyan people know that today we are at a dangerous
crossroads. We won’t leave Libya, we live and die in Libya.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Riad Hamade in Dubai at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  