-- 
Record U.S. Cattle, Hog Prices Seen on Shrinking Herds, China

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-02-21T06:53:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/record-u-s-cattle-hog-prices-seen-on-shrinking-herds-increased-demand.html
U.S. livestock prices may reach
records in the next two quarters as farmers reduce herds while
 China  imports the most pork since at least 1992 and the largest
amount of beef in three years, according to Societe Generale.  Lean-hog futures will climb to a record $1.10 a pound in
the second quarter and live cattle prices will be at an all-time
high of $1.30 a pound by the third quarter, Societe Generale SA
said in a report. The bank correctly forecast higher grain
prices in May. Chinese imports of pork will gain 5.7 percent in
2011 and beef purchases will advance 43 percent, U.S. Department
of Agriculture estimates show.  World food prices rose 28 percent in the past year,
reaching a record in January, according to the  United Nations .
Riots partly linked to food inflation ended Zine el Abidine Ben
Ali’s 23-year rule in  Tunisia  and  Hosni Mubarak ’s three-decade-
long rule in  Egypt . Finance ministers from the Group of 20
nations last week signaled concern that surging commodity costs
are driving inflationary pressures around the world.  “Meat will start to have an impact on the  price index  and
start to put a pinch on the consumer’s pocketbook,”  Jason
Britt , president of Central States Commodities Inc., a brokerage
in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , said by phone on Feb. 17. Britt
correctly forecast a rally in hog prices in 2008.  Live cattle for April delivery closed at $1.1515 a pound in
Chicago on Feb. 18. Hogs climbed to 92.275 cents a pound. Hog
futures traded on the  Chicago  Mercantile Exchange have jumped 31
percent in the past year and live cattle prices climbed 24
percent over the same period.  Hog Herd  The hog-breeding herd in the U.S. totaled 5.778 million
head as of Dec. 31, down 1.2 percent from a year earlier, USDA
data show. The U.S. cattle herd shrank to 92.582 million head as
of Jan. 1, the smallest size in 53 years, as feed costs climbed
and beef producers slaughtered more animals to take advantage of
higher prices, the USDA said on Jan. 28.  Corn surged 93 percent in the past year, soymeal gained 37
percent and wheat rose 73 percent.  Wholesale pork, up 29 percent in the past year, and beef,
16 percent higher, will have to gain another 50 percent, as will
cattle and hog futures, to keep up with increasing grain prices,
Robbert Van Batenburg, an analyst at Louis Capital Markets in  New York , said by phone on Feb. 17.  Corn prices won’t fall until after the U.S. harvest, as
long as it’s a   bumper crop ,” Art Barnaby, an agriculture
economist at  Kansas State University  in  Manhattan , said during
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday”
with  Tom Keene  this week. Higher grain costs will be reflected
in the cost of producing meat, he said.  ‘Painful’ Climb  “A lot of recipients of these price increases have faced
painful upward momentum, and it’s not going to end,” Van
Batenburg said. “This tends to be the last area where you’d see
the price increases as a result of the broad-based rally in all
commodities.”    Tyson Foods Inc ., the largest U.S. meat processor, said in
a Feb. 4 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission it
expects chicken operating margins to narrow as grain costs rise
$500 million this fiscal year. It will cut costs and raise
prices to help its chicken unit “remain profitable” in 2011,
it said in the filing.  The price that packers such as Tyson receive for pork has
risen about 30 percent in the past year as hog herds have
shrunk, according to the USDA.  Tyson and other meat processors have been facing higher
feed costs as corn, soybean and wheat prices gained in the past
year. Corn and soybean meal represented about 42 percent of
Tyson’s cost of raising chicken, which made up 34 percent of its
2010 sales, the company said in the filing.    China ’s Demand  Chinese demand also will push up the price of hogs and
cattle, and in turn pork and beef, Van Batenburg said. The
country, the world’s biggest buyer of U.S. farm goods, imported
156.6 million pounds of U.S. pork in 2010, almost triple its
purchases in 2009, U.S. government data show.  In December, China purchased 12 million metric tons of U.S.
beef and veal, up 25 percent from the same month a year earlier,
the USDA said in a report on Feb. 14. U.S. beef exports last
year jumped 32 percent to the most ever, surpassing the old
record set in 2003, the Cattlemen’s Beef Promotion and Research
Board said this week.  China’s 10.3 percent economic growth last year drove the
biggest increase in the nation’s rural incomes in a quarter
century, bolstering efforts to spur consumption in the world’s
most-populous nation.  In the countryside, per capita net income rose 10.9 percent
to 5,919 yuan ($898), a statistics bureau report showed on Jan.
20. The gain was faster than for urban incomes for the first
time since 1997. The report also showed accelerating retail
sales and industrial production at the end of last year.  “I’m not worried whether they can afford it,” Van
Batenburg said. “As a percentage of the whole, the share of the
wallet that goes into food has shrunk dramatically. They can
afford to go much higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  