-- 
Ronaldo, Ronaldinho, Gullit Fuel Chechen Leader's Dreams of Soccer Glory

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-02-21T14:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/ronaldo-ronaldinho-gullit-fuel-chechen-leader-s-dreams-of-soccer-glory.html
Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov is
luring some of soccer’s biggest names to the North Caucasus as
he seeks to turn his local team into a European champion and
promote sports as an alternative to faith-fueled violence.  Ronaldo, Ronaldinho and other members of  Brazil ’s 2002  World Cup  winning team agreed to play a match on March 8 in
Chechnya, where Russian forces fought two wars against Islamic
and secessionist forces in the 1990s, said Kadyrov, a former
guerrilla, in an interview in Moscow on Feb. 19.  “They are coming with their wives,” said Kadyrov, who
will captain the home team against the Brazilians as president
of local Russian Premier League club  FC Terek Grozny . “If it
was dangerous, I wouldn’t play. Everything is safe.”  Kadyrov, 34, said he’s betting former world player of the
year Ruud Gullit will bring home  Russia ’s first Champions League
title as early as next year. Gullit agreed last month to become
the first foreign coach for Terek, which finished 12th of 16
teams last season, its third-straight in the top division.  Then-President  Vladimir Putin  groomed Kadyrov to lead
Chechnya after his father Akhmad was killed in a bomb attack on
the regional capital Grozny’s main soccer stadium in 2004. Human
Rights Watch, which tracks government abuse, has accused Kadyrov
of ordering abductions and torture, which he has denied.  Cafu, Kaka  Gullit, 48, led the Netherlands to the European
Championship against the  Soviet Union  in 1988 and was part of
the joint Belgian-Dutch bid to host the 2018 World Cup, which
was awarded to Russia in December. He ended his playing career
in  England  with Chelsea, the London club now owned by Russian
billionaire  Roman Abramovich .  “Ruud Gullit fulfilled all our hopes,” Kadyrov said. “We
have better training now and he’s changed our tactics.” Gullit
couldn’t be reached for comment through Kadyrov’s press service.  Kadyrov’s “dream” of a European championship is just
that, a dream, said Alexei Osin, a soccer commentator on Russian
national television.  “But bringing in stars such as Gullit, Ronaldo, Roberto Carlos, Cafu, Dida, Kaka is an important PR move that will help
build support for the sport in a difficult region,” Osin said
by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  