-- 
Rubber Futures Decline After China Raises Reserve Requirements

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-02-21T08:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/rubber-advances-in-tokyo-as-oil-climbs-on-escalating-middle-east-unrest.html
Rubber declined as  China  stepped up
measures to rein in liquidity, dimming demand prospects from the
biggest user. The cash price in Thailand, the top supplier, rose
to a record.  The July-delivery contract declined as much as 0.8 percent
to 522.1 yen per kilogram ($6,277) and settled at 524.9 yen on
the Tokyo Commodity Exchange. Earlier, it rose as much as 1.2
percent as crude oil gained on unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East. Rubber reached a record 535.7 yen on Feb. 18.  “Measures to cool prices in China soured  market sentiment ,
raising concern that demand may slow,” Sureerat Kunthongjun, an
analyst at Agrow Enterprise Ltd., said by phone from Bangkok.  China’s central bank on Feb. 18 raised  reserve requirements 
for lenders 10 days after boosting  interest rates  as Premier  Wen Jiabao  tackles accelerating inflation and the risk of asset
bubbles in the fastest-growing major economy.  The reserve ratios will be increased by half a percentage
point from Feb. 24, the  People’s Bank of China  said on Feb. 18.
Lending surged in January and inflation quickened as new  home
prices  rose in all but two of 70 cities monitored by the
government, official reports showed last week.  Asian stocks fell, snapping three days of gains, after
China implemented further measures to counter inflation,
tempering gains by oil producers amid spreading unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa.  Record Thai Price  The decline was limited as the low-production season has
kicked in, and prices will remain high for the next one to two
months, Sureerat said.  The physical price of Thai rubber was at 198.30 baht ($6.49)
a kilogram today because of concern about declining supply
during low-production season, according to the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand .  In  Shanghai , May-delivery rubber gained 0.5 percent to
close at 40,500 yuan ($6,162) a ton. The price climbed to a
record 43,500 yuan on Feb. 9.  The low-output period is beginning in major growing areas
in Thailand, the largest producer, supporting prices, Kazuhiko Saito, an analyst at Tokyo-based broker Fujitomi Co., said by
phone. In some southern Thai estates, rubber trees have already
started shedding leaves, leading to a halt in tapping, he said.  Farmers reduce tapping during the so-called wintering
season, leading to lower latex production. Thai output drops as
much as 60 percent from peak levels during the period, according
to the Association of Natural Rubber Producing Countries.  Indonesia and  Malaysia  will enter the low-production period
at about the same time. The two countries plus Thailand account
for about 70 percent of global supply.  Rubber futures have gained 27 percent this year as demand
outpaces supply after heavy rains and floods disrupted output in  Southeast Asia . China’s passenger-car sales increased 16.2
percent to 1.53 million last month from a year earlier, the
 China Association of Automobile Manufacturers  said on Feb. 18.
Growth slowed from December’s increase of 18.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  