-- 
Russian Stocks Drop Most in 2 Weeks on Libya, Mideast Unrest

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-02-22T16:00:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/russia-s-rts-stock-index-futures-fall-on-inflation-concerns.html
Russian stocks slid the most in
almost two weeks as metals prices fell and unrest in the Middle
East and North  Africa  intensified, damping investor appetite for
emerging-market assets.  OAO Sberbank,  Russia ’s biggest lender, slipped 1.9 percent
and OAO Severstal, the largest steelmaker, retreated 1.2
percent. The 30-stock Micex gauge decreased as much as 1.8
percent, the steepest intraday decline since Feb. 10, and traded
0.7 percent lower at 1,700.98 at 6:45 p.m. in Moscow.  Libya, holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves, is the
latest country to be rocked by violence, with Human Rights Watch
putting the death toll at more than 200. Unrest has flared up in
Yemen, Djibouti, Iran and Bahrain as governments seek to crack
down on demands for change. The cost of protecting against
default on government debt in emerging  Europe , the Middle East
and Africa climbed to a three-week high.  “Investors are pulling money out markets like Russia
because nobody knows where the tensions in Libya will lead to,”
said Dmitry Malykhin, chief investment officer at Moscow-based
hedge fund Da Vinci. “This risk-off environment has created a
temporary imbalance between the oil price and Russian stocks.”  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps rose to 216 from 210
yesterday, according to data from CMA. Default swaps on Russia
jumped seven basis points to 158, the highest level this year.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21  developing countries 
fell 1.4 percent, extending this year’s decline to 4.1 percent.
Stocks in Russia, the world’s largest oil exporter, have
outperformed the global gauge, advancing 0.8 percent in the
period as higher  oil prices  boosted the outlook for company
earnings.  Oil, Copper  Crude for April delivery jumped to the highest in more than
two years, rising as much as $8.77 to $98.48 a barrel in  New
York . Copper fell 1.4 percent in  London  on heightened
speculation that demand may slow after  China , the world’s
largest metals buyer, took more steps to cool inflation.  Bank of Moscow shares fluctuated between gains and losses,
closing 0.5 percent lower at 1,226.8 rubles, after VTB Group
said it bought the city of Moscow’s stake in the lender. VTB,
Russia’s second-biggest bank, fell 0.4 percent to 9.52 kopeks,
after dropping as much as 3.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  