-- 
S. Korean Spies Burgled Indonesia Arms Team’s Room, Chosun Says

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-02-21T06:14:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/s-korean-spies-burgled-indonesia-arms-team-s-room-chosun-says.html
South Korean spies broke into the
hotel room of Indonesian officials visiting  Seoul  last week to
find out what price the Southeast Asian nation may bid for
weapons and trainer jets, the  Chosun Ilbo  newspaper reported.  Three National Intelligence Service agents broke into the
Lotte Hotel room in central Seoul on Feb. 16 while the
Indonesians were away to meet South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak , the nation’s biggest newspaper reported in its main front
page news story today. The report cited an unidentified South
Korean government official, and didn’t say how the person knew
the details of the case.  The presidential office doesn’t publicly comment on
intelligence activities, Sohn Jie Ae, a spokeswoman for Lee’s
office, said by telephone from Seoul today. An official who
answered the phone at the  National Intelligence Service ’s public
relations office in Seoul said the report is groundless, without
elaborating. The official wouldn’t give his name, citing agency
policy.  Police have been investigating the break-in, which was
reported on Feb. 16, 13 hours after the incident happened,
Chosun said. The agents were spotted by an Indonesian official,
prompting them to return  laptop computers  they were trying to
take away, Chosun said. It was unclear whether the agents had
already downloaded computer data into a portable memory device,
according to the report.  The Indonesian government is aware of the spy agency’s role
in the break-in, the Chosun said on its website, without
elaborating. The Indonesian delegates refused to let police
investigate their laptops and left the country after agreeing to
take no further action, Chosun said.  Michael Tene, a spokesman for the Indonesian foreign
ministry, didn’t immediately answer calls and text messages to
his mobile telephone.    South Korea  wants to sell T-50 trainer jets, tanks, and
missiles to Indonesia, Chosun said. It is competing against  Russia  to sell trainer jets to Indonesia, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  