-- 
Samsonite Said to Hire Banks for $1 Billion Hong Kong Share Sale

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-02-21T11:40:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/samsonite-said-to-hire-banks-for-1-billion-hong-kong-share-sale.html
Samsonite LLC, the U.S. luggage
maker owned by London-based CVC Capital Partners Ltd., plans to
raise about $1 billion in a Hong Kong initial public offering,
according to three people familiar with the matter.  The company hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., HSBC Holdings
Plc, Morgan Stanley and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc to
manage the sale and aims to list in the second or third quarter,
said the people, who declined to be identified before an
announcement.  Samsonite was bought by CVC, a private equity firm, for
about $1.7 billion in October 2007. Its U.S. retail division,
Samsonite Co. Stores, in 2009 sought  bankruptcy protection  from
creditors after the financial crisis caused a slump in demand
for travel-related products.  Helen Mak, a Samsonite spokeswoman in Hong Kong, didn’t
immediately answer phone calls to her office. Calls to
Samsonite’s head office in Mansfield,  Massachusetts  outside
normal business hours weren’t answered.  Connie Ling, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs, Jessica Lennon, a spokeswoman for HSBC in Hong Kong, Noel
Cheung, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman in  Hong Kong , and Yuk Min
Hui, a Hong Kong-based RBS spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Companies have held 87 initial public offerings in Hong
Kong in the past year, raising $46.6 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The luggage maker has annual sales of about $1.3 billion
globally, said Subrata Butta, the company’s India managing
director, according to a Press Trust of India  report  in August
on the Hindustan Times website.  Samsonite started as Shwayder Trunk Manufacturing in Denver
in 1910, with Samson as its first brand. The first Samsonite-
brand suitcase was introduced 29 years later, according to
Hoover’s, Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net 
Billy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  