-- 
Serbia ‘Very Close’ to Completing IMF Policy Talks on Loan

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-02-21T14:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/serbia-very-close-to-completing-imf-policy-talks-on-loan-1-.html
  Serbia  is “very close” to
completing the final policy review talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  and is closer to seeking a new program once the
current bailout loan expires, Finance Minister  Diana Dragutinovic  said.  The government has also opted against yielding to public-
sector wage demands and will stick with its own fiscal rules
that do not allow any excessive wage increases, Dragutinovic
told reporters in Parliament today in Belgrade.  “We have almost completed talks with the IMF during the
weekend and the contents of the letter of intent are being
finalised today, so we are very close to concluding the seventh
review,” Dragutinovic said.  Serbia has relied on a 3 billion-euro ($4.1 billion)
bailout loan from the IMF since mid-2009 to offset external
liquidity pressures amid capital flight triggered by the global
financial turmoil that hurt the country in late 2008. The Balkan
nation is wants to lure new investment as it emerges from its
first recession since 1999, when a NATO bombing aimed at forcing
the country’s troops out of  Kosovo  destroyed most of its
infrastructure.  The IMF began the formal final review of Serbia’s policies
and compliance with terms agreed under the loan on Feb. 14. The
ongoing loan expires in April and the ruling coalition is
increasingly looking at maintaining ties with the lender.  April Discussions  “I think there is willingness in the ruling coalition to
continue with a program,” Dragutinovic said, adding that the
government will decide on the timing. Deputy Prime Minister
Bozidar Djelic said on Feb. 18 Serbia is likely to discuss the
new deal in April during IMF and World Bank annual meetings.  Whatever the new agreement, Serbia does not plan to draw
any more funds from the lender, Dragutinovic said.  “Foreign-exchange reserves are high enough and there is no
need to draw money,” she said. “It is more important as a
positive signal and positive assessment.” The government has
drawn around 1.5 billion euros from its current program.  Talks with the IMF were held amid growing public-sector
wage demands, with teachers, police and health workers seeking
20 percent to 40 percent wage increases. Under the program,
public wages and pensions were frozen for two years, with a 2
percent increase as of January this year.  “We as the government could choose whether to have a
program with the IMF or not. We chose to have the program with
the IMF, because we think that’s the best,” Dragutinovic said.  Her ministry has prepared “a negotiating platform” and
any wage offers to protesting workers will be in line with
Serbia’s fiscal rules, according to which the country needs to
keep its 2011 fiscal gap below 4.1 percent of gross domestic
product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  