-- 
Serb Deputy Premier Dinkic Steps Down, Easing Risk of Early Vote

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-02-21T15:48:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/serb-deputy-premier-dinkic-steps-down-easing-risk-of-early-vote.html
Serbian Deputy Prime Minister
Mladjan Dinkic resigned from his post after criticizing the
government, easing the risk of an immediate collapse of the
ruling coalition.  Dinkic has promised on Feb. 14 that he would step down
after Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic  started procedures to fire
him. The dispute raised concern last week that early elections
in the Balkan country would be needed before the next scheduled
general ballot in early 2012.  Cvetkovic, whose government is the longest-serving since
the 2000 fall of  Slobodan Milosevic , is struggling to stay in
power after Dinkic claimed the Cabinet no long follows the
premier’s authority. The coalition, which controls a one-seat
majority in the 250-member Parliament, is trying to convince the
public and the European Union, which the nation wants to
eventually join, that it is stable. Dinkic’s G17 Plus party will
also remain in the government.  “I think relations in the ruling coalition are stable, we
function as a majority today, everything is functioning
normally,” Jelena Trivan, the spokeswoman for the Democrats,
told reporters today in Belgrade.  No single government in the past decade has lasted a full,
four-year term. Tomislav Nikolic, the leader of the biggest
opposition Serbian Progressive Party, said the relations in the
ruling coalition will be seen in a matter of days, as Parliament
resumes its regular spring sessions on March 1.  G17 Question  “Then we will see whether G17 Plus is in the government or
not, whether it’s possible to have a party in the government and
not its leader,” Nikolic told reporters.  Deputy Prime Minister Bozidar Djelic told parliamentarians
on Feb. 18 that the coalition was stable and that “all leaders
of the coalition parties reiterated over the past few days, they
all remain committed to our country’s European future and will
do nothing to jeopardize  Serbia ’s European path.”  EU Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule will visit Belgrade
on Oct. 12 to give an assessment of Serbia’s fitness for EU
candidacy.  Progress toward the EU partly hinges on the arrest and
extradition of two remaining war crimes fugitives, Ratko Mladic
and  Goran Hadzic , to the United Nation’s War Crimes Tribunal in
The Hague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  