-- 
Shell’s Nigeria Oil Fields Said to Get Bids From Essar, Afren

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-02-22T04:28:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/shell-said-to-get-bids-from-essar-afren-for-stakes-in-nigerian-oil-fields.html
  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,  Europe ’s
biggest oil company, got bids from companies including Essar
Group, Afren Plc and Perenco SA for stakes in four Nigerian oil
fields, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.    India ’s Essar is bidding with Energy Equity Resources Ltd.
of  Nigeria , while closely held Perenco of France is working with
Swiss trading firm Addax & Oryx Group Ltd. and  Oando Plc , said
the people, who declined to be identified because the matter is
private. Another bidding group includes  Heritage Oil Plc  of the
U.K. and Nigerian contractor Shoreline Energy International, one
of the people said.  The fields may be sold individually and Shell may inform
companies selected to purchase the blocks as early as this week,
one of the people said. Private-equity firms including
Riverstone Holdings LLC and  Blackstone Group LP  have also
expressed interest in the assets, one of the people said.  Shell is divesting stakes in the onshore fields as part of
Chief Executive Officer Peter Voser’s plan to sell $5 billion of
assets this year. The company, based in The Hague, Netherlands,
has sold about $30 billion of assets over the last five years
and on Feb. 19 said it would to sell its retail fuel business in
14 African countries for $1 billion to oil trader Vitol Group
and a private-equity firm.  Kirsten Smart, a spokeswoman for Shell in London, declined
to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News yesterday.  30 Blocks  Helen Winning, a spokeswoman for Blackstone in London, and
an unidentified official at Riverstone’s office in London
couldn’t immediately comment. Odion Aleobua, a spokesman for
Oando in Lagos, Nick Lambert, an external spokesman for Heritage
in London, and Andrew Turpin, a spokesman for Essar in London,
declined to comment. Jenny Renton, an external spokeswoman for
both Perenco and Afren in  London , declined to comment.  The stakes being sold are in addition to four other blocks
Shell sold last year, Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said
Feb. 3. The company will retain a further 30 blocks in the
African country that stretch over an area bigger than Belgium
and with a population of 35 million people, Henry said.  The blocks sold and for sale represent less than 10 percent
of Shell’s production in Nigeria, Henry said at the time.  Names of the strategic bidders were reported Feb. 18 by
Norwegian trade publication Upstream.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 