-- 
Singapore to Strengthen Currency at April Review, Survey Shows

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L u i
-- 
2011-02-21T23:47:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/singapore-to-strengthen-currency-at-april-review-survey-shows.html
  Singapore  will decide to strengthen
its currency at its April policy review to curb inflation after
the economy grew at a record pace in 2010, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore will revalue the local
dollar against its trade-weighted basket or let it appreciate
faster, according to 11 of 13 economists polled by Bloomberg
News. Five said a one-off revaluation was most likely, three
forecast quicker gains and three were unsure of the method. Only
two predicted no change to the central bank’s current policy of
“modest and gradual appreciation.”  Singapore’s economy expanded 14.5 percent in 2010, the
fastest pace since independence in 1965, the government said in
a statement on Feb. 17, adding there was “some upside
potential” to its 4 percent to 6 percent growth forecast this
year. It predicted 2011 inflation of as high as 4 percent,
compared with an earlier forecast of no more than 3 percent.  “The guidance is clear that there are increasing concerns
about wage-price pressures and inflation,” said Wai Ho Leong, a
Singapore-based regional economist at Barclays Plc, the most-
accurate forecaster of Asian currencies based on data compiled
by Bloomberg. “They’ll probably tighten again in April. They
may steepen the slope of the band to allow up to 4 percent
appreciation from the current 3 percent.”  Local Dollar Rallies  Singapore’s dollar was little changed at S$1.2758 versus
its U.S. counterpart as of 7:26 a.m. local time, bringing its
gain this year to 0.5 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It reached S$1.2695 on Feb. 3, the strongest level
since at least 1981 when Bloomberg began tracking the data. The
currency rallied 9.3 percent last year, its best performance
since 1994, after the central bank unexpectedly tightened policy
at both of its biannual reviews.  The local dollar will strengthen 1.3 percent by midyear to
S$1.26 and 4.6 percent by year-end to S$1.22, according to the
median estimates of the 13 economists.  The monetary authority uses the  exchange rate  rather than  interest rates  to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the pace of
appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-
weighted band of currencies by changing the slope, width and
centre of the band. A steeper slope allows faster appreciation
over time, while lifting band’s midpoint amounts to a one-off
revaluation. Policy makers revalued the currency last April and
steepened the slope in October. MAS has yet to set a date for
the meeting.  ‘See No Change’  Consumer prices gained 4.6 percent in December from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in two years. Prices may rise at a
pace of as much as 6 percent in the first few months of 2011 and
“thereafter, inflation should moderate, especially in the
second half of the year,” the Ministry of Trade and Industry
said in a statement on Feb. 17.  Rising commodity prices may slow Asian growth if
governments are forced to tighten domestic policies to control
inflation, Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam said in his
budget speech on Feb. 18. Singapore’s preferred method is to
seek to moderate medium-term inflationary pressures through its
currency, he added.  “We see no change in April as the monetary authority
expects growth to slow from last year’s red-hot levels and they
see inflation peaking in the second quarter,” said Thio Chin
Loo, a senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA in Singapore,
the top forecaster of the local dollar.  There is no need “at this stage” to revise the monetary
policy stance that was set in October, central bank Deputy
Managing Director Ong Chong Tee said on Feb. 17. Still, there is
“some risk” to the inflation forecast and policy makers will
monitor price and cost developments “closely,” he said.  Inflation Risks Higher  “We think they will tighten again in April as inflation
risks are now higher than growth risks,” said  Thomas Harr , the
Singapore-based head of Asian foreign-exchange strategy at
Standard Chartered Plc, the second-best forecaster of
Singapore’s dollar in the past 18 months. “They’ll probably do
a one-off 2 percent revaluation by re-centering the band.”  Leong Sook Mei, a Singapore-based currency strategist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., also said a one-off
revaluation was most likely.  “There’s a 75 percent chance of a tightening, though it’s
not a done deal as the authority’s policy is supposedly forward-
looking and they do see inflation coming off and growth
slowing,” she said. “Flexibility is the name of the game.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Lui at 
 plui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 