-- 
Singapore Stocks: CapitaLand, Hyflux, Oceanus, Raffles Medical

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-02-21T10:04:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/singapore-stocks-capitaland-hyflux-oceanus-raffles-medical.html
Singapore’s  Straits Times Index 
slipped 0.5 percent to 3,070.60 at the close. Almost two stocks
dropped for each that rose in the benchmark index of 30
companies.  Shares on the measure trade at an average 14 times
estimated earnings, compared with about 15.6 times at the end of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Chinese developers: China’s central bank on Feb. 18 raised
reserve requirements for lenders 10 days after boosting interest
rates as Premier Wen Jiabao tackles accelerating inflation and
the risk of asset bubbles in the fastest-growing major economy.    Yanlord Land Group Ltd . (YLLG SP), which gets all its
revenue from China, declined 3.3 percent to S$1.48.  Guocoland
Ltd . (GUOL SP), a real-estate company that counts China as its
biggest market, lost 2 percent to S$2.49.    CapitaLand Ltd . (CAPL SP), Southeast Asia’s biggest
developer that gets about 26 percent of sales from China,
dropped 0.9 percent to S$3.36. The company said today it and
partners will develop 7,800 homes in the southern Chinese city
of Guangzhou.    Hyflux Ltd . (HYF SP), a Singapore-based company that has
water desalination projects in Algeria and Libya, decreased 5
percent to S$2.10, the most since May. The company said it is
“closely monitoring the situation in Libya” and that
construction of its desalination plant in the county hasn’t
started.  Tensions in the Middle East mounted as Arab governments are
cracking down on pro-democracy activists after uprisings that
toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt spread to Libya, Algeria,
Yemen and Bahrain.    Oceanus Group Ltd . (OCNUS SP), the world’s largest operator
of abalone farms, slumped 12 percent to 25 Singapore cents. The
company said it expects to post a fourth-quarter net loss.    Otto Marine Ltd . (OTML SP), a Singapore-based shipbuilder,
tumbled 8.3 percent to 27.5 Singapore cents. DMG & Partners
Securities Pte lowered its rating to “sell” from “neutral,”
while CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. cut its recommendation to
“underperform” from “neutral.”  Raffles Medical Group Ltd. (RFMD SP), a Singapore-based
hospital operator, gained 0.9 percent to S$2.16. The company
said full-year net income climbed 20 percent to S$45.3 million
($35.6 million). Separately, Raffles Medical said it bought a
property in Singapore for S$92 million. A specialist medical
centre will be established on the site, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 