-- 
Somali Police Station Hit by Suicide Bomber; At Least 18 People Are Killed

-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r
-- 
2011-02-21T09:39:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/somali-police-station-hit-by-explosion-many-people-injured-police-say.html
A suicide bomber attacked a police
station in  Somalia ’s capital, Mogadishu, killing at least 18
people, a day after the African Union peacekeeping mission said
it had taken a “major step forward” in stabilizing the city.  At least 14 policemen died in the blast at the Hamar Jajab
police station, while another 20 people were injured, police
Captain Hassan Mohamed said in a phone interview from the city.  “The troops were lining up in the camp when a vehicle full
of explosive devices entered and exploded,” Captain Abdullahi
Ali Farey, a police officer, said in a phone interview.  A pall of dark smoke hung over the surrounding area after
the explosion, which damaged nearby buildings.  “I thought a shell had landed in my home because all the
windows, the roofs and doors shook,” said Zakariye Abdulle Ali,
a resident who lives about 300 meters away from the police
station. “It was a really powerful explosion.”  Fighters from groups including al-Shabaab, the rebel
militia that the U.S. accuses of having links to al-Qaeda, have
been battling Somalia’s Western-backed government for the past
three years. Most of southern and central Somalia has been
seized by the rebels, while President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s government controls only parts of Mogadishu, backed by
AU peacekeepers.  Trench System  The AU Mission in Somalia, known as  Amisom , said yesterday
it discovered and cut off a mile-long trench system used by
extremists to attack its positions in Mogadishu. Six foreign
fighters, from countries including  Pakistan , Yemen,  India  and
neighboring  Kenya , were killed in the operation, it said in an
e-mailed statement.  “The discovery and closure of this tunnel is a major step
forward in the stabilisation effort in the city,” it said.
“The extremists were using the trench and tunnel system to
infiltrate fighters close to Amisom positions without
detection.”  Somalia hasn’t had a functioning central administration
since the ouster of former dictator Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 