-- 
Gordhan to Rein in South African Budget Even as Spending on Jobs Increases

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-02-22T08:16:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/south-africa-s-jobs-plan-won-t-derail-gordhan-s-budget-cuts.html
  South Africa ’s plans to ramp up
spending to boost jobs probably won’t hurt Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan ’s efforts to narrow the budget gap. They may not
be enough to slash unemployment either.  Gordhan will give more detail of a 9 billion-rand ($1.3
billion) employment fund first announced by President  Jacob Zuma 
in his state-of-the-nation speech on Feb. 10, when he announces
the budget tomorrow. Zuma also outlined a 20 billion-rand tax
incentive program for manufacturers.  “These job-creation initiatives can be successful to some
extent,” said Jean-Francois Mercier, an economist at Citigroup
Inc. in Johannesburg. “But we can’t fool ourselves that it’s
going to have a significant impact on unemployment.”  One in four  South Africans  is unemployed and the jobs
programs, some of which will be spread over three years,
represent 3 percent of spending planned for the fiscal year
through March 2012. Moreover, the government is also moving to
tighten  labor laws , making it harder to employ people on
temporary contracts, potentially damping demand for new workers.  “The new labor proposals are very burdensome,” said
Lorraine Lotter, executive director of the Johannesburg-based
 Chemical and Allied Industries Association . “It’s concerning
that at a time when jobs are the main priority, there is
legislation going against that.”  The  unemployment rate  fell to 24 percent in the fourth
quarter from 25.3 percent in the previous three months. Still,  Africa ’s biggest economy has shed more than 1 million jobs since
slipping into recession in the fourth quarter of 2008,
distancing the government from its target of slashing the
jobless rate to 15 percent in the next decade.  Budget Deficit  Gordhan will address Parliament in  Cape Town  at about 2
p.m. local time tomorrow.  The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
is for a budget deficit of 4.7 percent of gross domestic product
in the year beginning April 1, compared with Gordhan’s October
forecast of 4.6 percent. The shortfall will reach 5.4 percent
this year, compared with a previous forecast of 5.3 percent, and
narrow to 4.1 percent in 2012-13, according to the survey.  “The minister will present this as a job creation-friendly
budget,” said Mercier. “Jobs are clearly the priority. But the
budget deficit targets won’t be different” from the October
forecasts.  Zuma said in his state-of-the-nation speech the
government’s objective is to bring the deficit down to between 3
percent of GDP and 4 percent by 2013.  The Year of Jobs  This year’s slightly wider deficit probably won’t affect
the bond market, as the government will use cash and short-term
borrowing, rather than sell more bonds, to meet its financing
requirements, said Andre Roux, head of fixed income at Cape
Town-based Investec Asset Management. A smaller deficit in
coming years would be “welcome news to the  bond market .”  Bonds have dropped in the past six months, with the yield
on the R157 security, due 2015, rising 44 basis points, or 0.44
percentage point, to 7.77 percent as of 9:45 a.m. in
Johannesburg. The rand has gained 1.6 percent to 7.2253 per
dollar in the same period.  “We have declared 2011 a year of job creation through
meaningful economic transformation and inclusive growth,” Zuma
said on Feb. 10. “While looking to the private sector in
particular to help us create most of the jobs, government will
certainly play its part.”  The public sector accounted for as much as 148,000 of the
157,000 jobs created in the last three months of 2010, the
statistics office said on Feb. 8. For unemployment to continue
falling, private industry will have to step up hiring.  Smoke and Mirrors  Not all the money announced by Zuma for  job creation  last
week was new.  The 20 billion-rand tax incentives for manufacturers
started in November and were included in the state’s budgeted
expenditure, said Sidwell Medupe, spokesman for the  Department
of Trade and Industry .  Manufacturers that set up new projects of a minimum of 200
million rand will receive 900 million in tax allowances, while
those that invest a minimum of 30 million rand to expand
operations will receive 550 million rand in tax breaks. The
department has already received seven applications from
investors to qualify for the tax breaks, Medupe said.  There is also concern that economic growth is not strong
enough to cut the jobless rate.  Economic expansion accelerated to 4.2 percent in the fourth
quarter from 2.6 percent in the previous three months, according
to the median estimate of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
That is short of the 7 percent the government says it needs in
order to crate 5 million jobs by 2020.  “There is still caution about the economic recovery,”
said Mercier. “The economic environment is mixed.  Consumer
spending  is picking up, but business investment is clearly
lagging.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  