-- 
Spain's Cajas Have $137 Billion of Potential Bad Loans, Central Bank Says

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-02-21T15:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/spain-s-cajas-have-100-billion-euros-of-problematic-assets-1-.html
The total exposure of Spanish
savings banks to real estate and building amounts to 217 billion
euros ($297 billion), of which 100 billion euros ($137 billion)
is classified as “potentially problematic,” the Bank of  Spain 
said today.  Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez,
speaking in Madrid, said cajas had covered 100 percent of actual
losses connected to the industry with provisions. Of the
“potentially problematic” assets,” 38 percent is covered by
provisions.  Spain’s government approved new capital requirements for
lenders on Feb. 18 and set deadlines for them to meet the new
rules or risk partial nationalization. The Bank of Spain is due
to tell banks on March 10 how much additional capital they need
and lenders planning initial public offerings have as long as a
year to raise it.  Ordonez, who hasn’t spoken to reporters publicly since Dec.
13 when he said the state-run FROB rescue fund probably wouldn’t
need to be tapped in 2011, said the decree was “absolutely
necessary.” He stuck to an estimate published by the government
that the additional capital required won’t exceed 20 billion
euros and said the capital needs of individual banks will be
published on March 10.  Some lenders will go directly to the FROB rather than
trying to raise funds privately, Ordonez said. The fund, created
in 2009 with 9 billion euros and the capacity to take on as much
as 90 billion euros of debt, is a “backstop” and “guarantee”
that all lenders will reach new  capital requirements , he said.  ‘Very Comfortable’  The FROB has a “very comfortable” liquidity position,
Deputy Bank of Spain Governor Javier Ariztegui, who heads
the fund, said today. It has 4.5 billion euros in cash and a
credit line of 3 billion euros, giving it “more than enough
room for maneuver,” he said.  Spain’s Socialist government announced the tighter capital
requirements on Jan. 24 as part of its efforts to convince
investors it can bolster its struggling savings banks without
overburdening public finances.  The gap between Spanish and German borrowing costs widened
to 216 basis points today, even as it remained below the euro-
era high of 298 basis points reached on Nov. 30 after Ireland,
struggling with the cost of bailing out its banks, sought help
from the European Union.  According to the decree passed on Feb. 18 to shore up
Spanish savings banks reeling from the collapse of a decade-long
property boom, lenders will have until September to reach the
new capital requirements.  Extension Possible  Banks that “are basically complying” with the
government’s strategy and calendar and haven’t met the
requirements due to procedural reasons may be able to extend the
deadline by three months, Finance Minister Elena Salgado said.
Lenders with plans to list shares can get an extension until the
first quarter of 2012 as long as they have taken
“irreversible” steps toward the sale, she said.  Ordonez said today the Bank of Spain would only grant the
extensions if a “series of conditions” were met.  He also said international investors don’t always
understand Spaniards’ track record of paying off their
mortgages, and they mistakenly compare Spain with other
countries where it is easier to walk away from mortgage debts.  Bad loans on mortgages reached 4 percent after the last
banking crisis in the 1990s, and amounted to 2.5 percent in
September last year, according to a presentation distributed by
the bank today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  