-- 
Stark Says ECB Will Raise Interest Rates If Needed to Restrain Inflation

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-02-22T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/stark-says-ecb-will-act-quickly-if-accelerating-inflation-becomes-a-danger.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Juergen Stark said the bank will raise  interest
rates  if necessary to keep inflation in check.  “We’re prepared to act decisively and immediately if
needed,” Stark said at an event in Frankfurt last night. “The
objective is pretty clear. In order not to risk un-anchoring
inflation expectations, we have to change the monetary policy
stance if need be.”  Stark is the latest policy maker to signal the ECB is
moving toward raising borrowing costs in coming months after
inflation breached its 2 percent ceiling, accelerating to 2.4
percent in January. Officials may be laying the groundwork for a
shift in policy bias at their next meeting on March 3, when the
central bank is due to publish its latest inflation forecasts.  Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said yesterday
that with the 17-nation euro-area economy gathering strength,
the ECB may need to reassess whether its benchmark rate is still
appropriate at a record low of 1 percent.  The ECB may raise its key rate by a quarter-point in
September, Eonia forward contracts show.  “Risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
in the euro area as a whole could move to the upside,” Stark
said. “I can assure you that we will act quickly and decisively
on any indications” of a wage-price spiral and higher inflation
expectations, he said.  Oil, Wages  Crude  oil prices  have surged 24 percent over the past six
months, pushing up import prices and adding to pressure on labor
unions to secure bigger pay increases for workers.  In December, the ECB predicted inflation will average 1.8
percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2012.  Stark said inflation is now “likely to stay” above 2
percent through 2011 before moderating in 2012. The ECB must
take “seriously” the warning signals for more persistent
upward pressure on prices, he said.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated on Feb. 19 in
Paris that inflation risks could move to “the upside.” The
same day, Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said inflation
pressure is increasing and “clearly there are risks to the
upside.”  ECB council member Athanasios Orphanides told Dow Jones in
an interview published yesterday that inflation may stay above 2
percent “somewhat longer than we expected before” and the bank
“must be ready to act as appropriate to safeguard  price
stability .”  Faster growth may fan inflation, even as some of the euro
region’s peripheral nations remain mired in a sovereign debt
crisis.  Business confidence in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
surged to a record this month and expansion in the euro region’s
service and manufacturing industries accelerated to the fastest
pace in more than four years, reports showed yesterday.  “Latest economic developments suggest that the monetary
policy of the ECB, that has already been accommodative, has
become even more accommodative,” Stark said. “To the extent
that financial market conditions continue to improve and the
current economic recovery turns out to remain strong and self-
sustained, the stance would need to be normalized over time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in  Frankfurt  at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  