-- 
Strauss-Kahn Says Wife's Opposition to IMF Second Term Matters

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/strauss-kahn-says-wife-s-opposition-to-imf-second-term-matters.html
  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  said his
wife’s opposition to a second term running the International
Monetary Fund matters to him as speculation mounts he may seek
the French presidency next year.  Anne Sinclair, his spouse, said earlier this month that she
doesn’t want him to serve another term as IMF managing director.
Leaving the Washington-based lender is a pre-condition for re-
entering French politics, and to run as a Socialist in the 2012
election, Strauss-Kahn would need to decide by mid-summer.  “We talk about things,” Strauss-Kahn said late yesterday
on France 2 television. “What she says is very important to me.
When I chose to, or was considering coming to  Washington , we
talked about it together. Whatever I plan to do in the future we
will talk about it and her opinion will matter.”  The former finance minister’s appearance capped a four-day
visit to Paris for a Group of 20 meeting, where he held a press
conference stressing his concern for “the man in the street.”
Strauss-Kahn’s comments then were on issues more of interest to
French voters, rather than dwelling on the gathering’s hard-
fought communiqué.  “Strauss-Kahn reached his two goals during this visit,”
said Gerard Grunberg, a professor at the Political Sciences
Institute in Paris. “Make sure nobody doubts any more that he
will be a candidate for the French presidential race in 2012
while never saying it. And make crystal clear that he is a man
of the left, a real socialist.”  Economy Battle  The 61-year old “DSK,” as he is dubbed in  France , would
be the strongest opposition challenger to current President  Nicolas Sarkozy , 56, polls show. The battle for the presidency
will see candidates grapple with how to revive the euro region’s
second-largest economy, which is plagued with unemployment at a
seven-year high, rising debt and an unpopular spending squeeze.  A  CSA institute poll  taken Feb. 14 and 15 for the weekly
Marianne showed Strauss-Kahn would defeat Sarkozy in the final
presidential round by 61 percent to 39 percent. A Viavoice poll
in today’s Liberation newspaper showed Sarkozy’s approval rating
fell 4 percentage points to 30 percent this month, the lowest
since his presidency began in 2007.  Strauss-Kahn had a 54 percent approval rating, leading
other potential Socialist candidates including  Martine Aubry ,
Francois Hollande and Segolene Royal,  Viavoice  said. The Paris-
based pollster questioned 1,010 adults on Feb. 17 and 18. It
didn’t publish a margin of error.  2012 Timetable  Sarkozy nominated Strauss-Kahn for the IMF in November
2007. His mandate ends in Oct. 2012. As IMF chief he cannot
express political opinions and needs to resign if he declares
his candidacy for the election in May next year.  Grunberg said Strauss-Kahn may state his intention to run
after the Group of Eight summit in Deauville, France, in May,
shortly before the Socialist candidacy deadline in early July.  In Paris, Strauss-Kahn said repeatedly that his “full-
time” focus is on the IMF, not on French politics. He also said
he misses France and cited his family.  “I have my kids here, the more I’m in France, the better
it is,” he told Bloomberg Television on Feb. 19. “I like
restaurants here and I like to walk in the streets,” though
“frankly, I have a job. I have no time to think of something
else.”  Sinclair is a former French television journalist who
married Strauss-Kahn in 1991. She now writes a column on U.S.
politics for the weekly Journal du Dimanche newspaper.  Sinclair’s View  “As far as I’m concerned, I don’t wish that he does a
second term,” the French weekly magazine Le Point quoted her as
saying in an interview published Feb. 9.  At his G-20 press conference, Strauss-Kahn highlighted
accomplishments during his three-year tenure, saying that he
turned the ”evil IMF” into the central player of the global
recovery. He emphasized the need to foster growth, a theme he
returned to in yesterday’s appearance.  “What matters is what happens to the man in the street who
is looking for a job, can’t find one, has trouble paying his
electricity bills,” Strauss-Kahn said on France 2. “Looking at
real life, that’s what will help  Europe  recover.”  From 1997 to 1999, as the Socialist government’s finance
minister, Strauss-Kahn presided over a booming economy. Gross
domestic product grew 3.5 percent in 1998, the fastest pace that
decade. He cut the  budget deficit  to below 3 percent in 1999.  Sarkozy is struggling to meet his own deficit targets. On
Feb. 17, the state auditor said the government wasn’t doing
enough to cut the budget shortfall to 3 percent of output in
2013 and that his 2 percent growth forecast for this year was
”maybe” optimistic. Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said
yesterday that she “firmly” believes the economy will grow 2
percent this year.  Grunberg said Strauss-Kahn may be ”wise” to wait a
further three months before declaring his candidacy.  “He’d let Sarkozy be the center of people’s discontent,”
Grunberg said. “He could secure his high popularity rate, show
he is competent and make sure his affiliates pass on his social
messages.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  