-- 
Sugar Output in India to Climb on ‘Heavy Planting’, Group Says

-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 
2011-02-21T04:32:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/sugar-production-in-india-to-climb-next-year-aiding-exports-group-says.html
Sugar output in  India , the world’s
second-biggest producer, may climb next year as farmers expand
crop area to benefit from high prices, a millers’ group said.  Production in the season from Oct. 1 will climb at least 5
percent from an estimated 25 million metric tons this year,  Vinay Kumar , managing director of the National Federation of
Cooperative Sugar Factories Ltd., said in an interview in Dubai
yesterday, where he’s attending an industry conference.  A bigger harvest in the Asian nation may help fill a global
deficit that sent raw-sugar prices in  New York  to a 30-year high
this month. The country may this week revive a plan to permit
exports of 500,000 tons as it swings into surplus for the first
time in three years, broker and researcher  Jonathan Kingsman  and
an Indian producers’ group, said at the conference yesterday.  “When prospects are good for the next crop as well, there
should be no hesitation in allowing exports,” said Kumar, whose
group accounts for almost half of the country’s output. “India
should first allow 500,000 tons and then look at permitting at
least 1 million ton more.”  Sugar soared to 36.08 cents per pound in New York on Feb.
2, the highest level since 1980, after adverse weather hurt
crops in Australia and  Russia . May-delivery futures lost 1.5
percent to close at 28.42 cents on Feb. 18. Prices have still
doubled since the end of May.  Surplus  India may produce 24.5 million tons this season, more than
the demand of 23 million tons, according to the government. The
Indian Sugar Mills Association and the National Federation have
forecast 25 million tons. The country may have a surplus of 6.7
million tons at the end of September, of which 5 million tons
will be carried over to the new season, Abinash Verma, director
general of the association, said yesterday. That will leave 1.7
million tons for sales overseas, he said.  Planting will be completed in Maharashtra by end of March,
Kumar said. Farmers are getting paid promptly for cane and that
may encourage them to increase the area, he said. The western
Indian state is the country’s biggest sugar producer.  “There has been heavy planting in Maharashtra and other
states,” Kumar said. “There was a fear that sugar cane will
lose out to cotton because of high prices. So far, there are no
signs of that happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Mumbai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ravil Shirodkar at 
 rshirodkar@bloomberg.net  