-- 
Nations to Expand Food Stockpiles, Boost Subsidies, Traders Say

-- B y   T h o m a s   K u t t y   A b r a h a m
-- 
2011-02-21T14:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/surging-food-costs-mideast-unrest-may-drive-stockpile-growth-traders-say.html
Governments worldwide will increase
their role in global food markets and may boost stockpiles and
subsidies or impose trade curbs to head off the protests that
have rippled through the Middle East, commodity traders said.  “Greater political intervention in food matters is only to
be expected,” Alan Winney, chairman of Emerald Group Australia
Pty Ltd., said in an interview at a sugar-industry conference in
Dubai. “Governments will be careful to take preemptive measures
to prevent increases in food prices,” said Winney.  Countries across  Africa  to  Asia  are increasing imports or
releasing supply from state reserves to cool inflation as rising
demand and adverse weather cuts harvests and pushes food prices
to a record. A revolt in  Libya  widened at the weekend, with
leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s son warning that a civil war would risk
the country’s oil wealth and invite a return of colonial powers.  “Food inflation is there to stay this year as cereals,
soft commodities are all affected by supply contraction,” said
Vijay Iyengar, managing director of Agrocorp International Pte.,
who’s traded agricultural commodities since 1986. “Governments
will have to subsidize” staples, including sugar, Iyengar said.  The higher costs of wheat, sugar and dairy products sent
the  United Nations ’ World Food Price Index to an all-time high
last month. The jump has contributed to democratic revolts in
Tunisia and Egypt, as well as other Arab nations. Saif al-Islam
Qaddafi said in a televised address Libya is “not Tunisia and  Egypt ” after thousands demonstrated in the city of Benghazi.  Wheat’s Rally  Wheat climbed to $9.1675 a bushel on the Chicago Board of
Trade on Feb. 14, the highest price since August 2008, and has
surged 71 percent the past year. That compares with a 95
percent gain for corn and a 44 percent jump in soybeans. Sugar
prices have doubled since the end of May. There is no U.S. grain
trade today due to a public holiday.  Finance ministers from the Group-of-20 nations signaled
their concern at the weekend that surging commodity costs are
driving global inflationary pressures. Price developments pose
challenges “for both consumers and producers,” the G-20
nations said in their statement after a meeting in Paris.  Global wheat harvests may trail demand for a second year,
spurring “widespread” hoarding and further price advances,  Abdolreza Abbassian , a senior economist at the Food &
Agriculture Organization, said Feb. 9. Global corn output will
need to rise 6 percent and wheat 3 percent to 4 percent in the
2011-2012 crop season to rebuild global reserves, he has said.  Corn Outlook  “Wheat may have done its job as far as prices are
concerned, while corn may still gain on feed demand,” said
Winney. “Farmers can respond to higher grain prices but not to
crops like sugar.”  Wheat dropped in Paris to the lowest level in more than
three weeks after warmer weather in the U.S. reduced concern of
crop damage there. March-delivery milling wheat fell as much as
2.2 percent to 257 euros ($351) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in
Paris, the lowest level since Jan. 25.  Global corn stockpiles are forecast by the  U.S. Department
of Agriculture  to drop at the end of this season to a four-year
low, while reserves of wheat will slump 10 percent from a year
earlier as harvests lag behind demand. Soybean inventories will
drop to a two-year low, the agency said.  Sugar stockpiles will stay low for the next year and the
shortage, which drove prices to the highest level since 1980
earlier this month, may last for the first half of this year,
broker and researcher  Jonathan Kingsman  said at the conference.  Sugar Refiners  Some sugar refiners, which depend on imports, have partly
wound down operations, Cyrus Raja, general manager at Al Khaleej
Sugar Co., the world’s biggest, said at the conference. High
food prices prompted  India , the second-biggest sugar producer,
to put on hold shipments of 500,000 tons after announcing the
plan in December, adding to the deficit.  Accelerating food prices sparked riots from  Haiti  to Egypt
in 2008 as economic growth in Asia and the diversion of crops
for making ethanol threatened  food security  for some of the
world’s most vulnerable people.  “Three years ago the finger was pointed out at biofuels
for the food shortage,” said Patricia Luis-Manso, biofuels
manager at Kingsman SA, said at the Dubai conference. “It’s
clear to more people that there’s no single factor contributing
to food-price increases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Kutty Abraham in Dubai at 
 tabraham4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  