-- 
Stokes Cuts $1 Billion Debt as Media Bond Yields Tumble: Australia Credit

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-02-22T07:20:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/surging-food-costs-unrest-in-middle-east-may-drive-increase-in-stockpiles.html
Kerry Stokes’s A$2 billion ($2
billion) deal to create  Australia ’s biggest media company is
helping the billionaire reduce debt as the industry trims record
borrowings built up since 2006.  Stokes, 70, will cut A$1.1 billion of debt by arranging for  West Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd ., publisher of Perth’s
oldest newspaper, to buy Seven Media Group, the operator of
Australia’s top-rated national television network. The merger
comes about four years after Seven took on A$2.55 billion in
loans to expand through acquisitions.  Australia’s media organizations are seeking to reduce
leverage stemming from A$18.3 billion of takeovers after then-
Prime Minister  John Howard  relaxed ownership rules five years
ago. Credit-default swaps protecting against a default of  Fairfax Media Ltd . are the nation’s best performers in the past
year as the Sydney Morning Herald publisher pays down debt.  “Part of what Mr. Stokes is doing is spreading the debt
over a collection of strong, cashflow-producing businesses,”
said Rhett Kessler, who helps manage A$1.4 billion at Pengana
Capital Ltd. in Sydney. “It simplifies their structure and
gives them access to another robust cashflow vehicle.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold global media bonds
instead of government debt dropped to 146 basis points on Feb.
14, the lowest since May 3 and down by 36 since Aug. 31. In
Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 Media Index has climbed 5.7 percent
this year, more than double the gain by the benchmark index.    James Packer  started the 2006 mergers boom by selling his
television and magazine assets to a venture owned equally with
buyout firm CVC  Asia  Pacific Ltd. on the day the laws were
passed, taking on A$3.75 billion of debt. Fairfax, publisher of
the Sydney Morning Herald and the Melbourne Age, spent more than
A$2.7 billion in December 2006 to buy Rural Press Ltd.  Insuring Against Default  The cost of insuring against a default on debt sold by
Sydney-based Fairfax, the biggest issuer of bonds among
Australian-based media companies, has fallen 102.5 basis points
in the past 12 months to 184.5 basis points, according to data
provider CMA. The benchmark Markit Itraxx Australia index rose
13.9 basis points during the same period.  Credit-default swap contracts on Time Warner fell 8.8 to
53.75 in the past year while those covering ITV Plc, the U.K.’s
biggest commercial broadcaster, declined 56 to 205.6.  West Australian Newspapers, publisher of Perth’s sole daily
newspaper, adds the nation’s largest television broadcaster and
second-biggest Internet portal in its purchase of Seven Media.  The move follows investments announced by Packer,  Lachlan Murdoch  and Gina Rinehart since October in a market where
advertising funds are projected by Morgan Stanley to grow to a
record A$13.9 billion this year.  ‘Further Consolidation’  “If this deal goes ahead, this will be a potential vehicle
that can attempt further consolidation in the media space, in
the medium term,” said Matt Williams, a Sydney-based money
manager at Perpetual Ltd., which manages about $28 billion.  West Australian agreed to buy Seven Media for A$1.98
billion from Seven Group Holdings Ltd. and buyout firm KKR &
Co., the companies said yesterday. Including assumed debt, the
A$4.09 billion offer would be the biggest purchase of Australian
media assets ever, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of newspapers and books rose 2.9 percent in December
even as overall retail sales increased a less-than-expected 0.2
percent, according to the  statistics bureau .  Australia’s economy will expand 4.25 percent in 2011, from
a 2.7 percent annual pace in the third quarter of 2010, the
Reserve Bank forecasts. The nation, the world’s biggest supplier
of  iron ore , coal and wool, expects to earn A$211 billion from
raw materials shipments in the 12 months ending June 30, the
most ever.    Government Bonds   Australian government bonds dropped in the past six months,
pushing the yield on five-year debt up 77 basis points to 5.37
percent as the central bank raised  interest rates  seven times
between October 2009 and November 2010 to curb inflation.  The nation’s 10-year bond yield fell 4 basis points to 5.59
percent, or 208 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries. The yield gap between five-year government debt and
inflation-linked bonds, a gauge of consumer price gains
investors expect over the period, reached 2.89 percentage
points, down from this year’s high of 3.05 percentage points on
Feb. 8.  The extra yield investors demand to own Australian
corporate bonds instead of similar-maturity government debt has
fallen 20 basis points this year to 177 basis points, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The spread on U.S. company
bonds declined 18 basis points to 148.  Dollar Climbs  The Australian dollar climbed 12 percent in the past six
months to $1.001, touching a record $1.0256 on Dec. 31 as the
extra income from raw materials exports helped cut Australia’s
jobless rate to 5 percent, compared with 9 percent in the U.S.  The nation’s advertising market will probably expand 6.5
percent this year, led by a 17 percent growth in Internet
spending and 7 percent increase in television expenditures,
according to estimates last month at Morgan Stanley. Overall
spending rose 10 percent in 2010 after shrinking the previous
year, according to the broker.  West Australian will issue A$1.08 billion of stock and
A$250 million of convertible preferred shares to Seven Media’s
owners, as well as raising A$653 million from its own
shareholders by selling convertible loan notes. The company will
repay A$650 million of  Seven Group Holdings Ltd .’s liabilities
and take on debt that is being reduced to A$1.65 billion from
the A$2.1 billion level it stood at as of Dec. 25.  Fairfax Cuts Debt  The loan notes will be traded for one share each if the
transaction proceeds. Investors will receive a cash payout
should the deal fall through.  The takeover comes as Fairfax reduces debt taken on after
the Rural Press acquisition. The company’s credit rating may be
raised one level to the lowest investment grade,  Standard &
Poor’s  said in November, citing earnings growth, cost-cutting
and lower debt levels compared with cash flows.  CVC Asia may carry out an initial share sale of Nine
Entertainment Co., which runs the Seven Network’s closest rival,
in the middle of the year, the Australian Financial Review
reported this month, citing unidentified people familiar with
the matter. The Nine Network has about A$3.35 billion of debt
due two years from now, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Seven Group, which last year acquired Stokes’ Westrac
Holdings for about A$1 billion, will own as much as 34 percent
of West Australian News. KKR will hold a stake of about 13
percent, according to the statement.  Seven’s shares dropped 3 percent to A$9.02 today in Sydney,
and have risen 46 percent in the past six months. West
Australian’s stock is halted from trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  