-- 
U.K. FSA’s Ross Said to Battle for EU Market Regulation Post

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-02-22T10:05:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/u-k-fsa-s-ross-said-to-fight-brussels-insider-for-eu-market-regulator-job.html
Verena Ross, international director
of the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, is vying with
 European Commission  official Maria Velentza for the top
administrator job at the EU’s market regulator, according to
three people familiar with the selection process.  European financial regulators may vote as soon as today at
a meeting in Paris to put a woman into the post of executive
director at the European Securities and Markets Authority, which
began operating in January. Ross and Velentza are among four
candidates, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are private.  “Both are really first-class candidates and both have huge
experience,”  Eddy Wymeersch , former chairman of the Committee
of European Securities Regulators, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s difficult to predict what will come out
because it’s the decision of 27 members,” he said.  EU nations and the parliament agreed last year to establish
ESMA as one of three authorities in London, Paris and  Frankfurt 
to regulate the banking, securities and insurance industries
respectively. The European Parliament approved the appointment
of Dutch financial supervisor Steven Maijoor as chairman of ESMA
earlier this month. None of the chairmen of the three bodies
come from the FSA or European Commission.  Andrea Enria, head of the supervisory regulations and
policies department at the Bank of  Italy , will lead the European
Banking Authority from the start of March, while Gabriel Bernardino will head up the Frankfurt-based European Insurance
and Occupational Pensions Authority.  Market Rules  “It’s important that both candidates are women,”
Wymeersch said, because the commission and parliament want to
increase the number of women in senior regulatory roles.  The executive director of ESMA “shall be in charge of the
management of the authority and shall prepare the work of the
management board” of the securities regulator, which is tasked
with harmonizing market rules across the 27 European member
states, according to the  implementation order .  “Women should not be neglected or forgotten,”  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner, said in a
speech in Brussels yesterday.  FSA Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants , 55, is on the
board of the new insurance agency. FSA banking director Thomas Huertas is alternate chairman of the new EU banking authority,
filling in for Enria when he’s unavailable. Alexander Justham,
the FSA’s director of markets, is on the board of the securities
and markets regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 