-- 
U.K. Home Prices Rise Most in Four Months as Sellers Look to Spring Demand

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-02-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/u-k-home-prices-rise-most-in-four-months-as-sellers-look-to-spring-demand.html
U.K. home sellers raised asking
prices in February by the most in four months before an expected
seasonal upturn, Rightmove Plc said.  Average asking prices in England and  Wales  rose 3.1 percent
to 230,030 pounds ($373,600) from January, the operator of
Britain’s biggest property website said in a report published in
London today. The average number of properties for sale per
estate agent dropped to a 10-month low, also propping up values,
Rightmove said. In  London , prices rose 4.2 percent on the month.  While the  Bank of England  kept its benchmark interest rate
at a record low this month, banks are still curbing lending to
the majority of potential buyers. Rightmove said that’s
squeezing “Mr. Average” out of the market as banks focus on
buyers with large deposits. A possible increase in  interest
rates  later this year may boost the number of forced home sales
and “could alter the landscape” of the market, it said.  “Any hopes that transaction volumes may be on the
springboard preparing to return to historic norms will have been
dashed by lenders’ predictions that 2011 lending volumes will
match 2010’s dire levels,”  Miles Shipside , commercial director
of Rightmove, said in the report. “Mr. Average will be left out
in the cold in the buying and selling game unless the
beneficiary of a hereditary handout.”  Prices rose the most in the Yorkshire and Humberside region
in February, increasing 6.7 percent, while the West Midlands saw
a 1.4 percent decline, Rightmove said. Average asking prices in
London rose to 430,680 pounds in February and the number of new
sellers in the capital surged 21 percent.  Aggressive  Housing activity tends to increase during the spring
selling season and home sellers may be pricing properties more
aggressively, anticipating the rise in demand, Rightmove said.  Recent housing reports paint a mixed picture ahead of the
biggest government spending cuts since World War II. While
Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL said earlier this month that prices
fell for a fourth month in January, mortgage lender Halifax said
values unexpectedly rose as fewer homeowners put properties up
for sale. The  Council of Mortgage Lenders  said last week that
U.K. gross mortgage lending fell 13 percent in January.  The number of U.K. homebuilding permits granted by local
governments fell 9 percent to 32,953 in the fourth quarter, the
Home Builders Federation said today. That’s 22 percent lower
from a year earlier, the lobby group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  