-- 
U.K. Women See Barriers to Seeking Senior Roles, Survey Shows

-- B y   M a r i a   E r m a k o v a
-- 
2011-02-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/u-k-women-see-barriers-to-seeking-senior-roles-survey-shows.html
Women working for U.K. companies
continue to perceive barriers to attaining senior management
roles, according to a survey by  the Institute of Leadership &
Management , a management organization.  The survey, which polled around 3,000 managers, shows that
73 percent of female respondents believe in the existence of a
“glass ceiling” that restricts the advancement of women, while
36 percent of women feel that their gender has hindered their
careers, the London-based Institute said in a report released
today titled Ambition and Gender at Work. Among the male
respondents, only 38 percent believe there is a glass ceiling,
the report shows.    Mervyn Davies , former chairman of Standard Chartered Plc,
is drawing up a strategy for the government to increase the
number of women on U.K. company boards. Davies will present his
recommendations to the government this week, according to the
institute. In December he said he was “not convinced” that
setting quotas for the amount of female directors was a
solution.  “The imposition of boardroom quotas in the U.K. would be
an admission of failure for leaders,” Penny de Valk, chief
executive officer of the institute, said in the report. “If
early predictions about the Lord Davies review are correct, U.K.
Plc has two years to increase the number of women on their
boards.”  Norway was first among European countries to enforce
minimum female corporate management representation by setting
quotas in 2003.  Spain  followed in 2007 with its own legislation,
and France plans to impose a 20 percent quota by 2012 and 40
percent by 2016 for its 2,500 biggest companies.  “Rather than waiting for external legislation, now is the
time for employers to set voluntary targets for female
representation at board and senior management level, and hold
people accountable for meeting them,” de Valk said in today’s
report.  A study of FTSE 100 company boards published Dec. 2 showed
the proportion of women at senior levels in companies is around
12.5 percent. The  Female FTSE Board Report  by Cranfield
University School of Management found that among FTSE 250
companies the proportion was around 7.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Ermakova in London at 
 mermakova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  