-- 
Treasuries Rise as Protests, Violence in Libya Spur Demand for Safe Assets

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-02-22T16:20:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/u-s-10-year-notes-advance-as-libya-violence-spurs-demand-for-safer-assets.html
Treasuries rose, with U.S. 10-year
yields dropping to the lowest in more than two weeks, as
violence in  Libya  bolstered demand for the relative safety of
government debt.  Bonds advanced as a rally in crude oil futures to a 28-
month high boosted speculation fuel costs will limit global
economic growth. Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said he hadn’t
fled the country as the political crisis deepened after a
crackdown on demonstrators left hundreds dead. The U.S. is
scheduled to sell $35 billion of two-year notes today.  “The backdrop for Treasuries is fairly strong given the
potential for regime changes in the Middle East,” said Tom di Galoma, head of U.S. rates trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC, a
New York-based brokerage for institutional investors. “We could
see some short-term selling before the week’s auctions as the
market hasn’t set up for it yet, but the Middle East events are
a watershed moment, and will keep uncertainty in the market.”  The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell 11 basis points to
3.48 percent at 11:19 a.m. in  New York , according to BGCantor
Market Data. The 3.625 percent note due in February 2021 rose
29/32, or $9.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 101 6/32. The yield
dropped to the least since Feb. 3.  Two-year note yields also touched the lowest since Feb. 3,
falling as much as 7 basis points to 0.68 percent.  Oil Rises  Crude oil futures contracts for April delivery rose as high
as $98.48 a barrel in New York, the most since October 2008.  Libyan security forces attacked protesters yesterday as
demonstrations spread across the Middle East and North Africa.
The region produces 36 percent of the world’s oil, according to
statistics compiled by BP Plc.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $7.2 billion of Treasuries
maturing from August 2016 to February 2018 today as part of its
efforts to sustain the economic expansion.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.79 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 0.65 percent at the prior
offering of the securities on Jan 25. Investors bid for 3.47
times the amount for sale last month, higher than the average of
3.4 for the past 10 auctions. Indirect bidders, the category of
investors that includes foreign central banks, bought 27 percent
of the notes, versus the 10-sale average of 33.8 percent.  Pre-Auction Factors  “The uncertain and scary geopolitical landscape is taking
center stage in the global markets,” Justin Lederer and Amrut Bharambe, interest-rate strategists at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in
New York, wrote in a research note to clients. “Front end
yields may not be ‘as attractive’ as they were a few days ago,
but at this point investors are more worried about safety than
returns.”  Treasury will sell of $35 billion of five-year debt
tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year securities on Feb. 24.  Interest-rate derivatives show traders anticipate economic
growth that will fail to spark runaway inflation, even as global
food and energy prices soar and the Federal Reserve pumps $600
billion into the financial system by buying bonds.  Forward Look  Forward contracts on interest-rate swaps that allow
investors to lock in fixed payments for 10 years a decade from
now have risen to 5.30 percent, or where they were before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. deepened the financial
crisis in 2008. When adjusted for so-called  core inflation ,
they’re back to 2004 levels, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  “Ten-year yields have gotten to an appropriate level given
the pace of the economic expansion and inflation expectations,”
said Gregory Whiteley, a manager at DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los
Angeles , which oversees $8 billion. He sees value if yields
climbed to 4 percent.  Fund managers became more bearish on the outlook for
Treasuries through March, according to a weekly survey by Ried
Thunberg ICAP Inc. Ried’s sentiment index fell to 47 for the
seven days ended Feb. 18 from 49 the week before. A figure less
than 50 indicates investors expect prices to decline. The fund
managers surveyed turned less pessimistic when asked about the
outlook for Treasuries through June 30.  Residential real-estate prices dropped in the 12 months to
December by the most in a year, a sign the U.S. housing market
is struggling even as the rest of the economy recovers.
Confidence among U.S. consumers rose in February to the highest
level in three years as Americans became more optimistic about
their incomes and the economy.  “Housing sales are still scraping on the bottom and we may
still see housing declines ahead this year,” said Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia. “What is really important is the
risk emanating out of the Middle East and Northern Africa.
Unrest implies greater  risk aversion .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  