-- 
Hungary Pauses Rate Increases as Inflation Slows, Risk Drops

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-02-21T13:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/hungary-pauses-rate-increases-as-inflation-slows-risk-drops.html
Hungarian policy makers kept the
main interest rate unchanged today after three consecutive
months of increases as inflation slowed, wages dropped and
investors’ risk assessment of the country improved.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  left the two-week deposit rate
unchanged at 6 percent after raising it by 0.75 percentage point
since November. The decision matched the forecast of all 23
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Central bank President Andras Simor will explain the decision to reporters at 3 p.m. in
Budapest.  Hungarian policy makers were the first to begin raising the
benchmark rate to tackle inflation from among the three biggest
economies among the European Union’s eastern members, citing
accelerating inflation. The impact of commodity-cost increases
on consumer prices isn’t as “massive” as “some thought it
would be,” rate-setter Csaba Csaki said in a Feb. 16 interview.  “We expect unchanged rates in the short term,” Daniel Orosz, a Budapest-based economist at AXA Bank Europe SA, said in
an e-mail. “The continuation of the tightening cycle can’t be
ruled out in the medium term, which could above all be the
result of food and energy price rises.”  The inflation rate dropped to 4 percent in January from 4.7
percent in December, which was the highest in six months. Policy
makers target an inflation rate of 3 percent. Credit default
swaps, an indicator of a country’s perceived risk level, traded
at 309.382 basis points at 1:22 p.m. today from 377 basis points
a month ago. Gross wages dropped an annual 4.6 percent in
December, the most in 23 months.  Monetary Council Changes  Today’s meeting was the last one for the four outside
members of the Monetary Council, whose terms expire on March 1.
A parliamentary committee dominated by ruling-party lawmakers is
scheduled to nominate their successors after lawmakers approve
changing the nomination process today.  Previously the central bank president and the prime
minister could each nominate two outside members. Analysts and
investors see the changes as a way to “ensure the primacy of
politics over the economy, the curbing of the central bank’s
independence,” central bank Vice President Julia Kiraly told
parliament’s Economy Committee on Feb. 14.  Antal Rogan, the ruling-party chairman of the committee,
replied that he doesn’t expect the new Monetary Council members
to “suddenly change the direction of monetary policy.”  The looming change to the nomination procedure has split
analysts on whether the government will attempt to influence
decision-making in the Monetary Council.  New Members  Analysts at Raiffeisen International Bank AG and Erste
Group Bank AG were among those who said their concerns about
possible interference were eased by Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s denial of press reports saying he wanted to raise the
inflation target to allow for looser monetary policy.  Nomura Plc analyst Peter Attard Montalto, though, said he
came away from a meeting with Simor and government officials
earlier this month “more worried” about the future
independence of the Monetary Council.  Investors are pricing in higher rates for this year,
according to six-month forward-rate agreements, which stood at
6.23 percent before the rate decision.  “Markets see rates rising, but if we have a change in
Monetary Council members, then there is a chance they will be
more pro-government and they may contemplate cutting rates,”  Nigel Rendell , a London-based strategist at RBC Capital, said in
a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  