-- 
News Corp. Agrees to Purchase Elisabeth Murdoch's Shine for $673 Million

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-02-21T15:03:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/murdoch-s-news-corp-agrees-to-buy-daughter-s-shine-group-for-673-million.html
  Rupert Murdoch ’s  News Corp . agreed
in principle to buy his daughter’s U.K.-based television
production company,  Shine Group Ltd. , for 415 million pounds
($673 million).  Elisabeth Murdoch is expected to join the board of News
Corp. upon completion of the deal, the company said in an e-
mailed statement today. The move would bring her back into the
fold of her 79-year-old father’s media empire, where she worked
until 2000 at pay-TV company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc .  Shine, which produces hit shows such as “MasterChef” and
“Merlin,” will be “an important part” of New York-based News
Corp.’s expansion strategy for global TV operations, Deputy
Chairman Chase Carey said in the statement. Shine last month
said it hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. to advise on options and
growth opportunities, citing consolidation in international
production.  Shine, which Elisabeth, 42, founded in 2001, supplies
television content to U.K. TV companies including BSkyB, the
British Broadcasting Corp. and ITV Plc. Elisabeth declined a
seat on the board of her father’s company in 2009 because it
would conflict with her ownership of Shine.  Joining the board of News Corp., which owns 39.1 percent of
BSkyB, would have meant Elisabeth no longer qualified as an
independent producer.  The deal announced today for Shine follows Time Warner
Inc.’s purchase of another U.K. production company, Shed Media,
for 100 million pounds last August. Shed Media is behind shows
such as “Supernanny” and “Footballers’ Wives.”  Elisabeth’s brother,  James Murdoch , is the head of News
Corp.’s European and Asian operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 