-- 
Vakifbank, VEB, Naspers Lead Borrowers as Loans Double in Emerging Markets

-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 
2011-02-21T10:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/vakifbank-veb-naspers-lead-borrowers-as-loans-double-in-emerging-markets.html
  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO ,
Naspers Ltd. and Vnesheconombank are among emerging market
borrowers doubling loan volumes in the first quarter as
developing economies in Europe, the Middle East and Africa grow
twice as fast as those in the euro area.  Companies in the region signed $5.5 billion of syndicated
loans since the start of the year and are seeking $22.6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
total of $12.1 billion of loans completed in the first quarter
of 2010, data show.  Emerging market borrowers are seeking to finance expansion
as their economies are forecast to grow by as much as 4.6
percent this year, compared with growth of 1.5 percent in the
Eurozone, according to the International Monetary Fund’s World
Economic Outlook Update on Jan. 25. More than two-thirds of 2011
emerging market deals involve new money, compared with 45
percent in  Europe ’s developed markets, Bloomberg data show.  “In Europe we talk about refinancing old deals, in
emerging markets we talk about financing growth,” said Hiren Singharay, head of loan syndications for Europe, Africa and  South Asia  at Standard Chartered Plc in London. “Deal volumes
will definitely be higher this year, because of increased
commodity prices and because nearly every single emerging market
is growing and that growth has to be fed.”  Lower Borrowing Costs  Emerging market companies in the EMEA region have seen
their borrowing costs fall 42 percent to an average interest
rate of 173 basis points over benchmark rates during the past 12
months for investment-grade borrowers, from 295 basis points in
the previous 12-month period, Bloomberg data show. That compares
with an average interest margin of 104 basis points for
investment-grade borrowers in western Europe, according to
Bloomberg data. Companies are investment-grade if they are
ranked Baa3 and above by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- and
above by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Popular uprisings in Bahrain, Egypt and  Tunisia  so far
haven’t damaged emerging market borrowing. Only one company,
Cairo-based Egyptian General Petroleum Corp., is known to have
suspended negotiations for a new loan, according to Bloomberg
data. EGPC, which asked banks to submit bids for a five-year  term loan  by Jan. 17, later abandoned talks with lenders after
protests forced the resignation of President  Hosni Mubarak  on
Feb. 12.  Regional Volatility  Emerging market bond issuance between Jan. 14, when
Tunisia’s president Zine el Abidine Ben Ali was ousted following
a month of protests, until Feb. 17 was $90.5 billion, a record
for that period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg going
back to 1999.  “You can’t apply the volatility in the Middle East to the
whole region,” said Raouf Jundi, head of loan origination,
Middle East and  Africa , at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in
London. “Most of the countries that may be directly affected
are countries that generally do not borrow.”  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO, the state-run Turkish lender
known as Vakifbank, last week appointed WestLB AG to arrange a
one-year term loan to replace a $930 million deal signed last
year. The bank followed rival Akbank TAS in agreeing to pay
interest and fees of 110 basis points more than benchmark rates
for the financing, Bloomberg data show. That’s 10 basis points
lower than Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS agreed to pay on a $1
billion one-year deal in November, which was the lowest all-in
pricing for a Turkish bank last year, Bloomberg data show.  Naspers Loan    Naspers Ltd ., Africa’s biggest media company, will pay 175
basis points over the London interbank offered rate for a new
$1.4 billion  credit line  to replace a forward-start loan signed
in 2009, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with a 350
basis-point margin on the deal Cape Town-based Naspers is
replacing, which was due to come into effect from March,
according to the data.  Vnesheconombank,  Russia ’s state development bank known as
VEB, is in early talks with banks for an unsecured loan of $1.5
billion to $2 billion and is seeking a tenor of up to five years
at a lower margin than the 150 basis points negotiated by state-
owned Sberbank for a three-year deal in December, three people
with knowledge of the deal said Feb. 16.  VEB is rated Baa1 by Moody’s and BBB by S&P and Fitch.
Vakifbank is ranked Ba3 by Moody’s, BB by S&P and BB+ by Fitch.
Naspers is rated Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by Fitch.  “Now that all lenders are back in the market and not just
looking at prime names in Western Europe, there is clearly
demand for emerging market assets,” said Jundi. “As pricing’s
come down it’s also become more attractive for the borrowers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 