-- 
LVMH's Vuitton Said to Hire 700 Leather Workers This Year to Meet Demand

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-02-21T13:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/lvmh-s-vuitton-said-to-hire-700-leather-workers-this-year-to-meet-demand.html
Louis Vuitton, the fashion and
accessories brand owned by  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA ,
may hire as many as 700 leather workers this year to cope with
rising demand, a person familiar with the plans said.  Additions will be made at factories in  France , where about
70 percent of Vuitton’s leather goods are produced, as well as
in Spain and  California , said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. More increases may 
follow next year, according to the person.  Vuitton, which added 320 craftsmen last year, will open a
factory in Marsaz, France, next month after inventory shortages
led the Paris-based company to shutter 13 stores an hour early
in the run up to Christmas. The maker of 500-euro ($685)
Neverfull bags employs 4,000 to 5,000 leather workers, according
to an estimate by Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Luca Solca.  LVMH intends to increase Vuitton’s production capacity
“slowly, but surely” as demand outstrips supply, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault  said this month.  Revenue at LVMH’s fashion and leather goods unit climbed 13
percent to 7.58 billion euros last year, excluding acquisitions
and currency shifts. The outlook for 2011 is “excellent,” LVMH
said earlier this month.  As demand for leather accessories increases, LVMH is also
seeking to forge closer ties with  Hermes International  SCA after
amassing a 20.2 percent stake in the Paris-based maker of Birkin
bags. The world’s largest luxury goods maker won’t be a passive
investor in Hermes and can provide the family-controlled
business with strategic and operational help, Arnault has said.  Hermes wants LVMH to cut its stake to less than 10 percent,
the head of the 174-year-old company’s founding family told
Bloomberg News on Feb. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  