-- 
Wax Prince William Swaps Kate for Artist Rubell at London Show

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-02-21T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/wax-prince-william-swaps-kate-for-punky-n-y-artist-rubell-at-london-show.html
Prince William has a new lady on his
arm: a punky artist called Jennifer Rubell.  The grandson of  Queen Elizabeth II , who is set to marry  Kate Middleton  on April 29, has his wax effigy in London’s
 Stephen Friedman Gallery . Kate’s spot is vacant, so anyone can
slip a finger through the sapphire ring affixed to the prince’s
suit-jacket sleeve.  On this cloudy morning, William’s temporary consort is
Rubell, who created the work. With her punk-rock hairstyle and
wax jeans, she could be the daughter of Rolling Stones guitarist
Ron Wood.  “Found one of Kate’s hairs!” she jokes, as she lovingly
brushes the prince’s lapels for the cameras.  New York-based Rubell is one of the first artists to react
to the royal engagement. Daughter of Don and  Mera Rubell  -- who
are among the world’s most influential contemporary-art
collectors -- she knew  Andy Warhol  when she was a kid, was a
studio assistant for  Jeff Koons , and studied fine arts at  Harvard University .  “I’ve been engaged three times and never married: It’s a
subject that’s really interesting to me,” says Rubell, 40, who
has a five-year-old daughter from one of the three ex-fiances.  Intrigued by the fairy-tale aspect of the royal engagement,
she notes that even “strong, modern women” get “giddy and
excited and a little bit girlish” wearing the ring.  “Doing a piece that validates that fantasy, that accepts
it as a part of all women, was very important to me,” she says
in an adjacent room containing her “drinking paintings” --
canvases with taps that pour celebratory cups of gin or Madeira.  Food Art  Rubell knew so many artists growing up that she was
initially scared to be one. She got into food -- cooking it, and
writing about it.  Catering for family and friends, she created installations
with Styrofoam cups, empanadas, or potatoes. Some wound up in
places like the  Los Angeles County Museum  of Art and London’s
Saatchi Gallery (for auctioneer Simon de Pury’s wedding
reception). Then she switched to non-edible work.  Isn’t the royal sculpture a publicity stunt? “Yeah, me and
Warhol!” she says. “It’s absolutely a publicity stunt. But so
was their engagement announcement.” The artist explains that
her work, like  Pop Art , involves “a provocative engagement with
popular culture.”  Rubell has lots of Warhol stories. She apologizes for name
dropping, then tells me one from a party thrown by designer
 Halston  for guests including Ryan O’Neal and Farrah Fawcett.  Warhol Sketches  “Andy’s there. He’s like, ‘Mohammed! Napkins!’” she
recalls, emulating Warhol as he claps for Halston’s butler. The
butler brings napkins, folded in eights, and magic markers.  “He does Farrah’s eye, he does Ryan’s nose,” she recalls.
“When he gets to me, he says, ‘No, Jennifer, I want to do your
whole face!’ He opens up the napkin and does a drawing of my
whole face.” Rubell kept the napkin.  Rubell later worked in Koons’s studio at a time when Koons
was making naked close-ups of himself and his then wife, the
former porn actress Ilona Staller, or La Cicciolina.  “I’d come into work, and there’d be two slides on the
screen,” she says. “And he’d say, ‘Do I look bigger in that
one or that one?’ It was fantastic!”  Her job was to find sculptors willing to make his erotic
pieces, after Italian artisans prudishly refused. She took Koons
on a trip to  New Orleans  to meet Mardi Gras float makers.  Rubell calls herself a conceptual artist, and credits the
waxwork’s maker in the William piece’s title: “Engagement (with  Prince William  sculpted by Daniel Druet).”  “Much of the art that is made today is made by other
people,” she explains.  Collectors’ Child  I ask if her last name helped her, and I get long pauses.
“We can look at the number of collectors’ children who are
artists, which is somewhere between zero and zero,” she begins.  “It’s hard to say. Of course it helped me,” she says.
“But it’s not something that anybody gives to you, no matter
who you know, no matter who you’re related to.”  What if she were Prince William’s fiancee? Her mother
wonders the same, she says -- why he wouldn’t go for someone
with her look.  “You need the straight people for you to punk out,” she
concludes, skipping off to pose again beside the beaming prince.  “Jennifer Rubell: Engagement” ends March 5 at the Stephen
Friedman Gallery, 25-28 Old Burlington Street,  London  W1S 3AN.  Information: www.stephenfriedman.com or +44-20-7494-1434 or
 http://jenniferrubell.com/index.php?sec=projects   To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 