-- 
Two U.S. Banks May Open Offices in Nigeria, Aganga Says

-- B y   P a u l   O k o l o
-- 
2011-02-21T10:50:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/two-u-s-banks-may-open-offices-in-nigeria-aganga-says.html
Two U.S. banks are considering
opening offices in  Nigeria , part of a “big wave of investors”
planning to move into  Africa ’s most populous country, Finance
Minister Olusegun Aganga said.  “I’ve spoken to two U.S. banks that are considering
setting up here,” Aganga said in an interview in the capital,
Abuja, on Feb. 18. “One of them is at a more advanced stage
than the other.” He declined to name either institution.  Nigeria is looking for foreign investors in the financial
industry after the central bank was forced to bail out the
banking system in 2009 when equity investors failed to pay back
loans. The central bank fired the chief executive officers of
eight of the country’s 24 lenders and injected 620 billion naira
($4.1 billion) into the industry.  The government in sub-Saharan Africa’s second-biggest
economy after  South Africa  is also investing in roads, rail
lines, houses and schools to attract foreign investors keen to
provide goods and services for its more than 150 million people.
President Goodluck Jonathan announced plans in August to end the
monopoly of state-owned Power Holding Co. of Nigeria and open
the industry to private investment.  “Infrastructural reform is a big thing we’re doing,”
Aganga said. “The power aspect of it, we’re continuing as
planned, as set out in the roadmap.”  Under the program, the country plans to sell six state-
owned transmission and 11 thermal-generation companies by July,
Minister of State for Power, Nuhu Wya, said in November.
Investors have until March 4 to express their interest in the
companies, the Bureau of Public Enterprises, the Abuja-based
agency that helps sell state-owned assets, said in the statement
on Feb. 17.  Power Shortages  Power cuts occur daily in Nigeria, where demand for
electricity is almost double the current supply of more than
3,000 megawatts. The government wants to increase output to
14,019 megawatts by 2013. The bureau held meetings in Dubai and  London  last month and in  New York  and Johannesburg this month to
meet potential investors.  Foreign investors are also looking to build refineries,
petrochemical plants and fertilizer factories in the country,
Aganga said, without naming them.  “What I can tell you is that they are quality names, they
are in major sectors of the economy and we are talking about
large sums of money,” he said.  Nigerian Bottling Co. Plc, the bottler of Coca-Cola, Diet
Coke, Sprite and Fanta, plans to expand its business with a 45
billion naira ($293 million) investment over the next three
years, said Aganga, a former executive of Goldman Sachs Group
Inc.  The bottler is a unit of Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co.,
the world’s second-biggest bottler of Coca-Cola beverages, after
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. The company employs 6,000 people,
operating 13 bottling plants, 80 depots and more than 200,000
sales outlets in Nigeria, according to NBC’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Okolo in Abuja 
 pokolo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 