-- 
Wood Group Forecasts ‘Good’ Market Growth on Higher Spending

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-02-21T16:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/wood-group-forecasts-good-market-growth-on-increased-spending.html
  John Wood Group Plc , the U.K. oil-
services provider expanding in Africa and the Middle East,
forecast “good” market growth in the next few years as
companies step up spending on exploration and production.  Net income rose to $166 million in 2010 from $163.2 million
the previous year, the Aberdeen, Scotland-based company said
today in a statement. Wood Group expects to become the global
market leader in production facilities support after acquiring
PSN Ltd. for $955 million in December.  “We will continue to pursue both organic and acquisition-
led growth,” the company said. “Important new markets include
Angola,  Brazil ,  Canada , Malaysia and  Saudi Arabia .”  Wood Group, which this month agreed to sell its well-
support division for about $2.8 billion to  General Electric Co .,
plans to return at least $1.7 billion in cash to shareholders.
U.K. oil and gas companies will increase investment in projects
to 7.7 billion pounds ($12.5 billion) this year, up from 4.4
billion pounds last year, according to Wood Mackenzie
Consultants Ltd.  Oil and gas companies are expected to increase spending
this year in line with the 10 percent growth seen in 2010, Chief
Financial Officer  Alan Semple  told reporters on a conference
call. Wood Group also expects the “re-emergence” of cost
inflation this year and next, Chief Executive Officer Allister Langlands said.  Engineering operation results were “impacted by the soft
market in 2009 and early 2010, but recovery starting to come
through in good order book growth,” the company said.  “Overall, we anticipate good growth over the next few
years,” Langlands said in the statement. The company plans to
continue with “bolt-on” acquisitions, he said.  Wood Group fell 0.4 percent to 643.5 pence in  London . The
shares have risen 76 percent in the last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  