-- 
Yen, Dollar Strengthen on Speculation Unrest in Middle East Will Intensify

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-02-21T15:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/yen-gains-as-a-safe-haven-on-speculation-unrest-in-middle-east-will-spread.html
The yen and the dollar strengthened
against most of their major counterparts as concern that unrest
in the Middle East will spread boosted demand for safer assets.  Japan’s currency rose from a three-month low against the
euro as stocks fell in  Europe  and Asia and Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s son said the country may have a civil war. The euro
dropped as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party was defeated
in Hamburg, fueling concern that efforts to fix the sovereign-
debt crisis will be derailed. The pound retreated from a two-
week high against the dollar after Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  signalled he supported the Bank of England’s
decision to keep  interest rates  at a record low.  “We’re concerned about the situation in the Middle East,
and that’s going to keep  risk aversion  on the agenda, which
supports the dollar and the yen,” said  Niels Christensen , chief
currency strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen.  The yen strengthened 0.2 percent to 113.65 per euro as of
2:44 p.m. in  London . It reached 114.04 earlier today, the
weakest level since Nov. 22. It was little changed at 83.15 per
dollar. Japan’s currency gained the most against the South
Korean won, appreciating by 0.6 percent to 13.4416. It was 0.4
percent stronger against the Australian dollar at 84.05 yen.
The euro slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3665.  Currency moves may be exaggerated today because of lower
than usual trading volumes given the President’s Day holiday in
the U.S., Christensen said.  Civil War  Saif al-Islam Qaddafi called on Libyan protesters to engage
in dialogue or face a civil war that risks “hundreds of
thousands of dead” as a widening revolt posed the most serious
challenge to his father’s 41 years of rule. Libyan security
forces yesterday attacked anti-government protesters in
Benghazi, the nation’s second-largest city.  The North African country, holder of the continent’s
largest reserves of crude oil, has become the focal point of
region-wide protests ignited by the ouster of Tunisia’s
president last month and energized by the fall of Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  on Feb. 11. Violence has also flared in
Yemen, Djibouti and Bahrain.  The MSCI AC  Asia  Pacific excluding Japan Index snapped
three days of gains, losing 0.4 percent, while the Stoxx Europe
600 Index lost 0.5 percent.  The yen typically strengthens in times of political,
financial and economic turmoil. Japan’s trade surplus makes the
currency attractive because it means the nation doesn’t have to
rely on overseas lenders.  German Confidence  Europe’s common currency pared losses after a report showed
German business confidence unexpectedly rose to a record in
February. The Munich-based  Ifo institute  said its business
climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives, increased
to 111.2 from 110.3 in January. That’s the highest since records
for a reunified  Germany  began in 1991. Economists predicted the
index would hold steady, according to the median of 38 forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The euro climbed for a second day against its Swiss
counterpart, strengthening by 0.2 percent to 1.2955. It also
advanced by 0.2 percent against the Swedish krona to 8.7643.  “It’s the better-expected Ifo data today which is pushing
the euro versus the franc,” said Ursina Kubli, a currency
analyst at Bank Sarasin & Cie in Zurich. “All in all, the franc
is overvalued at the moment.”  Pound Slips  Sterling fell 0.2 percent to $1.6227, after strengthening
on Feb. 18 to $1.6263, its strongest level since Feb. 3. It was
little changed at 84.26 against the euro.  The  Bank of England  can “see through temporary increases
in  price levels  and look to permanent threats,” Osborne told
reporters in Paris yesterday following talks with Group of 20
finance ministers. The central bank has kept the benchmark
interest rate at 0.5 percent since March 2009, even as inflation
has accelerated to twice its 2 percent target. Sterling has
climbed this year on speculation the bank will be forced to
raise rates.    New Zealand ’s dollar climbed against 15 of its 16 most-
actively traded peers on speculation Fonterra Cooperative Group
Ltd. will raise its forecast for payouts to farmers, boosting
the nation’s economic recovery.  The currency, also known as the kiwi gained 0.3 percent to
76.35 against the dollar and was 0.2 percent stronger against
its Japanese counterpart at 63.51 yen.  The board of Auckland-based Fonterra, the world’s largest
dairy exporter, meets tomorrow after whole milk powder prices
climbed to a 31-month high. The dairy exporter raised its
forecast payment to farmers by 4.5 percent on Dec. 10, citing
higher international prices.  “Fonterra could be announcing an upward revision to their
forecast dairy payout for this season sometime this week,” said
Khoon Goh, head of market economics at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington. That should be taken positively by the  currency
markets .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  