-- 
Yoox Takes Marni Brand to China to `Fill the Gap' for E-Luxury

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-02-21T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/yoox-takes-marni-brand-to-china-to-fill-the-gap-for-e-luxury.html
  Yoox SpA  plans to open a second e-
commerce site in China next month to tap growing online demand
for  luxury goods  in the Asian country.  The site for the  Marni  fashion brand will go live on March
1, after the online retailer established a Chinese  Internet
service  for Emporio Armani in November, Yoox Chief Executive
Officer  Federico Marchetti  said in a phone interview.  Marni and Armani will be the only European luxury goods
brands with an e-commerce site operating from China, Marchetti
said. About 450 million Chinese are connected to the Internet,
making the country the world’s most-populated online market, and
the number is growing by about 100 million annually, he said.  “Delivering to China is different from having operations
in China,” Marchetti said. “The only way to do China seriously
is from  China .”  Yoox, based in Bologna,  Italy , opened an office and
logistics center in Shanghai last year. The company operates
online retailing and distribution for fashion and luxury goods
brands including Valentino and Dolce & Gabbana.  Luxury goods are set to be China’s fastest-growing consumer
category over the next five years, according to brokerage CLSA.
Customers from mainland China may account for 44 percent of
global luxury sales by 2020, CLSA estimated in a Jan. 19 report.  Most Chinese e-commerce retailers focus on the low end of
the apparel and accessories market, according to Marchetti. “We
have gone to fill the gap” for luxury, he said.  Yoox will introduce two or three more e-commerce sites in
China in 2011, including thecorner.com, its online multi-brand
retail business, Marchetti said. It will also accelerate luxury
brand openings over the next few years. The CEO said he expects
China to become one of the company’s top three markets by 2015.  The U.S. will likely become Yoox’s biggest market in 2011
after sales in the country exceeded Italy for the first time in
the fourth quarter of 2010, Marchetti said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  