-- 
Yuan Hits 17-Year High as Central Bank Signals Room for Gains

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-02-21T09:09:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-21/yuan-hits-17-year-high-as-central-bank-signals-room-for-gains.html
  China ’s yuan reached a 17-year high
today on speculation policy makers will let the currency gain to
help tame inflation.  The central bank set the yuan  reference rate  at the
strongest level since 2005 after Governor Zhou Xiaochuan was
cited by China Business News as saying in Paris on Feb. 18 that
exporters have room to survive more appreciation. The Group of
20 finance ministers said yesterday that they’ll craft an early
warning system for economic imbalances.  “A combination of a stronger yuan, reserve requirement
ratio hikes and  interest rates  will be used to contain inflation
pressures,” said  Patrick Bennett , a Hong Kong-based strategist
at Standard Bank Group Ltd. He added that the currency’s gain
“isn’t linked to the G-20” and “the phrasing remains vague
and allows plenty of wiggle room for countries to manage how
they see fit.”  The yuan reached 6.5654 per dollar today, the strongest
level since China unified official and market exchange rates at
the end of 1993, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System in  Shanghai . The spot rate closed 0.1 percent higher
compared to Friday’s level at 6.5668 as of 4:40 p.m.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were unchanged at
6.4135 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contract reflects bets the currency will gain 2.4 percent in a
year.  The People’s Bank of China strengthened its daily fixing by
0.12 percent to 6.5705 per dollar. The currency is allowed to
trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the central bank’s
rate. The U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against
the currencies of six major trading partners, fell for a fifth
day.  Inflation Focus  China reported Feb. 15 consumer prices increased 4.9
percent in January from a year earlier, faster than 4.6 percent
in December.  G-20 talks ended yesterday in Paris, where U.S. and
European officials maintained China’s  exchange rate  management
undermines the world economy by fuelling domestic inflation,
filling currency reserves and exacerbating western trade gaps by
handing Chinese exporters an edge in global markets. Xinhua News
Agency today cited finance minister Xie Xuren as saying at the
meeting major reserve currency exchange rates should be kept
stable.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  used his personal
press conference to lambast China for what he called
insufficient appreciation by the yuan. While the yuan has risen
3.4 percent against the dollar in the six months, it fell 4.2
percent against the euro.  “China’s currency remains substantially undervalued, and
its real effective exchange rate -- the best measure to judge
its currency against all of its trading partners -- has not
moved much in this latest period of exchange-rate reform,”
Geithner said. China is “leaning heavily” against appreciation,
he also said.  --Sonja Cheung. Editors: Sandy Hendry, Dirk Beveridge  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sonja Cheung in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7574 or
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  