-- 911 Call Shows Driver Followed Commerce Chief After Crash
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-07-13T23:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/911-call-shows-driver-followed-commerce-chief-after-crash.html
A man who was in a car struck by a
vehicle operated by then-U.S. Commerce Secretary  John Bryson 
told an emergency operator he thought Bryson was intoxicated and
followed the car, according to a tape of that call. Tests later
showed Bryson was not drunk.  Bryson, 68, quit his cabinet position June 21, less than
two weeks after being involved in the series of minor car
accidents near  Los Angeles . He was treated for a seizure after
the accidents and said he resigned due to an unspecified medical
condition.  “We have a drunk driver that hit us and fled,” the caller
told the 911 operator, according to a recording released today.  The Los Angeles County district attorney’s office declined
to file charges against Bryson in connection with the accidents.
Bryson passed a sobriety test at the scene, and blood tests
later showed that he had no alcohol in his system but had taken
Ambien, a sleeping drug, at the “low end of therapeutic
levels,” according to the district attorney’s evaluation.  Investigators couldn’t say whether that was a factor in the
collisions, and there was insufficient evidence to charge Bryson
with driving under the influence, according to the evaluation.  The 911 caller described the events on June 9 in San
Gabriel,  California , after Bryson hit his car about 5 p.m. and
proceeded down the street, striking a concrete divider and
another vehicle. The driver of the first car then blocked
Bryson’s car, and police arrived moments later, according to the
recording.  Felt ‘Drowsy’  Bryson, wearing gray pants and a polo shirt, was found by
police slumped in his Lexus, according to a San Gabriel Police
Department report released today under a California Public
Records Act request.  The Commerce Secretary said he had not taken any
medication, though he felt “drowsy.” Asked why, he replied,
“It’s mid afternoon,” and didn’t appear to be aware he had
been involved in auto accidents, according to the report.  Taken to a hospital in Arcadia, he was checked in under the
name “Camron Mendoza” by police who knew he was the Commerce
Secretary and wanted to guard his privacy, according to the
police report. The report does not explain why that name was
selected.  Bryson told police he had attended an hour and a half Yoga
class earlier that day and had not consumed any water, according
to the report. He also suffers from low  blood pressure ,
according to the report.  Bryson, the former chief executive officer of  Edison
International (EIX) , said in his resignation letter to President
 Barack Obama  that the seizure he suffered could be a distraction
from his performance as head of the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net 
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  