-- AAA Yields at Zero Drive Investors to Belgian Debt: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-07-13T04:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/aaa-yields-at-zero-drive-investors-to-belgian-debt-euro-credit.html
Investors are relinquishing the
sanctuary of AAA  bonds  as yields near or below zero on German,
Dutch and Finnish debt drive them to seek higher returns on
Belgian and French securities.  “Investors may seek security, but not at all costs,” said
Johannes Jooste, a senior strategist at Merrill Lynch Wealth
Management in  London , which oversees $1.8 trillion globally.
“Longer-term investors are looking at yields and thinking what
possible gain is there in essentially paying some governments to
look after their cash. The  default risk  in some countries like
 France ,  Belgium  and Austria must be fractionally different from
 Germany  if you take a long-term view.”  Belgian securities, rated AA by  Standard & Poor’s , are the
top government bond performers this month, handing investors a
2.9 percent return relative to a 1.8 percent gain for German
debt. Austrian bondholders made 2.3 percent, beating Finnish
debt’s 2.1 percent advance. The extra yield investors demand to
own 10-year French debt rather than German bunds has narrowed to
100 basis points from 139 at the start of the year.  German, Dutch and Finnish yields have dropped to records as
 Europe ’s three-year old debt crisis spurred demand for the
highest-rated securities. Investors accept a negative yield of
0.042 percent on  German two-year notes , paying for the comfort
of getting most of their capital repaid in 2014.  Italy  became the latest euro member to be downgraded after
Moody’s Investors Service today cut the nation’s bond rating
by two steps to Baa2 from A3 and said further reductions are
possible. That makes Italy’s rating the same as those of
Kazakhstan, Bulgaria and  Brazil , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Cutting Deposits  Banks in the 17-nation euro region more than halved their
deposits at the  European Central Bank , according to figures
released yesterday. They parked 324.9 billion euros ($396.6
billion) with the ECB on July 11, down from 808.5 billion euros
the previous day and the least since Dec. 21. That’s after the
central bank cut its deposit rate to zero this month.  The yield on German two-year notes fell to a record minus
0.042 percent yesterday, 12 basis points below Austrian two-year
securities and 37 basis points less than Belgian debt of similar
maturity. A negative rate means investors who hold the debt
until expiry will receive less than they paid to buy.  “We are not sure if Germany deserves a level of discount
in the market that it has,” said  John Stopford , the London-
based head of fixed income at Investec Asset Management, which
oversees $98 billion. “Our view is that Germany will ultimately
have to pick up the bill.”  Zero Bound  Investors have pushed yields on AAA bonds, both inside and
outside of the euro region, to record lows. Finnish two-year
borrowing costs of fell to a record yesterday, while Denmark
sold two-year notes at a negative yield on July 3 for a second
time in as many weeks. The yield on five-year Swiss bonds
dropped below zero for the first time in May.  European leaders remain divided over how to solve the
crisis as the outlook for economic growth dims. Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  and French President Francois Hollande
advocate bonds backed by all 17 members of the currency, while
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opposes the plan.  France, which was stripped of its AAA ratings by Standard &
Poor’s in January, had zero growth in the first quarter while
joblessness is rising. In Belgium, the central bank forecast the
economy will contract 0.1 percent this year. Business confidence
fell to the lowest in 2 1/2 years last month, while corporate
bankruptcies rose in the first half of this year.  Not all investors are convinced a 100 basis-point yield
premium on French debt makes them worth buying.  Binary Risk  “Ultimately, these bonds are vulnerable,” said Mark Dowding, a senior portfolio manager at Bluebay Asset Management
which has $41 billion in assets. “If the problem in the euro
zone is fixed, they are unlikely to outperform Italian or
Spanish debt. If the euro stays broken, their current
outperformance is unjustified.”  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender, recommends
investors buy five-year French bonds even as it describes the
country as “the weakest link.” The securities yield 62 basis
points more than five-year German notes. The bank also favors
similar-maturity debt from the Netherlands,  Austria  and Belgium.  “These countries may have their own problems and
challenges, but overall they are relatively safe,” saidMohit Kumar, the head of European interest-rate strategy at Deutsche
Bank in London. “There’s plenty of cash in the market and it
needs to be parked somewhere. You might as well do it where you
get some returns. It doesn’t make a lot of sense to buy German
debt at current levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  