-- ABB Earnings May Disappoint on Large-Order Drought: Redburn
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-07-13T11:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/abb-earnings-may-disappoint-on-large-order-drought-redburn-1-.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest
manufacturer of power grids, may report second-quarter earnings
below analysts’ estimates amid a dearth of big-ticket orders and
higher-than-expected charges from the integration of an
acquisition, Redburn Partners said in a note to investors.  ABB has booked about $300 million in large orders for
transformers and industrial drives in the three months through
June, compared with a two-year quarterly average of $1 billion,
London-based analyst  James Moore  said.  Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan’s organic growth targets
are being squeezed by lower demand in China and  Italy .
Integrating the $3.9 billion Thomas & Betts, which became part
of ABB in the second quarter, may cost $65 million more than
expected, Moore said. This charge has not been announced by ABB,
Moore said.  Large orders, which are worth more than $15 million each,
were 23 percent of ABB’s total orders in the fourth quarter of
2011 and 14 percent in the first quarter of 2012. ABB’s
announced order intake in the first half is down 25 percent year
on year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  ABB’s low-voltage unit saw no improvement in  China  and
southern  Europe  as of May 31. More than half of the 40 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg have not updated their recommendations
since mid-May, potentially leaving the consensus figure too
inflated.  Track Record Threatened  Hogan is budgeting for China’s slowdown to stabilize,
though there’s been no improvement in the low-voltage market,
division head Tarak Mehta said in a May 30 interview. His
division is unlikely to reach the upper end of revenue targets,
he said.  Power distribution equipment sales will continue to suffer
because of a poor outlook for China construction, data from
Bloomberg Industries show.  ABB is poised to report earnings before one-time items of
$827 million, according to an estimate of 15 analysts, compared
with 926 a year earlier. Revenue of $10 billion, compared with
$9.7 billion a year earlier, according to 16 analyst estimates.  Missing profit estimates would dent ABB’s record of beating
analysts’ predictions. The shortfall in profit versus consensus
in the first quarter was only the second miss in a row since
2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  