-- Acer Cuts PC Shipment Forecast on Global Economy, Windows 8
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-07-13T04:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/acer-cuts-pc-shipment-forecast-on-global-economy-windows-8-1-.html
Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s third-largest
computer maker, more than halved its growth forecast for this
year amid a weakening economy and a more cautious view toward
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s new operating system. The stock fell.  Shipments for the full year will be unchanged to 5 percent
higher than last year, compared with Acer’s earlier estimate of
10 percent growth, Kevin Lu, investor relations spokesman for
the Taipei-based company, said by phone today.  Acer, which posted its first loss on record last year after
losing market share, is looking to Microsoft’s new Windows 8
operating system to spur sales of consumer PCs amid the
popularity of Apple Inc.’s iPad. Distributors are now more
conservative about building inventory of Windows 8 computers,
while the global economy is weaker than what was expected in
February when Acer provided its earlier forecast, Lu said today.  Acer  dropped  2.4 percent to NT$29.10 as of 12:36 p.m. in
Taipei trading, headed for the lowest close since Aug. 26, while
the benchmark Taiex index lost 0.1 percent. The stock has
declined 17 percent this year, lagging a 1 percent advance in
the Taiex.  Economic executive and consumer sentiment within the euro
area dropped to its lowest in more than 2 1/2 years in June, the
European Commission reported June 28.  Europe  was Acer’s largest
market last year, accounting for 35 percent of sales, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Windows 8  Devices using Windows 8, Microsoft’s first major computer
operating system release since 2009, will go on sale at the end
of October, the Redmond, Washington-based company said July 9.
Windows 8 is the “most important development” in the computer
industry for the next few years, Acer president  Jim Wong  said
June 4.  Acer shipments climbed 3.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, its first growth in two years and helping
it retake third spot from  Dell Inc. (DELL) , researcher Gartner Inc.
said July 11. Its parent-level sales declined 2.3 percent for
the first six months of this year, it reported this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net . 