-- Macy’s Wins Bid for Court Order in Martha Stewart Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-07-13T21:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/macy-s-wins-bid-for-court-order-in-martha-stewart-lawsuit.html
Macy’s Inc. was granted a
preliminary injunction in its lawsuit against  Martha Stewart 
Living Omnimedia Inc. over an agreement to sell products in  J.C.
Penney Co. (JCP)  stores.  Justice  Jeffrey K. Oing  of  New York  state  Supreme Court  in
 Manhattan  said after a hearing today that he was granting Macy’s
motion for a preliminary injunction blocking  Martha Stewart
Living (MSO)  from taking any steps under the agreement with J.C.
Penney on making, marketing, distributing or selling certain
Martha Stewart-branded products involved in the dispute,
including bedding, bath, kitchen textiles, dinnerware and
cookware.  Macy’s sued in January to stop New York-based Martha
Stewart Living from executing a sales agreement that was
announced in December with J.C. Penney, saying it has the
exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-branded products in
certain categories.  Oing said that Macy’s had shown that it was likely to
prevail on its breach-of-contract claim as it had established
that Martha Stewart Living’s agreement with J.C. Penney was
“mutually incompatible” with the Macy’s pact when it concerns
exclusive products, and would suffer “irreparable harm” if
those products were sold at J.C. Penney.  “The scales tilt in favor of Macy’s,” Oing said.  Revive Sales  J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas , acquired a 17 percent
stake in Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million as the U.S.
department-store chain seeks to revive sales with new mini-
stores dedicated to the home goods brand.  Martha Stewart Living yesterday said J.C. Penney agreed to
pay at least $282.9 million in sales commission over a 10-year
period under an amended agreement, a $110.5 million increase
from the terms disclosed in December. The amended pact also adds
new products.  “Macy’s is pleased with the court’s granting of a
preliminary injunction,”  Jim Sluzewski , a spokesman for the
company, said in an e-mailed statement. “We expect to continue
to exclusively sell Martha Stewart-branded merchandise in
categories such as cookware, kitchen utensils, bed and bath for
the term of our contract, which currently extends to January
2018.”  Ruling Preliminary  The judge’s ruling is preliminary and Martha Stewart Living
will continue to defend its “legal and commercial position,”
Sarah Brown, a spokeswoman for the company, said in a statement.  “We continue to believe that we have not breached our
agreement and that extending our brand to a wide array of
retailers is beneficial to all our partners,” she said.  Darcie Brossart, a spokeswoman for J.C. Penney, didn’t
respond immediately to a request for comment.  The parties are scheduled to return to court in November,
and Oing told them to prepare for a trial in the case around
that time.  “I think we are teed up and ready to go,” the judge said.  The case is  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 