-- AerCap in Play With Airlines Leasing as Cerberus Sells
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-07-13T20:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/aercap-in-play-with-airlines-leasing-as-cerberus-sells-real-m-a.html
For buyers seeking to capitalize on
the airline industry’s shift away from buying planes, no
aviation-leasing company is cheaper than  AerCap Holdings NV. (AER)   The biggest independent jet lessor by number of planes
traded at 6.5 times profit yesterday, 57 percent less than the
average of publicly listed peers  Air Lease  Corp.,  Aircastle Ltd. (AYR) 
and  Fly Leasing Ltd. (FLY) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
With the $1.69 billion company  valued  at 19 percent less than
tangible net assets, pursuing a deal is attractive to management
after Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc sold its aviation unit
this year at a premium to book value, said  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Carriers are increasingly leasing rather than buying,
driving the proportion of the global fleet that’s rented to 35
percent from 25 percent in 2000, according to  Fitch Ratings . At
the same time, Cerberus Capital Management LP, the second-
biggest  shareholder , is paring its stake in AerCap six years
after the private-equity firm took the company public. AerCap,
which is studying options including a sale, should be valued at
$23 a share in a takeover, said stockholder Lyrical Partners LP,
an 84 percent premium to yesterday’s close.  “You’re not just buying the planes, you are buying the
whole business about how you buy, lease, rent-out, maintain --
all the operations that go with that are worth a lot,” Andrew Wellington, who oversees $330 million as New York-based managing
partner and chief investment officer of Lyrical, said in a
telephone interview. “If somebody wanted to really get big in
this space, they would do well by starting with AerCap.”  Expanding Industry  Frauke Oberdieck, a spokeswoman for Amsterdam-based AerCap,
said the company had no comment on market rumors. AerCap
disclosed in May and repeated in June that it’s studying
alternatives including a sale.  The jet-leasing industry has expanded since its creation in
the 1970s as carriers seek to preserve capital following a
string of bankruptcies. Lessors often purchase planes directly
from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS, taking strategic positions by
locking in delivery slots years away and betting that  air travel 
will grow and fuel prices will rise, requiring airlines to
expand their fleets to meet demand and save on fuel costs with
newer, more efficient equipment.  They can also enter into sale-leaseback arrangements
whereby the airlines place the orders and sell the jets to
companies such as AerCap and Air Lease, which at $1.92 billion
is the only U.S.-traded leasing company with a bigger market
capitalization. Rivals include units of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , as well as closely held
Jackson Square Aviation LLC and Avolon.  Dominating Show  Fitch said July 11 that the industry’s share of the global
fleet has increased about two-fifths during the past decade.
Orders and commitments from leasing companies dominated this
week’s Farnborough air show outside  London , the biggest
aerospace exposition of the year. All of the $20.6 billion in
deals Boeing identified there were with lessors, not airlines.  AerCap said in a July 11 statement that it signed lease
agreements for 20 aircraft during the second quarter. It had 294
owned or managed planes as of March 31, according to the
company’s website.  Cerberus, the private-equity firm named after the mythical
three-headed creature that guards the gates of hell, agreed to
sell 5 million shares back to AerCap in June. The  investment
company  listed AerCap in a 2006 initial public offering at $23 a
share. The stock subsequently  plunged  as low as $1.83 in 2009
following the global financial crisis and a 19 percent decline
in AerCap’s net income in 2008.  No Recovery  A representative of New York-based Cerberus declined to
comment.  While AerCap  rebounded  to $12.52 yesterday, including a 12
percent rally on July 10 as a Wells Fargo analyst said the
company could fetch at least $17 a share in a deal, Cerberus
hasn’t recouped all losses that followed the IPO. Earnings at
AerCap, which fell 17 percent last year, are projected to surge
53 percent in 2012, according to the average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares rose 1.8 percent to $12.75 today, closing at the
highest level since March 2. The stock advanced as much as 4.5
percent during the trading session.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. completed its purchase
of the aircraft-leasing division of Edinburgh-based RBS for
about $7.3 billion, RBS said June 1. The sale price implied a
less than 5 percent premium to book value, or assets minus
liabilities, according to Gary Liebowitz, an analyst at Wells
Fargo in  New York .  ‘Maximize Value’  AerCap “saw RBS get sold at a small premium to book
value,” he said in a phone interview. “So, if they want to
maximize value and if the private-equity investors want an exit,
then that would be one way to possibly maximize value.”  China Development Bank  Corp., Wells Fargo and a consortium
led by  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  also bid for the RBS division that
Sumitomo won, people familiar with the process said in November.
Earnings growth at AerCap,  estimated  to average 25 percent a
year through 2014, may lure bids from those banks, according to
FBR & Co.’s  Scott Valentin . Gregory Lewis, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG in New York, said China Development Bank might
be most drawn to AerCap.  “It makes perfect sense to me why banks would be
interested,” Valentin, an Arlington, Virginia-based analyst,
said in a phone interview. “I’m surprised we haven’t seen more
banks do something this big,” he added. “If you can get
comfortable with the management team you’re buying, and we think
AerCap is a strong management team, it’s a very high-returning
investment.”  GE Division  Xu Fei, a China Development Bank spokesman, didn’t answer
calls to his office and mobile phone. Elise Wilkinson, a
spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said the company doesn’t comment on
market rumors. Navleen Prasad, a spokeswoman for Macquarie,
declined to comment.  AerCap Chief Executive Officer Aengus Kelly joined the
industry in 1998 with Guinness Peat Aviation, a predecessor of
the current company. He ran AerCap’s operations in the Americas
before assuming the CEO role in 2011. Keith Helming, the chief
financial officer since 2006, previously worked as CFO of the
aircraft-leasing division of GE, the world’s biggest jet lessor
by number of planes and the 11th-largest company in the world by
stock-market value.  AerCap’s return on equity, a measure of profitability, will
be 11.07 percent this year, analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show, higher than its three publicly traded peers.  ‘Very Frustrated’  While a takeover is a possibility, a deal probably isn’t
coming soon, according to  Ray Neidl , an analyst at Maxim Group
LLC in New York. He has a $17 share-price estimate for the
company even without a takeover, based on the assumption the
stock should trade for about eight times his forecast of 2013
adjusted earnings of $2.11 a share.  “The management of AerCap is very frustrated about their
low stock price,” Neidl said in a phone interview. “It would
be logical for them to hire an investment bank to look at
opportunities to increase stock value,” he said. “I don’t
think a sale is imminent, but management is just looking at
their options.”  Air Lease trades for 24 times earnings, or more than triple
AerCap’s multiple. Los Angeles-based  Air Lease (AL)  is run by Steven Udvar-Hazy, the chairman and CEO who calls himself the godfather
of aircraft leasing after helping create the industry while
still in college.  For AerCap, the company’s second-biggest shareholder,
Cerberus, probably wants to finally exit its investment after
the shares languished for years, Credit Suisse’s Lewis said.
Cerberus owns about 20 percent of the company.  “The issue is: How do they monetize their position?” he
said in a phone interview. “Private equity in general wants to
hold their asset for a time and then liquidate their position.
They tend to not be long-term investors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka1@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  