-- Taiwan Dollar Has Weekly Drop on Growth Concern; Bonds Advance
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-07-13T08:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/taiwan-dollar-set-for-weekly-drop-on-growth-concern-bonds-gain.html
Taiwan’s dollar completed its
biggest weekly decline in a month as slower growth in China
damped the island’s export outlook.  Government bonds  gained.  Asia’s largest economy expanded 7.6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the least in three years, according
to official data. Italy’s bond rating was cut and its negative
outlook reiterated by Moody’s Investors Service as the euro-
area’s third-biggest economy faces higher funding costs. The
 Bank of Korea  unexpectedly cut borrowing costs yesterday for the
first time in more than three years.  “The trend of a weakening Taiwan dollar and stronger
appetite for bonds will continue as global growth is losing
momentum,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First
Securities Inc. in Taipei. “Taiwan’s central bank is likely to
cut  interest rates  soon as  South Korea  had already done so.
Taiwan sees South  Korea  as its main rival in consumer
electronics.”  Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.3 percent this week to close at
NT$30.015 against its U.S. counterpart in Taipei, according to
Taipei Forex Inc. That was the biggest drop since the five days
ended June 1. The currency was little changed today. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, was steady at 3.7 percent.  Falling Yields  Taipei-based  Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s third-largest computer
maker, lowered this year’s shipment target to a maximum 5
percent growth from a previous forecast of a 10 percent increase,
the  Central News Agency  cited an unidentified company official
as saying. The island’s exports contracted for a fourth month in
June, while inflation was the highest since January, data showed
this month.  Taiwan’s monetary authority kept  borrowing costs  unchanged
at 1.875 percent at a quarterly meeting last month. The  consumer
price  index rose 1.77 percent in June from a year earlier,
following a 1.74 percent increase the previous month, official
data show.  The yield on 1.25 percent notes due March 2022 fell eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, this week to 1.138
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. The yield
dropped four basis points today.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  dropped two basis
points today and this week to 0.491 percent, the lowest since
April 25, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Centre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  