-- Americans Living Larger As New-Home Sizes Defy Economy
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-07-13T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/americans-living-larger-as-new-home-sizes-defy-economy.html
Even as the  U.S. economy  struggles
to rebound from the worst recession since the Great Depression,
Americans are living larger.  Larger, as in larger homes: two-story foyers, twin front
staircases, children’s wings, dedicated man caves, coffee bars,
four-car garages, and bedroom closets large enough for a fifth
vehicle.  The percentage of new  single-family homes  greater than
3,000 square feet has grown by one-third in the last decade,
according to data released last month by the U.S. Census Bureau.
The increase has occurred even while 4.3 million homes have been
foreclosed upon since January 2007, a result of the housing-
bubble collapse and economic meltdown. Slightly more than 1 in 4
new homes built last year were larger than 3,000 square feet,
the highest percentage since 2007.  “It’s about opportunity,” Jack McCabe, chief executive
officer of  Deerfield Beach , Florida-based McCabe Research and
Consulting, said in a telephone interview. “It’s about  interest
rates . And it’s about short memories.”  On a slight rise above Randolph,  New Jersey ,  Toll Brothers
Inc. (TOL)  is building a subdivision with 25 homes, each on 2.5-acre
lots. Houses in Randolph Ridge start at $800,000, with some
going for more than twice that amount. The township, halfway
between  New York City  and the Pennsylvania border, is part of
Morris County, where about 50 of the nation’s Fortune 500
companies are headquartered or have facilities.  Classic Exurb  Randolph is the classic American exurb, with no real town
center and one main state road lined with  car dealerships  and
chain retail stores. Sport utility vehicle-driving consumers
arrive in front of shops along Route 10 with the grim intensity
of Marines charging into battle. The town’s Wikipedia  profile 
waits until the fourth word to use the adjective “affluent.”  “Our customers generally are very successful people,”
said Christopher Gaffney, a group president for Toll Brothers, a
Horsham, Pennsylvania-based luxury home builder. “These people
are very sophisticated buyers, and they know exactly what they
want.”  What they want, apparently, includes a 7,400-square-foot
Georgian home that has a five-zone air-conditioning system, five
furnaces and a master-bedroom closet with the approximate
dimensions of a Manhattan studio apartment. With an unfinished
basement, the four-bedroom model home sells for almost $1.7
million.  Super-Sized  The new crop of super-sized houses are sprouting after the
average sales price for a new home dropped to $267,900 last year
from $292,600 in 2008.  The Census Bureau  reports  that the average size of a U.S.
house rose in 2011 to 2,480 square feet, up from 2,392 square
feet in 2010. The 2011 figure is 62.6 percent larger than the
1,525-square-foot average size in 1973.  Gaffney strolls through the model in  Randolph , showing off
the small touches: A counter specifically for laptops in the
kitchen, in case there’s not enough room on the sprawling
granite island or next to the coffee bar. A farm-style sink,
deep enough to bathe a medium-sized toddler. Separate bathrooms
for each bedroom. And an upstairs playroom with enough counter
and shelf space for a high school science lab.  Demand for large, luxury homes began dropping in September
2005, Gaffney said, right after  Hurricane Katrina  ravaged the
 Gulf Coast . Since then, it’s been an up-and-down cycle. Did he
ever worry that the American love affair with large homes would
end? Gaffney processes the question in a millisecond.  “No,” he said. “It was just a matter of when things
would turn around, not if. People got tired of putting their
lives on hold.”  Home Sales Fall  To a large extent, people are still putting off new homes.
The number of new single-family dwellings built last year fell
to 447,000, off 72.9 percent from the 2006 high of 1.65 million.
About 236,000 of the new ones, or more than half, were built in
the South.  The largest percentage of homes bigger than 3,000 square
feet, 29 percent, was also built in the South. The second-
largest percentage of big houses was in the Northeast, where 27
percent of the 44,000 new homes were larger than 3,000 square
feet.  “They think they need it because the people they compare
themselves with are upscaling or expanding,” Juliet Schor, a
Boston University sociologist and the  author  of “The Overspent
American: Why We Want What We Don’t Need,” wrote in an e-mail.
“There’s so much money at the top, they have to spend it in
some way.”  ‘Arms Race’  The behavior of wealthier households can have an adverse
effect on less-wealthy people,  Robert Frank , a Cornell
University economist, wrote in an e-mail, describing the
phenomenon as a “positional arms race.”  “Additional spending by the rich shifts the frame of
reference that defines what the near-rich consider necessary or
desirable, so they too spend more,” he wrote in an American
Prospect  article , “Post-Consumer Prosperity.”  “Such expenditure cascades help explain why the median new
house built in the U.S. is now about 50 percent larger than its
counterpart from 30 years ago, even though the median real wage
has risen little since then,” Frank wrote.  Danny Jong, a  New York  commercial and residential real
estate investor, had other issues in mind when he visited
Randolph Ridge. Jong, who currently lives in Parsippany, needed
a place for his mother and the children that he and his wife
would like to have.  ‘Go Bigger’  “I grew up in a big house,” said Jong, 41, who was raised
in northern New Jersey. “Why not go bigger if you can afford
it?”  He said he’s not sure what he’ll do with all the space in
his Randolph home, though a live-in housekeeper will take up
some room. He said Toll Brothers’ reputation for quality, low
interest rates, price per square foot and proximity to his New
York office influenced his family’s decision.  “I’ll also have a man cave,” he said. “That was
something I really wanted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in New York at 
fbass1@bloomberg.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts in  Chicago  at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark McQuillan  in  Washington  at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 