-- Lanco Said to Seek Sale of $483 Million Real Estate Business
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2012-07-13T06:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/lanco-said-to-seek-sale-of-483-million-real-estate-business.html
Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , the Indian
power producer, is seeking buyers for a real estate business it
values at 27 billion rupees ($483 million), said a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  The company has asked investment banks to submit proposals
to manage the sale, said the person, who asked not to be named
as the details are confidential. Assets for sale include a 100-
acre (40 hectare) residential and commercial property called
Lanco Hills in the southern city of Hyderabad, the person said.  Lanco, with net debt of 266 billion rupees as of March 31,
is seeking to exit peripheral businesses and focus on power as
India pushes to increase generation capacity. The company also
plans to raise as much as $750 million by selling a stake in its
power business, according to the person.  “Real estate is a non-core asset and we are not looking at
building our project pipeline in this segment,” Philip Chacko,
director for  investor relations  at Lanco, said in an interview.
He declined to comment on the sale or valuations.  Shares in Lanco have rallied 68 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 38.4 billion rupees. Lanco had
14.1 billion rupees of cash at the end of March, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Lanco Hills, primarily a residential township, has plans
for offices, hotels and one of the  world’s tallest  residential
towers, according to the development’s website. In May, India’s
 Supreme Court  overruled a lower court decision that had stopped
the  company  from selling the properties to third parties. Lanco
said the ruling removed “all hurdles towards the development of
the entire project.”  Lanco, which has another 50 acres of land under development
in Chennai in southern  India , is seeking 20 billion rupees for
the Hyderabad property and 7 billion rupees for the Chennai
assets, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  