-- Annan ‘Appalled’ by Reported Syrian Massacre in Tremseh
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-13T15:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/annan-appalled-by-reported-syrian-massacre-in-tremseh.html
United Nations  special envoy  Kofi Annan  said he was “shocked and appalled” by the Syrian
government’s use of heavy weapons in fighting around the town of
Tremseh in what the opposition called a massacre of more than
300 people.  “I condemn these atrocities in the strongest possible
terms,” Annan said in an e-mailed statement from Geneva today.
The assault with tanks, artillery and helicopters violated a
commitment by President Bashar al-Assad “to cease the use of
heavy weapons in population centers.”  As many as 305 people were killed yesterday in Tremseh, in
the central province of Hama, George Sabra, a member of the
opposition Syrian National Council, told reporters today in
Istanbul. The Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  put the death
toll in an e-mailed statement earlier at about 160 people, 30 of
whom were burned to death.  Several demonstrations erupted today across  Syria ,
including in the capital of Damascus and its suburbs, to protest
the killings, the Local Coordination Committees in Syria, an
opposition activist group, said in an e-mail.  “Whole families were wiped out,” the head of the SNC,
Abdulbaset Sieda, said at a news conference in Istanbul that was
televised by broadcasters including  Al Arabiya .  He called for an urgent UN Security Council meeting on the
killings and urged Syrians to step up anti-government protests.  ‘Raise the Stakes’  “More than 200 men, women and children appear to have been
killed in this latest atrocity,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said today in an e-mailed statement. “Everything we have
seen of the Syrian regime’s behavior over the last 17 months
suggests that these reports are credible.”  The U.S. will seek to “raise the stakes even further” for
Syria at the UN,  Josh Earnest , a spokesman for President  Barack Obama  said, without giving specifics.  “If there was any doubt before yesterday about the need
for a coordinated international response at the United Nations,
that doubt has been eliminated,” Earnest told reporters
traveling with the president to a campaign event in  Virginia .  UN observers are ready to go to Tremseh and “seek
verification of the facts, if and when circumstances permit,”
Annan said.  Major-General Robert Mood, commander of the UN observer
mission in Syria, said his team verified fighting in Tremseh
that involved mechanized units and helicopters, according to an
e-mailed transcript of a news conference he gave in Damascus.  UN Deadline  The reported killings came a week before the deadline for
the  Security Council  to decide whether to extend an observer
mission’s 90-day mandate in light of the continuing violence.
The monitors’ operations have been largely suspended because of
the danger posed to them.  “For the sake of the Syrian people we now need genuine and
effective leadership from the Security Council,” Mood said.
“Government and opposition must be willing to make concessions
and sit down at the negotiating table.”  The assault on Tremseh began at dawn when Syrian troops
surrounded the town of 10,000 mainly Sunni Muslim residents with
150 tanks and armored vehicles and started shelling, SNC member
Abdulrahman Alhaj said today by phone from Istanbul. Then
soldiers, backed by the pro-government Shabiha militia, stormed
the town for five hours, he said.  “Some residents were chased and slaughtered with knives as
they fled to the fields,” he said. “Others were burned in
their homes, which the troops set on fire because they couldn’t
break into them.”  ‘Terrorist’ Groups  The violence since the March 2011 start of the uprising
against Assad has claimed more than 17,000 lives, according to
Rami  Abdel Rahman , head of the  Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights , an opposition group. He said the casualties include
4,348 members of the government’s security forces. At least 30
people were killed in Syria today, the Local Coordination
Committees in Syria said in an e-mail.  The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said the deaths in
Tremseh occurred when security forces clashed with “terrorist”
groups after local residents called for help.  The clashes led to “severe losses” among the rebels and
three government security personnel were killed, SANA said.  Colonel Riad al-Asaad, head of the opposition Free Syrian
Army, called for a nationwide strike.  “I urge people to close down all roads and call upon all
government employees to stay at their homes and not go to work
in official directorates and to hold a general strike so we can
paralyze the entire country, because this regime does not
understand anything apart from the language of force,” he told
Al Jazeera television.  Military Airport  The Syrian National Council reported on its Facebook page
today that rebels fired 25 rocket-propelled grenades at the
military airport in Mazzeh, blowing up three planes, a fuel
depot and a storage area for ammunition in retaliation for the
“massacre.”  A bomb planted in a car exploded on the crowded Mazzeh
Street in the Syrian capital today, state-run Syrian TV said. It
said there was material damage but no casualties.  Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, secretary-general of the  Organization
of Islamic Cooperation , a group of 57 states, condemned the
“heinous massacre” in Tremseh in an e-mailed statement today
and urged the UN Security Council to take action to stop the
bloodshed.  Alhaj said the full scale of the “massacre” became
apparent after residents returned to the town late yesterday.  “Activists and members of the Free Syrian Army are still
looking for bodies,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  