-- Lansdowne Sees Bank Stocks Withstanding Libor Scandal
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-07-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/lansdowne-sees-bank-stocks-withstanding-libor-scandal.html
Traders at Lansdowne Partners LP,
the biggest European hedge fund that invests in stocks, said
banks will hold their value amid  Barclays Plc’s (BARC)  attempted
rigging of  interest rates  as shares already reflect bad news.  “The underlying trading environment now looks increasingly
stable for both U.S. and U.K. retail banks,” Stuart Roden and
Peter Davies, co-managers of Lansdowne’s Developed Markets
Strategy fund, wrote this month in a client letter obtained by
Bloomberg News. “While clearly news flow is likely to remain
volatile, we do feel that this kind of uncertainty is well-
embedded in current investor thinking.”  Barclays, the second-biggest U.K. bank by assets, agreed
last month to pay a record 290 million pounds ($447 million) for
manipulating the London interbank offered rate. At least 12
firms, including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and HSBC Holdings Plc, are under
investigation, leaving investors and analysts concerned that
others may face fines.  The  FTSE 350 Banks Index (F3BANK)  of six U.K. lenders has fallen 3.9
percent since June 27, when regulators in the U.S. and Britain
announced the Barclays fine. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 U.S.
lenders has dropped 0.6 percent.  Banks in  Europe  also have been hurt by the European
sovereign-debt crisis and new rules that will force lenders to
boost capital, contributing to a 25 percent slump in the 38-
company  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index 
during the past 12 months.  Lloyds’s Liability  Lansdowne’s Developed Markets fund, with about $7.5
billion, gained 7.1 percent in the first half of the year,
according to the letter. The London-based firm oversees about
$11 billion total.  Hedge funds  that invest in  stocks  fell 2.9
percent on average through June 30 while all  hedge funds  climbed
0.9 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Developed Markets fund posted a 20 percent decline in
2011, hurt by investments in banks including  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) , according to the letter. Roden and Davies said
Lloyds, the U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender, was among their best
performing companies in June, when the stock surged 23 percent.
Andrew Honnor, a Lansdowne spokesman, declined to comment.  Lloyds’s legal claims stemming from the Libor investigation
may reach 1.5 billion pounds, including private litigation,
Cormac Leech, an analyst at London-based Liberum Capital Ltd.,
wrote in a July 11 note to clients. Investors have wrongly
concluded that Lloyds is insulated from the probe because it has
a small interest-rate derivative trading book, wrote Leech, who
recommends that clients sell the stock.  Global Probe  Libor is determined by estimates from 18 banks including
Barclays and Lloyds on how much it would cost them to borrow
from one another for different time frames and in different
currencies. It’s a reference for more than $350 trillion of
assets ranging from interest-rate derivatives to mortgages.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ,  Justice
Department  and the U.K. Financial Services Authority alleged
Barclays traders asked co-workers to offer Libor submissions
that would benefit their swaps positions. Barclays also lowered
its submissions during the 2008 credit crunch to mask the bank’s
difficulty borrowing money, regulators said.  “Part of one’s frustration at recent events -- both
behavior and political reaction -- was that it dominated more
positive developments in the period, as central bankers rightly
began to focus on lowering bank funding costs to stimulate
recovery,” Roden and Davies wrote.  The portfolio managers said it’s ironic that “current
policy in both Europe and the U.K. looks astonishingly close to
ensuring that Libor rates are managed down from market-driven
levels,” according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  