-- Anthony Davis Joins Olympic Team as Griffin Needs Knee Surgery
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-13T15:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/anthony-davis-joins-olympic-team-as-griffin-needs-knee-surgery.html
Anthony Davis  was officially added
to the U.S. Olympic men’s basketball team after  Blake Griffin 
was diagnosed with a torn meniscus that will require surgery.  Griffin, the Los Angeles Clippers’ forward who injured his
knee during a practice in Las Vegas two days ago, will need
arthroscopic surgery on his left knee, forcing him to miss the
London Olympics, USA Basketball said in a news release. The
games open on July 27.  “Griffin is expected to be at full readiness when the
Clippers’ training camp opens this fall,” according to the
release.  Davis, who was drafted with the No. 1 pick by the New
Orleans Hornets last month after helping the University of
Kentucky to a national title as a freshman, had been among the
final cuts for the Olympic team.  Davis, a 6-foot-10 forward, was asked to report to training
camp following Griffin’s injury. He scored nine points in almost
10 minutes of action last night during the U.S.’s 113-59
exhibition-game win over the Dominican Republic.  Griffin, who averaged 20.7 points, 10.9 rebounds and 3.2
assists in 66 games last season in the NBA, joined several U.S.
Olympic basketball team members or candidates who were affected
by injury. The Miami Heat’s  Chris Bosh  and guard  Dwyane Wade ;
 Derrick Rose  of the Chicago Bulls; and  Dwight Howard  of the
Orlando Magic skipped the Olympic trials because of injuries.  “This is another unfortunate injury, but we have to
continue to move on, and we’re very fortunate to have Anthony
Davis available,” USA Basketball Chairman Jerry Colangelo said
in a statement. “Anthony offers our team additional height and
length, and this will be an incredible experience for him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 