-- Tanzania Will Auction Additional Deep Water Block Near Gas Finds
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-07-13T10:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/tanzania-will-auction-additional-deep-water-block-near-gas-finds.html
Tanzania will auction an additional
deep water oil and gas block in its next bidding round near the
sea border of  Mozambique , where companies including  Eni SpA (ENI)  and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  have discovered natural gas.  Tanzania will open a licensing round for nine offshore
exploration blocks on Sept. 13, up from a planned eight
prospects announced in April, said Kelvin Komba, principal
petroleum geologist at Tanzania Petroleum Development Corp.  “We figure this block, 1C, has more or less the same
geology and structure as Mozambique,” he said in an interview
yesterday in the commercial hub,  Dar es Salaam . “If Mozambique
is going to develop an adjacent block we want overlap so those
operators can talk, cooperate together and share information.”  Explorers have flocked to  East Africa  over the past six
years, spurred by the discovery of oil in Uganda in 2006,
natural-gas deposits in Tanzania and an oil find in Kenya in
March. Tanzania produces gas from at least two offshore fields
for domestic power generation and the government estimates its
reserves of the fuel are at least 28.7 trillion cubic feet.  Oil and gas companies operating in the region have found
more than 100 trillion cubic feet of gas, almost enough to meet
global demand for a year.  Offshore Tanzania, BG Group Plc and  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  are
currently drilling the Papa-1 well in Block 3, which is expected
to be completed by the end of this month, Kombe said. Petroleo
Brasileiro SA is scheduled to start drilling in Block 6 in the
fourth quarter, while Statoil and partner Exxon Mobil Corp. are
due to sink three wells beginning in the first quarter of next
year in the same block as the Zafarani and Lavani deposits,
estimated to hold about 9 trillion cubic feet of gas.  The global tender being issued for the south-eastern
blocks, known as 1B, 1C, 2A, 3A, 3B, 4A, 4B, 5A and 5B in water
depths from 2,000 meters (6,500 feet) to 2,500 meters, will
close May 2013. Tanzania’s last seven unlicensed offshore
blocks, further off the country’s  Indian Ocean  coast in depths
of 3,000 meters, will be auctioned at a later date, Komba said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ; David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam
via  Paul Richardson  at  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  