-- Apple Returns to Green Registry After Dropout ‘Mistake’
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-13T20:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/apple-says-removing-products-from-epeat-rating-a-mistake-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said it’s rejoining an
environmental rating system after its exit from the group
threatened to halt sales to governments and universities that
use the registry when making purchasing decisions.  Apple’s decision to drop out of the environmental system
called EPEAT was a “mistake” and its eligible products are now
back on the registry, Bob Mansfield, Apple’s senior vice
president for hardware engineering, said in a statement  posted
on the company’s website.  “It’s important to know that our commitment to protecting
the environment has never changed, and today it is as strong as
ever,” Mansfield said in the statement.  San Francisco officials said earlier this week that the
city planned to suspend purchases of Apple computers after it
withdrew from the rating system, which is used to determine the
environmental impact of electronics. Many colleges that use
EPEAT to guide purchasing decisions, including the  University of
California , said they were considering following suit.  “Our relationship with EPEAT has become stronger as a
result of this experience,” Mansfield said, adding that the
company would be working with the group to help the current
rating system “evolve.”  Robert Frisbee, EPEAT’s chief executive officer, said the
group “looked forward to Apple’s strong creative thoughts on
ongoing standards development.”  ‘Natural Alignment’  “Our relationship with Apple is based on our natural
alignment,” Frisbee said in a statement on EPEAT’s website.
“As Apple drives innovation in product design, EPEAT drives
innovation in standards design.”  Greenpeace International, an environmental group that has
previously criticized Apple’s energy consumption, commended the
company’s return to the EPEAT registry.  “We applaud Apple for ’thinking green, not greedy’ and
listening to its customers’ calls not to pit design needs
against the environment,” Greenpeace said in a statement. “We
await more details that ensure that future versions of Apple’s
computers will be built with easily removable, recyclable and
upgradable parts, unlike the current MacBook Pro.”  The  San Francisco  Department of the Environment said it was
“pleased to learn that Apple is rejoining EPEAT.”  “Independent standards, eco-labels and registries like
EPEAT are critical tools for verifying the environmental
integrity of products for consumers,” Melanie Nutter, director
of the department, said in a  statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  