-- BP Venture’s Oil License May Be Revoked, Chubut Says
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-07-15T12:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/argentina-province-threatens-to-revoke-bp-unit-oil-license.html
(Corrects headline and first paragraph to specify  Pan
American  Energy is a joint venture in story published July 13.)  Argentina’s Chubut province is
reviewing the license of an oil field operated by a  BP Plc (BP/)  joint
venture and may revoke it, the provincial oil minister said.  The review started after operations were interrupted last
month during a workers’ protest, Minister Ezequiel Cufre said in
an interview in  Buenos Aires . BP owns 60 percent of Pan American
Energy LLC, which operates Cerro Dragon in southern Argentina.  An estimated 54 percent of the oil field’s output was
restored as of June 30 following a strike by construction
workers who sought the same pay as oil workers. Pan American has
said it may fire construction workers who went on strike for
almost three weeks and damaged company property.  “If the company continues in its attempt to fire 173
employees and acts with intransigence, we will retaliate with
the same intransigence,” Cufre said. “Firing that many workers
could represent a breach of contract terms and the license could
be revoked. No one should be fired until declared guilty by a
court following a valid process, nor should the contracts be
terminated.”  The remaining 40 percent stake in Pan American is owned by
Bridas Corp., a joint venture comprised of  China ’s  Cnooc Ltd. (883) 
and Argentina’s Bulgheroni brothers.  “The people who caused damage and vandalism in Cerro
Dragon shouldn’t come back to work at the oil field,” Pan
American Energy Institutional Relations Vice President Guillermo
Baistrocchi said in an e-mailed response.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  