-- Marie Antoinette’s Girl Friend, Mira Sorvino’s Bronx
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n   a n d   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/marie-antoinette-s-girl-friend-mira-sorvino-s-bronx.html
As the French Revolution approached,
pamphleteers accused Marie-Antoinette of a scandalous liaison
with one of her noblewomen, Mme. de Polignac. The slurs seem to
have been unfounded, but they did the queen immense harm.  “ Farewell, My Queen ,” a historical drama directed by
Benoit Jacquot (from a novel by Chantal Thomas), treats the
rumors as fact -- sketchy history, but a near-great film.  It unfolds at Versailles beginning on July 14, 1789.
Something has happened in faraway Paris involving the Bastille,
but it’s hard for Sidonie Laborde (Lea Seydoux), the alert young
lady-in-waiting who reads to the queen, to get precise
information.  Sidonie, who’s wary by nature, knows it’s safer to let
people think she’s clueless -- which she often is. Her loyalty
to the queen is real, though.  Marie-Antoinette (Diane Kruger) is as shallow and
capricious as you’d expect of a woman unaccustomed to hearing
the word “no.” But she’s cunning enough to pick up on a
devotion that may be useful to her.  Nobody at Versailles is sure whether to flee. (Bruno
Coulais’ nervous, intelligent score amplifies the tension.)  Imperious Lover  When the queen hatches a plot to get her lover, the
imperious Gabrielle de Polignac (Virginie Ledoyen), to safety,
using Sidonie as a decoy (as “bait,” the young lady
impertinently observes), the movie turns into a thriller.  It’s all splendidly overripe. Marie-Antoinette, of course,
is gorgeous; so is Sidonie; so is Mme. de Polignac. Jacquot
can’t wait to get the clothes off these luscious women, and the
cheesy way he lights their nude scenes is the film’s only
obvious flaw.  He shows much more respect toward their gowns -- and
Christian Gasc and Valerie Ranchoux’s voluptuous designs deserve
it. But what really sets the movie apart is the way it conveys
the texture of life before indoor plumbing.  You can practically feel the starch of rich fabrics against
unwashed skin, smell the acrid odors under the perfume in the
dank palace halls.  Jacquot almost never shows the poor, except for one glimpse
at the beginning that’s so horrifying it fully explains why this
pampered court is about to meet its doom.  “Farewell, My Queen,” from Cohen Media Group, is playing
in  New York  and L.A. Rating: ***1/2 (Seligman)  ‘Red Lights’  In “ Red Lights ,”  Sigourney Weaver  and Cillian Murphy play
ornery academic psychologists who go around exposing psychics as
frauds.  The big fish they would like to land is Simon Silver
( Robert De Niro ), a Huey P. Long type with (apparently) the
power to levitate, heal and fell his detractors with heart
attacks. That isn’t a very photogenic way to die.  Piper Laurie’s spectacular crucifixion in “ Carrie ” -- a
movie that “Red Lights” often evokes, to its detriment --
evolved because the director, Brian De Palma, knew that the
heart attack her character died from in  Stephen King’s  novel
lacked visual drama.  Rodrigo Cortes (“ Buried ”) wrote the draggy script and
directed. There’s one fight in a restroom so violent that a
man’s head is used to crack off the side of a sink. (It does
nothing to advance the plot, since the brawlers just walk away,
as immune to lasting harm as Wile E. Coyote.)  I’ve never yet seen a movie that took the side of the
skeptics. But “Red Lights” approaches its subject with a
solemnity that would be pushing it for a high mass.  When the researchers return to a room they’ve just left to
find all their papers scattered, I was less than awed. If you
really want to make an argument for the existence of God in a
movie about people who can pop  light bulbs  and bend spoons, you
need better special effects.  “Red Lights,” from Millennium Entertainment, is playing
in New York and L.A. Rating: * (Seligman)  ‘Union Square’  Nancy Savoca’s “ Union Square ” opens with Mira Sorvino, in
her “ Mighty Aphrodite ” trollop mode, tossing the kind of
public hissy fit  New Yorkers  know to walk past quickly.  This micro-budget indie about sisterly bonds makes a very
small case for slowing down.  Sobbing and screaming obscenities into a cell phone,
Sorvino’s tacky, dressed-too-young Lucy pleads with her married
businessman lover to ditch work for a quick hook-up. She has,
after all, come all the way from the Bronx.  Hip Life  In “Union Square,” that’s not just an outer borough, it’s
the outer limits. Rejected and dejected, Lucy invades the hip
loft life of her estranged sister Jenny (Tammy Blanchard),
plopping onto a tastefully modern couch like a stain.  As gentrified as Union Square itself, Jenny shares the loft
with her handsome fiance Bill (Mike Doyle). He knows nothing of
her rough-and-tumble Bronx upbringing -- he thinks she’s from
 Maine  -- and together they run an organic food business, drink
organic vodka and shop at the farmers’ market.  “You’re trying to pass,” Lucy yells during one of the
caricature clashes.  Savoca (“ Household Saints ”), directing from a script
cowritten with Mary Tobler, peels the facades effectively, if
unsurprisingly. Lucy, who stayed in the Bronx to care for the
sisters’ ill mother ( Patti LuPone , in a brief but movie-stealing
flashback), has more heart than her gaudy “Real Housewives”
appearance would suggest, and Jenny can’t keep the emotional
walls up forever.  But even at 80 minutes, “Union Square” feels stretched,
bickering its way through one revelation after another before
arriving, like a train on schedule, at sentimentality.  “Union Square,” from DADA Films, is playing in New York
and  Los Angeles . Rating: *1/2 (Evans)  (Greg Evans and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s interview with Peter
Watson and Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writers on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 