-- Australia Fast Bowler Brett Lee Quits International Cricket
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-13T05:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/australia-paceman-brett-lee-retires-from-international-cricket.html
Australia  paceman Brett Lee, who was
the world’s fastest bowler at his peak, said he’s quitting
international cricket after a 13-year career.  Lee, 35, said in an interview with Australia’s Channel Nine
today that retirement had “been in the back of my mind for a
few months,” and that he had planned to retire after the World
Twenty20 tournament in  Sri Lanka  in September and October.  “I woke up this morning after sleepless and restless night
and realized this was it,” Lee said at a later news conference
at the Sydney Cricket Ground. “You get to a point in your life
when you decide enough is enough.”  Lee’s announcement comes four days after he was forced to
return home from Australia’s one-day series in England because
of a right calf strain, the latest injury of an international
career during which he’s had more than a dozen operations. He’ll
continue to play in the domestic Big Bash and Indian Premier
League Twenty20 competitions.  He leaves the national team second on the list of
Australian  one-day wicket-takers  with 380, one behind Glenn McGrath. Lee claimed 310 wickets in 76 Tests, the fourth-most
for Australia, before quitting elite five-day cricket almost 2
1/2 years ago to prolong his career in the shorter formats.  Lee, who delivered the ball at speeds close to 150
kilometers per hour (93mph), also played 25 Twenty20
internationals, taking 28 wickets.  Lee’s Legacy  His deeds inspired children to take up the sport and bowl
fast, Cricket Australia Chief Executive Officer James Sutherland
said in a statement.  “His record as a wicket-taker and leader of the attack is
fantastic and speaks for itself, but his resilience and ability
to bounce back after numerous injuries has also been
impressive,” Sutherland said.  Lee declined a contract with the Sydney-based New South
Wales state team last month, declaring his intention to win an
upgrade to a Cricket Australia deal by playing enough one-day
and Twenty20 matches for the national squad.  His final game for Australia came last week in Durham,
 England , where he hurt his calf while playing in his 221st one-
day international. He said he wondered as he was clapped off
whether it would be his last appearance for his country.  “There’s still the Big Bash, there’s the IPL,” Lee told
reporters today. “I’m not totally losing my cricket thrill or
the chance to play. Obviously it won’t be for the Australian
cricket team, which will be sad, but I know I’ve made the right
call.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  