-- Haven Appeal Sends Bond Sales Above $2 Trillion: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-07-13T16:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/haven-appeal-sends-bond-sales-above-2-trillion-credit-markets.html
Companies worldwide are selling
bonds at the second-fastest pace on record with investors seeing
the debt as an alternative to traditional havens such as
government securities that are now paying negative yields.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer, and
Mexico City-based  America Movil SAB de CV  lead sales this week
of at least $74.2 billion, bringing this year’s total to $2.08
trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s second
only to the $2.37 trillion issued at this point in 2009.  Investors are seeking corporate bonds with investment-grade
yields that average a record-low 3.13 percent, or 2.13
percentage points more than government securities, and balance
sheets that hold near record amounts of cash, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. At the same time, stocks
and commodities are losing money as  Europe ’s debt turmoil
spreads and the global economy falters.  “For an increasing number of investors, corporate bonds
are serving as de facto substitutes for  Treasury securities , but
with higher yields,” Edward Marrinan, macro credit strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in
a telephone interview.  Company bond offerings are exceeding the pace set in the
same period of 2011 by $3.2 billion, Bloomberg data show. Sales
slumped in April after a record first quarter amid Europe’s
deepening debt strains and signs of a U.S. economic slowdown.  Stocks, Commodities  Corporate debt has returned 6.45 percent this year, already
exceeding the 5.16 percent in all of 2011, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate index.
That compares with a 3.63 percent return, including reinvested
dividends, on the MSCI All-Country World Index of  stocks  and a
loss of 4.65 percent on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
24 commodities.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. declined, with the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors
use to hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreasing 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 112.8 basis points
as of 11:22 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, increased 0.5 basis point to 23 basis points
as of 11:25 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Mexico-based Grupo Financiero BBVA Bancomer SA are
the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities
by dealers today, with 61 trades of $1 million or more as of
11:35 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The unit of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-
largest lender, sold $1 billion of 6.75 percent, 10-year bonds
yesterday.  Five-year credit-default swaps on JPMorgan Chase & Co. fell
3.7 basis points to a mid-price of 125.1 basis points, according
to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market. That’s about the lowest since May 10, the day JPMorgan
first disclosed a loss from  credit derivatives  traded in its
chief investment office in  London , prices compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Government Gap  Global bond offerings are reviving after sinking in April
to $209.6 billion, the slowest month of the year, Bloomberg data
show. Sales reached a record $1.2 trillion in the first quarter.
Issuance was $3.92 trillion in all of 2009.  Average yields on investment-grade corporate bonds are down
from this year’s high of 3.99 percent on Jan. 3 on the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch Global Broad Market Corporate index.  Even as yields tumble, investors still benefit from the gap
with government debt. The extra yield investors demand to hold
investment-grade company bonds rather than government debt is 19
basis points more than the low this year on March 20 and
compares with 78 basis points five years ago before the credit
seizure, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  In the U.S., sales revived this week to at least $33.8
billion from $1.2 billion in the holiday-shortened period ended
July 6 and compare with a weekly average of $26 billion this
year, Bloomberg data show.  Monsanto Bonds  “For issuers these circumstances are a boon,” Marrinan
said. “Near record-low Treasury yields and enormous global
demand for high-quality corporate exposure make for excellent
conditions to borrow.”  Investor confidence in corporate debt may also be bolstered
by a default rate of 2.7 percent as of the end of the second
quarter, compared with a historical average of 4.8 percent since
1983, according to Moody’s. The ratings firm forecasts the rate
will rise to 3 percent by year-end.  Monsanto Co., the world’s biggest seed company, issued debt
including $250 million of 30-year bonds at a 3.6 percent coupon,
the lowest for that maturity, on July 9, Bloomberg data show.  America Movil  sold $1.25 billion of 3.125 percent, 10-year
notes yielding 168 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries and $750 million of 4.375 percent, 30-year
securities, the data show.  Slowdown Signs  “They got tight spreads over an incredibly low base
interest rate,” said Francis Rodilosso, an investment manager
at Van Eck Associates Corp., calling the wireless carrier
controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim  a “highly-regarded”
emerging market issuer.  The  International Monetary Fund  will cut its 3.5 percent
estimate for global growth this year, Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said last week. The “key  emerging markets ”
of  Brazil , China and  India  are showing signs of slowdown and the
IMF’s growth outlook “has regrettably become more worrisome,”
Lagarde said July 6 in  Tokyo .  The IMF managing director is pressing for fiscal union in
Europe to aid growth and financial stability as nations such as
 Greece  confront a sovereign-debt crisis.  S&P said yesterday that it downgraded 155 issuers worldwide
and upgraded 125 during the second quarter.  Treasury 10-year note yields approached all-time lows after
the U.S. sold $21 billion of the securities at a record 1.46
percent and minutes from the Fed’s last meeting on June 19-20
showed some members favor more stimulus.  ‘Massive Crowding’  “People are searching for ways to find extra yields other
than Treasuries,” Rob Crimmins, a portfolio manager at RS
Investments in New York, which oversees $30 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “The logical place to go is the corporate
market.”  Two-year German government debt  reached minus 0.04 percent
and  France  sold its first-ever bills at negative yields
yesterday. Borrowing costs slid as the  European debt crisis , now
in its third year, drives investors to the safest assets.  The ratio of cash to total assets for companies in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index stands at about 9.8 percent, down
from a recent peak of 10.3 percent in September, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Five years ago, the ratio was 5.7 percent.  “There are certain assets that are being crossed off
investors’ lists,” Justin D’Ercole, head of Americas investment
grade syndicate at Barclays Plc in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “What you’re getting is massive crowding into
dollar-denominated investment-grade credit.”  Investor Dilemma  Anheuser-Busch InBev’s offering, the second biggest of the
year, will help finance its acquisition of a stake in Grupo
Modelo SAB de CV. The deal was increased from an original range
of between $4 billion and $5 billion, said D’Ercole, who was one
of the bookrunners on the deal.  The coupons on the three-, five-, 10- and 30-year bonds
were the company’s lowest on record for the maturities,
Bloomberg data show.  “Investors are presented with a dilemma every time an
issuer prints a record low coupon,” Marrinan said. “Buy more
low coupon exposure, or pass and miss the chance to put the cash
to work?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  