-- Hays Boosts Latin Recruitment as Europeans Head for Colonies
-- B y   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-07-13T09:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/hays-boosts-latin-recruitment-as-europeans-head-for-colonies.html
Hays Plc (HAS) , the U.K. recruiter that
found jobs for 250,000 people worldwide last year, is boosting
revenue in  Latin America  as skilled European workers battle
unemployment by moving to their countries’ former colonies.  “More people have moved out of southern Europe to Latin
America in the past 12 months than in five years,” Finance
Director Paul Venables said in a phone interview. “We’ve seen a
flux of people out of  Portugal  and Spain to Brazil and  Mexico .”  Spanish unemployment, at 24.6 percent, is the worst in
Europe, as the country suffers the second recession since 2009.
In Portugal, a deepening recession and a court ruling against
cuts to pensions and civil-servant holiday pay are threatening
the government’s deficit goals.  Hays, the U.K.’s largest professional recruitment agency,
increased net fees 8 percent in the international division in
the three months ended June 30, with  Brazil  growing 13 percent
on a like-for-like and constant currency basis, Venables said.
The company’s  stock  has declined about 8 percent in London since
it said July 11 that a paucity of banking and financial services
positions in the U.K. led total fees to fall 1 percent.  Latin America is the “biggest growth opportunity for
recruitment” in the current economic climate and Hays expects
annual revenue from the region of 50 million pounds ($77
million) by 2015, Venables said in the interview late yesterday.
Global fees in the last fiscal year were 672 million pounds.
Hays recently opened offices in Mexico,  Colombia  and Chile.  Spaniard Movement  The number of Spaniards living in Mexico increased to
94,617 last year from less than 70,000 in 2008, according to
Spain’s  National Institute of Statistics , or INE. More than
100,000 Spaniards were living in Brazil, a former Portuguese
colony, an increase of 28 percent in two years.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s biggest supplier of temporary
workers, said July 6 that it’s hiring Spanish engineers to fill
jobs in  Germany , where unemployment is 6.8 percent. As many as
15 percent of the placements made by Hays are for workers moving
countries, according to Venables. Hays increased business during
the last quarter in Germany, where it leads the market and
supplies workers to Siemens AG, Europe’s largest engineering
company, and Henkel AG, the maker of Persil detergent.  Hays has reduced its reliance on the U.K. and Ireland to
36 percent of net fees in fiscal year 2011 from 66 percent in
2007, according to its last annual report. Sales in the
continental Europe and “Rest of World” division, which
includes Latin America, have doubled in that time.  In Latin America, “there’s a real demand for professional
skills and a general shortage,” Venables said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Tadeo in  London  at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  