-- Barclays Told New York Fed It Low-Balled Libor, Transcript Shows
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-07-13T17:47:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/barclays-told-new-york-fed-it-lowballed-libor-transcript-shows.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  told U.S. regulators as
early as April 2008 that it was making artificially low  London 
interbank offered rate submissions to avoid the perception that
the British bank was struggling to fund itself.  “We know that we’re not posting, um, an honest Libor,” a
Barclays employee said to an analyst at the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York , which today released a transcript of the phone call
from April 2008. “We just fit in with the rest of the crowd, if
you like.” The employee’s name was redacted by Barclays when it
submitted the transcript, according to the  New York  Fed, which
helps regulate Wall Street securities firms.  The employee said Barclays had given accurate Libor
submissions before the publication of an article in Britain’s
Financial Times, which charted “our Libor contributions and
comparing it with other banks and inferring that this meant that
we had a problem raising cash in the  interbank market .”
Barclays spokeswoman Phillippa-Jane Vermoter declined to
comment.  Regulators are under pressure from lawmakers to explain to
what extent they were aware banks were lowballing their
submissions to Libor during the credit crisis. Barclays agreed
to pay a record 290 million-pound ($452 million) fine last month
for trying to manipulate the benchmark for more than $500
trillion of securities.  Tucker Testimony  Barclays has said former Chief Financial Officer Jerry Del Missier believed U.K. regulators were asking the London-based
bank to deliberately lowball Libor to help stem the financial
crisis.  Bank of England  Deputy Governor Paul Tucker denied this
in testimony to the British parliament this week.  Tucker was criticized by U.K. lawmakers for failing to
clamp down on the banks when the low Libor submissions were
being made. In evidence he gave to the House of Commons Treasury
Select Committee on July 9, Tucker said he had thought the
market was “dysfunctional” though not “dishonest” at the
time, and had been unaware that banks may have been lowballing
the benchmark before 2008.  Barclays said in its settlement with regulators last month
that its traders rigged Libor as early as 2005.  Timothy F. Geithner , who ran the New York Fed from 2003 to
2008 and is now U.S.  Treasury Secretary , sent Bank of England
Governor Mervyn King recommendations in June 2008 to revamp
Libor. King and Tucker, at the time markets director of the U.K.
central bank, passed the comments to the BBA, according to
correspondence released by the Bank of England today.  ‘Obligation’ Letter  Geithner wanted procedures to prevent “misreporting,” and
the BBA, which was reviewing Libor at the time, said it would
consider the recommendations.  The U.K.’s second-largest lender by assets is among at
least a dozen banks being probed around the world for alleged
manipulation of Libor. Political outrage in Britain in the wake
of the fine prompted Barclays’s top three executives to quit,
while speculation the probe may lead to billions of dollars in
lawsuits sent the  stock plunging.   According to the transcript released today, the British
Bankers’ Association, the lobby group that oversees Libor, had
written to submitters to remind them of their “obligation,”
the bank worker said.  “You know, Libor’s being set too low anyway,” a Barclays
employee told another analyst at the New York Fed in December
2007, when asked about Libor submissions. Nothing more was said
about Libor on that call, the transcript showed.  In October 2008, a Barclays banker told another Fed worker
other lenders were probably lowballing their submissions,
referring to German banks.  ‘I mean, West, Deutsche, Landesbank, I don’t know where he
gets his Libor indications from,” the transcript showed the
Barclays banker as saying. “I can’t imagine anyone would want
to lend him any money.”  The New York Fed today released documents in response to a
request from Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican
who serves on the House Financial Services Committee. Neugebauer
sent a letter this week to New York Fed President William C. Dudley asking for transcripts of communications between the
regulator and Barclays relating to setting Libor rates from
August 2007 to November 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  