-- Ex-Barclays CEO Diamond Advised by Two Law Firms on Libor
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-07-13T15:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/barclays-s-ex-ceo-diamond-advised-by-dechert-on-libor-scandal.html
Former  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  is being advised by the law firms Dechert
LLP and Norton Rose LLP on the Libor scandal that led to a
record fine against the U.K. bank and his resignation.  Dechert, based in Philadelphia, has advised Diamond since
2010 when an investigation into the attempted rigging of
 interest rates  first began, Will Salomone, a spokesman for
Dechert in London, said in an e-mailed statement.  Norton Rose is also advising the former bank boss on the
issue, according to a person familiar with the situation.  Diamond and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier both
resigned over the scandal, which resulted in a $451.4 million
fine against the London-based bank and a criminal probe by the
U.K. Serious Fraud Office.  White-collar defense litigator Andrew Levander of Dechert’s
 New York  office, who has previously advised Jon Corzine, former
New Jersey governor and CEO of MF Global Inc., is acting as lead
partner on the matter along with Cheryl Krause, who is based out
of Dechert’s Philadelphia headquarters, according to its
 website .  Krause accompanied Diamond on July 4 to a U.K.
Parliamentary hearing where he apologized for Barclays’s rigging
the London interbank offered rate, as well as Euribor, its
equivalent in euros, as early as 2005. He said 14 bankers at
Barclays were involved.  Dorian Drew, a financial-services litigator at  Norton Rose 
in London, is leading his firm’s team, according to the person,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.  Norton Rose declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  