-- Billionaire Rausing Heir Arrested on Suspicion of Wife’s Death
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a F r a n c o
-- 2012-07-13T14:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/billionaire-rausing-heir-arrested-on-suspicion-of-wife-s-death.html
The son of milk carton billionaire
Hans Rausing,  Sweden ’s third-richest man, has been arrested on
suspicion of murdering his wife, London police confirmed today.  Detective Inspector Sharon Marman told a preliminary
coroner’s inquest today that the 49-year-old man arrested on
July 10 in connection with the death of Eva Kemeny, 48, was Hans Kristian Rausing, a spokesman from the  Metropolitan Police
Service  said today.  Rausing was arrested July 10 “on suspicion of possession
of drugs” and “was further arrested in connection with the
death whilst at a south London police station,” police said
earlier this week. When law enforcement authorities inspected
the couple’s West London home, they discovered Kemeny’s body.  An autopsy Tuesday failed to find the cause of death,
police said, and Rausing is now receiving medical attention. He
hasn’t been charged in the investigation.  “During her short lifetime, [Eva] made a huge
philanthropic impact, supporting a large number of charitable
causes, not only financially, but using her own personal
experiences,” the Kemeny family said in a statement on July 10.
“She bravely fought her health issues for many years.”  “Hans and Marit Rausing and their family are deeply
shocked and saddened to hear of the tragic death of their
daughter-in-law,” the billionaire’s family said in a statement.
“They ask that their privacy be respected at this sad time.”  The Associated Press reported on the coroner’s inquest
earlier today.  Cardboard Cartons  The couple was arrested and charged with possession of
narcotics after trying to take cocaine, crack cocaine and heroin
into the U.S. embassy in London in 2008, according to police.
They confessed to the charges and were not sentenced to prison.  Hans Krisitian Rausing is one of three heirs to his
father’s fortune, which is worth more than $6 billion, according
to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . His grandfather, Ruben,
founded Swedish packaging company Tetra Pak in 1951. Ruben’s
sons, Hans and Gad, joined the firm thereafter.  The company’s most successful product was the folded and
laminated cardboard carton for packaging liquids. Invented in
1952, the product became the standard for milk and juice cartons
in most of the world. The company was able to manufacture one
billion cartons a year by 1959.  Hans Rausing fled Sweden with his family in the early
1980s, in protest of the country’s high tax rates, while
continuing to run the company with Gad. In 1993, Hans Rausing
stepped down from his management role at Tetra Laval Group, the
family’s holding company. Two years later, he sold his half of
the family business to his brother for an estimated $7 billion.  Jorgen Haglind, a spokesman for Tetra Laval, said in an e-
mail that it would “fully inappropriate” for the company to
comment on Rausing’s death.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert LaFranco in  London  at 
 rlafranco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  