-- Blackstone Buying Land Parcels From Builder Hovnanian
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-07-13T20:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/blackstone-buying-land-parcels-from-builder-hovnanian.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s credit arm
agreed to acquire a group of housing development sites from
 Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  with plans to sell them back to the
homebuilder under a $125 million deal.  Funds managed by Blackstone’s GSO Capital Partners LP will
give  Red Bank , New Jersey-based Hovnanian the right to buy lots
back on a quarterly basis, the companies said today in a
statement. GSO has already bought six parcels totaling 620 lots
costing $65 million, including both acquisition and future
development expenses, they said.  “We firmly believe that the U.S. residential real estate
market has bottomed and that Hovnanian is uniquely positioned to
capitalize on the recovery,” Doug Ostrover, GSO founding member
and partner, said in the statement.  Hovnanian jumped 7 percent to $2.76 at the close in New
York, the best performance in the Bloomberg Industries
homebuilder  index . The 13-member gauge added 1.7 percent. The
company’s bonds rose to the highest price since May 2011 and the
cost to protect against its default declined after the
announcement.  Hovnanian,  New Jersey ’s biggest homebuilder, has been
depleting cash to replenish its land portfolio and take
advantage of distressed prices to boost its profit margins.
Competition is increasing for well-located properties as the
housing market improves, and that’s forcing homebuilders to use
more cash upfront to acquire properties rather than to use so-
called option arrangements to buy parcels over time, said Megan McGrath, an analyst with MKM Partners LLC.  Middle Man  While the deal with GSO Capital frees up money for
Hovnanian to make more purchases as demand for new homes
improves, it brings in a “middle man,” she said.  “The market loves it when they can improve their liquidity
and it positions them to buy new land,” said McGrath, based in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The medium-term concern for me is
making sure they’re buying that new land at a good price that
offsets any margin they’re giving up in this deal.”  Demand for new U.S. homes is rising after sales fell to a
 record low  in 2011. Purchases reached a two-year high in May,
according to the Commerce Department. Hovnanian, based in Red
Bank, New Jersey, reported an unexpected profit in its fiscal
second quarter as orders jumped 52 percent.  Hovnanian and New York-based Blackstone plan to identify
additional land parcels totaling as much as $60 million to add
to the portfolio, the companies said. GSO also intends to raise
its equity stake in Hovnanian by exchanging $15 million of the
homebuilder’s notes for about 3.9 million shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  