-- Blackstone Seeks Australia Properties to Fix, Sell on Yield Bet
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-07-13T01:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/blackstone-seeks-australia-properties-to-fix-sell-on-yield-bet.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is seeking
commercial properties in Australia that it can fix and sell,
betting real estate prices in the Pacific nation don’t reflect
the economy’s strength.  “We tend to look for assets that are of good quality but
have something wrong with them,” Alan Miyasaki, senior managing
director at Blackstone, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“In these situations, we can fix the issue and then look to
sell a good quality stabilized asset to long-term institutional
investors.”  The world’s largest private-equity firm last month
partnered with Morgan Stanley to pay about 388 million pounds
($598 million) to buy 809 million pounds of Australian corporate
real estate debt from Lloyds Banking Group Plc. Blackstone in
April 2011 agreed to buy Valad Property Group, which was
struggling to pay off debt after the value of its assets slumped,
and had seen its share price plunge.  Blackstone sees “very attractive” real estate yields in
 Australia , as the economy’s strength hasn’t filtered through to
sentiment in the real estate market, Miyasaki said.  Yields  for secondary office properties in Sydney averaged
about 8.1 percent, broker Colliers International said in its
first-half 2012 Sydney office report. That compared with an
 average dividend yield  of 5.1 percent on the S&P/ASX 200 share
index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and a 10-year
 government bond yield  of 2.87 percent.  Valad Purchase  Blackstone’s purchase of Valad is giving it access to more
Australian properties and transactions, Miyasaki said.  “When we were the guys only operating from outside
Australia, it was more challenging,” he said. “Since buying
Valad, we have a strong platform and presence in Australia,
which assists us in looking at and executing potential
transactions.”  Blackstone bought 149 Castlereagh Street in Sydney’s city
center in January and is in the process of leasing it, he said.  Australian commercial property received about A$4.06
billion of  foreign investment  in the first half, up from A$3.8
billion in the first six months of 2011, Colliers said in a
release on July 9. Overseas groups accounted for 40 percent of
all commercial property transactions during the half, driven by
the nation’s “stable economy and high-yielding assets,”
according to the statement.  New York-based Blackstone, run by  Stephen Schwarzman , was
the biggest buyer of commercial real estate in the U.S. in 2010
and 2011, spending about $16.7 billion for strip malls,
warehouses and suburban office properties. Among its biggest
deals was the $9 billion purchase of more than 500 shopping
centers in the U.S. from Melbourne-based  Centro Properties Group ,
which has since been restructured and renamed  Centro Retail
Australia. (CRF)   Affiliates of Blackstone’s Real Estate Partners VII fund,
which is seeking to raise as much as $13 billion to invest
globally, also bought 65 industrial properties in the U.S. from
Sydney-based  Dexus Property Group (DXS)  for $770 million in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  