-- BOE Lending Plan May Boost Credit by at Least $124 Billion
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-13T11:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/boe-lending-plan-may-boost-credit-by-at-least-124-billion-1-.html
The  Bank of England  said its new
lending plan could boost credit to companies and households by
at least 80 billion pounds ($124 billion) as it unveiled the
details of its latest weapon against the euro crisis.  Banks will be able to borrow treasury bills from the
central bank from Aug. 1 to fund lending into the economy,
according to details of the Funding for Lending Scheme published
in London today. Banks will have 18 months to use the facility
and then up to four years to repay.  The program, designed with the U.K. Treasury, is the latest
in a series of measures introduced to help the economy fend off
contagion from the turmoil in the euro area and recover from a
recession. The Bank of England activated a sterling liquidity
facility in June to ease potential strains on banks and
restarted  quantitative easing  last week.  “This joint action creates strong incentives for banks to
expand their lending to the real economy,” Governor  Mervyn King 
said in a statement. “That will encourage banks to make loans
to families and businesses both cheaper and more easily
available.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  won’t participate in the new program,
saying it will “continue to fund its planned lending growth
through its own resources.” It added that it “would not
hesitate to join” the scheme if circumstances change.  Borrowing Fee  Under the collateral swap, a bank can borrow treasury bills
worth an initial 5 percent of its  existing stock of loans  to the
non-financial sector as of June 30, plus “any expansion of its
lending during a reference period from that date to the end of
2013.” Banks will pay a minimum fee of 0.25 percent of the
amount borrowed provided they maintain current lending levels or
increase them.  The fee will climb by 0.25 percent for each 1 percent drop
in lending, rising to a maximum 1.5 percent if their lending
contracts by 5 percent or more. The Bank of England said this
creates an additional incentive to boost lending.  “After accounting for the cost of using the T-bills to
borrow money, the total cost of funding for an institution using
the FLS will be lower than current term funding rates, even for
the strongest institutions,” the Bank of England said. “So as
banks increase lending, their overall funding costs will fall.”  The central bank said collateral currently accepted in its
discount window facility will also be accepted for the FLS. It
will also accept pools of loans to the real economy. As of
March, lenders had pre-positioned 265 billion pounds of
securities as collateral, and the Bank of England can lend about
160 billion pounds without the need for further checks.  Bank Information  The central bank will publish the amount banks draw down
from the FLS and net lending figures on a quarterly basis. Banks
that sign up to the facility must agree to details being
published, it said.  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche
Bank in London, said the effectiveness of the scheme “will of
course depend on how much of the weakness in lending is a credit
supply versus demand issue.”  The new program was announced by King and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  last month. Since then, King has said
the outlook for the economy has worsened. The central bank said
today that U.K. bank lending “was more likely to decline than
increase over the coming 18 months” without the FLS.  “The success of the scheme will depend on the extent to
which it can prevent that projected outcome,” it said.  “Today’s announcement aims to make mortgages and loans
cheaper and more easily available, providing welcome support to
businesses that want to expand and families aspiring to own
their own home,” Osborne said in a statement. “We are not
powerless to act in the face of the euro-zone debt storm.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  