-- Boeing Fined $13.6 Million by U.S. for Tank Guidance Delays
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-07-14T00:09:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/boeing-fined-13-6-million-for-tank-guidance-delays-correct-.html
The U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  proposed to fine  Boeing Co. (BA)  $13.6 million, its
second-largest penalty ever, for delays in telling airlines how
to prevent fuel-tank explosions on 383 aircraft.  Boeing was given a Dec. 27, 2010, deadline to submit
instructions on how to add explosion-prevention devices in its
U.S.-registered 747 jumbo jets and 757 single-aisle planes,
according an e-mailed statement today by the Federal Aviation
Administration. The Chicago-based company missed the deadline
for 747s by 301 days, and was 406 days late for 757s, according
to the FAA release.  “We are committed to ensuring the safety of the flying
public,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in the
statement. “Manufacturers must provide the necessary
instructions so the airlines can comply with this important
safety regulation.”  The fine is the largest proposed by the FAA since it sought
$24.2 million from  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s  American Airlines  in 2010 for
maintenance lapses that grounded its fleet of Boeing MD-80s in
2008. Firms typically negotiate lower payments with the FAA.  The agency’s action stems from a regulation that requires
airlines to install devices that blanket center fuel tanks with
non-flammable nitrogen gas. The rule resulted from the explosion
in a Trans World Airlines 747 off  New York  on July 17, 1996,
that killed all 230 aboard.  Airbus Complies  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board ruled that a
spark triggered an explosion in the tank, tearing the jetliner
apart. Tanks located in the fuselage between the wings are
heated by nearby equipment and are explosive for a majority of
time on flights, the safety board found.  Boeing is reviewing the FAA’s action and will respond to
the agency, according to a statement e-mailed by Miles Kotay, a
spokesman for the company.  The aircraft models in the FAA action are no longer in
production, according to the Boeing statement. The company said
it has installed the fuel-tank system on 1,805 planes around the
world.  “Boeing has made pioneering efforts in the complex process
of developing and certifying the fuel-tank inerting systems at
issue, and is committed to continuing those efforts,” the
company said in its statement.  Airbus SAS, Boeing’s main competitor for civilian aircraft,
met the deadline, according to the FAA statement.  The fuel-tank rule requires that airlines install the
devices on half their fleets by 2014 and complete the effort by
2017.  Delays Rejected  “The FAA expects that most, if not all, operators will
meet both the 2014 and 2017 deadlines, even if they received
service instructions later than anticipated,” the agency said.  Airlines sought a delay in installing the devices in a
March 28 letter sent by the Washington-based trade group
Airlines for America.  The group represents large carriers such
as  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)   Approvals for how to install the fuel-tank devices were so
far behind schedule that it would be impossible for airlines to
meet the FAA’s deadlines, the group said in the letter.  The agency told the trade group in a letter today that it
wouldn’t extend the final deadline. It said would accept
applications for extensions from individual carriers.  Granting Leeway  While the final deadline won’t be altered, the agency may
grant airlines leeway on the 2014 standard, Peggy Gilligan,
FAA’s associate administrator for aviation safety, said in the
letter.  The FAA, in the years after the TWA accident, balked at
recommendations by the NTSB to require anti-explosion devices as
too expensive.  The agency reversed itself in 2002 after research showed it
would be easier and cheaper than previously thought to use
nitrogen gas to prevent explosions. Boeing participated in the
research and endorsed the agency’s rule.  The FAA has also ordered dozens of improvements to tanks
and wiring on airliners since the TWA accident to reduce the
risks of fires and explosions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  