-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall as Rousseff Pledges to Bolster Growth
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-07-13T20:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/brazil-swap-rates-rise-for-second-day-on-china-stimulus-outlook.html
Brazilian swap rates fell, erasing
earlier gains, after President  Dilma Rousseff  said the
government will continue to remove obstacles to economic growth.  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2014 fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.67 percent at 5:14 p.m.
in Sao Paulo, extending their weekly drop to 15 basis points.
The rates touched a record low 7.61 percent yesterday. The real
was little changed at 2.0376 per dollar and has declined 0.4
percent this week.  Brazil ’s government will try to offer concessions to
private companies and is working to remove obstacles to growth,
including by lowering taxes, President Dilma Rousseff said at an
event in Bahia state today.  “In the afternoon swap rates fell again with Dilma
affirming that she wants to remove obstacles to growth, a sign
lower rates are here to stay,” said  Luciano Rostagno , the chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, in a phone interview
from Sao Paulo. “Investors are also betting that next week’s
central bank minutes will be dovish and that the current pace of
cuts of 50 basis points will continue.”  Brazil’s swap rates were headed for a seventh straight
weekly decrease on speculation policy makers will sustain the
pace of reductions in borrowing costs at their August meeting as
the economy slows.  Central bank board members voted unanimously on July 11 to
lower the target lending rate by a half-percentage point to a
record low 8 percent, an eighth-straight reduction, saying
economic “fragility” abroad is leading to slower inflation.
The central bank has lowered the benchmark by 4.5 percentage
points since August, the most among the Group of 20 nations.  Central bankers led by President Alexandre Tombini have
lowered rates 4.5 percentage points since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  