-- Brazil’s Braskem Is Petrochemical Profit Disappointment
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-07-13T15:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/brazil-s-braskem-is-petrochemical-profit-disappointment.html
Braskem SA,  Latin America ’s largest
petrochemicals maker, is poised to be the industry’s biggest
earnings disappointment in the Americas this year as analysts
slash estimates amid slowing growth and stiffer competition.  Estimated full-year earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, were cut by 17 percent
in the past three months to 3.4 billion reais ($1.7 billion),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Vancouver-based
Methanex Corp.’s 9.2 percent cut was the second-largest among
chemicals companies with a market value of at least $2 billion.  Slowing growth in  Brazil , the world’s second-largest
emerging market, is paring demand for resins used to make
plastic for packaging and auto parts. Braskem, which uses oil-
derived naphtha to make its resins, is also facing rising
competition as U.S. rivals cut costs by using cheaper shale gas
as their main raw material,  Braskem (BRKM5)  Chief Financial Officer
Marcela Drehmer said.  “Most analysts were too aggressive on their Ebitda
estimates because they were more optimistic about economic
growth in Brazil,” Drehmer said in a July 11 telephone
interview from the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo, adding
that Braskem aims to cut its dependence on naphtha in coming
years. “Shale gas is a game changer,” she said.  Low-Cost Gas  Braskem rose 2.7 percent to 12.24 reais at 11:55 a.m. in
Sao Paulo trading, the most intraday since July 4. Shares have
dropped 5.4 percent this year. DuPont Co., the largest chemicals
producer in the Americas by market value, has gained 3.4 percent
this year.  The U.S. chemical industry is building factories to take
advantage of low-cost natural gas, KPMG LLC said June 27.  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  and other producers may spend $25 billion on new
and expanded factories that convert ethane and other natural gas
liquids into chemical building blocks and plastics, KPMG said.  Brazil’s central bank has lowered borrowing costs by 4.5
percentage points since August to revive an economy that
expanded an annualized 0.8 percent in the first quarter, less
than half the pace of the U.S., as global demand for its raw-
material slows.  Economists surveyed by Brazil’s central bank have cut their
forecast for the country’s economic growth this year for nine
weeks running to 2 percent.  Brazil’s real tumbled 9.1 percent in the second quarter,
the biggest drop among emerging-market currencies after the
Russian ruble’s 9.5 percent drop. The country’s benchmark  stock
index  slumped 16 percent in the same three-month period.  ‘Under Pressure’  Braskem shares have lost 3.9 percent since April 27, 2010,
when the company  bought  Quattor Participacoes SA, Brazil’s
second-biggest petrochemical maker at the time. In the same
period the MSCI World Chemicals Index rose 13 percent.  “The stock is under pressure in the short term but there
are good fundamentals,” Nataniel Cezimbra, an analyst with
Banco do Brasil SA, said by telephone July 11 from  Sao Paulo .
“Braskem has decided to invest outside Brazil and I see them
reaping profits in the future as synergy gains will mount.”  The company plans to build a $2.5 billion complex in  Mexico 
with Grupo Idesa SA and wants to develop a $3 billion plant in
 Peru  in a venture with Petroperu SA. In September 2011, Braskem
paid $323 million for Dow’s polypropylene assets in the U.S. and
 Germany  after buying plants from Philadelphia-based Sunoco Inc.
for $350 million. Braskem will decide whether to build a plant
in the U.S. before the end of this year, Chief Executive Officer
Carlos Fadigas said June 19.  ‘Squeezing Margins’  Brent oil for August settlement climbed 0.8 percent to end
the session yesterday at $101.07 a barrel on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settle since May
31 and reduced this year’s decline to 5.9 percent.  Oil rose 13 percent last year amid the so-called Arab
Spring, which saw uprisings topple leaders in  Egypt ,  Tunisia ,
 Libya  and Yemen and an armed conflict in  Syria .  “The petrochemicals are very dependent on economic
growth,” Luiz Otavio Broad, an analyst with Agora Corretora,
said in a July 11 telephone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“Brazil is set to have weak growth for this year. Despite the
more recent decline,  oil prices  remain historically high,
squeezing margins for Braskem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  