-- Brees and Saints Agree on New Contract 3 Days Prior to Deadline
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/brees-signs-for-guaranteed-60-million-with-saints-espn-says.html
Quarterback  Drew Brees  and the  New
Orleans Saints  agreed on a new five-year contract three days
before the  National Football League ’s single-season passing
leader would have been forced to sign a one-year tender or sit
out the season.  Brees, 33, and the Saints both confirmed the agreement on
their Twitter accounts yesterday without mentioning financial
details. The five-year deal is worth about $100 million,  ESPN
reported , with a guaranteed $40 million in the first season and
$60 million overall.  “What Drew has accomplished in his time with the Saints,
he deserves to be the highest-paid player in the league,”
General Manager Mickey Loomis said in a statement released by
the Saints. “We are excited to have this deal done and behind
us and look forward to the next five years with Drew as our
quarterback.”  Had no agreement been reached by 4 p.m.  New York  time on
July 16, Brees’s only option to play this season would have been
under the franchise tag of $16.4 million. He didn’t intend to
report to training camp without a long-term contract but
wouldn’t have sat out any regular-season games, ESPN said,
citing people close to the quarterback.  Brees was selected in the second round of the 2001 draft by
the  San Diego Chargers , and signed with the Saints prior to the
2006 season. He led New Orleans to the  Super Bowl  title
following the 2009 season and was named Most Valuable Player of
the championship game, passing for 288 yards and two touchdowns.  League Record  He has led the league in passing three times, including an
NFL-record 5,476 yards last season; in passing touchdowns three
times, and passer rating once.  “Congratulations are in order for our organization,”
Saints owner Tom Benson said in an e-mailed statement. “Now we
must turn our focus to getting ready for the start of training
camp and to keeping with our goal of being the first team in NFL
history to host and play in a Super Bowl.”  New Orleans will host the Super Bowl on Feb. 3, 2013.  The Saints were the subject of an unprecedented level of
suspensions and fines this offseason after the NFL accused New
Orleans coaches and players of a plot to pay bonuses for hits
that hurt opposing players, including  Pro Bowl  quarterbacks
 Brett Favre  and Kurt Warner.  Coach  Sean Payton  and Pro Bowl linebacker Jonathan Vilma
were suspended for the 2012 season, while defensive lineman Will Smith was suspended for four games. General Manager Mickey Loomis was given an eight-game suspension, and the team was
fined $500,000 and stripped of second-round draft picks in 2012
and 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  