-- British Climate Rules More Costly Than in U.S., Germany
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-07-13T15:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/british-climate-rules-more-costly-than-in-u-s-germany.html
U.K. climate policies add more to
the cost of power for energy-intensive companies than measures
in Germany, France and the U.S., a study commissioned by the
government in  London  found.  Britain’s efforts to slash  greenhouse gases  added 14.2
percent to electricity prices in 2011, the biggest increment in
11 nations covered in the report by the consulting company ICF
International. Other nations covered include Japan,  China ,
India, Turkey,  Denmark , Russia and Italy. The U.K. Department
for Business, Innovation & Skills released the findings today.  The figures add to pressure from industry groups such as
the EEF manufacturing lobby for the government to rein in its
drive to stimulate renewable energy. Britain is seeking to slash
 carbon emissions  50 percent by 2027.  “These figures should come as a wake-up call to the
government,” Katja Hall, chief policy director at the
 Confederation of British Industry , said in an e-mailed
statement. “It must help those companies most at risk from
higher energy costs and make provisions for them in its
forthcoming Energy Bill.”  “These are the companies which produce the materials we
need to build technologies, like  wind turbines , that will help
the U.K. make the transition to a low-carbon economy,” Hall
said.  Britain on Nov. 29 said it will provide compensation to
help energy-intensive industries such as metals companies and
cement factories deal with higher power prices and carbon-
dioxide costs and minimize carbon leakage. Those measures
weren’t included in today’s study, its authors wrote.  U.S. Cheapest  In China, clean energy policies pushed electricity prices
up by 10.2 percent last year, the second biggest gain. Italy and
Denmark followed, while the impact in the U.S. was the cheapest,
lowering prices by 0.6 percent.  Britain’s policies also are projected to have the greatest
impact on power prices later in the decade. It projects the
measures will boost prices 18.5 percent in 2015 and by 28.3
percent in 2020.  In the U.S., government policies are forecast to lower
power prices for energy-intensive industries in 2015 and 2020,
according to the report.  “For the U.S., this is due to the less stringent mandatory
 energy efficiency  and greenhouse gas improvement requirements at
national level, as well as the focus on tax credits and other
incentives to encourage uptake of energy efficiency and
renewable energy,” the report’s authors wrote.  The study, dated July 11, states that “the views expressed
within this report are those of the authors and should not be
treated as government policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  