-- Buffett Says Wells Fargo Should Aim for $1 Trillion in Mortgages
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-13T13:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/buffett-says-wells-fargo-should-aim-for-1-trillion-in-mortgages.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s
dominance of U.S. home lending will pay off as the housing
market rebounds.  “They’ve got a sensational mortgage operation,” Buffett
said today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu” program in an interview from the Allen & Co. media
conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. “The total mortgage market was
at the $3 trillion level not that long ago. If it goes back up
to $3 trillion, I hope Wells is doing a third of those.”  Wells Fargo, which counts Berkshire Hathaway as its  largest
shareholder , created one of every three U.S. mortgages in the
first quarter and may seek to boost market share to 40 percent.
The company said today that the number of applications set a new
quarterly high during the most recent three months.  Record-low  interest rates  have helped mortgage lenders
attract more borrowers, especially for refinancing, and the San
Francisco-based bank has added business as competitors such as
Bank of America Corp. pull back.  The average for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell to 3.56
percent in the week ended July 12 from 4.08 percent in March,
according to Freddie Mac. It’s the lowest in the McLean,
Virginia-based mortgage-finance company’s records dating to
1971.  Wells Fargo is getting more business because the firm
successfully navigated the housing crisis, Buffett said. The
bank originated 33.9 percent of all U.S. home loans in the first
quarter, more than triple that of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , with
10.6 percent, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade
publication.  Rivals Fade  “Wells did the best job of the big players in the mortgage
market and therefore they’ve garnered a share as the other
fellows have fallen by the wayside,” said Buffett, 81, whose
firm holds more than 7 percent of the common stock, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wells Fargo, run by CEO  John Stumpf , 58, received $208
billion in mortgage applications in the second quarter and
completed $131 billion in originations. The pipeline of unclosed
loans stood at $102 billion at the end of June.  Buffett, who has added to his Wells Fargo investment, is
betting on a housing-market recovery. He’s bought a brickmaker,
expanded Berkshire’s real-estate brokerage and wagered on
commercial property through a company jointly owned with
Leucadia National Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  