-- Buffett Says JPMorgan Reputation Intact for Him After Loss
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-07-13T12:39:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/buffett-says-jpmorgan-reputation-intact-for-him-after-loss-1-.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
reputation is intact as far as he’s concerned, after the bank
posted a trading loss on  credit derivatives .  “I’ve had enough mistakes of my own that I’m very
forgiving when something like that happens,” Buffett said today
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty Liu ” program
in an interview from the Allen & Co. media conference in Sun
Valley, Idaho.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank, said today it’s closing
the group that traded so-called synthetic credit at the chief
investment office, after a $4.4 billion trading loss at the unit
in the second quarter. The company also restated first-quarter
results after finding a “material weakness” in its reporting
and said in a regulatory filing that employees may have sought
to hide losses.  Buffett, who has a personal stake of about 1 million
JPMorgan shares, was asked by Liu if the blunder would hurt the
reputation of the New York-based bank. “Not with me,” he said.  “If you do big things, you’re going to get big swings” in
earnings, Buffett said.  The billionaire, whose company is the biggest investor in
 American Express Co. (AXP) , said JPMorgan’s loss is small compared to
the damage from a fraud at the credit-card lender in the 1960s.  The problem at American Express “was far greater than
this, relatively,” Buffett said, adding that he prospered from
the rebound of the company.  ‘Fantastic Institution’  Asked if he had advice for JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer
 Jamie Dimon , Buffett said “Keep your head down.”  “You’ve got a fantastic institution and you’re making
money every day,” Buffett said. “You’re going to run into
something like this, and you hope you don’t run into it too many
times in your career.”  Buffett, who controls one of the largest stakes in  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , has said that strong companies can recover from
their mistakes, even if they divert the time of top managers.  “I don’t think the earning power of Wal-Mart five years
from now will be materially affected by the outcome of this
situation,” Buffett told Berkshire shareholders in May, weeks
after the New York Times reported that executives at the
retailer bribed Mexican officials to fast-forward expansion.  The billionaire also has praised the durability of Toyota
Motor Corp. in 2010 after the automaker recalled more than 8
million vehicles following reports of unintended acceleration.  “If you look at any of the great companies, at one time or
another they have had a setback,” Buffett said in 2010.
“Toyota will be a major auto company far beyond my lifetime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  