-- Buffett Says Berskhire Has Invested in Phillips 66
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-13T20:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/buffett-says-berskhire-has-invested-in-phillips-66.html
Phillips 66 (PSX) , the largest U.S.
independent refiner by market value, rose the most in two months
after  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ’s  Warren Buffett  announced an
investment in the new company.  Phillips 66, based in Houston,  climbed  5.9 percent to
$34.94 at the close in New York. The stock, which began trading
on May 1, had its biggest gain since May 9.  ConocoPhillips (COP) , also based in Houston, spun off refining,
pipeline and chemical assets this year to create Phillips 66.
Shareholders got one share of the new company for each two
ConocoPhillips shares they held as of April 16.  Berkshire reduced its holding in ConocoPhillips and bought
into “some of the refining operation,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Buffett said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty Liu” from the
Allen & Co. media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. One of
Buffett’s deputy stock pickers, Ted Weschler or Todd Combs, made
the investment, the billionaire said.  Phillips 66 has touted future growth from pipelines and
chemicals as it seeks to reduce refining holdings. The company
topped  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  as the
most valuable U.S. refiner without oil wells when it debuted.  ConocoPhillips, now the largest U.S. oil and natural-gas
producer by market value that doesn’t own refineries or chemical
units, announced the spinoff in 2011 to focus on finding and
producing petroleum amid rising crude prices. ConocoPhillips
rose 1 percent to $54.98.  Cutting Conoco  Buffett, 81, apologized to Berkshire shareholders in
February 2009 for his bet on ConocoPhillips the prior year,
before gas prices plummeted. Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire
took about $3 billion in impairments on the investment in 2009.  The billionaire’s firm cut its stake in ConocoPhillips to
29.1 million shares on March 31 from 84 million shares at the
end of the third quarter of 2008, with most of the reduction in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The energy
company returned 3.8 percent during that period, excluding
dividends.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  