-- Buffett Says Health Law Is Step to Fix ‘Tapeworm’ in Economy
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-13T13:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/buffett-says-health-law-is-step-to-fix-tapeworm-in-economy.html
The health-care law upheld by the
U.S.  Supreme Court  last month is a step toward addressing the
“tapeworm” of rising health costs consuming American
businesses, billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said.  Buffett said the court made the right decision in declaring
the Affordable Care Act constitutional in its 5-4 ruling and
said the law probably “cuts both ways” in terms of President
 Barack Obama ’s re-election chances this November.  “The health-care problem is the No. 1 problem of America
and of American business,” Buffett, chairman and chief
executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) , told Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  in an interview
today. “It’s the tapeworm, essentially, of the American
economy, and we have not dealt with that yet. Obamacare is a
step in the right direction in many ways.”  The law, Obama’s signature legislative achievement, was
designed to cover more than 30 million uninsured Americans while
imposing new taxes on health-care companies and fees on
businesses that don’t provide coverage deemed affordable to
workers. Republicans have vowed to repeal it if they win the
White House and Congress in November.  Health costs now account for about 18 percent of the  U.S.
economy , compared with 10 percent in some countries, said
Buffett, a supporter of Obama’s re-election campaign.  “There’s only 100 points in the dollar, and to have a
seven or eight point disadvantage is huge,” Buffett said. “In
terms of cost, it’s going to require a huge change.”  Cost Controls  The law also includes a host of pilot programs and
provisions designed to rein in costs, such as penalties for
hospitals with high readmission rates and funding to study the
effectiveness of drugs and medical procedures.  The Supreme Court on June 28 said the federal government
can require Americans to obtain insurance under the health law
or pay a penalty. Republicans in the U.S. House voted to repeal
the act on July 11, saying the overhaul was hurting the economy.
Their repeal bill isn’t expected to pass the Senate, where
Democrats hold a majority.  The law bans insurers from denying people health coverage
based on pre-existing medical conditions, gives subsidies to
consumers to buy private insurance and cuts payments for
hospitals and health plans to help pay the cost. It requires
businesses with 50 or more full-time workers to offer a minimum
level of coverage or pay a penalty.  While most polls have found the law unpopular, Buffett said
in 2010 that he would have voted for it. The legislation may
help rein in the “galloping” health-care costs afflicting U.S.
businesses, he told the Lincoln Journal Star at the time.  Berkshire had about 271,000 employees as of Dec. 31,
according to its  annual report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  