-- Buffett Says Muni Bankruptcies Set to Climb as Stigma Lifts
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-07-13T16:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/buffett-says-muni-bankruptcies-poised-to-climb-as-stigma-lifts.html
Warren Buffett , the billionaire
chairman of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said municipal bankruptcies
are set to rise as there’s less stigma attached after three
 California  cities opted to seek protection just weeks apart.  The City Council of San Bernardino, California, a community
of about 210,000 east of  Los Angeles , decided July 10 to seek
court protection from its creditors. The move came just weeks
after Stockton, a community of 292,000 east of  San Francisco ,
became the biggest U.S. city to enter bankruptcy. Mammoth Lakes,
California, also sought the shelter this month.  “The stigma has probably been reduced when you get very
sizeable cities like Stockton or San Bernardino to do it,”
Buffett, 81, said in an interview today on “In the Loop with
 Betty Liu ” on Bloomberg Television. “The very fact they do it
makes it more likely.”  Cities and towns across the U.S. have been strained by
rising costs for labor, including pensions and retiree health
benefits, while the longest recession since the 1930s crimped
sales- and property-tax revenue.  “Once people find that the city works the next day, it
makes it easier for the city council next time they have a
problem with pensions -- or whatever it is -- just to say,
‘well, we’ll declare bankruptcy,’” said Buffett, whose company
is based in Omaha,  Nebraska .  No Precipice  He said the nation isn’t on the brink of hundreds of
billions of dollars in defaults, as banking analyst  Meredith Whitney  predicted in 2010.  “I don’t think we’re at the precipice,” Buffett said.
“People will use the threat of bankruptcy to try and negotiate,
particularly pension contracts, with their employees.”  Berkshire held municipal bonds valued at about $3 billion
as of March 31, or about 9 percent of the fixed-maturity
portfolio, according to a  regulatory filing . That’s down from
about $3.6 billion at the end of 2010. The company also had as
much as $16 billion at risk in derivatives tied to such debt at
the end of the first quarter, the filing shows.  The billionaire predicted a “terrible problem” for
municipal bonds in coming years in testimony to the U.S.
Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission in June 2010.  ‘Too Early’  Forty-two municipal issuers have defaulted for the first
time in 2012, down from 68 in the same period last year and 83
in 2010, according to Municipal Market Advisors.  “It’s too early to say that there’s a lack of stigma,”
John Hallacy, head of municipal research at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  New York , said in a phone interview.
“Municipal bankruptcy is a gut-wrenching process. There’s
nothing easy about it.”  Tax-exempt mutual funds have continued to attract
investors, who added about $653 million to U.S. municipal bond
funds in the week through July 11, the most since mid-May,
Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Yields on 10-year benchmark munis fell to 1.77 percent as
of noon in New York, the lowest since May 15, according to
Bloomberg Valuation data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  