-- Buffett Says Buying Facebook for a Pop Was Terrible Idea
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/buffett-says-buying-facebook-for-a-pop-was-terrible-idea.html
Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett 
said  Facebook Inc. (FB)  investors frustrated with the stock’s decline
since its public offering are paying the price for betting on a
short-term rally.  “You shouldn’t buy a farm because you think you’re going
to sell it the next day for more money,” Buffett said in an
interview yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop with
 Betty Liu ” program. “That’s a terrible reason to buy a
stock.”  Facebook began trading on May 18 after selling shares in an
initial public offering for $38 apiece, valuing the  Menlo Park ,
California-based social network at $104.2 billion at the time.
The shares have fallen 19 percent from the IPO price.  “A very high percentage of the people that bought it
initially bought it because they thought it was going to go up
the next day,” said Buffett, whose firm’s equity portfolio was
valued at about $89.1 billion as of March 31. “I’ve never
bought a stock in my life with that in mind.”  Buffett built Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire over four
decades by acquiring businesses including car insurer Geico
Corp. and betting on stocks like Coca-Cola Co. Buffett oversees
the largest stake in the Atlanta-based soft-drink maker and
began acquiring the shares in 1988.  Buffett usually avoids investing in technology companies
like Facebook because he isn’t well-equipped to evaluate the
businesses, he said. Investors should consider the long-term
value of Facebook as they choose whether to buy stock, he said.  “All kinds of stocks go down,” Buffett said. “The
question is whether Facebook is worth $100 billion or
$50 billion or $200 billion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  