-- Buffett Poised to Add Newspapers as Publishers Face Slump
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-13T16:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/buffett-poised-to-add-newspapers-as-publishers-face-slump.html
Warren Buffett , the chairman of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said he may increase his journalism bet
as publishers seek to get rid of newspapers with falling sales.  “I like buying individual papers at the right prices,”
Buffett said today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With
 Betty Liu ” in an interview from an Allen & Co. media conference
in  Sun Valley , Idaho. “The prices should be low because their
revenues are going to decline.”  Buffett, 81, has been expanding Berkshire’s media
operations in the past year as he wagers that publications
focused on local communities can withstand the shift of readers
and advertisers to the Internet. The billionaire’s firm bought
the publisher of his hometown paper, the Omaha World-Herald Co.,
in December, and acquired 63 daily and weekly newspapers from
 Media General Inc. (MEG)  for $142 million last month.  Berkshire announced two other  deals  for publications in
 Texas  and disclosed a stake in Lee Enterprises Inc., a publisher
of more than 40 papers, including the St. Louis Post-Dispatch,
in June. While Buffett’s firm holds the largest  stake  in
 Washington Post Co. (WPO)  and has shares of Gannett Co., he said
Berkshire is less likely to make more stock market investments
in the industry.  “I’d rather buy newspapers myself directly,” he said.  Buffett said he may add more publications as soon as this
year and that he doesn’t go out looking for deals.  “That just depends on who calls us,” Buffett said. “We
don’t go out searching for them at all, they come to us.”  The newspaper industry is rethinking how to incorporate the
Internet into its business. Buffett has said that giving news
away free online is “unsustainable” and sought papers that
publish in cities and towns with a “sense of community.”  ‘Best Thinking’  “We want your best thinking as we work out the blend of
digital and print that will attract both the audience and the
revenue we need,” Buffett wrote in a  letter  to the publishers
and editors of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s daily
newspapers after the Media General deal was announced.  The billionaire has called himself a news “addict,” who
reads five papers daily. He’s also boasted of his ability to
fold and throw a paper onto a front porch, a skill he honed
while delivering about 500,000 copies of the Washington Post,
Evening Star and Times-Herald as a teenager.  Buffett’s journalists won a Pulitzer Prize -- the
industry’s highest honor -- for investigative reporting in 1973
when he was owner of the Omaha Sun. The paper was  cited  for an
analysis of funding at Boys Town, a local charity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  