-- Burton Says Pro-Obama PAC Raised $6 Million in June (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-07-13T22:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/burton-says-pro-obama-pac-raised-6-million-in-june-transcript-.html
Former White House spokesman  Bill Burton , co-founder of the Priorities USA Action super-political
action committee that is devoted to helping re-elect President
 Barack Obama , said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that
the group raised more than $6 million in June, its best month
yet.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Bill Burton, co-founder of
Priorities USA, a super PAC supporting President Obama. Bill,
thank you for being with us.  BILL BURTON: Thank you, Al.  HUNT: A couple months ago, the Wall Street Journal said you
were a bust. The  New York  Times magazine last weekend said, no,
you’ve turned it all around. How much money have you raised? And
how much money did you raise last month?  BURTON: Well, last month, we raised over $6 million, which
is about $2 million more than we raised the month before, which
was $2 million more than we’d raised the month before.  HUNT: So, so far, you’ve raised, what, about $20 million,
over $20 million?  BURTON: Over $20 million. Over $20 million. And there’s
actually another $20 million in commitments that are slowly
rolling in, which is very helpful.  HUNT: So you have at least $40 million-plus in commitments.  BURTON: That’s right.  HUNT: What do you think you reasonably can expect to raise
and spend over the next four months?  BURTON: Well, I think even more important than the number
of what we’re going to raise and spend is how we spend it. If
you look at what we’ve done over the course of the last six or
seven weeks -  HUNT: Right.  BURTON: - we’ve spent $10 million, $10 million talking
about  Mitt Romney ’s career in business. It’s one of the only
things that’s actually moved numbers in this race. You look at
any public poll, any private poll, the focus groups, they all
say that. What was supposed to be Mitt Romney’s biggest asset,
his experience in business, has actually become one of his
biggest liabilities.  HUNT: So you’re being effective. Any - any big donors that
have come in that are going to be publicly identified?  BURTON: It’s - it’s a wide range of folks, from our friends
in  San Diego  and the entertainment community to  Chicago  to New
York. There’s a wide range of people -  HUNT: Any multi-million donors come in last month?  BURTON: Yeah, we did. We got a couple.  HUNT: Who? Who?  BURTON: Well, there’s Irwin and Joan Jacobs, who gave us $2
million, which was very helpful and went toward what our take
was. I don’t want to give all the news from our -  HUNT: Oh, go ahead.  BURTON: - FEC filings too soon, but, you know, I think that
people are really engaged in this race. And what they like about
us is that, even though we’re not spending as much as some of
the other folks, we’re really making a difference.  HUNT: Well, there’s been a change then, because Democrats
said they don’t super PACs, they don’t like the system, they
weren’t going to give, Obama didn’t take care of them. Do you
think that mood has changed and that’s going to make it easier
in the months ahead?  BURTON: Well, the other issue was that people didn’t think
that Mitt Romney could possibly beat President Obama. They just
looked at him and the juggernaut of  Rick Santorum  that he was
able to stop in the Republican primary, and they thought there’s
no way this guy can beat President Obama.  HUNT: Now people are a little bit scared?  BURTON: People look at the polls, and they see this is a
tight race. And I think that they’re concerned about the
hundreds of millions of dollars that’s coming in from the right
in this election.  HUNT: Can you make $100 million by November?  BURTON: That’s our goal, and, yeah.  HUNT: And you think you’ll achieve it?  BURTON: I do.  HUNT: The Senate’s going to vote next week on something
called the DISCLOSE Act, which would require all contributions
be made public. Do you support that?  BURTON: Absolutely.  HUNT: Well, then -  BURTON: We all support reform in super PACs.  HUNT: But you have another, a 501(c)(4), which doesn’t
disclose any of its donors. They can get - and you’ve served
President Obama, who said he’s going to have the most open and
transparent administration and campaign ever. How can you
justify not disclosing donors?  BURTON: You know, I would say that there’s a lot more rules
than just the disclosure requirements, or lack thereof, that we
disagree with. But the  Supreme Court  ruled in  Citizens United 
that corporations and individuals could give unlimited sums,
could engage in this race in ways that they’ve never done
before, without even disclosing their names. We think that’s all
wrong.  But to paraphrase Don Rumsfeld, you go to the election with
the rules that you have, not all the rules you wish you had.  HUNT: No, but, first of all, the court ruled 8-1 in that.
It was pro-disclosure. So the court said, in the Citizens
United, you can disclose. And my question to you is not what the
legalities of the FEC said, but you were the most - you worked
for the most transparent, open administration - Barack Obama
didn’t say, “I’ll only be transparent if others are
transparent.”  Why don’t you guys on the 40th anniversary of
Watergate, spawned by secret money, why don’t you set an example
and disclose all of your funds?  BURTON: You know, we don’t even think that groups like this
should exist. So we engaged in this because  Karl Rove , when me
and  Sean Sweeney , who I left the White House with in February of
last year, Karl Rove said that he was going to raise and spend
$120 million in this election. The Koch brothers said that they
were going to cut a check for $88 million. Now Karl Rove says
he’s going to raise and spend over $300 million, the Koch
brothers are going to raise and spend $400 million. There’s
going to be, besides that, other groups, $1 billion in outside
money.  HUNT: And we’re not going to get any disclosure?  BURTON: Well, my thought is that, why would we give Karl
Rove and the Koch brothers any advantages that they don’t
already have from  Wall Street , from the  energy industry , the  oil
companies ? We think that if - if we’re going to play by rules
that we didn’t pick and we may not like, we’re not going to give
any advantages to Karl Rove at all.  HUNT: OK. One more question about that. To have that
501(c)(4) by law, 51 percent of it has to go to social welfare.
What’s your social welfare?  BURTON: It’s advancing an agenda for the middle class. And
if you look at the things that we’ve done in the 501(c)(4), it’s
been on  tax policy , it’s been on education policy, it’s been on
things that have a real impact on the middle class.  HUNT: Well, let me ask you about some of those ads that as
you pointed out have been very effective, and I think almost
everyone recognizes that. One of your ads criticizes Bain and
Romney for buying GST Steel, I think is the name. Bain bought it
in 1993. They did lay off workers. And then in 2001, it filed
for bankruptcy, as your ad points out.  But when Bain bought the
company, it was about to close down, and they didn’t go bankrupt
until Romney had - had left an active role in Bain. Isn’t that
ad misleading?  BURTON: GS Steel is actually a great example of what Mitt
Romney did when he was at Bain, because actually when they took
over GS Steel, GS Steel was actually doing pretty well, in an
economy where other companies like it weren’t doing -  HUNT: But wasn’t Aramco about to close it down?  BURTON: No, not - other companies weren’t doing as well as
GS Steel was. But what Bain did - and with Mitt Romney at the
helm - was loaded it up with debt until it could no longer
sustain what was happening. And then it got shut down. Promises
that were made to workers on their health care benefits were
broken, on their pension benefits were broken, so taxpayers had
to pick up the tab, and all those workers were fired.  And so, you know, Mitt Romney says that he’s proud of his
experience in - in business and that’s what would make him a
better president, but he hasn’t done a particularly good job of
telling the American people, what is it about it that actually
makes it an asset and not the liability that other people think
it is?  HUNT: All right. Well, let me - let me try one more ad, the
outsourcing ad, all those jobs that were shipped overseas.  BURTON: From the campaign ad, right.  HUNT: Yeah. Yeah, but you guys have seized on that, too.  BURTON: Sure.  HUNT: But those outsourcing took place after 1999, when
Romney went to the Olympics. Now, he had an interest in Bain
still, but do you have any proof that he was involved in any of
those actual decisions to send jobs overseas?  BURTON: Here’s what we have proof of, is that he was the
CEO, the chairman, and the sole shareholder of Bain, right up
until 2001, 2002, so Bloomberg’s own reporting shows that. The
SEC filings have his name on it, have his signature on it -  HUNT: Do you think -  BURTON: - and show that -  HUNT: Do you think he was involved in those decisions to
outsource?  BURTON: I think if you’re the CEO and chairman, you’re
responsible for the decisions that are made by your company. And
at the time, his company was helping to advise people how they
ship jobs to Mexico and  China  in order to save money.  HUNT: So you think he was involved in those decisions?  BURTON: I think that - I think that he’s responsible for
those decisions. I - I wasn’t there. I don’t know exactly what
he was doing day in, day out, but all reports say that he was
actively involved in all the things that Bain was doing. And one
of the things that they were doing, under his stewardship, was
helping people ship jobs overseas.  HUNT: You’re perfectly allowed by law to use people from
the administration, to use people from the Obama campaign to
help you raise money. The other side does it, too.  David
Plouffe , I think, has already helped you. Are you going to get
other people to help you from the Obama campaign or
administration?  BURTON: I assume so. I think that we have had what has been
a pretty -  HUNT: Do you expect any Cabinet members to help you?  BURTON: You know, I saw the announcement that they were
available for help, and so I don’t see why that wouldn’t be the
case. So, you know, we’ve had a pretty robust schedule of, you
know, David Plouffe and  Jim Messina  helping to lend some urgency
to the issue of the impact outside groups can have. And, you
know, we’re going to continue to do that through the election.  HUNT: How about  Bill Clinton ? Is Bill Clinton raising any
money for you?  BURTON: He has said that he will be helpful. And so, you
know, we assume that that’s the case, as well.  HUNT: He hasn’t done anything yet?  BURTON: No, not yet.  HUNT: Will he actually go to a fundraiser for you?  BURTON: I think that’s a question for Bill Clinton.  HUNT: Would you like him to?  BURTON: Oh, sure. We’d love for everybody to do it. We’d
love for you to do it. We’d love for, you know, a wide variety
of folks to -  HUNT: You wouldn’t draw any money, and I couldn’t do it
anyway. But you - but you expect Bill Clinton to be actively
involved in - in Priorities’ fundraising?  BURTON: I think it’s very important to him that President
Obama is re-elected. And I assume that he’s going to do
everything he can to -  HUNT: So I take that as a yes. Bill Burton, thank you so
much for joining us. And the only regret I have is you didn’t
bring your son with you.  BURTON: Thanks, Al.  HUNT: Thank you very much.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 