-- Calgary Escapes Economic Doldrums as Stampede Drums Up Deals
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-07-13T04:02:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/calgary-escapes-economic-doldrums-as-stampede-drums-up-deals.html
Calgary’s Stampede rodeo is helping
 Canada ’s fourth-largest city avoid the economic turmoil that’s
roiling  Europe , the U.S. and other parts of Canada.  The Stampede, an annual 10-day event featuring calf roping
and pancake breakfasts, has become the city’s top networking
event with executives and bankers hatching deals between chuck-
wagon races and cocktail parties. The economic crisis in Europe
failed to put a damper on this year’s 100th Stampede, which ends
July 15, bankers and executives said.  “Stampede is a very good time for deals,” said Michael Tims, chairman of Peters & Co., a Calgary-based investment bank,
in an interview sandwiched between four pancake breakfasts.
“The way things look M&A looks very strong for the rest of the
year.”  Oil and gas deals totaled $29.9 billion in  Alberta  in the
12 months ended July 9, with Scotiabank leading the value of
transactions at $11.1 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s up from $28.5 billion in the previous 12-month
period.  Companies spend millions of dollars, paying more than
$1,000 to entertain each client, and sponsoring rodeos and
chuck-wagon races where drivers lead a team of horses pulling a
covered wagon similar to ones settlers to the area used more
than a century ago. Even with the price of oil slipping 14
percent this year and natural gas hovering near a 10-year low,
bankers say they are connecting more buyers and sellers than
last year, said Tims.  Progress Energy  Petroliam Nasional Bhd’s announcement a week before the
Stampede of a $5.05 billion takeover of  Progress Energy 
Resources is this year’s biggest transaction in Calgary’s energy
sector, the largest employer in the city. The Malaysian company
plans to export Progress Energy’s gas to  Asia  in the coming
years by building a liquefied natural gas terminal on
neighboring British Columbia’s coast.  “We saw a big premium on a large-size company and we’ve
seen interlopers on deals,” said Sandy Edmonstone, head of
global energy at National Bank of Canada’s investment banking
arm, referring to the Petroliam Nasional deal. “It gives me
reason to be cautiously optimistic.”  As  Encana Corp. (ECA) , Canada’s largest natural gas producer,
 sells off assets  to cope with sinking fuel prices, smaller
companies are struggling to pay employees and bills, said Tims.
Other companies are making strategic moves to take advantage of
near-record low prices for the heating fuel by buying smaller
competitors, he said.  Out of Office  Stampede networking is important for financial industry
headhunters. The event allows people to “get out of the
office” and meet in “neutral” locations, which helps get
transactions done, said Brent Ludwig, chief executive and
founder of Ludwig Financial, a recruiting firm.  “At one party you can bump into 15 to 20 relevant
people,” said Ludwig, dressed in cowboy boots and hat. “It’s
the maximum return for time and money.”  At the same time, the real estate market in Canada’s
fourth-largest city is bucking the trend of pricier  Vancouver  to
the west where sales have begun to shrink. Commercial properties
and inner-city houses and condominiums are selling “like
crazy,” said Cody Battershill, a real estate agent, in an
interview.  “Stampede is a huge benefit and I’ve already gotten a few
deals done,” said Battershill. “People come from across the
country and around the world and look at the opportunities here
and decide to consider it as a place to relocate.”  Housing Rally  Sales of homes in Calgary in July are 29 percent higher
than in the same period last year, while the average price has
risen 4.8 percent to C$420,572 ($411,357), according to
municipal statistics. Buyers are coming from countries like
Pakistan and  China  to work in the city’s oil and gas sector, he
said.  Calgary was the best city for commercial real estate
investors last year, according to a June 29 global survey by
Investment Property Databank Ltd. Rental income and higher
property values in Calgary produced a return of 22 percent, the
London-based research firm said.  Calgary’s economy is set to grow 3.8 percent this year,
according to the Calgary Chamber of Commerce. Net migration to
the city is up 300 percent since 2010. By contrast, Canada’s
economy is expected to grow 2.1 percent, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  The city’s economic development branch is working with a
Chinese bank to help it set up a branch in Calgary, said Bruce
Graham, president of Calgary Economic Development, without
identifying the bank. A large retailer also plans to set up a
logistics center in the city this year, following a similar move
by Target Corp., he said.  “There’s still a great deal of momentum,” Graham said in
an interview. “People are keeping one eye on what’s happening
in the global economy and at the same time one eye on all the
opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  