-- Canada Dollar Rises Against Greenback, Reaches High Versus Euro
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-13T21:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/canadian-dollar-gains-with-stocks-and-oil-on-china-stimulus-bets.html
Canada ’s dollar rallied to its
strongest level in a week against its U.S counterpart, tracking
gains in global equities and commodities, amid speculation
slowing growth in  China  will spur more monetary stimulus.  The currency advanced against the majority of its most-
traded peers, heading for a weekly rise versus the greenback,
before Bank of Canada policy makers meet next week to determine
 interest rates . The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed,
touched the strongest level versus the euro since the shared
currency began trading in 1999.  “We like the commodity currencies, medium-term,”  Stephen Gallo , a foreign-exchange strategist at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in
 London , said in a telephone interview. “If the euro becomes
overbought versus these currencies we are definitely a seller on
rallies,” he said referring to sales of the euro against
commodity currencies.  The loonie added 0.5 percent to C$1.0141 per U.S. dollar at
5 p.m. in Toronto, touching the strongest level since July 5.
One Canadian dollar buys 98.61 cents. The loonie touched
C$1.2378 versus the euro.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.7 percent, while the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials added 1.3
percent. Gold rose 1.1 percent to $1,589.60 per ounce, and crude
oil futures rose 1.1 percent to $87.05 per barrel.  Canada’s currency has traded this year as strong as 98
cents per  U.S. dollar  on April 27 and as weak as C$1.0447 on
June 4.  Technical Level  Canada’s currency may continue to strengthen against the
euro after monthly averages crossed a technical level, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. The loonie extended below C$1.2451
against the euro yesterday, a two-year low and the long-term
support zone since 2000, Niall O’Connor, a New York-based
technical analyst at the firm, wrote in a note to clients today.  It may appreciate to as much as C$1.2150 against the euro,
he wrote, with C$1.2730 is the next resistance level.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or  index. (CRY)  Resistance is a level on
a chart where sell orders may be clustered.  Government-bonds were little changed, with yields on
benchmark 10-year at 1.63 percent. The security reached a record
low of 1.615 percent on June 1. The 2.75 percent securities
maturing in June 2022 dropped four cents to C$110.15.  Rally Update  Deutsche Bank AG advised investors to avoid shorter-
maturity Canadian fixed-income securities after a recent rally
in the debt that’s been driven by speculation the country’s
central bank is more influenced by slowing global economic
growth than by signs of domestic strength.  The Bank of Canada’s next interest-rate announcement July
17 may disappoint investors speculating that policy makers are
reconsidering an end to stimulus measures, according to
economists led by  John Clinkard . Deutsche Bank recommends
selling December 2012 bankers’ acceptance contracts.  “The bank is going to stay on hold,” Matthew Perrier,
Toronto-based director of foreign exchange at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,
said in a telephone interview. “The bank is going to be
cognizant of the global picture.”  The central bank will raise its 1 percent  overnight target
rate  by a quarter-percentage point by the second quarter of
2013, according to the weighted forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 19 economists.  Central Bank  The  European Central Bank  is prepared to ease monetary
policy, including cutting its deposit rate further, if the
region’s financial crisis worsens, according to a Medley Global
Advisors report obtained by Bloomberg News.  China’s growth slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest
pace since the global financial crisis, putting pressure on
Premier  Wen Jiabao  to boost stimulus to secure a second-half
economic rebound.  Gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
today in Beijing. The pace, a three-year low, compares with an
8.1 percent gain in the previous period and the 7.7 percent
median forecast of economists.  The loonie has gained 2.5 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies in Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes, with the U.S. dollar adding 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  