-- Carbon Top Commodity Stokes Suspicion EU Ideas Leaked
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-07-13T18:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/carbon-top-commodity-stokes-suspicion-eu-ideas-leaked.html
The most ambitious market-based
effort to control  carbon emissions  is being undermined by a glut
of permits, amid allegations that European Union ideas to tackle
the surplus are being leaked prematurely.  The European Commission plans to propose measures this
month to temporarily reduce the excess, after the recession sent
prices to a more than four-year low of 5.99 euros ($7.31) a
metric ton April 4 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. Prices
jumped 30 percent last month and opened today at 7.72 euros.  Details of the plans, contained in a draft report being
drawn up by EU officials, may be ending up in the hands of
everyone from national governments and non-government
organizations to researchers and traders, saidBrett Stacey, the
founder of  CarbonDesk Group Plc (CO2P) , a renewable-energy financier in
London that suspended its emissions-options brokerage in
January. That’s sapping trust in the seven-year-old cap-and-
trade market, the world’s biggest, he said.  “This information shouldn’t be leaked to certain places in
the market because fortunes can be lost, and unless this is
realized it could kill the very market they’re trying to
protect,” Stacey said in an interview. “Investors will end up
leaving the market, as they have no confidence of having the
same information.”  The EU program was started in 2005 to help stem  greenhouse
gases  blamed for  climate change . Carbon emitted from cars, power
stations and factories will need to be reduced by an average of
6 percent a year to stabilize the Earth’s climate by the end of
the century, the  U.S. National Aeronautics and Space
Administration  said in April. Putting a price on carbon
emissions is the world’s best hope, it said.  On Plan  Europe’s program has helped. The amount of emissions
dropped 2 percent in 2011 in the market. The EU may exceed its
goal of a 20 percent cut in the 10 years to 2020, the European
Energy Agency said in  October .  The recession roiled the market, leaving fewer takers for
the allowances. The first phase failed to bite when an
oversupply of permits caused prices to collapse to 1 euro cent a
ton in 2007. After allocations were cut 9.4 percent, they
rebounded, surpassing 29 euros a ton in 2008.  Regulators will next year ban certain types of United
Nations emission credits from emerging nations that have made up
more than half of supply under the Clean Development Mechanism
program developed under the 1997  Kyoto Protocol .  The EU market will probably still be oversupplied by the
equivalent of a year’s total allowances by 2020,  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
forecast on June 22.  Further Behind  Other regions are further behind the EU on climate
protection. Cap-and-trade legislation stalled in the  U.S. Senate 
after narrowly passing the  House of Representatives  in 2009.
North American discharges fell 1.3 percent last year amid
slowing economic growth. In  China , the world’s biggest emitter,
greenhouse gases from fuel use rose more than 9 percent in 2011,
according to  BP Plc (BP/)  statistics published on June 13.  Criticism of disclosure practices isn’t new in the EU
market. In the second half of April 2006, 15 months after its
start, permit prices dropped 57 percent after a series of
nations revealed surpluses individually. That prompted
complaints that countries didn’t disclose emissions output to
the whole market. Calyon, part of  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , called it
a “farce” at the time.  “At the beginning of the market, many years ago,
information was released piece meal and there were leaks,”
 Andrei Marcu , head of the Centre for European Policy Studies’
Carbon Market Forum, said today by e-mail. “This is now not
about information being leaked, but about the fact that this is
the EU process, which is a complex political and regulatory
model that most market actors find frustrating. I think that the
market information is well handled.”  13,000 Factories  Carbon allowances dropped 1 cent today to 7.65 euros a ton
on ICE in London, the lowest close since June 21.  The permits plunged to their lowest since 2007 this year
two days after the commission on April 2 released preliminary
annual data from about 13,000 factories and power stations in
the program by offering access to a spreadsheet on its website.
As in previous years, it was incomplete and didn’t provide any
written summary. Emissions-output information from the U.K. was
released the week before the EU-wide figures. Final numbers for
the program were published May 15, more than a month later.  On June 15, as regulators sketched out three scenarios in
the draft report to temporarily curb the oversupply, the price
of  call options  to buy that month’s carbon futures for 7 euros
more than doubled to 42 cents a ton, according to ICE Futures
Europe exchange data.  Less Attractive  The June futures advanced 5.7 percent that day to close at
7.23 euros. Last month’s 30 percent jump for the December
benchmark was the best performance among 80 commodities tracked
by Bloomberg.  Unless data that drives prices is evenly distributed at the
same time, the market will become less attractive, said Stacey,
a former deputy chairman of the South African Futures Exchange
who has been trading equities, commodities and currencies for
more than 30 years. He wasn’t trading in the carbon-options
market last month, he said June 20 in an interview in London.  Information circulating in June contained scenarios in
which the commission would temporarily withhold emissions
permits, said Simone Ruiz, the European policy director at the
International  Emissions Trading  Association in Brussels. Whether
the information was market-sensitive is uncertain, she said.  “It could’ve made prices go either way,” Ruiz said. “It
was well-known in the market this was being discussed.”  ‘Either Way’  Traders who pay the closest attention to regulatory
developments may “know a little bit more than others,” she
said. “We would very much welcome a discussion around the
definition of insider information in the context of the
supervision of carbon markets.”  One of the scenarios, the temporary removal of 1.2 billion
tons of allowances, equal to 55 percent of 2012 supply, would
more than double prices to about 20 euros in 2015, Bloomberg New
Energy Finance said June 18. A temporary cut of 400 million tons
may boost prices to about 12 euros, it forecast.  The report and the proposal will be published before
August, EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said last
month. The commission is said to have applied confidentiality
measures to ensure the proposal won’t leak, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  Draft ‘Restricted’  The draft measure has been qualified as restricted, is in
paper copies that can be traced and available to a limited
number of commission officials, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the information isn’t public. The draft
doesn’t include numbers, which are being discussed in internal
commission talks, and will be inserted in the text before
publication, they said.  “The market would be better served if there were
coordinated releases of information rather than leaks to
selected people,” Louis Redshaw, head of carbon trading at
Barclays in London, said by phone June 22. Isaac Valero-Ladron,
a spokesman for the commission, didn’t return calls and emails
seeking comment today.  Regulators are seeking to better define and police  insider
trading  in commodities and energy markets. The European Agency
for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators has delayed until the
second half of this year the publication of guidance on how
utilities including  RWE AG (RWE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA should report data on
power and natural-gas outages.  Options Traded  Trading in “calls” linked to the June emissions future
increased to 2.1 million tons in the week ended June 15, from
500,000 tons the week before, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Calls are options that give the buyer the right to
purchase at a certain price.  The options, which expired June 20, surged to 61 cents a
ton on June 19 from 18 cents June 8, according to ICE data.
Options contracts are cleared on ICE after being brokered over
the counter at prices that may not be disclosed.  Claire Miller , a London-based spokeswoman for ICE, declined
to comment on whether the exchange was investigating the trades.
 Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, said the FSA never confirms or denies whether an
investigation is taking place.  “It’s an EU problem, not a carbon-market problem,” said
Mark Owen-Lloyd, head of emissions trading at CF Partners (U.K.)
LLP in London, which manages allowances on behalf of clients.
There are so many people privy to potentially market-moving
information, he said in a June 22 interview.  “In a disciplined organization there are channels, whereas
the EU is a collection of individual politicians and officials
and many people talk,” he said. “At the end of the day it’s
still rumor, until it’s done.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  