-- Cheech Marin, Richard Meier, Maysles at Hamptons Art Fair
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-07-13T15:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/cheech-marin-richard-meier-maysles-at-hamptons-art-fair.html
Horses galloped on one side, valet
parkers deposited cars on the other at the preview last night of
ArtHamptons.  Navigating the activity were actor Cheech Marin, architect
 Richard Meier , filmmaker Albert Maysles and an assortment of
tanned children and large dogs.  The art fair in Bridgehampton features 79 dealers who have
traveled to the New York beach resort from Provincetown, Paris,
 San Francisco  and  London . It runs through Sunday in an enclosed
tent at Nova’s Art Project on a parcel of land displaying
sculptures by Nova Mihai Popa.  The fair’s tent is a highly evolved structure (read air-
conditioned), with a VIP Lounge and concession stand. In front
of the entrance, 8-year-old Lulu Peters splattered paint onto a
canvas lying on the ground.  “I studied  Jackson Pollock  in kindergarten,” said Lulu, a
student at the Brearley School. “I definitely like splatter
paint and drawing animals.”  Inside, an Australian shepherd named Trixie jumped for a
treat as her owner, Dan Rizzie, stood by one of his paintings, a
mix of polka dots and swatches of vintage floral wallpaper at
the  Peter Marcelle Gallery  booth.  A poodle named Stella spent some time at the  Throckmorton
Fine Art ’s booth.  “It’s a fun fair to do,” said exhibitor James Danziger,
standing near a photograph of a leopard by Karen Knorr.  From Santa Fe  Terrie Sultan, director of the Parrish Art Museum, looked
at Esteban Vicente paintings brought by  Yares Art Projects  of
 Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .  “He features strongly in our collection,” Sultan said of
the New York School artist who had a home and studio in
Bridgehampton.  Another artist’s painting, of a woman with a bubble above
her head reading “Hello Mr. Lichtenstein,” drew inquiries.  “It’s by Eran Shakine, an Israeli artist,” said Lior
Yahel, of  Zemack Contemporary Art  in  Tel Aviv . It is part of
“Sunny Side Up,” his series humorously paying tribute to
cultural figures, in this case pop artist  Roy Lichtenstein , who
lived in Southampton.  Beach-lover-friendly works included a collaged surfboard by
Peter Tunney, exhibited by  Samuel Owen Gallery  of Greenwich,
 Connecticut .  There were Milton Averys and Eric Fischls too.  Plenty of work did not have a direct connection to this
tony enclave of sea, sand and light.  Climbing Roses  Simon Burton posed by his painting of the climbing roses
outside his London studio at the  Arch 402 Gallery  booth.  Liu Bolin’s photographs of whimsically camouflaged
designers Jean-Paul Gaultier and Alber Elbaz were up at the
booth of  Eli Klein Fine Art  of New York.  “Every year I do very well out here,” said Klein, the
gallery’s owner. “I just saw a client who has spent more than
$100,000 with me. It was my first time meeting her. In  New York ,
people often don’t have the time to come to the gallery to look
at art.”  Klein acknowledged the commercial aspect of the fair.
“You’re not going to see a pile of bricks or a bunch of
sunflower seeds on the floor here,” he said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on books and  Craig
Seligman  on movies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  