-- Chelsea’s Terry Acquitted of Racial Abuse on QPR Player
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-13T16:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/chelsea-s-terry-not-guilty-of-racially-abusing-opposing-player.html
Chelsea captain  John Terry  was found
not guilty of racially abusing Queens Park Rangers defender
 Anton Ferdinand  during a soccer game last year.  Terry, 31, had faced a fine of as much as 2,500 pounds and
possible sanctions from English soccer’s governing body over the
accusation he called Ferdinand a “f---ing black c---.”  Judge Howard Riddle made the ruling today after a four-day
trial at a  London  criminal court. Terry, one of English soccer’s
most well-known players, testified during the trial he used the
words only to repeat something he thought Ferdinand had accused
him of saying.  “Nobody has been able to show that he is lying,” Riddle
said of Terry in the ruling. The judge said it is “highly
unlikely” that Ferdinand accused him of using the racial
insult, but “it is possible that Mr. Terry believed at the
time, and believes now, that such an accusation was made.”  The case shook English soccer from the moment footage of
the alleged abuse first surfaced minutes after Chelsea’s 1-0
defeat to QPR on Oct. 23, 2011. Fabio Capello quit as coach of
 England ’s soccer team in February, when the Football Association
stripped Terry of the national team captaincy after an appeal by
Chelsea to delay the trial until after the end of the Premier
League soccer season.  “He has consistently explained his position to the FA, to
the police and to the court,” Terry’s lawyers said in a
statement. “He did not racially abuse Mr. Ferdinand and the
court has accepted this.”  Football Minded  Terry didn’t speak to reporters after the hearing.  Bruce Buck, the chairman of Chelsea, said he is “pleased
that John can now put his mind to football.”  The dispute started after the players collided going for
the ball, and turned into an altercation after Ferdinand felt
Terry had tried to cheat to win a penalty. The men exchanged
profanities and then Ferdinand said he gestured at Terry, cursed
again, and referenced an affair Terry had with former teammate
 Wayne Bridge ’s ex-girlfriend.  Terry, who earns as much as 150,000 pounds ($233,000) per
week, denied a suggestion that he reacted to the reference to
the affair. He said he’s faced abuse on a “weekly” basis from
rival fans and players since a judge in 2010 lifted an
injunction against reporting details of the affair.  Terry said he heard Ferdinand say, “calling me a black c--
-?” to him and thought he was accusing him of already having
made the comment. Terry repeated it back in a sarcastic way and
added an additional insult, he testified.  Cole Testimony  Ferdinand said he didn’t realize Terry had racially abused
him during the game or when Chelsea defender  Ashley Cole  called
him to speak with Terry in the away team locker room after the
match. He said he’d agreed with Terry that a racial epithet
wasn’t directed at him because he hadn’t heard or seen it until
a former girlfriend used her mobile phone to show him a video of
the incident posted on the Internet after the match, and after
he’d spoken to Terry.  Ferdinand didn’t make the initial complaint to police.  Cole, during testimony in the case, denied the claim he
concocted a cover story with Terry in the locker room
immediately after and said he saw Ferdinand mouth the words
either “black” or “Bridge’s.” Cole said he was about a car
length away from Terry when he shouted back at Ferdinand but
didn’t hear what was said.  ‘Obvious Response’  Terry’s explanation is “unlikely,” and “not the most
obvious response,” having been “sandwiched between other
undoubted insults,” Riddle said. It is possible Ferdinand did
hear Terry’s insult and didn’t want to take the matter any
further, the judge said.  The case began when an off-duty police officer complained
about the video footage from the game showing Terry using the
insulting words. Terry didn’t dispute that he made the comment.  “It was our view that this was not ‘banter’ on the
football pitch and that the allegation should be judged by a
court,” Alison Saunders, Chief Crown Prosecutor for London,
said after the judgment. The magistrate “agreed that Mr. Terry
had a case to answer, but having heard all of the evidence he
acquitted Mr. Terry of a racially aggravated offense. That is
justice being done.”  The FA had started an inquiry into the incident before
suspending it when the criminal case began. The soccer body
“will now seek to conclude its own enquiries,” it said in a
statement today.  Earlier this year, Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  got an
eight-game ban for racially abusing Manchester United defender
 Patrice Evra .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  