-- Chilean Peso Posts Best Weekly Gain in Month as Copper Rallies
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-13T19:37:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/chilean-peso-posts-best-weekly-gain-in-month-as-copper-rallies.html
Chile ’s peso rose, extending its
biggest weekly rally in a month, as copper prices rose on
speculation  China  will act to bolster growth and after the
central bank refrained from cutting its target lending rate.  “The main mover today is the expectation of stimulus
measures in China, which is boosting commodity prices,” Hernan Jimenez, an analyst at ForexChile, said in a telephone interview
from Santiago. “The central bank’s decision to keep rates
unchanged, although expected, also helps as it creates a carry
trade opportunity.”  The peso appreciated 0.7 percent to 490.65 per  U.S. dollar 
at the close in Santiago, extending its weekly rally to 1.6
percent, the most since the five days ended June 8.  The central bank held its target lending rate at 5 percent
for a sixth consecutive month yesterday, matching the forecast
of all 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers last
lowered borrowing costs in January, surprising economists with a
reduction of a quarter-percentage point.  In a carry trade, investors borrow funds where  interest
rates  are low and buy assets in nations that offer higher
yields.  Prices for copper, Chile’s biggest export, rose as much as
2.7 percent today. The metal got a boost as China reported gross
domestic product rose 7.6 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in three years, putting pressure
on the Asian nation’s government to take further steps to spur
expansion.  One-year breakeven inflation, a measure of the average
annual pace of future consumer price increases implied by bond
yields, fell 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 1.74
percent, while two-year breakevens retreated 8 basis points to 2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  