-- Chile, Peru Buck Global Trend by Opting Against Monetary Easing
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-07-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/chile-peru-buck-global-trend-by-opting-against-monetary-easing.html
Chile  and Peru yesterday opted
against following the lead set by nations from  Brazil  to South
 Korea  in cutting  interest rates  as economic growth and slowing
inflation in the Andean neighbors gave central bankers little
reason to change monetary policy.  Policy makers in Chile kept borrowing costs at  5 percent 
for the sixth straight month, while their counterparts in Peru
held their overnight rate at  4.25 percent  for a 14th consecutive
meeting, matchingthe median estimates in Bloomberg surveys of
economists.  The two economies will be among the world’s fastest growing
in 2012 while also posting some of Latin America’s lowest
inflation rates, according to International Monetary Fund
forecasts. Yesterday’s decisions balanced the respective risks
posed to consumer prices and growth by expanding domestic demand
and a global deceleration, economist  Pedro Tuesta  said.  “Chile has a better argument for holding in the sense that
inflation has come down to the center of its target,” Tuesta,
senior Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York , said
by telephone. “But both of them mentioned that the weakness of
the global economy adds uncertainty to the market, so they are
holding rates because of that.”  Chile and Peru have shown few signs of contagion from
 Europe , as gross domestic product will expand 4.3 percent and
5.5 percent respectively this year and surpass the 3.7 percent
average growth rate for the region, the Washington-based IMF
said in its latest  forecasts . The global economy will expand 3.5
percent, according to the multilateral lender.  Balance, Region  Inflation will average 3.8 percent in Chile and 3.3 percent
in Peru, compared with 6.4 percent for  Latin America , the IMF
said.  Consumer prices in Chile eased to a 16-month low of 2.7
percent in June from a year earlier, compared to the nine-month
low of  4 percent  posted in Peru. Chile’s central bank targets
annual inflation of 2 percent to 4 percent, while Peru’s bank
targets 1 percent to 3 percent.  Brazil’s economy, which is Latin America’s largest, will
fall short of the global and regional average in posting 3
percent growth in 2012, according to the IMF. Brazilian
industrial output fell in May for a third month and retail sales
fell by the most in more than three years.  Policy makers in Brazil on July 11 led by President
Alexandre Tombini lowered benchmark borrowing costs by 50 basis
points to a record 8 percent, to revive economic growth. They
have lowered rates 4.5 percentage points since August, the most
among Group of 20 nations.  2012  The  Bank of Korea  also on July 11 unexpectedly cut
borrowing costs for the first time in more than three years,
joining an international push for monetary stimulus as Europe’s
debt crisis threatens to undermine global growth.  While the Bank of Korea yesterday reduced its 2012
economic-growth forecast for the second time this year, the most
recent quarterly growth reports in the two Andean economies
support the IMF’s gross domestic product forecasts for 2012.  GDP in Chile, the world’s largest copper producer, expanded
5.6 percent in the first quarter from last year, which Peru
outpaced with a 6 percent expansion in the same period, the
fastest growth among Latin America’s seven biggest economies.  Growth in Brazil, the world’s second-biggest emerging
market after  China , decelerated to 0.8 percent in the same
period, the slowest rate among Latin America’s seven biggest
economies.  Trade, ‘Trend’  With more than half of their export revenue coming from
commodities, Chile and  Peru  also are vulnerable to a
deterioration of the euro region’s sovereign-debt crisis and
China’s economic deceleration.  Commodity prices have fallen 8.4 percent since the end of
February, according to the  Bloomberg commodity index , which
calculates the mean of indexes including energy, grains, food
and metals.  Chile in May posted its first trade deficit in nine months
on a decline in exports while the government this month cut
forecasts for 2012 economic growth and copper prices.  “Domestically, output and demand indicators, despite
decelerating less than expected, are evolving at trend rates,”
Chile’s central bank said in a statement accompanying
yesterday’s decision.  Chile’s peso has gained 5.2 percent against the dollar in
2012, the second-best performance among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  Colombia ’s peso,
and Peru’s sol is up 2.5 percent.  Peru had a $34 million  trade gap  in April, its first
deficit in three years, which widened to $106 million in May.
Year-on-year  growth  in Peru slowed to 4.4 percent in April,
though analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast that the
statistics agency next week will report a faster pace for May.  “Some current and advanced indicators of activity show
economic growth has stabilized around its long-term sustainable
level of growth, although indicators linked to the external
market show weak performance,” Peru’s central bank said in a
statement accompanying yesterday’s decision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  