-- Chile Breakeven Drops After Central Bank Eschews Easing
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-07-13T20:35:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/chile-breakeven-drops-after-central-bank-eschews-easing.html
Chile’s swaps traders lowered their
inflation projection to the lowest level in more than two years
after policy makers refrained from following  Brazil  and South
 Korea  in cutting borrowing costs.  Chile’s two-year breakeven inflation rate, a measure of the
average annual pace of future consumer price increases implied
by the difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields,
fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2 percent.
It was the lowest level since January 2010. Policy makers, who
target 2 percent to 4 percent inflation over two years, left the
benchmark lending rate at 5 percent.  While 93 percent of economists polled by the central bank
correctly projected that policy makers would hold rates in July,
more than 20 percent of traders in a separate survey forecast a
cut. Traders “punished” inflation expectations today as a
result, according to Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de
Credito & Inversiones.  “They were surprised by the Chilean central bank’s
increased aggressiveness with regards to fighting inflation,”
he wrote regarding traders in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Very negative private expectations for July inflation have
started to emerge.”  Consumer prices dropped 0.3 percent in June, the first
decline since August 2010.  Policy makers in Brazil lowered borrowing costs by 50 basis
points to a record 8 percent on July 11 to revive growth that is
waning as global demand weakens. The  Bank of Korea  unexpectedly
cut rates that same day for the first time in more than three
years, joining the global push for monetary stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  