-- Chinese Fans Showing Little Appetite for ‘Hunger Games’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-13T18:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/chinese-fans-showing-little-appetite-for-hunger-games-.html
“The Hunger Games,”  Lions Gate 
Entertainment Corp.’s film about teens fighting to survive in a
dystopian society, got off to a slower start in  China  than the
U.S., where the novel behind the picture is better known.  Sales in China of $26 million are the movie’s third-highest
for territories outside the U.S., said Peter Wilkes, a Lions
Gate spokesman. While helping raise the worldwide total to $680
million, the intake in China trails the figures for  Universal
Pictures ’ “Battleship” and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “John Carter,”
movies that flopped domestically.  After  “The Hunger Games”  topped expectations at home,
surpassing the final “Harry Potter” film, Lions Gate turned to
China, the third-largest movie market, to extend the success.
Standing in the way for now is Chinese consumers’ unfamiliarity
with the Suzanne Collins novel behind the movie, which opened
there on June 14, said Robert Cain, president of  Pacific Bridge
Pictures , a consulting firm in  Santa Monica ,  California .  “‘This is a property that just is not as well known in
China,” Cain said in an interview. “As I looked on the social-
media sites, they weren’t really chatting about it as much as
other films.”  In “The Hunger Games,” an authoritarian government
selects teens each year to fight to the death on live
television. The film’s political elements haven’t affected its
performance in China, Cain said.  Discounting Ideology  “It was a little surprising they allowed it,” Cain said.
“Once they’ve approved it, the audience doesn’t look at
ideology.”  Three sequels may generate higher sales as audiences in
China get to know the storyline and characters.  The second
film, “Catching Fire,” is scheduled for release in November
2013. “Mockingjay” will be divided into two movies, set for
showing in 2014 and 2015.  On opening in March “The Hunger Games” collected $152.5
million in weekend sales in the U.S. and  Canada , according to
Box Office Mojo, a film researcher. American tastes haven’t
proved a predictor of those in China. “Battleship” is the
sixth-best performing film in China this year, with $50.2
million in sales, and “ John Carter ” is No. 8, with $41.6
million, according to Pacific Bridge’s Chinafilmbiz  website .  In the U.S., both of those films trailed far behind “The
Hunger Games.” “John Carter” commanded $73.1 million in the
U.S., “Battleship” $64.5 million, Box Office Mojo shows.  Taking on Chinese partners is one strategy film companies
are trying to boost their chances of successfully bringing U.S.
movies to China. The third “ Iron Man ” film, scheduled for
release next year, will be a co-production between Disney’s
Marvel unit and Beijing-based  DMG Entertainment , and will
feature Chinese characters.  ‘Iron Man’  The first “Iron Man” film took in $15.3 million in China
in 2008, compared with $318.4 million in the U.S., according to
Box Office Mojo. Two years later “Iron Man 2” took in $7.9
million after collecting $312.4 million in the U.S.  U.S. movies dominated the China box office during the first
half of this year. “ Titanic 3D, ” the three-dimensional
conversion of  James Cameron ’s 1997 film, is China’s biggest hit,
with $154.8 million in ticket sales, according to Pacific
Bridge. The top-performing Chinese movie is “Painted Skin:
Resurrection,” a 3-D action-fantasy film that has registered
$46.9 million in sales.  “For most of this year, the audiences are really turning
away from locally made films,” Cain said. “Every week this
year has been led by U.S. films, except where there’s no new
Hollywood release.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  