-- China’s Growth Slows to Three-Year Low of 7.6%
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T04:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/china-s-growth-slows-to-three-year-low-of-7-6-.html
China’s growth slowed for a sixth
quarter to the weakest pace since the global financial crisis,
putting pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to boost stimulus to
secure a second-half economic rebound.  Gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said
today in Beijing. The pace, a three-year low, compares with an
8.1 percent gain in the previous period and the 7.7 percent
median forecast of economists. Industrial production increased
at a slower pace in June while retail sales growth decelerated.  Today’s data painted a mixed picture from a pickup in
fixed-asset investment that could signal the economy is
stabilizing to the warning sign that electricity output failed
to increase in June from a year earlier.  Singapore  reported an
unexpected economic contraction as China’s slowdown undermines a
global recovery already threatened by  Europe ’s debt crisis and
limited U.S. job growth.  “The fact that the data shows persistent weakness --rather
than a precipitous plunge -- means policy makers are likely to
continue incremental monetary accommodation but not embrace a
more aggressive fiscal stimulus policy response in the immediate
term,” said Ramin Toloui, Singapore-based global co-head of
emerging-markets portfolio management at Pacific Investment
Management Co., which manages the world’s largest bond fund.  The yuan weakened for a third day and headed for the
biggest weekly decline in six weeks, falling less than 0.1
percent to 6.3760 against the dollar at 12:05 p.m. in  Shanghai .
The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index was little changed after
two days of gains.  Export Slowdown  China’s export growth in the first half cooled to 9.2
percent, down from 24 percent in the first six months of 2011,
as Europe’s austerity measures and government debt burdens
capped shipments. Also dragging on demand is a crackdown on
housing-market speculation.  China can’t relax the property curbs, which have reigned in
speculation and investment in real estate,  Sheng Laiyun ,
spokesman for the National Bureau of Statistics, said at a
briefing today. The economic slowdown is partly the result of a
decline in China’s potential growth rate after more than 30
years of high-speed expansion, Sheng said. He said bearish views
on the economy are unfounded and that industrialization and
urbanization will help.  Estimates for growth in the world’s second-biggest economy
in a Bloomberg News survey of 38 analysts ranged from 7.3
percent to 9.3 percent, with all except one predicting a
slowdown from the first quarter.  Growth Target  First-half expansion was 7.8 percent, the statistics bureau
said. Wen in March set a 7.5 percent growth target for this year,
down from an 8 percent goal in place since 2005.  The People’s Bank of  China  on July 5 announced the second
interest-rate cut in a month, adding to the first since 2008.
The central bank also widened the discount available to most
borrowers to 30 percent from 20 percent off the benchmark rate.
Authorities have lowered banks’ reserve requirements three times
starting in November to spur lending and support growth.  Wen pledged to intensify fine-tuning of policies as
downward pressure on the economy remains “relatively large,”
according to a July 8 report by the official Xinhua News Agency.
At the same time, the premier said authorities will
“unswervingly” sustain property controls and prevent a rebound
in prices, Xinhua said.  Excavator Sales  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , China’s biggest maker of
excavators, lowered its annual unit-sales forecast, Vice
Chairman Xiang Wenbo said in a July 11 interview. A “meaningful
recovery” in demand for earth-moving equipment may not be
visible until the first quarter of next year, Xiang said.  “The Chinese economy has slowed, but it is not collapsing
as many fear,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of
investment strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages
almost $100 billion. “Past policy easing plus more to come
suggests that growth will pick up to around an 8 percent pace
over the second half.”  U.S. companies are feeling the effects of China’s
deceleration.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the second-biggest
maker of processors for personal computers, this week reported
an unexpected drop in quarterly sales in part because of
weakness in China.  Cummins Inc. (CMI) , a maker of truck engines,
reduced its revenue forecast, saying demand in  Brazil , China and
 India  isn’t improving as the company anticipated.  China’s  industrial production  expanded 9.5 percent in June
from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said, comparing with
the 9.8 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Fixed-
asset investment  excluding rural households increased 20.4
percent in the first six months from a year earlier, the data
showed, versus 20.1 percent in the first five months and a 20
percent forecast.  Retail Data  Retail sales  advanced 13.7 percent last month from a year
earlier, compared with the 13.4 percent median forecast of
economists. Data earlier this week showed that imports rose less
than estimated in June while export growth slowed and new  yuan 
loans topped predictions.  Promoting investment growth is key to stabilizing the
economic expansion, Wen said during meetings with economists and
company executives July 9 and 10, according to a government
statement. The remarks may signal public investment is likely to
rise in the coming months, Nomura Holdings Inc. said.  Rio Tinto Group, which counted on China for 31 percent of
its $61 billion in sales last year, expects growth in the nation
to accelerate in the second half on the recent fiscal and
monetary loosening, Vivek Tulpule, chief economist of the
world’s third-largest mining company, said in  London  on June 29.  Singapore Contraction  Singapore’s GDP fell an annualized 1.1 percent in the three
months through June from the previous quarter, when it climbed a
revised 9.4 percent, the Trade Ministry said today. The median
of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.6 percent
gain.  Also today in the Asia-Pacific region, the  Bank of Korea 
reduced its 2012 economic-growth forecast for the second time
this year, a day after it unexpectedly cut  interest rates .  Elsewhere,  Russia  will refrain from reducing interest rates
for a seventh month today, after a surge in inflation in June,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Spain and
 Italy  will report inflation data today.  In the U.S., wholesale prices probably fell 0.5 percent in
June from May, compared to a 1 percent drop the previous month,
economists predicted.  --Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan and Karl Lester M. Yap in Singapore, Cynthia Li in  Hong Kong  and  Kevin Hamlin  and
Nerys Avery in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Paul Panckhurst
