-- Yingli Plans Hainan Plant Expansion Amid Solar Glut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T03:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/china-s-power-output-stalls-in-june-as-economic-growth-weakens.html
China’s  power output  rose at the
slowest pace in more than three years for a non-Lunar New Year
holiday month as the nation’s  economic growth  slowed for a sixth
quarter to the weakest pace in three years.  Electricity generation was unchanged in June from a year
earlier at 393.4 billion kilowatt-hours, according to  data 
released today by the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics. That’s the first time since May 2009 that production
hasn’t increased, excluding a contraction in January this year
as factories shut for the weeklong holiday.  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 8.1 percent in the
prior three months and 7.7 percent forecast by economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Industrial output increased 9.5 percent
in June, missing the 9.8 percent median estimate in a separate
Bloomberg survey, the NBS data showed. Factories account for
about three-quarters of  China ’s electricity consumption.  June’s power data “are really bad and worse than our
expectation,” Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Ltd., said by telephone. “Poor economic performance is dragging
down electricity demand from the industrial sector. Demand in
the third quarter may improve, but only slightly.”  About 80 percent of China’s power plants are fueled by
coal. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. cut its forecast for domestic
thermal-coal prices for the third time in two months, citing
oversupply, according to a report today.  Shanxi Premium coal with a heating value of 5,500
kilocalories per kilogram will average 700  yuan  ($110) a metric
ton in 2012 and 650 yuan next year,  Michael Parker , an analyst
at Bernstein in  Hong Kong , said in the report. The brokerage
previously forecast prices would be at 735 yuan this year and
665 yuan in 2013.  Benchmark spot prices at the port of Qinhuangdao fell for a
ninth week to a range of 645 yuan to 660 yuan as of June 8,
according to data from the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net ;
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  