-- China Economic Data Questioned as Electricity Use Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T04:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/china-economic-data-questioned-as-electricity-use-slows.html
The figures that go into  China ’s
gross domestic product are “man-made” and “for reference
only,” Li Keqiang, then a regional Communist Party head, said
in 2007.  The comments by Li, now a vice premier who’s expected to
become premier next spring, were revealed in a diplomatic cable
published by WikiLeaks in late 2010. Li’s remarks are especially
relevant as China announced today that the economy expanded 7.6
percent last quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in
three years.  Investors, bankers and economists face a host of
difficulties in interpreting the numbers from China’s statistics
bureau, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 16 issue.
Combining all officially reported provincial GDP numbers for
last year produces a total exceeding national GDP by about 10
percent,  Ma Jiantang , head of the National Bureau of Statistics,
said in February. Ma said that is due partly to double counting
of items including factory production and that his bureau was
trying to correct the issue.  China’s registered urban unemployment has moved between
just under 4 percent and 4.3 percent for the last decade, while
electricity consumption has slowed much faster than growth in
official GDP when it normally should move more in tandem. That
has stirred speculation GDP figures are being skewed upward in
the run-up to a leadership transition this fall.  ‘Smoothed’ Figures  “Out of the black box comes a number, and that number
doesn’t always line up with the other numbers,” says Andrew
Batson, Beijing-based research director at macroeconomics
consultant GK Dragonomics. “I wouldn’t be surprised if the GDP
numbers this year are smoothed.”  One legacy of the planned economy is that bureaucrats are
given targets by the central government for everything from
steel production to harvests and local GDP. These same officials
traditionally have been promoted on their success in making
their numbers.  “We have a saying in China: The cadres produce the data,
and data produces the cadres,” said Jin Yongjin, a professor of
statistics at Renmin University in Beijing.  The government is good at measuring some pieces of the
economy including industrial production and profits, said  Louis Kuijs , an economist at the Fung Global Institute, a research
group in  Hong Kong . Those numbers benefit from a nationwide
system of corporate reporting instituted decades ago to help
central planners steer the economy.  “In the old system it was crucial to have that reporting
system in place,” Kuijs said. “China’s industrial survey is
giving us quite good numbers.”  Service Economy  The country’s statistical system may be far less capable of
measuring the service economy or getting an accurate reading of
consumption by the middle class.  “If you look at the number of cars produced in China, you
will probably get a more or less accurate number,” said  Stephen Green , regional head of research for greater China at  Standard
Chartered  Plc in Hong Kong. “But the system isn’t good at
measuring how many karaoke nights people have had or restaurant
meals they have had.”  Retail sales include purchases by government offices and
big state enterprises, Green said. That may explain why retail
sales haven’t fallen during downturns: State entities are
ordered to keep buying even when individual consumption has
probably declined.  Equipment Sales  Investment banks have searched for the indicator that will
predict an economic  turning point . Standard Chartered looked at
sales of earth-moving equipment before deciding it was a lagging
rather than a leading indicator. Bank loans, as well as
electricity consumption and rail cargo volume, all cited by  Li
Keqiang  as more reliable than GDP, are still a good proxy for
the economy, Green said.  Today’s National Bureau of Statistics report showed China’s
growth slowed for a sixth consecutive quarter as trade and
manufacturing decelerated. Last quarter’s 7.6 percent growth
rate compared with an 8.1 percent expansion in the previous
period and the 7.7 percent forecast by economists.  Electricity generation was unchanged in June from a year
earlier at 393.4 billion kilowatt-hours, according to today’s
data. That’s the first time since May 2009 that production
hasn’t increased, excluding a contraction in January this year
as factories shut for the weeklong holiday.  Data Collection  One new effort to gauge the economy is the China Beige Book,
a quarterly survey of about 2,000 bankers and company executives,
modeled on the U.S. Federal Reserve’s Beige Book. It measures
growth in eight key industries across China’s major regions,
said Leland Miller, president of New York-based CBB
International LLC, which publishes the report.  Chinese policy makers are trying to address the
government’s statistical shortcomings. More data are now
directly reported to Beijing, as opposed to being first filtered
through local party offices. The statistics bureau has moved to
standardize data collection by China’s many ministries and
industrial associations.  The bureau has also worked with the  United Nations , the
 International Monetary Fund  and the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development to improve its tracking of the
economy.  China still tends to treat its data gathering as a national
secret, said Anne Stevenson-Yang, co-founder of Beijing-based J
Capital Research, which analyzes equities. She cited the
government’s refusal to release the weighting of goods tracked
to compile its consumer price inflation index.  “Why would you ever lift the hood and show people how you
do it?” Stevenson-Yang said. “That only reduces your ability
to change numbers if you need to.”  --Dexter Roberts. Editors: Christopher Power, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Dexter Roberts in Beijing at 
 droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at   cpower3@bloomberg.net  