-- China Data From Home to Investment Show Hope for Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/china-data-from-home-to-investment-show-hope-for-growth.html
China’s weakest  expansion  in three
years masked a surge in home sales and a jump in investment that
show lower  interest rates  and banks’ reserve requirements may be
starting to stabilize growth in the second-largest economy.  China’s economy  advanced 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier while accelerating to a 1.8 percent gain
from the previous three months, a government report in Beijing
showed yesterday. The value of home sales rose 41 percent in
June from May and first-half fixed-asset  investment  rose 20.4
percent, topping analyst estimates.  Preventing a deeper slowdown would bolster prospects for
global growth under threat from  Europe ’s debt turmoil and a
weakening U.S. labor market. Any recovery in China may be
limited by Premier Wen Jiabao’s vow to prevent a rebound in
property prices, banks still digesting record lending and higher
wages that are pushing some companies to relocate.  “The hard-landing risk has fallen,” said Dong Tao, Credit
Suisse AG Group’s Hong Kong-based head of Asia economics
excluding  Japan . At the same time, “we do not see much of a
catalyst to drive the economy,” with “structural reforms”
needed instead of measures aimed at boosting growth, he said.  Nomura Holdings Inc. yesterday cut its  China  growth
forecast for this year to 8.2 percent from 8.4 percent and 2013
prediction to 7.9 percent from 8.2 percent, even as the bank
projected a rebound in fourth-quarter 2012 expansion to 8.8
percent.  ‘Extremely’ Complicated  Separately yesterday, the People’s Bank of China said weak
global demand will hinder growth, with the world situation
“extremely” complicated, according to the central bank’s 2012
financial-stability report.  Wen pledged to intensify fine-tuning of policies as
downward pressure on the economy remains “relatively large,”
according to a July 8 report by the official Xinhua News Agency.
The premier said authorities will “unswervingly” sustain
property controls and prevent a rebound in prices, Xinhua said.  Promoting investment growth is key to stabilizing the
economic expansion, Wen said during meetings with economists and
company executives July 9 and 10, according to a government
statement.  “Policy makers are still worried about growth slowing down
and getting close to their threshold of 7.5 percent,” said
Zhang Zhiwei, Hong Kong-based chief China economist at Nomura,
who previously worked for the International Monetary Fund.
“They will push investment up through bank lending so for the
next several months new loans will continue to be pretty strong
and infrastructure investment will pick up.”  Interest Rates  China reduced  interest rates  in June and July and has
lowered banks’ reserve requirements three times since November.
Zhang expects a cut in the reserve ratio as soon as this month
and another in the final quarter.  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial Markets
in  Singapore , sees the central bank cutting the benchmark one-
year lending rate again this quarter while making two 50 basis-
point cuts in the reserve ratio.  “The government has enough capability to maintain economic
growth, which is China’s biggest advantage,” Xiang Wenbo, vice
chairman of excavator maker  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , said in a
July 11 interview. China can stimulate expansion through fixed-
asset investment and real estate and maintain a growth rate of
7.5 percent, Xiang said.  Not all the data yesterday pointed to growth. Downbeat
signs included electricity generation that was unchanged in June
from a year earlier. That’s the first time since May 2009 that
production hasn’t increased, excluding a contraction in January
this year as factories shut for a weeklong holiday.  Energy Intensities  The slump may be explained by different energy intensities
of industries, said Il Houng Lee, the  International Monetary
Fund ’s chief resident representative in Beijing.  The pace of gains in  industrial output  and retail sales
also slowed. Export growth in the first half cooled to 9.2
percent, down from 24 percent in the first six months of 2011, a
report earlier this week showed.  The  yuan  had the biggest weekly loss in six weeks,
extending the decline this year to 1.3 percent against the
dollar following a 4.7 percent gain in 2011. The benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index was little changed yesterday and closed
down 1.7 percent for the week, the fourth straight decline.  China averaged annual gross domestic product growth of
about 10 percent throughout the 1990s and 2000s. Wen set an
expansion target of 7.5 percent this year, below 8 percent for
the first time since 2004.  The slowdown is partly the result of a decline in China’s
potential growth rate after more than 30 years of high-speed
expansion,  Sheng Laiyun , spokesman for the National Bureau of
Statistics, said at a briefing yesterday. He said bearish views
on the economy are unfounded and that industrialization and
urbanization will help sustain expansion.  “Investors need to understand that a part of the growth
downshift is permanent,” said Stephen Jen, managing partner at
SLJ Macro Partners LLP in  London  and former head of currency
research at Morgan Stanley. “Those who are hoping for a strong
recovery in the second half are likely to be disappointed.”  -- Kevin Hamlin . With assistance from Zheng Lifei in Beijing.
Editors: Scott Lanman, Nerys Avery  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  