-- China June Home Sales Rise 41% After Interest Rates Cut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T07:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/china-june-home-sales-rise-41-on-month-after-interest-rates-cut.html
China’s home sales transaction value
rose 41 percent in June from the previous month as buying
sentiment improved after the government eased monetary policy.  The  value of homes  sold climbed to 531.3 billion  yuan  ($83
billion) from 375.7 billion yuan in May, the most this year,
based on the difference between the National Statistics Bureau’s
data for the first half of the year and the first five months.
Housing sales in the first half fell 6.5 percent to 1.9 trillion
yuan from a year earlier, according to the data.  China’s economy  slowed for a sixth quarter by expanding 7.6
percent in the second quarter from a year ago, raising
expectations of further policy easing. The central bank cut
 interest rates  last week for the second time in a month.  “The market is rebounding,” said Alan Jin, a Hong Kong-
based property analyst at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. Still,
“developers in general are still pretty cautious on investment
and land acquisition,” he said.  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said over the weekend that
downward pressure on the economy is still “relatively large”
and the government will intensify fine-tuning of policies even
as measures taken since April are helping stabilize a slowdown.  Investment in homes, office buildings, malls and other real
estate gained 16.6 percent to 3.1 trillion yuan in the first
half, slower than the 33 percent gain a year earlier, according
to the statistics bureau data announced at a press conference in
Beijing today. New property construction declined 7.1 percent to
923.8 million square meters (9.9 billion square feet).  Shares Slip  A  gauge  tracking property shares on the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  and the benchmark both ended the day little changed.  Home sales volume dropped 11.2 percent in the first half
from last year to 353.5 million square meters, the government
data showed today. Property value that including office
buildings and retail space fell 5.2 percent to 2.33 trillion
yuan from a year ago.  “We should acknowledge that the property curbs were an
important factor that drove the slowdown in China’s economy this
year,” said the statistics bureau spokesman  Sheng Laiyun , in a
press conference in Beijing today. “But we shouldn’t relax the
curbs, because it will promote a sustainable healthy Chinese
economy.”  Property Curbs  While the government has said it won’t waver from its
curbs, it has helped ease funding by lenders and vowed to
support first-time home buyers. The central bank cut the
benchmark one-year lending rate last month for the first time
since 2008, after imposing measures in the past two years that
included higher  mortgage rates  and down payment requirements.  “Significant loosening in the  property market  looks
unavoidable in order to entice developers to pick up
investment,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Hong Kong-based
Oscar Choi wrote in a July 11 research note. “Potential
powerful measures” include lower down-payment ratios and wider
coverage for a public housing fund that provides low-interest
mortgages, they said.  “We see a rising momentum of property sales in the second
quarter, but that’s not big enough to drive the rebound of
property investment. Developers would need total social
financing for that,” Chen Li, head of  China  equity strategy at
UBS AG told reporters in Beijing on July 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  