-- China’s Daily Steel Output Rebounds in June, Weighing on Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T10:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/china-s-daily-steel-output-rebounds-in-june-weighing-on-prices.html
China ’s daily steel production in
June climbed from the previous month, weighing on prices as a
slowing economic expansion reduced demand.  Output was 2 million metric tons a day last month, compared
with 1.98 million tons in May and a record 2.02 million tons in
April, based on monthly data collated by the National Bureau of
Statistics. Crude-steel production was 60.2 million tons in
June, the bureau said today, and 61.23 million tons in May.  Asia ’s largest economy expanded 7.6 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace in three years, draining demand for
the alloy used by builders and automakers and prompting price
cuts by Baosteel Iron & Steel Co., China’s biggest publicly
traded mill, Angang Steel Co. and other producers. Chinese mills
may cut output this month and next as they struggle to break
even, said Custeel.com’s chief analyst, Hu Yanping.  “The rebound in daily output is certainly bad news,” Hu
said today by telephone from Beijing. “It will drag down the
already weak prices, further squeezing steelmakers’ profits.”  The average price of  hot-rolled coil , a benchmark product,
has fallen for 13 straight weeks, the longest streak since
January 2003, according to data from Beijing Antaike Information
Development Co. It lost 9.6 percent to 3,974 yuan a ton from
4,395 yuan on April 13. Prices of  iron ore , a steelmaking
ingredient, fell about 10 percent in this period.  Hebei Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit of China’s biggest
mill by output, said profit in the first half this year may drop
as much as 90 percent from a year earlier to 98.8 million yuan
($15.5 million), according to an exchange filing yesterday.
Angang Steel, the largest Hong Kong-traded Chinese mill, said it
expects to swing to a loss in the first half after prices
plunged.  Baoshan Steel, supplier of half of China’s auto sheets,
will cut its benchmark product prices for a second month,
reducing rates by 200 yuan to 260 yuan a ton for August
delivery, the Shanghai-based company said yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  