-- Clinton Urges Myanmar to Boost Rights to Improve Economy
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-07-13T15:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/clinton-urges-myanmar-to-boost-rights-to-improve-economy.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
urged Asian countries, and Myanmar in particular, to embrace
human rights and political openness as crucial components in
attracting investment and driving economic growth.  “Promoting economic activity in this region requires more
than just encouraging businesses to invest and trade,” Clinton
told a meeting of the U.S.-Asean Business Council in Siem Reap,
 Cambodia , where Myanmar’s President Thein Sein also addressed
the group. “It also requires creating and defending the
conditions in which economic activity can flourish over the long
run.”  Clinton underscored themes she has stressed throughout a
week-long trip through Southeast  Asia , highlighting the contrast
between the U.S. approach to economic development and  China ’s in
the process. Worker’s rights, improved labor conditions and
women’s economic participation are key to “widening the circle
of prosperity,” she said. That, in turn, will help rebalance
the global economy as a rising middle class would allow Asia to
purchase more, Clinton said.  In an hour-long meeting with  Thein Sein , Clinton pledged
U.S. support for Myanmar as it slowly liberalizes its political
system and takes advantage of sanctions easing by the U.S.
PresidentBarack Obama announced on July 12.  “I want to hear from you about your plans for the
economy,” Clinton told Myanmar’s leader. “We want to help you
keep going. We are very committed.”  Sanctions Eased  “I am very pleased to see our bilateral relations
improving dramatically,” Thein Sein said, speaking through a
translator as he smiled and shook Clinton’s hand in the garden
courtyard of a local hotel. “We are pleased that Obama eased
the sanctions.”  Obama this week authorized U.S. companies to invest in
Myanmar for the first time in about 15 years, including with a
state-run oil firm that opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi urged
multinationals to avoid.  The U.S.-Asean gathering drew 55 U.S. companies, many of
which will be part of a 70-strong delegation leaving for Myanmar
tomorrow to explore business opportunities there. Companies at
the meeting include closely held Cargill Inc. of  Minneapolis ;
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  of  Mountain View ,  California ;  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  of  New York ;  Boeing Co. (BA)  of Chicago; and  General Motors Co. (GM) 
of Detroit.  “We’re excited about what lies ahead and we’re very
supportive about President Thein Sein’s economic and political
reforms,” Clinton said, calling this week a “milestone” in
relations.  Greater Openness  Greater openness, the rule of law and respect for human
rights are key to these companies’ willingness to invest,
Clinton said.  “Will entrepreneurs be able to start businesses, confident
that they know all the necessary regulations, that the contracts
they sign will be enforced and disputes fairly resolved,”
Clinton said. “Or will they operate in uncertainty, confront
constant corruption, and perhaps give up on their aspirations
altogether?”  In their meeting, Thein Sein told Clinton how much he
appreciated the opportunity to encourage U.S. investment in
Myanmar, according to a U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to
be identified.  Clinton touched on human rights in their meeting, raising
the challenge of internally displaced minorities such as the
Rohingyas and Myanmar’s jailing of workers for the  United
Nations  and nonprofit organizations.  Importing Tires  Thein Sein told Clinton his nation hopes to develop value-
added businesses and end its reliance on extractive industries,
such as logging and mining. Myanmar ships raw teak, not finished
lumber, he said, and though his country is a rubber exporter, it
has to import tires.  The Myanmar president also expressed interest in developing
the country’s information technology, particularly connecting
some of its remote villages, and improving child and maternal
 health services , the official said.  “The people of Myanmar want to see true  change  in the
country” and so the government was pursuing that goal, Thein
Sein told the business council, speaking in fluent English.  He described rules that protect freedom of speech and civil
society. He expressed an interest in developing democracy within
the country and described efforts to make peace with dissident
groups. He said Myanmar understands the importance of
transparency.  ‘Mutually Beneficial’  He also made an appeal for a further easing of sanctions.  “It is regrettable that we do not receive any assistance
from any international monetary institutions” such as the  Asian
Development Bank  or the  World Bank , because of sanctions, Thein
Sein said. Sanctions restrain Myanmar from doing so and from
developing economic relations with other countries, the
president said.  “We are confident that on the basis of mutual respect, our
countries will be able to develop mutually beneficial
cooperation,” Thein Sein said.  In her speech to the business gathering, Clinton said U.S.
exports to Asean exceeded $76 billion in 2011, a 42 percent
increase since 2009.  “There is a great deal of potential for our economic
activity to grow,” Clinton said.  Southeast Asian economies have grown rapidly by relying on
exports “but this export-driven model may have taken this
region as far as it can go,” Clinton said.  Clinton said that’s why the Group of 20 nations and others
have called for rebalancing the global economy so that developed
nations build more at home and sell more abroad as  developing
countries  create a larger middle class that can fuel demand for
domestic and imported goods and services.  “This is the next phase of Asia’s growth,” Clinton said.
“It is the future of the global economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Siem Reap, Cambodia at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  