-- Codelco Seeks Entry to World-Class Ecuador Mine: Chamber
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-07-13T19:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/codelco-seeks-entry-to-world-class-ecuador-mine-chamber.html
Codelco , the largest copper
producer, is negotiating access to a “world-class” deposit in
 Ecuador , paving the way for the state-owned company’s expansion
outside of  Chile , according to an industry group.  The Junin deposit in northern Ecuador contains enough
copper and molybdenum to rival the biggest mines in Chile and
 Peru , which include  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and Xstrata Plc’s
Collahuasi and BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida, Santiago Yepez,
president of Ecuador’s Mining Chamber, said in an interview in
Quito. Chile and Peru are the world’s top copper producers.  “Junin could be one of the most significant copper
deposits in  South America ,” he said yesterday, citing earlier
exploration work by  Canada ’s Ascendant Copper Corp. and
Mitsubishi Corp. The  Mining Chamber  represents companies
exploring in Ecuador including  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  and  Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group (000630)  Co. Codelco officials are “frequently”
in Quito to meet authorities and the chamber, Yepez said.  A deal with Ecuador’s state mining company  Enami  would give
Codelco access to a large-scale copper deposit outside of Chile
for the first time in its history after spending about a decade
exploring in northern  Brazil  and  Mexico . Kinross and Tongling
are also in talks with Ecuador’s government to start large-scale
mining in the South American country for the first time.  Codelco officials declined to comment on talks with the
government. Ecuador’s Ministry of Non-Renewable Natural
Resources didn’t respond to telephone and e-mailed requests for
comment.  Farmer Opposition  Codelco is focused on spending more than $20 billion to
revamp its mines in Chile and may create a unit to expand
overseas, Chief Executive Officer  Thomas Keller  said last month.  Ascendant lost the Junin concession after facing opposition
from coffee growers and farmers in the nearby valley of Intag,
Yepez said. Codelco faces a “tough task” in convincing locals
to accept drilling at the site, he said.  More than 90 percent of Ecuador’s terrain is unexplored and
offers “gigantic potential” for copper and gold discoveries
amid the Andean mountains that run through Chile, Peru, Ecuador
and  Colombia , Yepez said.  Ecuador’s metals deposits, valued by the government at $220
billion, may contain more than 39 million ounces of gold
reserves and more than 8 million metric tons of copper,
according to the most recent data from the mining chamber.  In 2008, Ecuador annulled more than 4,000 mining
concessions including Ascendant’s rights to explore Junin, while
President  Rafael Correa  rewrote the country’s mining laws the
following year to give the state greater control over the
country’s mineral resources.  Windfall Tax  Correa said yesterday he will revise a windfall tax after
talks with Kinross to develop one of the world’s biggest gold
discoveries stalled.  “We have to make it more reasonable,” Correa said. “We
have the most demanding contracts in the world but we have to be
very demanding because the opportunities are enormous.”  The windfall tax gives the state the right to earn 70
percent of mineral profits above a pre-negotiated base price and
has deterred investment, Yepez said. Codelco will be able to
acquire up to 49 percent of Junin while Enami will retain a
controlling 51 percent stake, he said.  Election Season  Ascendant delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange
following the annulments, while  Southern Copper Corp. (SCCO)  acquired
the rights to Ascendant’s Chaucha project in the South American
country, beginning exploration this year.  Correa may wait until after February presidential elections
before signing any mining accords because of opposition from
environmentalists and other constituents, Yepez said.  “Without a doubt, the Ecuadorean government wants to
support the mining sector and they are doing it,” Yepez said.
“Sadly, we are in an election season.”  Large-scale mining faces resistance from local communities
in Ecuador, like neighboring Peru where five people have died in
demonstrations against Newmont Mining Corp.’s Minas Conga gold
and copper project in Cajamarca. In March, Ecuadorean protesters
forced their way into China’s embassy in Quito in a failed
attempt to stop the government from signing a contract with
Tongling’s unit, Corriente Resources Inc.  Chavez Ally  Changes in mining laws and the government’s inexperience in
negotiating large-scale mining contracts have deterred
investors, said Xavier Andrade, a partner at Quito-based law
firm  Andrade Veloz Abogados . Codelco should have an easier time
reaching a deal with the government than Junin’s previous owners
as Correa, an ally of  Venezuela ’s President  Hugo Chavez , has
said he favors doing business with state-owned companies.  “The government is having a lot of trouble trying to
understand how mining laws should be,” Andrade, who specializes
in the country’s mining code, said yesterday in an interview at
his offices in Quito. The country’s laws give Codelco an
advantage over other mining companies interested in developing
the deposit, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  