-- Colorado Housing Hangover Saps Taxes as School Obligation Grows
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/colorado-housing-hangover-saps-taxes-as-school-obligation-grows.html
Six years after the housing crisis
hit  Colorado , Claire and Alan Pegg are at risk of losing their
home in the Denver suburb of Brighton. Left without an income
after their tree farm failed, Claire says she isn’t sure her
family will be able to keep the ranch-style house they’ve owned
for eight years.  “We have no savings and nothing to fall back on,” said
Claire, a 39-year-old mother of two who does voiceover work by
day and waits tables at night. “If things go well for a few
years we’ll get back on our feet, but if anything else happens
we’ll be out.”  While housing prices in the  Denver area  bottomed out last
year and are now posting modest gains, thousands of homeowners
are still trapped in homes worth less than they paid, and
foreclosures continue to sap property- tax revenue  in hard-hit
Denver suburbs, forcing the state to raise its share of funding
for public schools in those areas and statewide.  The same factors are putting pressure on state governments
and school districts nationally, as the lingering effects of the
housing crisis are expected to chill property-tax collections
into next year and beyond. That’s because  home prices  remain far
below pre-crisis levels, and reassessments raising taxes lag
behind upticks in property values by as long as three years.  “Property-tax revenues are projected to be essentially
flat at the national level,” said  Tony Yezer , a professor of
economics at the Elliott School of International Affairs at
Washington-based George Washington University. “That means in
real terms, adjusted for inflation, they are down. That’s very
unusual.”  Stagnant Revenue  Stagnant property-tax revenue in states hardest hit by the
housing crisis are forcing lawmakers to use general-fund money
to prop up local school districts. In  Florida , a 3.6 percent
drop in property-tax collections in fiscal 2013 led the
legislature to allocate an additional $247 million in state
funds to its 67 county school districts.  In  Nevada , where property-tax revenue is down 24 percent
from the assessed value’s peak in 2009, legislators used $111
million in lodging taxes to shore up basic support for the
state’s 17 districts and increased a  sales tax  dedicated to
schools by 15 percent. Nevada is the only state in the country
in which net homeowner equity is negative, meaning that in the
aggregate, every house in the state is worth less what owners
owe, according to data compiled by CoreLogic Inc.  In Arizona, where a district’s bonding capacity is set at a
percentage of its property values, some districts are unable to
issue more securities until they pay down existing debt, or
their assessed real estate values improve.  $71 Million  “We have $71 million in voter approved bonds that we can
no longer access,” said A. Denise Birdwell, superintendent of
 Higley Unified School District  in Gilbert,  Arizona , about 22
miles (35 kilometers) southeast of Phoenix. “We are a growing
district with approximately 650 new students yearly. We will
have five schools over capacity next year with no ability to
build.”  In Colorado, the decline in property-tax revenue, coupled
with a falloff in sales and income taxes, meant schools got $1
billion less than they needed to cover expenses over the past
four years, Leanne Emm, assistant commissioner of public school
finance for the  Colorado Department of Education , said in an
interview.  Foreclosure sales in Colorado fell to 19,600 in 2011, down
22 percent from a peak of 25,054 in 2007 and the lowest level
since the housing crisis began in 2006, according to data from
the Colorado Division of Housing. Housing prices in the Denver
metro area, meanwhile, rose 3 percent since last September and
are down 8.5 percent from their peak in March 2006, according to
the S&P Case-Shiller Index.  Hard-Hit  In four of the Colorado counties hit hard by foreclosures -
- Denver, Douglas, Adams and Arapahoe -- the state expects to
contribute $39.4 million more in fiscal 2013 than it did a year
earlier to counter plunging property-tax revenue and assist with
rising per-pupil counts. The extra state contribution in those
counties isn’t enough to compensate for the decline in revenue
since the recession began in 2007.  “We’re underfunding schools by over $1 billion this
year,” Emm said. “Nobody is generating enough money to fully
fund the needed increase year over year in school finance.”  Arapahoe is among the counties struggling to cope with the
declines in tax revenue. In the county’s Deer Trail School
District, home values plummeted 24 percent last year, forcing
the school superintendent to do the jobs of three people.  ‘Saved Costs’  “We’ve saved costs by me absorbing the principal
position,” said Superintendent Robin Purdy, who runs Deer
Trail’s single school, which serves 147 students in kindergarten
through 12th grade.  “I will probably take on the athletic director position
next year,” added Purdy, whose office is about 54 miles
southeast of Denver. “What’s next? Mowing the lawn?”  Given its declining home values and student population,
Purdy’s tiny district is expected to suffer the state’s largest
drop in per-pupil funding between fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013 --
$179 per student, according to an  analysis  conducted by the
Colorado Department of Education. Blame for Purdy’s dilemma
rests on Arapahoe County’s continuing wave of  foreclosures  --
the highest in Colorado in 2011, said Tom Thibodeau, academic
director of the  University of Colorado Real Estate Center .  “A high incidence of foreclosure actually dragged down the
market value of properties through entire neighborhoods,” he
said. “I suspect we’ll continue to see declines in assessed
values for the next year or two before prices in places like
Arapahoe County level off.”  Won’t Compensate  While housing prices may rise in the coming fiscal year, it
won’t compensate Colorado for the costs of the housing collapse,
Henry Sobanet, director of Governor John Hickenlooper’s  Office
of State Planning and Budgeting , said in a telephone interview.  “Right now, a little bit of growth is expected in 2012-
2013, but I don’t think we’re close to making up the losses from
during the down years,” Sobanet said. “The effects of the
recession can linger.”  The impact of declining housing values on Colorado’s state
budget and county school districts is surfacing now because
counties assess real estate values every two years.  “Much of the deterioration of the real estate market and
the economic downturn had not yet occurred by June 2008, the
reappraisal date for the 2009 assessment year,” wrote
Colorado’s nonpartisan Legislative Council in its December 2011
 revenue forecast . “The 2011 assessment year captured much of
the decline in value that occurred during the recession.”  Battling Foreclosure  The foreclosure struggle of the Peggs and thousands like
them caused the market value of Colorado housing to fall 9
percent in 2011 to $488.3 billion from $536 billion, according
to the Colorado Division of Property Taxation’s 2011  annual
report . The decline marks only the second time in almost 30
years that residential values dropped.  For many Colorado homeowners, the lingering housing crisis
continues to depress home values, causing them to owe more than
their houses are worth and putting them at risk of foreclosure.  Realtor Marilyn Allen, 66, is $55,000 in arrears after she
stopped paying her $2,200 mortgage in November 2009 when her
business declined.  “I couldn’t keep going, I stripped my home equity lines
and I was in debt up to my ears,” said Allen, who’s filed
paperwork for a loan modification 10 times with her lender and
faces an Aug. 1 foreclosure sale of her 2,600-square-foot home.  With her home worth 30 percent less than the $405,000 she
paid for it in 2004, its assessed value and property tax
collections are also likely to fall next year -- bad news for
Arapahoe County schools and the state budget.  -- Editors: Jeffrey Taylor, Daniel Taub  To contact the reporter on this story: Jennifer Oldham in Denver
at   joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeffrey Taylor
at   Jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  