-- Condi for VP? Mitt’s Done It Before
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-07-13T15:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/condi-for-vp-mitt-s-done-it-before.html
The  rumor-du-jour  is that  Mitt Romney  is looking at picking Condoleeza Rice
as his running mate for the presidency. It’s been widely pooh-poohed as a too-
convenient distraction to get the press to stop talking about whether Romney was
forthcoming about when he left Bain, and how many years of tax returns he’ll
release. The pundits say it’s too big a problem that Condi is pro choice, that
she’s not an attack dog, that she doesn’t even want to be vice president (though
on the last point, is anyone who says that ever telling the truth?). But this won’t be the first time Romney has picked a running mate. And if you
look at the decision he made when he ran for governor of  Massachusetts  in 2002,
a Condi selection looks very much in character. Romney’s running mate for lieutenant governor was Kerry Healey, then the
chairwoman of the Massachusetts Republican Party. (Disclosure: I was a college
student at the time, and I spent the summer interning for the campaign, handling
Dr. Healey’s correspondence.) Like Rice, Healey holds a Ph.D. in Political
Science and is a policy wonk. And like Rice, Healey had never held elective
office before, though she had run two campaigns for state representative and
lost by wide margins. Despite chairing the party, Healey came into the race with essentially zero
name recognition. She’s not a natural politician and didn’t connect well with
voters. Conservatives distrusted her, believing her to be a social liberal.
Howie Carr, the influential and obnoxious Boston talk radio host, endlessly
skewered her, giving her the nickname “Muffy” due to her oceanfront home and
patrician air. It stuck; even a favorable 2006 profile in Boston Magazine was
titled “ Muffy the Democrat Slayer .” Massachusetts has a weird nominating system: governor and lieutenant governor
candidates run on joint tickets in the general election, but must be nominated
in separate primaries. Though Romney was unopposed for the Republican
nomination, Healey drew a primary challenge from a better-known candidate, and
the Romney campaign spent much of its effort in the summer of 2002 getting
Healey nominated. So why did Romney pick Healey? Because she is very smart and very loyal -- an
ideal lieutenant.  While lieutenant governors often sit in obscurity, Healey had
meaningful policy portfolios and effectively served as the governor’s director
for intergovernmental affairs, handling the state’s relationship with cities and
towns. When Romney left office after one term, Healey became the Republican nominee
for governor and  Deval Patrick  defeated her soundly. Still, Healey remains a
frequent surrogate for Romney as he runs for president; she was even on  MSNBC 
this morning. Romney could have had  Scott Brown , then a member of the state
legislature, as his running mate, but I don’t get the sense that he regrets, for
a second, picking Healey. The same pundits who tell us a Rice pick would be crazy also remind us that
the VP selection almost never has any bearing on the outcome of the election. So
why wouldn’t Romney focus his decision making on someone who can help him
govern, rather than one who can help him get elected? By that measure, Rice
looks very appealing: she’s an expert in foreign policy, where Romney is weak;
she has plenty of gravitas to act on the president’s behalf, and yet she’s
unlikely to seek the presidency herself. Mitt Romney is a logical man who makes decisions carefully. Last time he
picked a running mate, he went for one in the Rice mold. We shouldn’t be shocked
if he does so again at the national level. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Josh Barro and other Bloomberg View
columnists and editors at  the Ticker .  