-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Drops to Year’s Low: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-13T20:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-drops-to-lowest-level-this-year-1-.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
unexpectedly declined in July to the lowest level this year as
Americans grew more pessimistic about their finances.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  index  of
consumer sentiment dropped to 72 this month from June’s 73.2
reading. The gauge was projected to rise to 73.5, according to a
median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The weakest quarter of hiring by companies in two years
along with stock market volatility tied to  Europe ’s debt crisis
threaten to hold back the  household spending  that accounts for
about 70 percent of the economy. Sales at retailers such as
 Hhgregg Inc. (HGG)  may struggle as fewer consumers expect their
incomes to increase.  “The labor market has been pretty slow to recover,  house
prices  are still low and there’s a lot of nervousness about
what’s going on in Europe” and  Washington , said  Michael Hanson ,
a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America in  New York , who
correctly forecast the July reading. “The economy looks like
it’s slowing.”  Estimates for the Michigan confidence measure ranged from
71.5 to 76.5, according to the Bloomberg  survey . The index
averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the five years
before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Stocks climbed, erasing the week’s loss for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index on speculation  China  will boost stimulus
measures and as JPMorgan Chase & Co. rallied after reporting
earnings. The  S&P 500  gained 1.7 percent to 1,356.78 at the 4
p.m. close in New York.  China’s Economy  Elsewhere, China’s growth slowed for a sixth straight
quarter. Gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from the same three months last year, the weakest
in three years, the National Bureau of Statistics said today in
Beijing.  In Europe, Spanish lenders’ net borrowings from the
 European Central Bank  jumped to a record 337 billion euros ($411
billion) in June as the European bailout agreement failed to
ease their access to funding.  The University of Michigan’s measure of confidence mirrors
the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which stagnated last week
and has fallen since the end of June.  The Michigan survey’s index of  consumer expectations  for
six months from now, which more closely projects the direction
of  consumer spending , decreased to 64.8, also the lowest this
year, from 67.8.  One in 10 consumers surveyed said they expected their
inflation-adjusted incomes would increase in the next 12 months,
according to economists at Barclays Plc in New York.  Retail Sales  Electronics retailer Hhgregg this week cut its full-year
profit forecast amid declining sales of televisions. Dennis May,
chief executive officer of the Indianapolis-based chain, said
purchases in the fiscal first quarter are “an indicator of the
difficulty in the current retail environment,” according to a
statement on July 10.  The Michigan gauge of  current conditions , which asks
Americans whether they’re better off than they were a year ago
and if they think it’s a good time to buy big-ticket items like
cars, rose to 83.2 in July from 81.5.  Employment growth has waned relative to its pace earlier
this year. Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies,
increased by 84,000 in June, capping the worst quarter for
corporate employment since the first quarter of 2010. The
jobless rate held at 8.2 percent.  Federal Reserve  The  Federal Reserve  has signaled that a further economic
slowdown would bring growing support among policy makers for
additional steps to spur the three-year expansion, according to
minutes of the June 19-20 meeting released this week in
Washington.  A few members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  said the
Fed should ease policy to move the economy toward its targets
for full employment and stable prices. Several others said more
action could be warranted if growth slows, risks intensified or
inflation seemed likely to fall “persistently” below their
goal.  Cheaper energy costs are providing some respite for
Americans. The price of a gallon of gasoline was $3.39 as of
yesterday, according to AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group. While
that’s down from a high this year of $3.94 in April, fuel prices
are up about 5 cents higher since the end of June.  Less Inflation  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 2.8 percent over the next 12 months, the
lowest since October 2010 and down from 3.1 percent in June.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Fed policy
makers, Americans also expected a 2.8 percent rate of inflation
this month, matching the figure in June.  Another report today showed prices paid to producers
unexpectedly rose in June as food costs picked up. The  producer
price index  climbed 0.1 percent after a 1 percent decrease a
month earlier. The gauge minus energy and food rose 0.2 percent,
as forecast.  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a 0.4 percent
drop in wholesale prices, according to the survey median.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  