-- Copper Rises Most in Two Weeks on China Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-07-13T17:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/copper-advances-as-chinese-slowdown-may-signal-further-easing.html
Copper rose the most in two weeks on
speculation that policy makers will roll out additional stimulus
measures after economic growth slowed to a three-year low in
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of industrial metals.  Gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, Chinese government data showed today. That
compared with a median forecast of 7.7 percent in a Bloomberg
survey and the 8.1 percent pace in the first quarter. On July 5,
the central bank announced the second interest-rate cut in a
month.  “This puts stimulus back on the table,”  Michael Smith ,
the president of T&K Futures & Options in  Port St. Lucie ,
 Florida , said in a telephone interview. “China and the U.S. are
going to have to do some sort of stimulus for the global economy
to get back on track, and copper is a good indicator that people
think it will happen.”  Copper futures for September delivery gained 2.6 percent to
settle at $3.504 a pound at 1:20 p.m. on the Comex in  New York ,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since June 29. The
metal rose 2.8 percent this week.  Through yesterday, the metal dropped 11 percent since March
30 amid mounting concern that the sagging global economy would
cut metal demand. Traders were the most bearish in six weeks.
Thirteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said they expect prices
to drop next week, while nine were bullish and six were neutral.  On the  London  Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months climbed 1.9 percent to $7,700 a metric ton ($3.49 a
pound).  Nickel, zinc, aluminum, lead and tin also rose in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  