-- Cytec Climbs After Profit Tops Estimates on Coatings Gain
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-07-13T20:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/cytec-rises-as-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-coatings-gain.html
Cytec Inc. (CYT) , the second-largest maker
of carbon-fiber materials for airplanes, rose the most in seven
weeks after posting quarterly profit that beat analysts’
estimates on gains in its coatings and separations units.  Cytec climbed 3.9 percent to $61.14 in  New York , the
biggest gain since May 21.  Profit in the second quarter was $1.50 to $1.55 a share,
excluding costs for restructuring, acquisitions and
divestitures, Woodland Park, New Jersey-based Cytec said today
in a preliminary earnings statement. That exceeds the $1.14
average of five analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
company plans to announce full results on July 19.  “Strong performance” in the coatings resins and process
separation businesses was the main driver in the quarter, Cytec
said.  Higher prices and sales in the coatings unit, which Cytec
is trying to sell, may have contributed as much as 80 percent of
the earnings that beat estimates, Laurence Alexander, a New
York-based analyst at Jefferies & Co., said in a research note
today.  “Coating resins appears off to a very strong start in the
first half, which, in our opinion, should help potential buyers
become more comfortable with the normalized earnings power of
this business,” Michael Sison, a Cleveland-based analyst at
KeyBanc Capital Markets, said today in a note.  Sison said coatings mostly benefited from lower raw-
material costs, particularly propylene, rather than improved
demand. He rates the shares buy and Alexander rates them hold.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. is assisting with the sale of the
coating resins business, which makes chemicals used in paint.
The separations unit provides miners with chemicals used to
separate metals from ore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  