-- Czech Lawmakers Approve Tax Increases Needed to Cut Budget Gap
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-07-13T12:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/czech-lawmakers-approve-tax-increases-needed-to-cut-budget-gap.html
The Czech lower house of parliament
approved a bill raising taxes, a key part of Premier Petr Necas’
effort to cut the  budget deficit  that helped bring borrowing
costs to a record low.  The 95-90 vote today was a test of the government’s
stability as it rules with the support of lawmakers who left a
former coalition party. Necas said failure to approve the law
would mean early elections. The draft will probably be rejected
in the upper house of parliament, controlled by the opposition
 Social Democrats , who oppose the changes. Necas will then be
forced to mobilize his parliamentary votes again to overturn the
veto.  “It is the current government’s primary task to lower the
deficit because uncontrollable growth in state debt, accompanied
by an increase in debt servicing costs, could pull the Czech
economy into a serious recession,” the Cabinet said in the
draft.  As governments fall in  Europe  in a wave of protests against
austerity measures, Necas’s two-year-old administration is
raising the  sales tax , cutting operating spending and curbing
pensions growth, with the aim of narrowing the public  deficit 
below the European Union’s ceiling of 3 percent of economic
output.  Government yields fell to a record low today, curbing the
premium over German bunds to a five-month low. Czech bonds are
rated at the fifth-highest level, A1, by Moody’s Investors
Service, four steps above  Italy  and five above  Spain .  Tax Increase  Under the approved bill, sales-tax rates will rise by one
percentage point to 15 percent and 21 percent from 2013, the
second increase in as many years. The new legislation also
introduces a 7 percent tax for personal income of more than 4
times the average monthly salary. It will also abolish the
ceiling for compulsory health-insurance payments, securing
additional budget income.  The new measures should boost budget revenue by 25.5
billion koruna ($1.2 billion) next year and 33 billion koruna in
2014, according to the bill.  Necas is trimming the public-finance deficit even though
the Czech economy fell into a  recession  after households
responded to the worsening economic outlook by cutting spending.
The plan has triggered protests from trade unions, which staged
anti-government rallies and have threatened to call a nationwide
strike.  The deficit cuts have helped lower Czech borrowing costs.
The yield on the country’s Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to an
all-time low of 2.71 percent today, while the koruna has gained
1.3 percent against the euro this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Cabinet wants to narrow the public-finance deficit, the
fiscal yardstick for assessing an EU member’s readiness to adopt
the euro, to 2.9 percent of economic output in 2013 from the
targeted 3 percent this year and compared with 3.1 percent in
2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  