-- Democrats Still Waiting for AFL-CIO Cash for Convention
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-07-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/democrats-still-waiting-for-afl-cio-cash-for-convention.html
The AFL-CIO has not decided if it
will help fund the Democratic National Convention in right-to-
work  North Carolina , though the group still plans to work to
elect the party’s candidates in November.  “We have not as of yet” decided to contribute,  Richard Trumka , head of the labor federation, said yesterday at a press
conference in Washington. “We will be doing the things we do;
we will be building structure to try to get the president
elected. We unequivocally support him and his re-election
efforts.”  The AFL-CIO endorsed President  Barack Obama ’s re-election
in March and will have members at the convention as delegates.
The federation is not, however, planning to host big events such
as the reception it held at Coors Field, home of the  Colorado
Rockies , during the 2008 Democratic convention in Denver.  This year’s convention is expected to culminate in Obama’s
re-nomination at Bank of America Stadium in Charlotte on Sept.
6. Last month, two people familiar with the matter who requested
anonymity told Bloomberg News the host committee was grappling
with a fundraising deficit of about $27 million. Four years ago,
unions contributed more than $8 million to the Democratic
convention in Denver, according to financial disclosure reports.  Some unions, including the AFL-CIO’s Building and
Construction Trades Department,  said  last year that they would
not participate in the  Charlotte  convention because the party
chose to hold its convention in a state that lacks unionized
hotels for candidates and delegates. As a right-to-work state,
North Carolina bars agreements that make union membership and
payment of dues a job requirement.  Mobilize Voters  “I will not be there,” Edwin Hill, the president of the
 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers , said at
yesterday’s press conference. “We do not intend to put any
money into the convention.”  Trumka said yesterday that the reduced convention activity
had “nothing to do” with the the North Carolina location.
Rather, he said, the union wanted to use its resources to
mobilize and educate voters across the U.S., with Obama’s re-
election a top priority.  The convention, with a self-imposed ban on corporate
donations, will show Obama is supporting the middle class and
workers, while his Republican opponents are controlled by
corporate interests, Melanie Roussell, the national press
secretary of the  Democratic National Committee  said in an e-
mail.  Philadelphia Rally  “We are pleased with the broad support we have from
organized labor to help make this year’s convention the most
open and accessible convention in history,” Roussell said.  The AFL-CIO is planning a one-day rally in Philadelphia in
August, a month before the convention, to highlight the need for
higher wages and improved educational opportunities. The rally
was suggested by labor leaders after some complained about the
North Carolina convention site.  “It’s to call attention to the fact that we need good
union jobs in this country,” Hill said in a March interview.
“Why would we want to go there and spend our money in a place
that doesn’t even want us?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  