-- Devon, WPX Earnings May Suffer on Gas Liquids Price Drop
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-07-13T12:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/devon-wpx-earnings-may-suffer-on-gas-liquids-price-drop.html
Devon Energy Corp. (DVN) , WPX Energy Inc.
and other natural gas liquids producers may report second-
quarter earnings below analysts’ estimates as tumbling prices
harm companies that ramped up output seeking shelter from
natural-gas markets.  “It’s a massive decline in prices,” Thomas Driscoll, a
New York-based analyst for Barclays Plc, said of natural gas
liquids in a phone interview yesterday. “People are a little
bit behind in their estimates” for revenue.  The price of natural gas liquids, which include ethane and
propane, dropped in the second quarter because of increased
supplies and a warmer-than-normal winter. Devon and WPX “appear
the most vulnerable” to lower natural gas liquids prices,
Driscoll wrote in a research note yesterday.  U.S. producers have turned to oil and natural gas liquids
production as the price of gas plunged to a 10-year low in  New
York  in April. During the second quarter, a benchmark of natural
gas liquids prices fell 23 percent from the prior three-month
period to average $30.27 a barrel, Dahlman Rose & Co. said in a
report yesterday.  Range Resources Corp. called propane prices “soft” as a
mild winter cut use of the product as a heating fuel. The
company said in a statement yesterday the pricing has prompted
it to change its natural gas liquids hedges, which had become
less effective.  Pipeline operators are also feeling the effects of reduced
liquids pricing.  Enbridge Energy Partners LP (EEP) , a pipeline
partnership based in Houston, on July 2 cut its 2012 forecast
for adjusted net income 14 percent because of the drop in gas
liquids prices.  Devon Earnings  Devon, based in  Oklahoma City , is expected to earn 94 cents
a share in the second quarter, excluding one-time costs and
gains, based on the average of 24  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. That would be less than adjusted earnings of $1.05
a share for the first quarter. Chip Minty, a Devon spokesman,
declined to comment on the earnings outlook.  WPX, based in Tulsa, Oklahoma, is seen losing 9 cents a
share on an adjusted basis, according to seven analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg for the second quarter. That
compares with a 5-cent loss in the first quarter. Kelly Swan of
WPX didn’t respond to a voicemail seeking comment yesterday.  Pioneer Natural Resources Co. (PXD) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) ,
 QEP Resources Inc. (QEP)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  also have “above
average exposure” to natural gas liquids, Barclays said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  