-- Dimon Saw $1 Billion Potential Loss When He Made ‘Teapot’ Remark
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-07-13T18:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/dimon-saw-1-billion-potential-loss-when-he-made-teapot-remark.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  had already
lost more than $700 million on synthetic credit bets and Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  was told that number could climb
to almost $1 billion when he dismissed press reports about the
positions in April as a “tempest in a teapot.”  While JPMorgan booked a $718 million loss on the positions
held by its chief investment office in the first quarter, it
didn’t publicly specify the loss when releasing the results
April 13. When an analyst asked Dimon that day about media
coverage of the trades, he dismissed them as a minor issue.  Dimon first disclosed the CIO loss May 10, after it
surpassed $2 billion, and by the end of the second quarter, it
grew to $5.8 billion, the bank said today while announcing
earnings. The botched trades led to the retirement of Chief
Investment Officer Ina Drew and the shutdown of the London team
that had built up a position too big for it to handle. Dimon
said in Congressional testimony last month that he was “dead
wrong” when he made the teapot remark.  “They talked today about the year-to-date loss and we were
thinking, ‘When did this additional loss happen?’ ” said
Shannon Stemm, an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis .
“None of this was brought to the investment community’s
attention until May.”  The first-quarter loss figures were listed in a footnote on
page 14 of a  presentation  posted today on the bank’s website.  Dimon and Chief Financial Officer Doug Braunstein asked for
a review of the portfolio in preparation for the April 13
earnings announcement, said Mike Cavanagh, who led the firm’s
internal investigation into the loss. The result of that review
was an analysis that pegged the maximum “probable” loss for
the second quarter at $250 million, Cavanagh said on a
conference call with analysts today. The review said the
positions could also gain $350 million with the analysis showing
a “bias” toward a gain, he said.  Earnings Restated  JPMorgan today reported a $4.4 billion loss for the second
quarter tied to the portfolio. It also restated first-quarter
earnings to add $660 million of declines tied to the bad bets.
That boosted the total first-quarter trading loss to $1.38
billion and cut the firm’s net income by $459 million.  JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, is under
investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation , among other enforcement
agencies, over how it handled and disclosed risks taken by the
London trading unit. While Dimon’s teapot comment proved wrong,
investigators and shareholders would likely find it hard to make
the case that he was purposely misleading, said  John Coffee , a
securities law professor at Columbia University Law School.  Focus on Traders  “ ‘Tempest in a teapot’ is a characterization,” Coffee
said. “You have to show that not only was it objectively wrong
but that it was subjectively not made in good faith.”  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank, didn’t have
an immediate comment.  Cavanagh today said that traders may have intentionally
tried to mask losses in the first quarter by marking the value
of their positions “aggressively.” The bank plans to claw back
two years of pay from three London-based employees that oversaw
the trades. It also accepted an offer from Drew to return
compensation from a similar period.  Decisions on Dimon’s 2012 compensation and potential
clawbacks will consider involvement in and responsibility for
the losses in the CIO division, Cavanagh said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 