-- JPMorgan’s Drew Forfeits 2 Years’ Pay as Managers Ousted
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-07-13T14:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/dimon-says-ina-drew-offered-to-return-2-years-of-compensation.html
Ina Drew, the former head of a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit responsible for $5.8 billion in
trading losses this year, will forfeit her pay and other
managers were ousted after an internal inquiry found employees
may have intentionally hid souring bets.  The bank accepted Drew’s offer to return about two years of
compensation, the maximum clawback allowable under employment
terms, said  Joe Evangelisti , a company spokesman. Other London-
based managers of the chief investment office’s synthetic-credit
bets left without severance and will be required to forfeit as
much as two years of pay, including restricted stock and
options, the bank said in a  presentation . Recordings, e-mails,
and documents show traders may have tried to mask losses by
mismarking positions, according to the presentation.  “We’ve made the decision to claw back compensation from
each of these individuals,” said  Michael Cavanagh , who was
enlisted from running Treasury and Security Services to run the
review. He didn’t name the managers. The money-losing bets were
overseen by Bruno Iksil, known as the London Whale, his boss
Javier Martin-Artajo and former Europe CIO head Achilles Macris.  The largest U.S. bank lost almost $40 billion in  market
value  in the months after Bloomberg News reported April 5 that
the London unit’s illiquid bets on credit derivatives were big
enough to move markets. The firm restated first-quarter results
today to reduce profit by $459 million, in part because London
traders had priced their positions “aggressively” toward the
end of market spreads, Cavanagh said.  The company decided to restate after executives and lawyers
interviewed employees, reviewed tens of thousands of hours of
tapes and searched about 1 million e-mails.  Other Gains  “We just have questions about whether the traders were
doing what they need to do for accounting, which is put a mark
on their positions where they think they can exit,” Cavanagh
told reporters on a conference call. “Instead it felt more like
they were pricing their marks a little bit more aggressively,
but generally inside the bid-ask spread.”  Net income fell 9 percent to $4.96 billion for the three
months ended June 30, including a $4.4 billion loss on the
trades. The bank boosted second-quarter profits with $1 billion
in securities gains, $2.1 billion in reserve releases and an
$800 million accounting gain on the cost of the company’s debt.  Drew, 55, was awarded about $29 million in total
compensation for 2010 and 2011, according to JPMorgan’s
regulatory filings. She retired May 14 with about $57.5 million
in stock, pension and other pay, according to bank disclosures
and estimates from consulting firm Meridian Compensation
Partners LLC. About $21.5 million of that money, based on the
May 14 closing price, would have been automatically forfeited if
she had been fired for cause.  ‘Acted With Integrity’  “She has acted with integrity and tried to do what was
right for the company at all times, even though she was part of
this mistake,” Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said today
during a meeting with analysts. “In that spirit, Ina came
forward and offered to give up a very significant amount of her
past compensation.”  A 30-year JPMorgan veteran, Drew had a track record of
success at JPMorgan and its predecessor companies. Dimon
commended her in announcing her resignation and again in front
of Congress last month, saying “the CIO unit had done so well
for so long” that he didn’t scrutinize her work as much as he
did with other executives.  Drew was the bank’s third-highest compensated executive
officer the past two years, regulatory filings show. Her
division made “several billion dollars” in the three or four
years preceding the loss, Dimon told lawmakers. The CIO manages
the bank’s excess deposits and hedges against risk.  ‘Saved the Company’  Dimon said that when Drew decided to retire he received
letters from former chairmen in her support, including one who
said “she saved the company.”  JPMorgan’s long-term incentive plan gives Dimon, with
approval from the board, the right to reduce Drew’s restricted
stock or to further defer vesting if her performance wasn’t
satisfactory, according regulatory filings. Restricted stock
also can be deferred longer or forfeited if performance has
“been unsatisfactory for a sustained period of time.”  The JPMorgan board awarded Dimon $23 million in salary and
bonuses for his performance in 2011. The CEO has said any impact
on his pay would be decided by the board of directors.  ‘Bad Judgment’  “For senior people, which most of these people are, you
can claw back for even bad judgment,” Dimon told the Senate.
“You can claw back any unvested stock, you can claw back for
things like cash bonuses, so it’s pretty extensive.”  Soaring pay pushed traders to disregard risk and helped to
spark a global economic slump in 2008, the Financial Crisis
Inquiry Commission said last year. Wages in the financial sector
also limited regulators’ ability to lure top talent to police
banks, the panel found.  Dimon hired Macris in 2006 with a mandate to generate
profits for the unit, whose main mission had been to reduce
risks for the bank’s excess cash. He and Iksil eventually built
up a position in  credit derivatives  that was so large it
couldn’t be unwound without roiling markets.  A Greek citizen, Macris previously was co-head of  capital
markets  at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein before joining
JPMorgan. In that role, he helped oversee a unit that made
proprietary trades, or bets with Dresdner’s own money, according
to two people who worked with him at the time. Before joining
Dresdner, Macris oversaw  currency trading  at  Bankers Trust , now
part of Deutsche Bank AG.  Macris’s Mandate  Iksil joined JPMorgan in 2005 and had held his current role
since 2007, according to his career-history record with the U.K.
Financial Services Authority. He worked at the French investment
bank Natixis from 1999 to 2003, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Martin-Artajo, who had been Dresdner’s head of
credit-derivatives trading, joined JPMorgan in  London  in 2007.  While Macris had a mandate to make money from the
beginning, he didn’t start putting on big bets until after the
credit crisis in 2008. Two of the former executives said the
following year he bought AAA-rated pieces of collateralized debt
obligations. As competitors dumped securities and prices
slumped, Macris’s group at JPMorgan emerged as the biggest buyer
in some markets, said one former executive at the bank who was
familiar with the trades at the times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  