-- Dimon Sees Progress in Europe as Buffett Warns of ‘Fatal Flaw’
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-13T16:54:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/dimon-sees-progress-in-europe-as-buffett-warns-of-fatal-flaw-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  told analysts Europe is moving toward
solving its financial crisis, while billionaire  Warren Buffett 
said the region’s common currency is doomed to fail without an
overhaul in how it works.  “You see progress, you know, two steps forward, one step
back,” Dimon said today in a meeting in New York. Buffett,
speaking contemporaneously in a Bloomberg Television interview
from Sun Valley, Idaho, said European leaders face “major
problems” and the 17-country euro area may not survive.  The two executives, who have publicly expressed esteem for
one another, are each bracing for further turmoil as borrowing
costs rise in southern Europe. While Dimon affirmed his
commitment to Spain and  Italy , he said he cut JPMorgan’s
peripheral European net exposure by half to about $6 billion.
Buffett, CEO of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , has his European
portfolio in the AAA rated economies of  Germany , the U.K. and
the Netherlands.  “The system that they put in place had a fundamental fatal
flaw,” Buffett said of the euro on “In the Loop With  Betty Liu .” Lacking a common fiscal policy, “it can’t survive with
the present rules. That’s what they’re learning. The question
is, can 17 countries get together in a way to essentially re-do
something.”  Italy’s 10-year bond yields 6.06 percent, 4.8 percentage
points more than the equivalent German bund. Italy, the euro-
area’s third-biggest economy behind Germany and France, was
downgraded two levels today by Moody’s Investors Service.  European Bailouts  European leaders are deepening their ties in response to
the sovereign debt crisis by collaborating on bailouts and
insisting on budget-deficit curbs. The euro was started by 11
countries, led by Germany, in January 1999.  Over the past two years, the union has offered rescues to
Greece, Ireland,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Cyprus.  “We’ve kind of had a roller coaster ride here,” said
Dimon, who addressed the analysts to discuss New York-based
JPMorgan’s second-quarter results. “We still think they’re
going to muddle through, but it may not be in the form or
fashion or the timetable we would prefer.”  Berkshire sold its French, Spanish and Italian bonds two
years ago, Buffett told CNBC yesterday. The Omaha, Nebraska-
based firm had about 80 percent of its $11 billion in non-U.S.
government-related debt from Germany, the U.K., Canada,
Australia and the Netherlands, as of March 31, according to
regulatory filings. Buffett told CNBC that in a decade Europe
will have resolved its debt crisis and be “working fine.”  Dimon said JPMorgan’s losses in extreme scenarios, such as
a break-up of the European Union, could exceed $3 billion. The
bank continues to do business in Italy and Spain and has been
hedging more of its exposure there, he said.  JPMorgan’s second-quarter profit fell 9 percent to $4.96
billion from a year earlier, as the company booked a $4.4
billion trading loss at its chief investment office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  