-- Duke Ex-CEO Johnson Will Testify on Leadership Switch
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/duke-ex-ceo-johnson-will-testify-on-leadership-switch.html
Former Progress Energy Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  will testify to North Carolina
regulators about  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s decision to replace him
hours after the companies combined to create the largest U.S.
utility owner.  The North Carolina Utilities Commission yesterday ordered
Johnson and four Duke board members to appear at hearings on
July 19 and 20. Johnson was replaced by Duke Chairman and CEO
James Rogers hours after the takeover of Progress closed on July
2. The executives testified before the merger that Johnson would
be CEO while Rogers served as executive chairman.  The hearings are an expansion of the agency’s inquiry,
following July 10 testimony from Rogers. The commission asked
former Progress directors E. Marie McKee and James Hyler Jr. to
appear on July 19 with Johnson, who will be speaking publicly
about his unexpected resignation for the first time. Duke
directors Ann Maynard Gray and Michael Browning were ordered to
appear July 20.  “One has to wonder how far the North Carolina commission
will take this inquiry,”  Paul Patterson , a New York-based
analyst with Glenrock Associates LLC, said in an e-mail
yesterday. “Issues such as the selection of a company’s chief
executive are traditionally matters left to the board and not
second-guessed by state regulators.”  ‘Corporate Deceit’  Four former directors of Raleigh, North Carolina-based
Progress have said they would have opposed the merger had they
known Rogers would remain in charge. One former director, John Mullin III, said the CEO switch was “corporate deceit.” Three
Progress executives resigned following the CEO shuffle.  North Carolina’s attorney general is investigating whether
Duke violated any laws with its boardroom maneuver. The
utilities commission is determining whether it was misled and if
customers were harmed. State law allows the commission to
rescind, alter or amend its June 29 order approving the merger,
said Sam Watson, the agency’s general counsel.  Duke faces tougher scrutiny from  North Carolina  after
having a “very good relationship” with the commission, said
Robert Gruber, the state’s utility customer advocate.  “It will make us suspicious, a little less trusting of
upper management going forward,” Gruber said in a July 11
interview. Duke will probably face extended hearings when it
seeks rate increases for its two North Carolina utilities later
this year, he said.  Takeover Agreement  Duke’s board voted 10-5 to replace Johnson in an executive
session July 2, the day the merger closed, Rogers told the
commission this week. All votes in favor came from former Duke
board members and all opposed were former Progress directors.
Neither Johnson nor Rogers took part in the meeting.  Both McKee and Hyler voted against. McKee, a former  Corning
Inc. (GLW)  executive and president of the Corning Museum of Glass,
considered resigning after the board vote, according to Mullin.
She didn’t respond to voicemails and an e-mail seeking comment
yesterday.  Hyler is a former chief operating officer for First
Citizens Bank and now serves as managing director of Raleigh-
based Investors Management Corp. Hyler said yesterday he would
appear before the commission as ordered. He declined to comment
further.  Duke directors Gray and Browning were directed to “provide
testimony addressing the timing of the decision to replace
Johnson with Rogers,” according to the commission’s order.  Gray is Duke’s lead director and has been on the board of
Duke and its predecessor companies since 1994. Browning has been
on the board since 1990, according to a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filing.  `Lost Confidence'  Rogers told commissioners the Duke board “lost
confidence” in Johnson during the final weeks of the 18-month
merger review. The two management teams clashed over a plan to
address antitrust concerns in North and South Carolina and the
fate of Progress’s shuttered Crystal River 3 nuclear plant,
highlighting differences in corporate culture.  Rogers was approached by Gray on June 23 with “concerns
about Johnson,” who had an ``autocratic'' management style, 
according to his testimony. Gray and Browning asked him about 
replacing Johnson as CEO of the post-merger company during a 
June 24 dinner, Rogers said.  Regulators asked Duke to provide by July 31 all employment
contracts with Rogers, all board and committee meeting minutes
from July 1, 2010 to today, and all memos, letters, e-mails and
other written and recorded communications from Rogers to board
members.  Johnson will “gladly attend and answer all the questions
the commission members have,” Wade Smith, Johnson’s attorney,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Browning didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.
Attempts to reach him by phone yesterday at his Indianapolis
office weren’t successful. Gray didn’t respond to a voicemail
message left on her home phone.  “Our focus at Duke Energy is on bringing our two companies
together to harvest our merger’s savings for our customers and
to deliver value to our shareholders,”  Tom Williams , a
spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke said in an e-
mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tina Davis at 
 tinadavis@bloomberg.net  