-- The Surprising Benefits of the Great Depression
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   J .   F i e l d
-- 2012-07-13T15:35:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/the-surprising-benefits-of-the-great-depression.html
There’s no debate that the
Great Depression in the U.S. was in important respects an
economic disaster. Bank failures and a broader financial
crisis coincided with an 87 percent decline in real gross
private domestic investment from 1929 to 1932. Double-digit
 unemployment  for more than a decade represented a terrible
waste of human and other resources, and untold hardship for
millions of people.  And yet the Depression years were also a triumph of
American ingenuity and hard work. Scientific and
organizational advances expanded the capabilities -- the
potential output -- of the economy. They helped the U.S.
win World War II and set the stage for a quarter century of
postwar prosperity.  This expansion in potential -- and, when demand
conditions permitted, actual output -- resulted from three
developments.  The first was the maturing of a privately funded
 research-and-development  system that had begun with Thomas Edison in  Menlo Park ,  New Jersey . Then, as now, most
private-sector R&D was carried out in manufacturing.
Surveys conducted by the National Research Council show R&D
employment increasing to 10,918 workers in 1933, from 6,274
in 1927 -- despite four of the worst years of the
Depression. In 1940, after seven years of double-digit
unemployment, that number stood at 27,777. Data on spending
and on the number of labs established paint a similar
picture, indicative of the wide range of technological
opportunities ripe for exploitation at the time.  Better Roads  The second development was the  government-funded
construction  of the surface road network. The U.S. produced
more than 4 million passenger vehicles in 1929, a level of
production not reached again for 20 years. The growth of
vehicle registrations outran the capabilities of the
infrastructure.  A strong political coalition pressed for better roads.
Farmers wanted them, complaining that their French
counterparts moved grain at half the cost. Bicyclists
wanted them. The  auto industry  and its suppliers (plate-
glass makers, tire makers, steel makers) wanted them, as
did the petroleum, asphalt and motel industries. Truckers
wanted them. So did, perhaps surprisingly, railroads, which
saw themselves as evolving a symbiotic relationship with
truckers, in which the railroads would be the senior
partners.  But the location of a national road network was a
contentious business, because it would mean the making and
breaking of many local communities. State highway
departments had to agree with each other and the federal
authorities over what routes would be national. By November
1926, a treaty had been negotiated, its terms reflected in
the publication of a detailed map showing the proposed U.S.
route system.  The country then started building or improving
streets, highways, bridges and tunnels. Just looking at the
data for such expenditures, it’s hard to tell the country
had a depression. (There were moderate declines in
spending, relative to the late 1920s, in 1933, 1934 and
1935.) By 1941, the U.S. route system was complete, and,
because of its growth, productivity in transportation as
well as wholesale and retail distribution had risen
dramatically.  Rationalization, Standardization  Finally, some businesses, notably the railroads,
underwent significant rationalization and standardization
during the Great Depression. True, progress toward
unlimited freight interchange had begun with gauge
standardization in the 1880s and continued during World War
I. But although the U.S. had a national rail network by the
late 1920s, it consisted of individual lines owned and
operated by private firms.  Developing uniform procedures and tariffs governing
interline transactions allowed huge efficiency gains in the
1930s. The number of employees, locomotives, freight cars
and passenger cars each dropped by between a quarter and a
third from 1929 to 1941. Yet revenue freight ton-miles in
1941 were slightly higher than in 1929, and passenger miles
were almost as high. These ratios translated into
significant productivity gains.  The effect of these three developments? Real output in
1941 was 33 percent to 40 percent higher than it had been
in 1929 (depending on what output measures are used). Yet
private-sector labor hours and physical capital inputs had
hardly grown. All of the increases in output can be
attributed to what we call total productivity growth, a
measure of technological and organizational progress in
this truly extraordinary period.  (Alexander J. Field is the Michel and Mary Orradre
professor of economics at Santa Clara University and the
executive director of the Economic History Association. He
is the author of “A Great Leap Forward: 1930s Depression
and U.S. Economic Growth,” published by Yale University Press
in 2011. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Alexander J. Field
at  afield@scu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  