-- Heating Oil Rises on Speculation of Further Economic Stimulus
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-13T17:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/heating-oil-rises-on-speculation-of-further-economic-stimulus.html
Heating oil surged to a six-week
high on speculation China’s slowest expansion in three years may
prompt policy makers to add economic stimulus.  Futures gained 0.8 percent as Chinese  gross domestic
product  expanded at a three-year-low 7.6 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the  National Bureau of Statistics  said.
Refinery rates in China slowed and power output stalled. Futures
widened gains as stocks rallied and the euro rebounded from two-
year lows against the dollar.  “There’s the idea that slower Chinese expansion is going
to bring more stimulus into the market,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
 Connecticut .  Heating oil for August delivery rose 2.2 cents to $2.7953 a
gallon at 1:41 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
touched $2.808, the highest intraday level since May 30. Futures
have gained 3.2 percent this week.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to intensify fine-tuning of
policies as downward pressure on the economy remains
“relatively large,” according to a July 8 report by the
official Xinhua News Agency. First-half expansion was 7.8
percent, the statistics bureau said. Wen in March set a 7.5
percent growth target for this year, down from an 8 percent goal
in place since 2005.  “Even though the Chinese GDP data is less than it has
been, the market still likes that it is at least 7 percent,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston.  Chinese Refining  Chinese refining slid to 8.79 million barrels a day last
month, the least since October and down 3.4 percent from May,
according to the statistic bureau. Electricity generation was
unchanged in June from a year earlier at 393.4 billion kilowatt-
hours, the bureau’s data showed.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWO)  of stocks added 1.4
percent at 1:41 p.m. in  New York  and the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPX)  gained 1.4 percent.  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta PresidentDennis Lockhart
said the central bank may need to initiate a new program of
asset purchases if recent economic weakness persists and
undermines his forecast for a pickup in the second half of the
year.  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  voted last
month to extend its maturity extension program, known as
Operation Twist, and said it would consider additional stimulus
if needed.  “The oil market is very strong on the equities and the
talk of stimulus,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of
Paramount Options Inc. in New York. “We’re looking for a little
bit of hope here.”  Euro Gains  The euro rose 0.3 percent against the dollar on speculation
of more global stimulus and as Medley Global Advisors predicted
the  European Central Bank  will ease monetary policy further. A
weaker dollar increases the investment appeal of commodities.  August-delivery gasoline gained 0.85 cent, or 0.3 percent,
to $2.8147 a gallon on the exchange. Futures touched $2.8291,
the highest intraday level since May 31. Prices are up 3.6
percent this week.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.4
cent yesterday to $3.388 a gallon, according to AAA. It was the
highest price since June 25. Gasoline reached a year-to-date
high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  