-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance After China Growth Data
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-07-13T21:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/emerging-market-stocks-rise-from-two-week-low-after-china-data.html
Emerging-market stocks rose from a
two-week low as slower-than-estimated expansion in  China’s
economy  and a lower growth target from South  Korea ’s central
bank fueled speculation about more economic stimulus.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 1.3 percent to 926.13
as of 4:31 p.m. in  New York , paring its weekly decline to 2.1
percent. Energy companies led the advance with Petroleo
Brasileiro SA rallying in Sao Paulo and OAO Novatek gaining in
 Russia  as oil advanced. Brazil’s Bovespa rose to a one-week high
while Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained for the first time in three
days. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies
listed in  Hong Kong  increased 0.8 percent.  China’s gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace since 2009,
putting pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to take steps to secure a
second-half economic rebound. The  Bank of Korea  reduced its 2012
economic-growth forecast for the second time this year, a day
after it unexpectedly cut  interest rates .  “What we’re seeing is a relief rally,”  Win Thin , global
head of emerging-market strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman &
Co., said by phone from New York today. “The euro debt crisis
and global growth concerns are definitely still intact, but the
China data wasn’t extremely bad and it looks like there will be
more economic stimulus.”  Petrobras Gains  MSCI’s index of developing nations has tumbled 9.8 percent
in the past three months as data worldwide pointed to a slowing
global economy and European policy makers wrangled over
solutions for the region’s debt crisis. The  gauge  trades at a
multiple of 10.1 times estimated earnings, compared with 12.3
for the developed-nation gauge, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, added 1.9
percent to $38.49.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 6.2 percent to 26.34, the
most in two weeks.  Crude oil rallied for a third day on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , lifting oil producers on Brazil’s Bovespa
and Russia’s Micex Index.  The Bovespa index added 1.7 percent after Petroleo
Brasileiro, the state-controlled  oil company  known as Petrobras,
surged 5.2 percent, the most since May 21. Retailer  B2W Cia.
Global do Varejo  jumped 6.7 percent to lead the advance in Sao
Paulo.  Rate Cuts  The benchmark Micex gauge rose 1.6 percent in Moscow, led
by OAO Novatek. The Russian natural-gas producer jumped 6
percent on speculation the company may breach OAO Gazprom’s
monopoly on exports.  OAO Rostelecom, Russia’s long-distance phone operator,
gained for the first time in three days, advancing 1.1 percent
as first-quarter profit jumped after broadband and paid
television subscribers increased.  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  rose 1.2
percent and  Poland’s WIG20 (WIG20)  Index jumped 1.7 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi index  climbed 1.5 percent and Vietnam’s
VN Index increased 2 percent, the most since May. India’s rupee
gained 1.4 percent against the dollar, the most among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  China’s central bank may cut interest rates once or twice
more this year and reduce the reserve-requirement ratio two or
three more times in 2012, the  China Daily  reported, citing Zhu Baoliang, chief economist at the State Information Center.
Economic growth will rebound in the third quarter after hitting
a bottom the previous quarter, according to the report. The
government cut rates on July 5 for a second time in a month.  ‘Dovish Stance’  “In Asia, authorities seem to be busy downgrading their
growth forecast,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging markets
research at Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in an e-mailed
note today. “That means that we expect Asian central banks to
shift to a more dovish stance going forward.”  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  gained 8.4 percent in Hong
Kong, the most since October, after the Shanghai Daily said the
government may set up investment companies to buy stakes in
domestic carriers.  In Seoul, South Korea’s central bank said the nation’s
economy will expand 3 percent this year, compared with a 3.5
percent prediction made in April and a 3.7 percent forecast in
December.  Consumer prices  are expected to rise 2.7 percent, down
from an earlier forecast of a 3.2 percent gain.  Hyundai, Samsung  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)   jumped  3.4 percent, its biggest gain
since June 18. The company’s union, which ended discussions with
management on June 28, agreed to resume negotiations on July 18,
raising optimism Hyundai Motor will avert work stoppages that
would dent earnings.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of
televisions and mobile phones, climbed 4.4 percent, rallying
from a five-month low.  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  advanced 1.1 percent,
leading gains among technology shares after reporting profit in
the three months ended in June climbed 38 percent to 32.8
billion rupees ($595 million). Analysts had estimated profit of
31.8 billion rupees.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 358, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  