-- Euro Rises From Two-Year Low Amid Bets on Global Central Banks
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-13T21:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/euro-drops-on-italian-rating-downgrade-before-auction-correct-.html
The euro rose from its lowest level
against the dollar in more than two years amid speculation
global central banks will take more action to sustain faltering
economic growth.  The shared currency pared a third weekly loss versus the
yen. The  European Central Bank  is set to ease monetary policy,
including cutting its deposit rate further, if Europe’s debt
crisis worsens, according to a Medley Global Advisors report
Bloomberg News obtained. Italian borrowing costs fell at a sale
even after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded  Italy . Slowing
growth in  China  fueled bets stimulus there will be boosted.  “The Italian auction coming on the heels of that sharp
downgrade from Moody’s fared reasonably well, which sowed the
seeds for a rebound in the single currency,”  Joe Manimbo , a
market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU) , said in a telephone
interview. “If you throw in the data out of China, which wasn’t
as bad as some investors had feared, that contributed to a
snowballing relief rally for risk assets.”  The euro rose 0.4 percent to $1.2249 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
gaining for the first time in four days and trimming its weekly
loss to 0.3 percent. It fell earlier as much as 0.3 percent to
$1.2163, the weakest since June 2010. The 17-nation currency
gained 0.2 percent to 96.98 yen, paring a five-day loss to 0.9
percent. The yen rose 0.2 percent to 79.18 per dollar.  ‘Bounce Back’  Europe’s common currency climbed just after it exceeded
yesterday’s low of $1.2167.  “It’s very common for currencies to make fresh year-to-
date lows and then bounce back on short covering,” Boris
Schlossberg, New York-based managing director of foreign
exchange at the investment advisory firm BK Asset Management,
said in a telephone interview. Short covering is when investors
end bets an asset will decline.  The billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , chairman of
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said the euro is destined for failure
and must be reworked if it is to remain alive.  “It can’t survive with the present rules,” Buffett said
today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty Liu ”
in an interview from the Allen & Co. media conference in  Sun
Valley ,  Idaho . “That’s what they’re learning. The question is,
can 17 countries get together in a way to essentially re-do
something.”  Euro weakness will continue through the end of the year,
with the shared currency depreciating to $1.15,  Chris Walker , a
London-based currency strategist at UBS AG in  London , wrote in a
note today.  ‘Euro Underperformance’  “Relative balance-sheet dynamics and reserve recycling
have led to significant euro underperformance, not just versus
the dollar but versus euro-crosses as well,” Walker wrote.  Moody’s lowered Italy’s government-bond rating by two
levels to Baa2 and said further downgrading was possible,
according to a statement issued today in  Frankfurt . That’s two
steps above junk, one above Spain. Italy still sold 3.5 billion
euros ($4.27 billion) of three-year notes today priced to yield
4.65 percent, down from 5.3 percent at a previous auction.  The pound advanced to the strongest level since November
2008 against the euro as investors bet an attempt to ease U.K.
credit conditions will help spur Britain’s economy.  The  Bank of England  released details today of a new lending
program, which it said may boost credit to companies and
households by at least 80 billion pounds ($124 billion).  The pound gained as much as 0.7 percent to 78.57 pence per
euro before trading at 78.65 pence, up 0.6 percent. It
strengthened 1 percent to $1.5575.  Dollar Slides  The greenback fell against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg except Sweden’s krona.  Currencies of commodity-exporting nations including
 Australia  and New Zealand rose against the dollar and yen as
data showed China’s gross domestic product grew 7.6 percent in
the second quarter. The figure compared with the 7.7 percent
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey and 8.1 percent in the
previous period.  The Aussie appreciated 0.9 percent to $1.0226, and  New
Zealand ’s dollar rose 0.8 percent to 79.59 U.S. cents. China is
Australia’s biggest trade partner and New Zealand’s second-
largest export destination.  “It’s a result of stimulus hopes on the Chinese data and
the resulting rally we’ve seen for commodity prices,” Western
Union’s Manimbo said.  New Zealand  New Zealand’s dollar gained 3.4 percent in the past month
and Australia’s dollar rose 3.3 percent, the best performances
among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro and the Swiss franc slid
the most, 2.7 percent, while the dollar gained 0.1 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
climbed 1 percent. Stocks also gained, with the  S&P 500 Index 
snapping a six-day losing streak and rising 1.7 percent.  Mexico’s peso advanced from yesterday’s two-week low as
crude oil gained, boosting the outlook for the country’s second-
biggest export. The currency rose against all of its major
peers, appreciating 1.3 percent to 13.2904 per dollar. Crude for
August delivery rose 1.1 percent to $87 a barrel in New York.  The peso’s risk-adjusted gain of 0.40 percent against the
dollar this year was the fourth-largest among major currencies,
the Bloomberg Riskless Ranking showed. The euro was the worst
performer, losing 0.61 percent.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  People’s Bank of China policy makers cut benchmark  interest
rates  last week for the second time in a month to spur growth.
The ECB lowered its  benchmark rate  to a record 0.75 percent and
reduced its deposit rate to zero, and the Bank of England
expanded its asset-purchase stimulus program by 50 billion
pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  