-- European Stocks Rise for Sixth Straight Week; Aegis Jumps
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-13T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/european-stocks-rise-for-sixth-straight-week-aegis-jumps.html
European stocks  climbed for a sixth
straight week, the longest winning streak in more than two
years, amid speculation that central bank policy makers will add
to stimulus measures to support the economy.  Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  soared 45 percent for the biggest advance
in 19 years after Dentsu Inc. agreed to buy the advertising
company. Temenos Group AG sank 26 percent as the Swiss maker of
banking software cut its sale forecast and Chief Executive
Officer Guy Dubois quit.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 0.7 percent to 256.26
this week, for the longest stretch of gains since April 2010.
The measure has rallied 9.6 percent from this year’s low on June
4 as the European Central Bank and People’s Bank of  China  cut
their benchmark  interest rates  and euro-area leaders eased
repayment rules for Spanish banks and relaxed conditions for
possible aid to  Italy .  “We expect the  European Central Bank  to cut interest rates
again and globally interest rates are being lowered to restart
the economy,” said Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  who helps
oversee $6.5 billion at Notz Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “European
policy makers have made a strong commitment vis-a-vis banks.
That eliminates systemic risk for the  euro zone  and makes
investors more optimistic.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 12 of the 18 western
European markets.  Germany ’s DAX rallied 2.3 percent,  France ’s
CAC 40 advanced 0.4 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased
0.1 percent.  China Growth  China’s growth slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest
pace since the global financial crisis, putting pressure on
Premier  Wen Jiabao  to boost stimulus to secure a second-half
economic rebound.  Gross domestic product expanded 7.6 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said
yesterday. The pace, a three-year low, compared with an 8.1
percent gain in the previous period and the 7.7 percent median
forecast of economists.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve officials debated the need for
further stimulus measures at last month’s meeting, minutes
released on July 11 showed. Two participants supported
additional bond purchases, while two others said only a further
deterioration in the economy would warrant them.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on June 20 it will
expand Operation Twist to extend the maturities of assets on its
balance sheet, and it stands ready to take further action as
needed.  Applications for U.S. jobless benefits decreased by 26,000
in the week ended July 7 to 350,000, the fewest since March
2008, Labor Department figures showed on July 12. Economists had
forecast 372,000 claims, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey.  Earnings Season  ASML Holding NV is due to become the first member of the
 Euro Stoxx 50 Index (SX5E)  to report earnings this quarter when
Europe’s biggest maker of semiconductor equipment releases
results on July 18. The shares gained 2.7 percent this week as
 Intel Corp . said it will invest as much as $4.1 billion in the
Dutch company.  Companies in the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  will earn 23.93 euros a share in
fiscal 2012, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The projections have been cut from more than 25 euros
a share at the start of the year, the data show.  “Earnings season is going to be very complicated,” said
Bruno Ducros, a fund manager at CamGestion in Paris, which
oversees about $2 billion in stocks. “So far there have been a
number of profit warnings.”  Pessimistic Forecasts  European stock strategists are backing away from their
most-pessimistic forecasts. While sticking to predictions for
losses of as much as 16 percent, Morgan Stanley’s Ronan Carr
raised his recommendation on European equities to neutral on
July 2 and  Alain Bokobza  of Societe Generale SA said he has
started to reduce the underweight call he’s had for at least two
years. Exane BNP Paribas said investors can find bargains among
companies most reliant on economic growth.  Aegis surged 45 percent as Dentsu, the 111-year-old
Japanese advertising company, agreed to buy the U.K. company in
a 3.16 billion-pound ($4.9 billion) deal. Aegis pushed an index
of media shares in the Stoxx 600 to the biggest gain of the
year, with a 3.5 percent advance.  Vivendi SA jumped 7.9 percent. Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou
said that the company may sell its $8.1 billion stake in
Activision Blizzard Inc., the largest U.S. video-game publisher.  Afren Speculation  Afren Plc, a U.K.-based oil and gas company focused on
Nigeria and  Iraq , climbed 8.4 percent. Exxon Mobil Corp. and Eni
SpA are examining possible bids for Afren, the U.K.’s Daily Mail
said on July 9. Either one could offer at least 200 pence a
share, the newspaper reported, without saying where it got the
information. An official at Eni, who asked not to be identified
citing company policy, declined to comment. Patrick McGinn, a
spokesman for Exxon, also declined to comment.  ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker, advanced 11
percent. Macquarie Group Ltd. raised its recommendation on the
shares to  outperform , the equivalent of buy, from neutral,
saying that the sale of its Steel Americas plants could “unlock
substantial value.”  Temenos, the banking-software maker that retreated from a
bid to buy Misys Plc, sank 26 percent. The company said CEO
Dubois quit and cut the upper end of its sales-growth forecast
to 1 percent from 6 percent for the full year.  Britvic Plc (BVIC) , the maker of Robinsons fruit drinks, tumbled
9.9 percent. The company said full-year results will be “at the
bottom end” of analysts’ estimates and a recall of its Fruit
Shoot products will hurt earnings further.  Spanish Banks  Spanish banks fell, led by  Bankia SA (BKIA) , which dropped 23
percent. Banco Popular Espanol SA slid 5.2 percent.  Spanish lenders’ net borrowings from the ECB jumped to a
record 337 billion euros ($411 billion) in June as the European
bailout agreement for the nation’s lenders didn’t ease their
access to funding.  Net average ECB borrowings climbed from 288 billion euros
in May, the Bank of  Spain  said on its website July 13. Gross
borrowing was 365 billion euros, up from 325 billion euros in
May, and accounting for 30 percent of gross borrowing in the
whole euro region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 