-- Ex-Mets Player Lenny Dykstra Pleads Guilty to Bankruptcy Fraud
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-14T04:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/ex-mets-player-dykstra-pleads-guilty-to-bankruptcy-fraud-1-.html
Former  New York  Mets outfielder
 Lenny Dykstra  pleaded guilty to looting valuables from his $18
million mansion and secretly selling them after his bankruptcy
filing in 2009.  Dykstra, 49, pleaded guilty to three counts of bankruptcy
fraud, concealment of bankruptcy property, and  money laundering 
at a hearing yesterday in federal court in  Los Angeles . He faces
as long as 20 years in prison.  “Mr. Dykstra’s days of playing games with the public and
the legal system are over,” Andre Birotte Jr., the U.S.
attorney in Los Angeles, said in a statement. “With these
federal convictions, Mr. Dykstra’s fraud and deceit have been
exposed for all to see.”  Dykstra, in shackles and dressed in a green prison
windbreaker and white prison trousers, didn’t speak at the
hearing other than to state his name and level of education,
high school, and to respond to the judge’s questions, including
whether he understood the rights he was giving up and whether he
was coerced, with “yes, your honor” or “no, your honor.”  “Guilty,” Dykstra said when U.S. District Judge Dean Pregerson asked him how was pleading.  Pregerson denied a request by Dykstra’s public defender,
Christopher Dybwad, to have the hearing behind closed doors. The
judge set a sentencing date for Dec. 3.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Aaron May said at the hearing that
Dykstra had agreed to waive his right to appeal his sentence if
it’s no more than 51 months in prison and if the restitution
he’ll be ordered to pay is no more than $200,000.  Plea Agreement  A plea agreement was filed under seal June 26. Dykstra, who
is already serving a three-year term in  California  state prison
for grand theft auto and a concurrent 270-day sentence for lewd
exposure and assault, had faced as many as 15 counts in a
superseding indictment, including obstruction of justice,
embezzlement and giving false testimony under oath.  The former Major League Baseball player was accused of
taking $400,000 worth of fixtures, including chandeliers,
mirrors, a stove and a grandfather clock from his mansion and
secretly selling them. He was also accused of secretly selling
$15,000 worth of baseball equipment and memorabilia, including
gloves, balls and bats.  In October, Dykstra pleaded no contest in state court to
three counts of grand theft auto and filing a false financial
statement. He had been charged in June of last year for trying
to lease cars with phony business and credit information and
with drug possession.  Police found cocaine, the drug Ecstasy and Somatropin, a
synthetic human growth hormone, during a search of his home in
Encino, California, prosecutors said at the time.  Craigslist Ads  In April, Dykstra pleaded guilty to charges he put ads on
Craigslist for personal assistants and housekeeping services and
told the women who came to meet him that he also wanted them to
give massages. Dykstra exposed himself to the women and on one
occasion held a knife to force a woman to massage him, Los
Angeles prosecutors said.  Dykstra, known as “Nails,” joined the Mets in 1985 and
helped the team win the  World Series  the following year. He
played for the  Philadelphia Phillies  from 1989 to 1996.  The outfielder finished second to  Barry Bonds  in National
League Most Valuable Player Award voting in 1993, when the
Phillies reached the World Series to face the  Toronto Blue Jays .
Dykstra had a career batting average of .285, with 81 home runs
and 404 runs batted in, according to baseball-reference.com.  The case is U.S. v. Dykstra, 11-00415, U.S. District Court,
Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 