-- Ex-Snoras Bank Owner Says Life in Danger, Seeks Delay of Lawsuit
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-07-13T16:13:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/ex-snoras-bank-owner-says-life-in-danger-seeks-delay-of-lawsuit.html
Bankas Snoras AB’s former owner
asked a U.K. judge to put the collapsed Lithuanian lender’s
civil lawsuit against him on hold while he fights extradition to
the Baltic country where he faces fraud allegations.  The bank should also be denied its request that  Vladimir Antonov  list his worldwide assets to comply with a freezing
order issued by the court in May, his lawyer, Ian Mill, said
today. Such a list could incriminate Antonov in  Lithuania  and
help his extradition there, Mill said.  “There is a risk to the life of my client if he is
returned to Lithuania,” Mill said at the London hearing. “The
case involves my client’s political motivation and persecution
by Lithuanian authorities and there’s a risk he will not get a
fair trial.” He wouldn’t elaborate on the threat outside court.  Antonov, a Russian, and his Lithuanian business partner
Raimondas Baranauskas were detained in London in November after
Lithuanian authorities issued a European arrest warrant on
claims they forged documents and fixed accounts to siphon at
least 1.7 billion litas ($602 million) from the country’s third-
biggest bank by deposits, causing its collapse.  The freezing order against Antonov, which bars him from
spending or moving his money, is “toothless” without a list of
his holdings, the bank’s lawyer,  Antony Zacaroli , said. The
banker has only disclosed a “chalet” in  Switzerland , he said.  Both men deny the claims and are fighting the fraud
allegations in Lithuania.  October Hearing  Snoras, based in Vilnius, filed a civil lawsuit in Britain
on May 18 against the men for 395.5 million pounds ($615
million). The judge scheduled an October hearing on Antonov’s
requests today and denied the bank’s bid for a temporary list of
his assets to be placed with the court while awaiting the autumn
hearing.  “If my client were going to do something with his assets,
he would have done it by now,” meaning the list wouldn’t be as
useful as the bank believes, Mill said. “If he’s going to be
dishonest, he simply won’t include it in the affidavit.”  Antonov, accused of using the money to buy luxury homes,
cars and a U.K. soccer team, claims the case may be politically
motivated due to articles in newspapers he owned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  