-- Mexican Peso Strengthens as Stimulus Speculation Increases
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-07-13T22:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/mexico-peso-strengthens-as-export-outlook-buoyed-by-oil-rally.html
Mexico ’s peso gained versus all of
its major counterparts as crude oil surged on speculation China
may increase stimulus measures, boosting the outlook for the
Latin American country’s second-biggest export.  The peso appreciated 1.3 percent to 13.2904 per dollar at 4
p.m. in Mexico City, the biggest advance among the 16 most-
traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It touched 13.5231
yesterday, the weakest intraday level since June 29. The peso
climbed 0.8 percent this week.  Crude oil rallied in  New York  after  China’s economy  grew in
the second quarter at the slowest pace since the first three
months of 2009, boosting the prospect of more steps by the Asian
nation’s government to spur expansion.  “They’re going to add more stimulus because the economy is
slowing more than they want,”  Win Thin , global head of
emerging-market strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., said
by phone from New York.  Mexican crude oil exports accounted for $23.5 billion in
revenue in the first five months of this year, according to
preliminary data from the national statistics agency.  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Banco Santander SA, said
the peso extended gains after a gauge of U.S.  consumer
confidence  fell, increasing speculation the Federal Reserve will
take further action to boost the world’s biggest economy.  Mexico sends 80 percent of its exports to the U.S.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment unexpectedly dropped to 72 this month from
June’s 73.2 reading. It was the lowest level this year. The
gauge was projected to rise to 73.5, according to a median
forecast of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Additional Steps  The  Federal Reserve  has signaled that a further economic
slowdown would increase support among policy makers for
additional steps to spur the three-year expansion, according to
minutes of the June 19-20 meeting released this week in
Washington.  “This expectation of more monetary stimulus tends to favor
the peso,” Camarena said by phone from Mexico City.  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024 fell
eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 5.29 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 0.88
centavo to 142.78 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  