-- Lexmark Falls on Printer’s Sales Forecast: Atlanta Mover
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-07-13T20:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/lexmark-cuts-second-quarter-sales-forecast-citing-europe-demand.html
Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  fell the
most in more than a year after saying second-quarter sales and
profit would be lower than the printer maker had expected due to
weak demand in Europe and unfavorable exchange rates.  Shares of Lexmark dropped 16 percent to $20.36 at the close
in New York, for the biggest decline since October 2010.
Including yesterday’s 7.5 percent drop, the  shares  have lost 38
percent this year.  Lexmark joins a lengthening roster of technology vendors --
including  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
-- citing the economic slump in Europe for worse-than-expected
second-quarter results.  The “outlook reflects a weaker-than-expected demand
environment, particularly in Europe, and a larger-than-expected
impact from unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates,”
Lexmark said.  Sales declined about 12 percent in the June period,
Lexington, Kentucky-based Lexmark said yesterday in a statement.
That’s greater the 7 percent to 9 percent drop the company had
forecast in April. Profit will be 53 cents to 55 cents a share,
excluding acquisition- and restructuring-related costs, Lexmark
said. The company previously forecast 65 cents to 75 cents.  Analysts on average had predicted that Lexmark would report
per-share profit of 99 cents,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.
They had projected that sales would fall 8 percent to $959.6
million.  Lexmark said the sales and currency trends would probably
affect results in the second half of the year as well. The
company  plans  to give an update for the full year on July 24.  The shares fell the  most  in more than nine months yesterday
after  Barclays Capital  downgraded Lexmark stock, citing a slump
in corporate spending as more workers use mobile devices.
 Benjamin Reitzes , an analyst at Barclays in New York, downgraded
the shares to  underweight  from equalweight and reduced his price
estimate to $24 from $29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  