-- Fed May Need to Begin New Asset Purchases, Lockhart Says
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-07-13T21:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/fed-may-need-to-begin-new-asset-purchases-lockhart-says.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
PresidentDennis Lockhart said the central bank may need to
begin a new program of asset purchases if recent economic
weakness continues and undermines his forecast for a pickup in
the second half of the year.  “If the economy continues on the track indicated by the
most recent incoming data and information, that forecast will
become untenable, as will the policy premises underlying it.”
Lockhart said today in Jackson,  Mississippi . “My support for
the current stance of policy rests on a forecast that sees a
step-up of output and employment growth by year-end and into
2013.”  Lockhart joins the ranks of Fed officials who are prepared
to consider additional stimulus after a report showed that
payroll growth lagged behind forecasts in June. The Atlanta Fed
president cited the release of minutes from the central bank’s
last meeting as showing as many as four policy makers are
“quite receptive at this time” to further easing.  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  voted last
month to extend its maturity-extension program, known as
Operation Twist, to provide more support for a slowing U.S.
economy and said it would consider additional stimulus if
needed.  “My colleagues and I on the FOMC may confront a decision
on whether or not to respond more aggressively to the economy’s
apparent weakness,” Lockhart told the Mississippi Economic
Council. “It’s possible another policy decision looms.”  Stocks Rally  U.S. stocks rallied, erasing a weekly loss for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, as JPMorgan Chase & Co. jumped after
reporting earnings. The  S&P 500  gained 1.7 percent to 1,356.78
at 4 p.m.  New York  time and advanced 0.2 percent for the week.  Treasury 30-year bond yields rose from almost record lows
amid speculation central banks around the world will take more
action to stimulate the economy. The 30-year bond yield rose one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.57 percent at 5 p.m.
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell
to an all-time low of 2.5089 percent on June 1.  Lockhart, who votes on monetary policy this year, told
reporters after the meeting that his view on the need for
further action has shifted gradually.  ‘Increasing Concern’  “Certainly from my own perspective it has been an option
on the table, and I don’t dismiss it as an option,” he said.
Lockhart has viewed recent economic data “with increasing
concern and in that sense my receptivity has increased a bit”
for more asset purchases.  Lockhart told reporters that asset purchases could include
mortgage-backed securities, which would put pressure on home
loan rates and help strengthen housing.  Employers added 80,000 jobs in June, and the  unemployment
rate  stayed at 8.2 percent, the U.S. Labor Department reported
July 6. Growth in private payrolls was the weakest in 10 months.
The figures underscore concern among some Fed policy makers that
growth isn’t fast enough to lower unemployment stuck above 8
percent since February 2009.  In June, Lockhart said he might favor more asset purchases
if there were “a deteriorating economic situation that takes me
off my baseline forecast” or threat of falling prices. He said
conditions didn’t call for easing “at the moment.”  Lockhart, 65, said he downgraded his economic forecasts
prior to the latest FOMC meeting in response to weakness in the
first half of the year. This was his first speech since the June
employment report.  ‘Modest Expectations’  The Atlanta Fed president said asset purchases and
expansion of the balance sheet are not a “miracle cure” yet
are still effective. “I think we should have modest
expectations about what further action can accomplish,”
Lockhart said.  “Some further use of the balance sheet to promote
continued recovery and/or financial stability brings with it
manageable risks,” he said. “Reversal of the cumulative
balance sheet scale and maturity structure can be accomplished
in an orderly manner. But the step of additional balance sheet
expansion should be undertaken very judiciously. Such a step
would take us further into uncharted territory.”  Lockhart also said he viewed most of the weakness in the
labor market as resulting from weak demand rather than
structural a mismatch of job skills with openings.  Policy Tool  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John
Williams  said July 9 that the central bank should maintain
“extraordinary vigilance” and the most effective policy tool
would be more asset purchases including mortgage-backed
securities.  Lockhart has never dissented from an FOMC decision. He told
a  Florida  audience that extending Operation Twist was “an
option on the table” two weeks before the FOMC chose that
course.  Lockhart, a former Georgetown University professor, has led
the Atlanta Fed since 2007. The Atlanta Fed district includes
 Alabama , Florida,  Georgia , and portions of  Louisiana ,
Mississippi, and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  