-- FIFA Anti-Graft Adviser Says Bribe Revelations May Speed Reform
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-13T01:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/fifa-anti-graft-adviser-says-bribe-revelations-may-speed-reform.html
The naming of two former FIFA
officials who accepted millions of dollars in kickbacks may
expedite reform, according to the Swiss law professor overseeing
the soccer body’s cleanup.  FIFA’s executive committee will decide July 17 whether to
accept names put forward by  Mark Pieth ’s Independent Governance
Committee to head up newly created ethics bodies at the Zurich-
based organization.  Court records made public two days ago showed that ex-FIFA
President  Joao Havelange  and former executive committee member
 Ricardo Teixeira  amassed as much as $22 million between them in
payments from the collapsed ISL marketing company. The duo had
tried to block the  publication of the documents . FIFA had also
paid a Swiss court $2.5 million in compensation on condition a
criminal investigation against the pair be dropped.  “It is quite fortunate that this thing is coming out
because it raises the tempo and should indicate to FIFA why we
are doing this reform,” Pieth, who investigated corruption in
 Iraq ’s oil-for-food program in 2004, said in a telephone
interview. “It should impress on them why they need an
independent judiciary.”  Choosing an independent investigator and a judge, who will
look at allegations of wrongdoing by members, is part of a
series of reforms FIFA has been forced to undergo. It’s come
under pressure from sponsors, lawmakers and media to change the
way it does business.  World Cups  The crisis reached its height following the selection of
hosts for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups in December 2010, and
President Sepp Blatter’s re-election to a fourth four-year term
unopposed six months later. His only rival, Mohamed bin Hammam,
pulled out a day before being investigated for alleged vote-
buying. He has denied wrongdoing.  Blatter yesterday said he knew about the kickbacks received
by Havelange and Teixeira, which were paid as “commissions” by
ISL to individuals as it signed television and marketing rights
with sports bodies, including FIFA. The 76-year-old, who worked
under Havelange as FIFA’s general secretary at the time of the
payments, said he didn’t take any action because they weren’t
illegal under Swiss law at the time they were paid.  Pieth said he declined to read the report before its public
release because he didn’t want to appear as though he was a
“defense lawyer for Blatter.”  “There’s a paradox,” Pieth said. “Blatter doesn’t come
out well, and on the other hand one has to say he’s the guy
who’s directing the reform.”  Decision Delayed  Pieth’s team has submitted four names for the post of head
of the investigative branch, and the same number for the head of
the adjudicatory branch. The choices were scheduled to have been
made at FIFA’s congress in May, though got postponed because
Barry O’Keefe, the preferred candidate of  Pieth’s group  for one
of the posts, fell ill.  Whoever is chosen will have the resources to look at FIFA’s
past, including the World Cup bids won by Russia for 2018 and
Qatar for 2022, Pieth said.  “We are not talking about going only against
individuals,” he said. “There are much bigger issues hidden
including decisions like World Cup hosts.”  Pieth’s group and  Transparency International , an anti-
corruption pressure group, have both said FIFA’s current systems
to investigate wrongdoing are not fit for purpose. He said the
new investigative body will have a budget to buy in expert help
“when they have a really big case.”  The Independent Governance Committee also includes former
U.K. Attorney General Peter Goldsmith, former Watergate
investigator Michael J. Hershman and Kim Seung Tack, chief
operating officer of Hyundai Motor Co. It will remain in place
to oversee the changes before “fading away,” Pieth said.  “If we don’t do this now there’s a real risk it just
continues,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  