-- Geithner Questioned Integrity of Libor System in 2008, NYT Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-13T04:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/geithner-questioned-integrity-of-libor-system-in-2008-nyt-says.html
Former U.S. Federal Reserve official
 Timothy F. Geithner  questioned the integrity of the benchmark
used to set key interest rates and alerted top British officials
about his concerns in 2008, the  New York  Times reported.  In an e-mail to British counterparts on the rate that is
set in London, Geithner, then president of the New York Fed
district bank, set out potential changes to the system,
suggesting U.K. authorities strengthen governance and establish
a credible reporting procedure and eliminate incentive to
misreport, the newspaper reported, citing documents it obtained.
Geithner, 50, has been President Barack Obama’s Treasury
secretary since January 2009.  Lawmakers in Washington are seeking information on the
scandal that prompted Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to quit last week after the U.K.’s second-biggest lender
was fined a record 290 million pounds ($448 million) for
attempting to rig interest rates. At least a dozen banks are
being investigated for manipulating the so-called Libor.  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
British Bankers Association in London, in which the world’s
biggest lenders are asked the rate they’re charged to borrow
over a variety of short-term maturities in currencies including
dollars, euros and yen. Banks are accused of low-balling
submissions for the benchmark during the financial crisis.  The Senate Banking Committee also plans to question
Geithner and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on the scandal at
regularly scheduled hearings this month. Committee Chairman  Tim
Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, said July 10 he is “concerned
by the growing allegations of potential widespread manipulation
of Libor and similar interbank rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  