-- Geithner Sent BOE’s King Libor Revamp Recommendations in 2008
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-07-13T13:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/geithner-proposed-libor-changes-in-2008-memo-to-bank-of-england.html
Timothy F. Geithner  sent  Bank of
England  Governor Mervyn King recommendations in 2008 to revamp
the  London  interbank offered rate, now at the center of a
scandal over allegations the benchmark was manipulated.  King and  Paul Tucker , at the time markets director of the
U.K. central bank, passed the comments to the British Bankers’
Association, according to correspondence released by the Bank of
England today. Geithner wanted procedures to prevent
“misreporting,” and the BBA, which was reviewing Libor at the
time, said it would take the recommendations on board.  The Bank of England has become embroiled in the rate-
rigging scandal that led to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  being fined a record
290 million pounds ($448 million) and cost Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  his job. Members of Congress are seeking
information from U.S. regulators about issue, while lawmakers in
the U.K. are scheduled to hold hearings next week as they
continue their own review.  At least a dozen banks are being investigated for
manipulating Libor, the global benchmark for $360 trillion of
securities. Tucker testified at the U.K. parliament’s Treasury
Committee on July 9, while  Andrew Bailey , head of the Prudential
Business Unit at the Financial Services Authority, and FSA
Chairman  Adair Turner  will attend the panel on July 16.  Basel Talks  Geithner, the U.S. Treasury secretary who was president of
the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York at the time, sent the memo
to King on June 1, 2008, after the two discussed Libor at a
meeting of central bankers in Basel the previous month. The
recommendations included one to “establish and publish best
practices for calculating and reporting rates, including
procedures designed to prevent accidental or deliberate
misreporting.”  King forwarded Geithner’s message to Tucker, who shared
them with  Angela Knight . She was then the chief executive
officer of the BBA, the lobby group which coordinates Libor.  “The bank was aware of the forthcoming BBA consultation
and, despite not having any regulatory responsibilities in this
area, was concerned that it be as comprehensive as possible,”
the Bank of England said in a statement. “Both the bank and the
Federal Reserve were assured by the BBA that it would take on
board the recommendations, either through actions or through
questions on which it would consult.”  Fed Documents  The New York Fed today is set to release documents in
response to a request from Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a
Texas Republican who serves on the House Financial Services
Committee. Neugebauer sent a letter this week to  New York  Fed
President William C. Dudley asking for transcripts of
communications between the regulator and Barclays relating to
setting Libor rates from August 2007 to November 2009.  “In the context of our market monitoring following the
onset of the financial crisis in late 2007, involving thousands
of calls and e-mails with market participants over a period of
many months, we received occasional anecdotal reports from
Barclays of problems with Libor,” New York Fed spokeswoman
Andrea Priest said this week in a statement.  Priest said that in early 2008, after the failure of Bear
Stearns Cos. in the financial crisis, the district bank “made
further inquiry of Barclays as to how Libor submissions were
being conducted” and it later “shared our analysis and
suggestions for reform of Libor with the relevant authorities in
the U.K.”  Geithner Questions  The Senate Banking Committee plans to question Geithner and
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  on the scandal at regularly
scheduled hearings this month. Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a
South Dakota Democrat, said July 10 he is “concerned by the
growing allegations of potential widespread manipulation of
Libor and similar interbank rates.”  Twelve Democratic senators, including  Jack Reed  of Rhode
Island and  Carl Levin  of Michigan, yesterday sent a letter to
Geithner and Attorney General Eric Holder asking for an
examination of “allegations that U.S. and foreign bank
regulators may have been aware of this wrongdoing for years.”  “This scandal calls into further question the integrity of
many Wall Street banks and whether our prosecutors and
regulators are up to the task of regulating them,” they said.  Among Geithner’s recommendations was to add a second Libor
fixing for the U.S. market and to broaden the number of banks
taking part in the U.S. beyond JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of
America Corp. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  That would “produce a fixing
that is more representative of the London interbank market and
less susceptible to the specific funding issues of
institutions” that do not have a broad dollar funding base.  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
BBA in London, in which the world’s biggest lenders are asked
the rate they’re charged to borrow over a variety of short-term
maturities in currencies including dollars, euros and yen. Banks
are accused of low-balling submissions for the benchmark during
the financial crisis.  The Washington Post reported earlier on Geithner pressing
British regulators to change the Libor calculation.  -- With assistance from Svenja O’Donnell in London. Editors:
Fergal O’Brien, Craig Stirling  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  