-- General Dynamics Contract to Maintain Strykers Questioned
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/general-dynamics-contract-to-maintain-strykers-questioned.html
The Army is weighing changes in
 General Dynamics (GD)  Corp.’s contract to  maintain  Stryker armored
combat vehicles after the Pentagon’s inspector general found the
terms led to excess spending of as much as $336 million, or 23
percent.  The no-bid contract resulted in “little, if any, cost risk
for the contractor or incentive to control costs,” the
inspector general said in an audit. The Army responded by
starting a “business case analysis” of potential changes,
according to Ashley Givens, spokeswoman for the service’s Ground
Combat Systems.  Under contracts that began in 2002 and were awarded without
competition, General Dynamics is paid to perform maintenance and
to buy, store and issue spare parts for the Army’s 2,576 Stryker
vehicles, which were built by the company.  The 19-ton, eight-wheeled vehicles have driven an estimated
40 million miles (64 million kilometers) during the Iraq and
Afghan wars. Seventy-seven Strykers have been destroyed in
battle since 2002, and 435 were damaged.  Since the first contract in May 2002, Army officials “have
made no progress in converting the high-risk cost-reimbursable
contract or portions to a preferred lower risk, firm-fixed
contract,” the audit, dated June 18, found. “As a result, the
Stryker contract was at a higher risk of misuse, waste and
inadequate accountability.”  ‘Least Incentive’  Contracts promising to reimburse costs plus a fixed fee
provide “the least incentive for the contractor to control cost
and perform in an efficient manner,” according to the inspector
general, echoing past criticism of such deals by Congress,
President  Barack Obama  and the Army’s own auditors.  The Army has issued three such contracts to  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based General Dynamics, including the current six-year
award in 2006 that is set to expire in February.  General Dynamics spokesman Kendall Pease referred a request
for comment to the Army, saying in an e-mail that the audit
reflects a “contracting philosophy debate” between the Army
and the Defense Department.  Givens, the Army spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that the
inspector general’s recommendations “represent acquisition and
contracting practices that will improve logistics support
strategy, plans and execution moving forward.”  Army officials said in comments in the inspector general’s
report that the type of contract used was necessary to keep
Strykers in Iraq and  Afghanistan  at high readiness levels.  Sole Goal  General Dynamics’ fee was tied directly to that sole goal
of readiness, encouraging the company to spend freely on spare
parts even if they exceeded demand, the inspector general’s
report found. The company purchased some of the excess parts
from itself and others from suppliers, according to the audit.  The Army contracted with General Dynamics to spend through
February “about $1.453 billion but we calculated the
operational support costs at about $1.117 billion for the first
five years, resulting in about $335.9 million” of excess
spending “that could have been put to better use,” the audit
found.  General Dynamics has been paid $1.1 billion so far for the
first four years of the current contract, including all of its
potential fee of $99.9 million.  The inspector general questioned whether General Dynamics
should have received the entire fee because the contract’s
metrics were vague and it “had no means to measure the
efficiency of the contractor’s cost performance or actual
overruns or under-runs in relation to the fixed fee.”  The fifth year’s $317 million payment hasn’t been made. The
Army has yet to obligate funds for the sixth year valued at
$341.2 million, including the fee.  Congress, Obama  The Army’s use of the “cost-plus” contracts for Stryker
maintenance has been criticized by the service’s Audit Agency,
which warned in December 2005 that the approach “provided
minimal incentive for the contractor to control costs” and
recommended fixed-price deals instead.  Such contracts have also been criticized more broadly.
Congress urged the Pentagon in 2006 to use more fixed-price
clauses in development, production and service work.  Obama issued a government-wide memo in March 2009 urging
limits on the use of cost-plus contracts that are “wasteful,
inefficient, subject to misuse or otherwise not well-designed to
serve the interests of the American taxpayer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  