-- Greek Options on Repaying ECB Bonds Said to Include Bills, Delay
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-07-13T14:14:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/greek-options-on-repaying-ecb-bonds-said-to-include-bills-delay.html
Options to tide Greece past the
looming redemption of its bonds held by the  European Central
Bank  include delaying the payment and having the cash-strapped
country sell bills, two European Union officials said.  Two Greek bonds on the ECB’s books totaling 3.1 billion
euros ($3.8 billion) mature on Aug. 20, Bloomberg data show. The
central bank insists on being repaid in full, unlike the
investors who were forced to take losses in this year’s Greek
debt restructuring.  Euro-area finance ministers will on July 20 consider ways
to save Greece from a market-quaking non-payment without easing
the pressure on Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s new government
to keep overhauling the economy, said the officials, who asked
not to be named because the talks are private.  European governments are determined to avoid a reckoning
with  Greece , which triggered the debt crisis almost three years
ago, while separate negotiations take place over aid for  Spain ’s
banks. A downgrade today by Moody’s Investors Service of  Italy ’s
credit rating added to the fiscal concerns plaguing the 17-
nation euro area.  Greece is counting on an “intermediate solution” to keep
it solvent through August, Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras
said in Brussels on July 10 after attending his first meeting of
European finance chiefs.  Greek Cash  European governments first need to have a closer look at
Greece’s accounts, remembering that prior cash-flow squeezes
ended with it coming up with payments in time, one official
said. One option would be an unspecified form of bridge
financing, the official said.  Greece could also sell three-month Treasury bills, the
other official said. The country hasn’t been shut out of short-
term debt markets, announcing today that the next regular sale
of 1.25 billion euros in 13-week bills will take place on July
17.  A final option is for the ECB to consent to giving Greece
an extra month to pay up, the officials said. An ECB spokeswoman
declined to comment.  The ECB is the sole holder of the first, 551 million-euro
bond due in August. The central bank owns 97.5 percent of the
second, 2.6 billion-euro bond, with the rest held by the
 European Investment Bank  and the European Union.  One cause of next month’s wrangle over the bond redemption
was a decision by European creditors and the  International
Monetary Fund  to withhold a scheduled 4.2 billion-euro
disbursement due in June until elections yielded a stable Greek
government committed to the reform program.  Greece’s redemption won’t dominate the July 20 meeting of
finance ministers. The main purpose is to sign off on aid of as
much as 100 billion euros for Spain’s banks. The consultations
are likely to be by teleconference, though an in-person meeting
in Brussels isn’t ruled out, officials said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  