-- Greenergy’s Profits Rise 82% on Rising Sales, Cheaper Feedstock
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-07-13T12:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/greenergy-s-profits-rise-82-on-rising-sales-cheaper-feedstock.html
Greenergy International Ltd., which
supplies almost one quarter of the U.K.’s road  fuels , reported
an 82 percent rise in profits on cheaper feedstock and as sales
increased amid a growing market share.  Profits in the year ended April 14 climbed to 25.3 million
pounds ($39 million) versus 13.9 million pounds a year earlier,
according to an annual report. Sales increased to 10.9 billion
liters (2.9 billion gallons) of fuel from 9.9 billion liters,
taking its U.K. market share to 23.2 percent. The London-based
company supplies petrol and diesel to supermarkets and has  Tesco
Plc (TSCO)  as a minority shareholder.  “Our petrol manufacturing margins were significantly
stronger this period than the previous year due to lower raw
material costs,” Greenergy Chief Executive Officer Andrew Owens
said in the report, which was posted on the closely held
company’s  website  yesterday.  Greenergy, with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Royal Vopak NV,
agreed last month to buy Petroplus Holdings AG’s Coryton
refinery in the U.K. for conversion to a storage site. The Swiss
refiner filed for insolvency earlier in the year after banks
froze credit lines.  “This investment will create the U.K.’s first deep water
fuel import terminal, making it possible to bring in diesel
economically from the most modern refineries anywhere in the
world,” Owens said in a June 26 statement.  Greenergy may make an initial public offering if additional
capital is required for further “opportunities,” according to
the annual report.  Cheap Naphtha  Greenergy, which mainly uses  naphtha  as feedstock in
petrol, or gasoline, was able to capture higher margins because
the naphtha is trading near to the biggest discount in almost
seven years.  “This year, the price of naphtha fell relative to petrol,
making it a cheaper component than at any time in the past five
years,” the company said in the report. “The outlook for the
next twelve months is for relatively cheap naphtha to continue
to support our petrol manufacturing margins.”  Naphtha cost $228 a metric ton less than gasoline on June
22, the biggest gap since September 2005. The spread known as
the reforming margin narrowed to $158 a ton yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  