-- Guatemala to Seek Mining Tax Rise Next Month, Minister Says
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-07-13T20:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/guatemala-seeks-to-raise-mining-taxes-next-month-minister-says.html
Guatemala  President Otto Perez Molina will send a bill to Congress next month to increase
royalties on mining companies to 5 percent, Energy and Mines
Minister Erick Archila said.  The modification to the mining law is separate from a
package of 43 constitutional changes Perez Molina seeks that
would let the state have as much as a 40 percent stake in non-
renewable resource companies, Archila said in an interview
yesterday in  Guatemala City . Natural resource companies in
Central America’s biggest economy pay a voluntary 1 percent
royalty, he said.  “The reform will redefine and strengthen national mining
laws and eliminate the voluntary payment of taxes,” Archila
said. “If approved, the taxes will be obligatory for the mining
sector.”  Guatemala is seeking to broaden its tax base and doesn’t
want the measures, opposed by the country’s biggest industrial
chambers, to adversely affect investment, Finance Minister Pavel Centeno said in a July 9 interview. The government won’t
expropriate stakes in natural resource companies or take a stake
in those already in the country, he said.  ’More Order’  “There are companies that want to partner with the state
to have a better capacity to operate within the country,”
Archila said. “It will create more order and responsibility in
the mining sector and won’t affect investments in the country.”  Tahoe Resources Inc. (THO) , which is awaiting final approval for
its Escobal silver mine southeast of Guatemala City, jumped more
than 1 percent immediately following the comments. Shares in the
Reno, Nevada-based company closed down 2.2 percent at $12.67.
Tahoe has met “all operational requirements” established by
the ministry, Archila said, without giving more details.  The potential tax increase was expected, said Craig West,
an equity analyst at GMP Securities LTD, in an e-mail.  Guatemala, Central America’s largest oil producer, is in
talks with Vancouver-based  Ivanhoe Energy Inc. (IVAN)  to construct a
refinery to process the country’s heavy petroleum that is
currently used primarily for asphalt, Archila said.  Oil production has fallen to 10,000 barrels per day from
30,000 barrels in the last 30 years and could disappear if
exploration falters, Archila said. More oil permits will
probably be issued this year in seven untapped areas and the
government intends to increase production to 80,000 barrels per
day by 2022.  “Ivanhoe is the company that wants to come to Guatemala,”
Archila said. “They know of government plans to increase oil
production in Guatemala and we are listening to their proposal
to come here.”  Hydroelectric Potential  The economy will grow 3 percent this year after growth of
about 4 percent last year, Centeno said.  Gross domestic product 
expanded 3.4 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
while consumer prices rose 3.5 percent in June from a year
earlier, the slowest pace since February 2010.  About 50 percent of Guatemala’s electricity is produced by
hydroelectric plants using only 15 percent of the country’s
6,000-megawatt potential, Archila said. Guatemala will hold an
auction for bidders to purchase licenses to generate as much as
600 megawatts of hydroelectricity over the next 15 years, he
added.  “The country has enormous hydroelectric potential,”
Archila said. Guatemala seeks to create 1,500 megawatts of
hydroelectricity over the next 15 years, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in Guatemala City at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  