-- IIROC Reviewing Practices of Canada CDOR Participants
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-07-13T20:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/iiroc-reviewing-practices-of-cdor-participants-spokeswoman-says.html
Canada ’s self-regulatory
organization for investment dealers is reviewing the practices
of financial institutions that set the  reference rate  for
Canadian bankers’ acceptances, following inquiries into the
 London  interbank offered rate.  The  Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada 
isn’t aware of any concerns with how the Canadian dealer offered
rate, or CDOR, is set, spokeswoman Lucy Becker said today in a
statement.  Barclays Plc, the second-biggest U.K. Bank, agreed last
month to pay 290 million pounds ($451 million) in regulatory
fines for trying to manipulate Libor. At least a dozen banks are
being investigated for manipulating Libor, the global benchmark
for $360 trillion of securities.  “Recent experiences with Libor point to a need for
increased scrutiny of such survey-based reference rates,”
Becker said in the statement sent by e-mail.  CDOR survey participants have worked with IIROC and Bank of
Canada representatives since 2008 to discuss “matters related
to the setting and dissemination of CDOR,” the Toronto-based
self-regulator said in the statement.  “IIROC will continue to engage this working group and
other stakeholders as appropriate as it conducts its review,”
Bank of Canada spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  wrote in an e-mailed
statement.  Daily Survey  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
British Bankers’ Association in London, in which the world’s
biggest lenders are asked the rate they’re charged to borrow
over a variety of short-term maturities in currencies including
dollars, euros and yen. Banks are accused of low-balling
submissions for the benchmark during the financial crisis.  CDOR is the benchmark index for Canadian bankers’
acceptances with a maturity of one year or less, and is
determined daily from a survey of nine market makers. It is used
as the final settlement price for bankers’ acceptances futures
contract and some Canadian floating-rate debt is priced to a
spread off CDOR.  The market makers are: Bank of Montreal, Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, Bank of
America Corp.,  National Bank of Canada , Royal Bank of Canada,
Bank of  Nova Scotia  and Toronto-Dominion Bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  