-- Millar Wins First Tour Stage in Nine Years as Wiggins Keeps Lead
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-13T15:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/millar-wins-first-tour-stage-in-nine-years-as-wiggins-keeps-lead.html
David Millar won his first Tour de
France stage in nine years, beating Jean-Christophe Peraud in a
sprint after almost a six-hour ride.  Millar, a Briton with the Garmin-Sharp team, pumped his
fist as he beat the Frenchman to finish the 141-mile (226
kilometers) stage in 5 hours, 42 seconds. It was the longest
stage of this year’s race.  Britain’s Bradley Wiggins, who holds the yellow jersey as
race leader, kept a 2-minute, 5-second advantage over Team Sky
teammate Chris Froome after the 12th of 20 stages.  The other time gaps atop the overall classification also
remain unchanged with Vincenzo Nibali of Liquigas 18 seconds
further back in third place. BMC Racing’s defending champion
 Cadel Evans  is 3:19 behind Wiggins in fourth place.  Riders crossed two climbs within the first 50 miles before
heading out of the Alps and onto flatter terrain in the Ardeche
region. There was a smaller 3.7-mile climb to the Cote d’Ardoux
near the end.  Millar was part of a five-man group that built a 10-minute
lead on the main pack with two miles left. The quintet slowed
and watched each other as they waited for the best moment to
attack.  Millar and Peraud, who rides for AG2R La Mondiale, broke
free of the others and the 35-year-old Briton won in a dash for
the line. He lay on the road to recover for a few seconds after
his victory.  “He showed what an old soldier he was,” Garmin-Sharp
sports director Allan Peiper told Eurosport. “He needed a lot
of experience to pull it off.”  Millar won three stages between 2000 and 2003 before a two-
year ban for doping that ended in May 2006.  The Tour continues tomorrow with a 135-mile ride on mainly
flat terrain between Saint-Paul-Trois-Chateaux and Le Cap
d’Agde. The race ends July 22 in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  