-- Indian Rupee Climbs as Trade Deficit Narrows to 15-Month Low
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-07-13T10:15:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/indian-exports-fall-as-impact-of-europe-woe-counters-rupee-drop.html
Indian exports fell for the third
time in four months in June, while a trade deficit that has
pressured the rupee was the narrowest in more than a year as
imports slid, government figures showed. The currency rose.  Merchandise shipments fell 5.45 percent from a year earlier
to $25.06 billion, Director General of Foreign Trade Anup Pujari
said at a briefing in New Delhi today. Imports slipped 13.46
percent to $35.3 billion, leaving a trade deficit of $10.3
billion, he said. The data are provisional.  India’s overseas sales of items such as engineering goods
and cars have struggled this year as  Europe ’s debt crisis,
slower Chinese growth and elevated unemployment in the U.S.
crimp demand for Asian products. The rupee is down 19 percent
against the dollar in the past 12 months, after being pressured
by a trade shortfall that swelled to a record last fiscal year.  “Exports will stay weak till at least October,” said
Sujan Hajra, chief economist at Anand Rathi Financial Services
Ltd. in Mumbai. “But, on the other hand, the shrinking trade
deficit is great news for the rupee,” which will appreciate to
54 per dollar by end-October and 48 by March 2013, Hajra said.  The rupee strengthened 1 percent to 55.3650 as of 3:42 p.m.
in Mumbai. The benchmark BSE  India  Sensitive Index of stocks was
little changed.  Narrower Deficit  The contraction in imports was the largest since 2009,
while the  trade deficit  was the smallest since March 2011, based
on historical data the government released on April 19, official
monthly trade statements and today’s release.  The  trade gap  in the fiscal year that started April 1 may
shrink from the level in 2011-2012, Pujari said. The deficit in
the 12 months ended March was an unprecedented $184.9 billion.
Exports are likely to pick up in a couple of months, Commerce
Secretary S.R. Rao said at the same briefing.  Slowing economic growth, budget and trade shortfalls and
uncertainty over tax changes have added pressure on Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government to overhaul policies and
support the expansion in  Asia ’s third-largest economy.  India doubled the import tax on gold bars and coins and
platinum to 4 percent from April to try and pare the trade
imbalance, and last month said it will prolong a policy of
providing subsidized credit for some exporters through the
current fiscal year.  The  Reserve Bank  of India left  interest rates  unchanged in
June after a cut in April, and has signaled price pressures may
limit scope to join nations from  China  to South Korea in easing
monetary policy this month.  Indian inflation  probably accelerated to 7.61 percent in
June from 7.55 percent in May, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a report next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 