-- Linklaters, Kaufman Dolowich, McKenna: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-13T17:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/linklaters-kaufman-dolowich-mckenna-business-of-law.html
Linklaters LLP corporate partners
David Holdsworth and Shane Griffin advised  Dentsu Inc. (4324) , the 111-
year-old Japanese advertising company, on its purchase of
Britain’s  Aegis Group Plc (AGS)  in a 3.16 billion-pound ($4.9 billion)
deal to create a global media and marketing network to challenge
 WPP Plc. (WPP)   Slaughter and May’s Roland Turnill led the deal on behalf
of Aegis. Competition partner Michael Rowe, pensions and
employment partner Jonathan Fenn and financing partner Miranda
Leung assisted.  Sullivan & Cromwell  LLP, White & Case LLP and Baker &
McKenzie LLP were also involved in the deal.  A team from Sullivan & Cromwell, led by Dominique Bompoint
in Paris and Tim Emmerson in  London , advised French entrepreneur
 Vincent Bollore , a 26 percent shareholder in Aegis.  London partner Gavin Weir led the White & Case team
advising  Morgan Stanley (MS)  on the deal. London partner Philip Broke
and local Hong Kong partner Anthony Vasey also advised Morgan
Stanley on U.K. takeover rules in the context of Morgan
Stanley’s cash confirmation obligations under the U.K. takeover
code. David Barwise, a partner in Singapore and London, advised
on hedging aspects of the cash confirmation exercise. Assisting
with the Japanese law aspects were  Tokyo  partners Toshio Dokei
and Jun Usami.  Baker & McKenzie lawyers also advised Dentsu. The team was
led by partner Hideo Norikoshi in Tokyo.  Aegis shareholders will get 240 pence in cash, or 48
percent more than the stock’s close in London July 11, in an
offer recommended by directors, the companies said yesterday in
a statement. Tokyo-based Dentsu has bought a 15 percent stake
and will acquire a further 5 percent from companies controlled
by Bollore.  The transaction, the biggest in Dentsu’s history, would
create one of the largest ad firms to compete with the likes of
Dublin-based WPP and New York-based  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  Aegis is
the biggest independent buyer of advertising space and this year
won a contract to manage a $3 billion annual ad budget for
 General Motors Co. (GM)   The purchase is the second-biggest overseas takeover by a
Japanese company this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Overseas acquisitions jumped to a record $86.5
billion last year. So far in 2012, Japanese companies have made
$37 billion of cross-border deals.  For more, click here.  News  Deutsche Bank, RBS Face Top Libor Legal Tab, Morgan Stanley Says  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and Deutsche Bank AG may
have the highest litigation costs of 16 banks that face
potential fines and lawsuits for rigging benchmark  interest
rates , Morgan Stanley analysts estimate.  Morgan Stanley, based in  New York  and the sixth-biggest
U.S. bank, isn’t on the panel of firms that sets Libor rates.  Legal expenses stemming from probes into manipulation of
the London interbank offer rate, or Libor, could range from $59
million for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to as much as $1.04 billion
for Deutsche Bank and $1.06 billion for Edinburgh-based RBS,
according to estimates published yesterday by Morgan Stanley’s
 Betsy Graseck  in New York and Huw van Steenis in London. The
costs probably would apply in 2013 and 2014, they wrote.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the second-biggest U.K. bank, agreed last
month to pay 290 million pounds ($447 million) in regulatory
fines for rigging Libor, spurring resignations of the chairman,
the chief executive officer and its chief operating officer. The
fines raised speculation about penalties that may be imposed on
other banks involved and the cost of lawsuits that follow.  Former Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond  is being counseled by
Dechert LLP.  “Dechert has been representing Mr. Diamond on this matter
from the onset of the Libor investigation in 2010,” Beth
Huffman, a spokeswoman for the firm, said in a telephone
interview. He is represented by firm Chairman Andrew Levander
and Cheryl Krause, a partner in the Philadelphia office, Huffman
said.  Levander also represents J.  Ezra Merkin , who ran so-called
feeder funds involved in  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme;  Jon
Corzine , the former head of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ; and  John
Thain , the former head of Merrill Lynch, who is now chairman and
chief executive officer of  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , Huffman said.  Norton Rose  LLP is also advising Diamond, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  Dorian Drew, a financial-services litigator at Norton Rose
in London, is leading his firm’s team, according to the person,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private.  Sarah Webster of Norton Rose declined to comment on whether
the firm is involved.  Dewey & LeBoeuf Partners Offered Deal to Avoid Litigation  The team winding down Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP offered former
partners a chance to avoid clawback litigation if they give the
firm between $25,000 and $3 million apiece, the Wall Street
Journal reported yesterday.  The lawsuit seeks a total of $103.6 million from the more
than 700 lawyers, including 371 who retired or left before
January 2011 and received capital or pension benefits since
then, the Journal reported. They have until July 24 to decide,
according to the newspaper.  Dewey, which at one time had more than 1,300 attorneys in
12 countries, suffered a flood of partner defections in April
and May amid concerns about the firm’s finances. The firm filed
for bankruptcy on May 28 owing more than $225 million to secured
lenders.  A few former partners don’t qualify for the deal. Stephen Horvath, a Dewey partner, and Janis Meyer, the firm’s general
counsel, who have been working on the firm’s wind down, would
both be released from liability, the Journal said. Former Dewey
Chairman  Steven Davis , who was ousted in April after the
Manhattan  District Attorney  started a probe in possible
wrongdoing at Dewey, isn’t eligible, the Journal said.  The restructuring firm said they need to collect at least
$50 million for creditors to sign off on the plan, according to
the newspaper.  Dewey is also trying to collect $217 million in unpaid
client bills and about $60 million from unfinished legal work
that ex-partners took when they went to new firms, the Journal
said.  Moves  Kevin Duffy Joins Kaufman Dolowich Financial Services Practice  Kaufman Dolowich Voluck & Gonzo LLP added Kevin T. Duffy
Jr., as a partner in its New York office and a member of the
financial services practice.  Duffy was formerly co-founder and a name partner at  Duffy &
Staab  in White Plains, New York, where he represented clients in
securities litigation, the firm said. Duffy also maintained a
compliance consulting practice at Kinetic Partners in  New York
City  during the past year, where he provided registration and
continuing compliance services for hedge fund and private equity
fund managers, as well as outside AML reviews for broker-dealers
and investment banks.  His practice at the firm will focus on Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority arbitrations and representing private
funds. He is currently president-elect of the Federal Bar
Association of the District of Connecticut.  Hawthorne to Head Axinn Veltrop Finance Litigation Practice  Axinn, Veltrop & Harkrider LLP, an antitrust, intellectual-
property and litigation firm, said Donald W. Hawthorne joined as
a partner in the litigation and regulatory group in New York.  He will be chairman of the firm’s practice in the areas of
structured finance, derivatives and mortgage crisis litigation.
Hawthorne joined from Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, the firm said.  Hawthorne is involved in litigation tied to the recent
credit crisis. He has also handled matters relating to auction
rate securities, changes in corporate control and antitrust
litigation and counseling.  Duane Morris Atlanta Office Adds Financial Services Litigator  Duane Morris LLP hired John H. Goselin II as a partner in
the trial practice group in the Atlanta office. He joins from
Cetera Financial Group, where he was chief litigation counsel,
the firm said. Goselin focuses his practice in the area of
financial services litigation. He represents broker-dealers and
investment advisers in matters before the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission
and state regulators.  Loeb & Loeb Hires Corporate Partner in Los Angeles  Loeb & Loeb LLP said Allen Z. Sussman joined the firm’s Los
Angeles office as a partner in the  capital markets  and corporate
practice groups. He was previously a partner in the corporate
and securities practice at  Reed Smith LLP  in Los Angeles, the
firm said.  Sussman focuses his practice on corporate and securities
transactions and counseling for clients ranging from newly
formed startup teams to mature public companies. He also
represents private-equity investors and activist shareholders in
acquisitions and control contests.  McKenna Long Hires Real Estate and Finance Partner in New York  Justin B. Kleinman joined McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP as a
partner in the real estate and finance practice in the firm’s
New York office. Formerly at Greenberg Traurig LLP, Kleinman’s
practice is focused on acquisitions, dispositions, mortgage and
mezzanine loan financing, joint venture and preferred equity
investments, debt restructuring, workouts and distressed
transactions.  Kleinman has almost a decade of experience representing
privately and publicly held corporations, REITs, private-equity
funds, financial institutions, joint ventures and other
investors and operators in the acquisition, financing,
development and sale of commercial property, the firm said.  Haynes and Boone Hires Orange County Corporate Partner  Haynes and Boone LLP  hired  David Hayes , previously of
Dorsey & Whitney LLP, for its Orange County office. He is a
member of the intellectual-property practice group.  Hayes counsels companies in intellectual-property
transactions, mergers and acquisitions, collaborations, joint
ventures, outsourcing, licensing, distribution and other deal-
related work, the firm said.  Ifrah Law Hires New E-Commerce Co-Chairman Hyland  Ifrah Law PLLC , a Washington-based firm focused on complex
civil and criminal litigation, said Timothy B. Hyland joined the
firm as a member.  He will serve as co-chairman of the e-commerce group, where
he will focus on business and civil litigation. Hyland was
previously of counsel with Stein Sperling.  Hyland has more than 20 years of experience advising
clients on business and civil litigation, representing
technology, commercial real estate, government-contracting and
automotive-industry companies.  Litigation  Bank of Commonwealth Ex-CEO, Officials Charged With Fraud  The former chief executive officer of Virginia’s Bank of
the Commonwealth was among six people indicted for an alleged
fraud conspiracy involving a coverup of the bank’s financial
condition from 2008 to 2011.  Edward Woodard, 69, who ran the bank for more than three
decades, was charged in a 25-count indictment unsealed yesterday
in federal court in Norfolk, Virginia. Three other former bank
executives and two borrowers were also charged.  The executives concealed shortfalls by overdrawing demand-
deposit accounts to make loan payments and extending new loans
or additional principal on existing loans to cover payment
deficiencies, the U.S. charged in the 51-page indictment.  Andrew Sacks, a lawyer for Woodard, said his client will
plead not guilty to the charges, which he called “absolutely
unfounded.”  “Ed Woodard devoted a lifetime to being a professional
banker,” Sacks, of Sacks & Sacks, said in a telephone
interview. “He has an outstanding reputation. It’s incredible
to believe he would commit any type of fraud.”  Woodard is charged with conspiracy to commit bank fraud,
bank fraud, false entry in a bank record, unlawful participation
in a loan, false statements to a financial institution and
misapplication of bank funds. Each charge carries a maximum
penalty of 30 years in prison. Prosecutors are seeking $71
million in criminal forfeiture.  “Bank insiders were unwilling to fully acknowledge the
deterioration in the bank’s loan portfolio,” according to the
indictment. “They were concerned that the bank’s declining
health would negatively impact investor and customer confidence,
and that capital erosion would affect the bank’s ability to
accept and renew brokered deposits.”  From 2008 until it closed in 2011, the Norfolk-based bank
lost almost $115 million. The bank’s failure will cost the U.S.,
through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., more than $260
million, according to the indictment.  The case is U.S. v. Woodard, 12-cr-00105, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 