-- Tinkler Group Bids for Whitehaven Coal as Shares Slide
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-07-15T23:08:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/tinkler-leads-a-5-3-billion-takeover-bid-for-whitehaven-coal-1-.html
(Corrects the names of advisers in 11th paragraph.)  Australian mining magnate  Nathan Tinkler  offered to buy out the rest of  Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC) 
after shares of the company with seven mines in New South Wales
sank since his initial proposal last month.  A Tinkler-led group made a conditional bid of A$5.20 in
cash for each share, Sydney-based Whitehaven said in a July 13
statement. That is 51 percent more than the last closing price,
16 percent higher than the average price of the past three
months and values the company at A$5.3 billion ($5.4 billion).
Tinkler holds 21.3 percent of Whitehaven, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tinkler, 36, an electrician-turned-miner, is taking
advantage of a 17 percent slump in Whitehaven shares since June
13 when the miner rejected Tinkler’s initial offer that didn’t
disclose terms. Increasing demand for coal in  China , India and
 Japan  may boost prices for the commodity used to produce steel
and generate electricity.  “Companies that have good quality assets and good growth
profiles are still very attractive investment propositions,”
said Andrew Driscoll, head of resources research at CLSA Ltd. in
Hong Kong. “The key to this bid is Tinkler securing debt
funding. He knows the assets very well and would have confidence
around the valuation.”  Tinkler’s group may have to spend A$4.2 billion buying the
shares of Whitehaven he doesn’t own.  An independent committee concluded it will allow Tinkler to
conduct four weeks of due diligence to develop the proposal,
Whitehaven said. The indicative offer is subject to Tinkler’s
group securing funding, it said. The bidder has conditional
letters of support from UBS AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Barclays Plc.  Initial Rejection  There were 15 “buy” ratings, one “hold” and one
“sell” out of the 17 analyst recommendations compiled by
Bloomberg. The average price target of analysts for the stock
was A$4.65 before the bid was announced.  Whitehaven’s assets in New South Wales include the coking
coal Maules Creek mine, the thermal coal Rocglen operations, as
well as Sunnyside, Vickery, Werris Creek, and Tarrawonga,
according to its website. The company sold 1.4 million metric
tons in the first quarter, according to a regulatory filing.  There have been $21 billion of mergers and acquisition
deals in the coal industry announced or completed this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The average premium for the
deals was 15 percent.  The latest takeover offer is priced at 3.69 times the
assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with the median of 2.27 times for 10 comparable deals.  Failed Talks  The independent board committee appointed to examine bids
after Tinkler’s initial approach is being advised by Grant
Samuel Corporate Finance and Corrs Chambers Westgarth, according
to the statement.  Whitehaven ended talks for a possible takeover in May last
year after saying purchase proposals failed to reflect the value
of its assets. Final bidders included  India ’s Aditya Birla Group
and Peabody Energy Corp., the Australian Financial Review
reported at the time, without citing anybody.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co., which bought Australian coal
company Felix Resources Ltd. in 2009 for A$3.1 billion in
China’s biggest resources takeover, “looked at” Whitehaven,
Board Secretary Zhang Baocai said in April last year.  ArcelorMittal  Tinkler’s business journey began when he sold his house in
2006 to help buy the A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in
 Australia ’s Queensland state before selling it a year later to
Macarthur Coal Ltd. for about A$465 million in cash and shares.  In May 2008, Tinkler sold his Macarthur stake to
ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker, at a profit of
about A$445 million. He then bought Maules Creek from Rio Tinto
Group for A$480 million in August 2010. Seeking funds to develop
the project, Tinkler listed Aston Resources, containing Maules
Creek, in August 2010, raising A$400 million.  Tinkler and his companies also own coal and metals mining
projects, infrastructure investments, a horse-breeding
operation, and the Newcastle Knights, a rugby league team in the
Australian coal port of Newcastle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  