-- Iranian Charged With Illegal Nuclear Shipments Via China
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-13T22:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/iranian-charged-with-illegal-nuclear-shipments-via-china.html
An Iranian and a Chinese resident
were charged with conspiring to sell uranium and cobalt to  Iran ,
and successfully shipping lathes and alloy wire, using a Chinese
company to evade U.S. export controls.  Parviz Khaki, 43, an Iranian citizen arrested in the
 Philippines  in May, and Zongcheng Yi, who prosecutors called a
“purported” managing director of Monalila Co. in Guangzhou
City, China, allegedly tried to ship a specialty steel, aluminum
alloy rods, mass spectrometers, radioactive chemicals and other
products from the U.S. to Iran in violation of a U.S. embargo.  The men were accused today in a federal indictment in
Washington of using Yi’s company as an intermediary for the
products between October 2008 and January 2011.  Khaki and Yi were charged with conspiring to violate the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act, conspiracy to
defraud the U.S., two counts of smuggling, two counts of
illegally exporting U.S. goods to Iran, and conspiracy to commit
 money laundering . Each faces a maximum of 105 years in prison if
convicted on all counts.  Khaki remains in custody in the Philippines and Yi is still
at large, according to a Justice Department statement. No
attorney was listed in court documents as representing either
man.  “By dismantling this complex conspiracy to deliver
nuclear-related materials from the U.S. to Iran, we have
disrupted a significant threat to national security,” said  John Morton , the director of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.  An undercover federal agent became involved with Khaki and
Yi’s operation in March 2009, according to the indictment. The
agent claimed to have experience exporting products out of the
U.S. illegally.  Khaki allegedly contacted him to help arrange the illegal
exports, prosecutors said.  Today’s indictment follows charges filed in federal court
in  Manhattan  yesterday against another Iranian national accused
of illegally exporting $390,000 worth of industrial parts to
Dubai and sending them on to Iran.  The case is U.S. v. Khaki, 12-cr-00061, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in  New York  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  