-- Iraq Rebuilding Risked Billions in Funds, Auditor Finds
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/iraq-rebuilding-risked-billions-in-funds-auditor-finds.html
The U.S. government’s drive to
rebuild  Iraq  “put billions of American taxpayer dollars at risk
of fraud, waste and abuse,” and the amount misspent will never
be known, according to the final report by a U.S. watchdog
agency.  The report by Special Inspector for Iraq Reconstruction
Stuart Bowen, released today, questioned almost $636 million in
costs through June. Auditors found such lapses as “inadequate
reviews of contractors’ invoices,” a lack of sufficient
oversight staff and poor recordkeeping, according to the report.  The U.S. provided more than $51 billion for reconstruction
projects in war-torn Iraq from fiscal year 2003 to 2011.  The report said U.S. officials failed in “numerous
instances” to thoroughly review contractors’ invoices before
paying them. In one case involving a State Department contract,
the department’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law
Enforcement Affairs had one contracting officer validating
invoices totaling more than $2.5 billion.  “As a result, invoices were not properly reviewed, and the
$2.5 billion in U.S. funds were vulnerable to fraud and abuse,”
the report found. The State Department instituted stronger
oversight of the contract and recovered more than $60 million
that should never have been paid, the report said.  High Turnover  High staff turnover added to the risk of waste and fraud,
the inspection agency said. In one case, the U.S. government
paid a contractor almost $123 million to build electrical
transmission and distribution facilities in southern Iraq, with
14 different contract officers supervising from March 2004 to
September 2006. That is a new contracting supervisor every 65
days, undercutting the effectiveness of oversight, the report
found.  The agency said work by its investigators and those of
other agencies have resulted in 71 convictions and almost $177
million in fines and forfeitures.  Kickbacks were the leading type of criminal activity,
accounting for 71 percent of indictments, according to the
report. The report said one case involved an army major
contracting officer deployed to Afghanistan, Iraq and Kuwait who
accepted Rolex watches, cash and other items valued at more than
$200,000 in exchange for help to foreign companies seeking Army
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  