-- IRS Ends Deals That Let Companies Avoid Repatriation Tax
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-13T18:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/irs-ends-deals-that-let-companies-avoid-repatriation-tax.html
The U.S. Internal Revenue Service
will prevent companies from entering into transactions that
allow them to tap their offshore cash stockpiles without paying
taxes, the government said.  “The IRS and the Treasury Department believe that these
transactions raise significant policy concerns,” the agencies
said in a notice today.  The government plans to write regulations to enforce the
change, and those rules will take effect today.  “This is what they do when they want to close down a
transaction they find objectionable and they don’t know exactly
how they want to do it,” said  Robert Willens , a corporate tax
consultant in New York.  Companies owe U.S. taxes on income they earn around the
world after receiving credits for foreign taxes paid. Under U.S.
tax law, they must pay those taxes only when they repatriate the
income.  That system has led companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to keep foreign profits outside
the U.S. Data compiled by Bloomberg in March showed that 70
companies have $1.2 trillion in untaxed profits around the
world, up 18.4 percent from a year earlier.  Those companies and others lobbied Congress unsuccessfully
in 2011 for a temporary tax holiday on repatriated profits.
Republicans including presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  favor
changing the tax system permanently to allow companies to bring
most overseas profits into this country without facing the
residual U.S. tax.  Two Transactions  The IRS notice describes two types of transactions it is
trying to prevent and says the agency is “aware” that
taxpayers are engaging in them. One involves selling a patent
from a U.S. company to a foreign subsidiary without triggering
an immediate U.S. tax.  In the other type of transaction, a company uses its
offshore money to purchase a U.S. company and quickly
reorganizes to move the purchased company outside the U.S.  Willens said the second transaction is likely the way that
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  used one of
its foreign subsidiaries to purchase Synthes Inc., based in  West
Chester , Pennsylvania.  In a June 12 filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Johnson & Johnson said it believed the Synthes
transactions would be tax-efficient.  ‘Contrary Positions’  “It is possible that the  Internal Revenue Service  could
assert one or more contrary positions to challenge the
transactions from a tax perspective,” the company wrote. “If
challenged, an amount up to the total purchase price for the
Synthes shares could be treated as subject to applicable U.S.
tax at approximately the statutory rate to Johnson & Johnson,
plus interest.”  The IRS announcement, Willens said, makes it impossible for
other companies to follow.  “The hope was that this would be a viable strategy for a
year or two,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  