-- Is JPMorgan Chase Out of Controls?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-07-13T20:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/is-jpmorgan-chase-out-of-controls-.html
Two months ago, after  Jamie Dimon  held an emergency teleconference to fess up
about a big problem with traders at the chief investment office of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , he acknowledged that he had been "dead wrong" to have referred to
press reports in April about the bank's London Whale fiasco as a "tempest in a
teapot." Here's another thing he was dead wrong about. The same day as that conference
call, May 10, Dimon, JPMorgan's CEO, certified in the company's first-quarter
report with regulators that JPMorgan's internal controls were effective as of
March 31. JPMorgan's chief financial officer, Douglas Braunstein, certified the
same. Both said they had disclosed "any change" that occurred during the first
quarter "that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting." They also
said the company's disclosure controls and procedures -- a related category of
internal controls -- were effective. Those statements were incorrect.  It turns out some of the company's traders
had been mismarking their books. The internal-control certifications are a new strike against JPMorgan senior
management's credibility. And what's worrisome about this one is there seems to
be no good excuse for it. By the time Dimon and Braunstein certified in May that the company's  controls 
were effective, the company already had acknowledged that it had given false
first quarter value-at-risk numbers for the chief investment office -- which was
prima facie evidence that its controls had a serious weakness. Dimon and his
executive team should have been on notice by that point that the numbers coming
out of  London  couldn't be trusted -- and that they couldn't possibly have known
everything they needed to know to sign off on them. The timing of JPMorgan's decision to restate its financials for the first
quarter also looks suspect. In its disclosure filing Friday with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, JPMorgan said it had reached the decision to restate on
July 12 -- as if it shouldn’t have been obvious to management before then that
investors no longer should rely on the company's first quarter financial
statements. The company said the restatement would reduce its first quarter net
income by $459 million, or 9 percent, to $4.9 billion. Friday's disclosure
included the statement that "management has determined that a material weakness
existed in the firm's internal control over financial reporting at March 31,
2012." JPMorgan shares were up Friday on the news that the company's London Whale
 losses  aren't as bad as some had feared. But with federal investigations looming
over the company's Libor submissions during the financial crisis, JPMorgan can't
afford to be making a habit of getting disclosures wrong. Investors need to have
confidence that Dimon knows what he's talking about when he  speaks . It was once inconceivable that Dimon might someday wind up like Barclays CEO
 Bob Diamond , who resigned last week after that company's Libor scandal broke
wide open. It's not anymore. ( Jonathan Weil  is a columnist for Bloomberg View.   Follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Josh Barro and other Bloomberg View
columnists and editors at  the Ticker .          