-- Hit Bankers Where It Really Hurts, in Their Bank Accounts
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-13T19:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/hit-bankers-where-it-really-hurts-in-their-bank-accounts.html
If your plumber failed to fix a
leaky faucet, you would probably want your money back. The same
rule should apply to executive pay.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said today that it will recover two
years of compensation paid to the bankers involved in the
trading blunder that lost $5.8 billion so far, damaged the
bank’s brand and tarnished Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon ’s
reputation.  It’s only right that millions of dollars should be clawed
back from the traders and managers directly involved. And
shouldn’t Dimon’s bonuses, which amounted to $43.5 million in
2010 and 2011, be on the line, too?  The bank hopes that, by recovering the traders’
compensation, it can close an embarrassing and costly chapter.
Traders in the chief investment office, attempting to hedge the
bank’s portfolio of loans and other assets, became enmeshed in
huge, high-risk  credit derivatives  that looked more like
speculation than hedging. Dimon at first denied reports that the
positions were taking on water, calling the talk a “tempest in
a teapot.” Weeks later, he admitted he was dead wrong.  The episode exposed weaknesses in the bank’s risk
management and controls, for which Dimon is ultimately
responsible. Shareholders, too, have suffered: The bank’s market
value has shrunk by about  $26 billion  since April 5, when
JPMorgan’s troubled trades were first reported.  Flawed Oversight  The bank’s explanations also revealed flaws in the
oversight of traders, whose positions grew so complex that
managers in the chief investment office couldn’t understand
them.  Reclaiming some of Dimon’s bonuses could be done through
the 2002  Sarbanes-Oxley Act , which gave the Securities and
Exchange Commission the right to claw back pay from executives
when a company has had to restate its financial results. The law
allows recovery of bonuses, including profits from stock sales,
within 12 months of the release of financial information, but
only if there was a restatement because the company cooked the
books or was involved in misconduct -- even if the executives
themselves weren’t accused of wrongdoing. Since JPMorgan today
said it would restate first-quarter results, the SEC could sue
Dimon to recover compensation paid out over the next year.  The faster and easier route would be for JPMorgan’s  board 
to invoke its own bylaws, which since 2010 have allowed
clawbacks if an executive’s conduct results in large losses or
harms the bank’s reputation. It seems reasonable to say that
Dimon’s failure to make sure his managers were doing their jobs
fits the bill.  Clawbacks are rarely exercised. Perhaps they should be used
more often. They seem to be one of the few meaningful forms of
punishment and deterrence that we have.  With so much of the culture of  Wall Street  revolving around
the size of bonuses, which in turn drives much of the misconduct
that has resulted in investor, consumer and taxpayer losses, the
best way to change behavior is to go after bonuses. JPMorgan
again provides the illustration: It was forced to restate first-
quarter earnings after concluding that its now-dismissed traders
misstated positions in an effort to hide losses -- and protect
bonuses -- on their giant derivatives bets.  Board compensation committees could take the lead by making
it clear that when performance goals are missed, or when results
turn out to have been overstated years later, bonuses must be
returned. Boards should require executives to agree to give back
some of their compensation as long as three years later if the
numbers upon which pay was calculated turn out to be incorrect,
whether because of a trading blooper or improper accounting.
Some companies such as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  Fannie Mae  and
UBS AG already have such clauses; it should be standard
operating procedure everywhere.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how bad the  Libor scandal 
could get and on  Hillary Clinton ’s  visit to Egypt ;  Jonathan
Alter  on Republicans’  stop-the-vote plan  in  Pennsylvania ;
Stephen L. Carter on our  national Lincoln obsession ; William
Pesek on  North Korea ’s  opening to the West ;  Jonathan Weil  on the
 Barclays Libor scandal ; John H. Cochrane on  fixing health care ;
Frederic Block on how he  sentences federal criminals.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 