-- Italy Borrowing Costs Fall at Debt Sale After Downgrade
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-07-13T11:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/italy-borrowing-costs-fall-at-debt-sale-after-downgrade.html
Italian borrowing costs fell at an
auction hours after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the
country’s bond rating by two levels, citing the worsening
political and economic outlook.  Italy  sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of three-year
bonds, matching a maximum target, and later sold 1.75 billion
euros of three longer-dated securities. The Rome-based Treasury
sold the 2015 bond at 4.65 percent, down from the 5.3 percent on
a similar-maturity bond sold on June 14. Investors bid for 1.73
times the amount offered, up from 1.59 times last month.  “The cut to Italy’s credit rating had been more or less
priced in,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro
Sovereign Strategy, a London-based firm specializing in
sovereign-credit risk, said in a note. “Domestic banks continue
to hold the fort at Italian auctions. The concession, however,
is still hefty and reflects the increasing risks in Italy.”  Moody’s earlier lowered Italy’s rating to Baa2 from A3 and
said further cuts are possible because the nation’s economic
outlook has “deteriorated,” according to a statement. The new
rating is two levels above junk and one grade higher than  Spain ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond rose 8 basis points at 1
p.m. in  Rome  to 5.99 percent. That left the difference with
comparable German debt at 475.7 basis points.  The Treasury also sold 600 million euros of a 5 percent
2022 bond at 5.82 percent, 384 million euros of a 4.75 percent
2023 bond at 5.89 percent and 766 million euros of a 4.25
percent 2019 bond to yield 5.58 percent.  Contagion Risks  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  has complained that
concerns over Spain’s banks, which are being bailed out by the
European Union, have spilled over into Italy, pushing up
borrowing costs. Monti has lobbied EU leaders to give the euro
bailout fund more leeway to buy the bonds of countries meeting
their fiscal commitments.  In order to shield the euro area’s third- and fourth-
largest economies from the resurgent debt crisis, finance
ministers worked out a way for the fund to intervene in bond
markets and said the first 30 billion euros of as much as 100
billion euros in rescue loans will start flowing to Spanish
banks this month.  ‘Right Direction’  “While contagion risks remain on the table, we think that
the latest decisions undertaken at the European level and also
by Spanish and Greek governments go, if anything, in the right
direction of giving more stability to the euro area as a
whole,” economists at  Barclays Capital  including Fabio Fois
wrote in a note before the auction.  Italian leaders said today that the downgrade doesn’t
reflect economic and fiscal fundamentals. Italy is “stronger”
than what the ratings company says, Giorgio Squinzi, head of the
country’s main employers lobby Confindustria, told reporters in
Rome.  Economic Development Minister  Corrado Passera , also
speaking in Rome, said the downgrade was “completely
unjustified.” Markets “will give us this recognition over time
because the government’s work will continue as strong as
before.”  Recession-hit Italy will record a structural  budget
surplus , net of the economic cycle’s effects and one-time
measures, of 0.5 percent of GDP in 2013, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a July 10 report. Still, with debt set to
rise to 125.8 percent of GDP this year before peaking at 126.4
next year, Italy is struggling to shake off the risk of
contagion.  Structural Reforms  “The current government’s strong commitment to structural
reforms and fiscal consolidation has moderated the downward
pressure on Italy’s government bond rating,” Moody’s said.
“Moody’s recognizes that the government has proposed, and is
legislating, a reform program that has the potential to
materially improve Italy’s longer-term growth and fiscal
prospects.”  Moody’s said that its negative outlook reflects the “view
that the risks to implementing” reforms aimed at reviving the
economy and containing debt “remain substantial.”  It added
that “the political climate, particularly as the spring 2013
elections draw near, is also a source of implementation risk.”  Monti said July 10 that he won’t serve in another
government when his term ends next year. The premier made the
comments after speculation in the Italian press about the
possibility that he would be asked to remain in office after
elections due in April.  Rivals in Parliament  The nation’s two main political parties, which have
suspended their rivalry to jointly support Monti’s policies, may
not be able to win a governing majority in parliament on their
own, polls indicate.  Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , 75, will probably
lead his People of Liberty party into the next elections due by
April 2013, the party’s Secretary General Angelino Alfano said
July 11. Berlusconi resigned in November at a time when Italy’s
10-year bond yield topped 7 percent and turned the government
over to Monti.  The news that Berlusconi may seek premiership next year
“will not be received well by the markets,” Spiro said. “The
risk is that investors start to fret about a more unstable and
populist post-Monti political landscape.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  