-- Italy Readies $6.1 Billion Bond Sale After Rating Cut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-13T07:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/italy-s-bond-rating-cut-by-moody-s-on-contagion-funding-risks.html
Italy ’s bond rating was cut two 
levels by Moody’s Investors Service hours before a sale of more
than 5 billion euros ($6.1 billion) of debt as the financial
crisis threatens to cut off market funding to the euro area’s
third-biggest economy.  The ratings company lowered Italy’s government bond rating
to Baa2 from A3 and said further downgrading is possible,
according to a statement released in  Frankfurt  today. That’s two
levels above junk and one above Spain, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Italy’s near-term economic outlook has deteriorated, as
manifest in both weaker growth and higher unemployment, which
creates risk of failure to meet fiscal consolidation targets,”
Moody’s said. “Failure to meet fiscal targets in turn could
weaken market confidence further, raising the risk of a sudden
stop in market funding.”  While Italy is on track to bring its  budget deficit  within
the European Union limit this year, its 10-year bond yield has
risen above 6 percent in recent weeks after Spain sought a
bailout, fueling concern that Italy might be next. Italy had
enjoyed a respite from the crisis after Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s government took office in November and passed 20 billion
euros in austerity measures and overhauled the country’s pension
system.  Currency Falls  Italian 10-year bonds slumped in early trading, sending the
yield up 12 basis points to 6.03 percent at 9:05 a.m. in  Rome .
Spanish 10-year yields rose 11 basis points to 6.74 percent, and
the euro hovered near a two-year low of $1.2193.  Italy will auction as much as 5.25 billion euros  of
securities with results due shortly after 11 a.m. local time.  Italy is  Europe ’s largest bond market and has 1.64 trillion
euros of bonds outstanding, according to the website of the
nation’s debt agency. That’s the most in Europe.  Moody’s also cited “increasingly fragile market
confidence, contagion risk emanating from Greece and  Spain  and
signs of an eroding non-domestic investor base.” The rating
“could be downgraded further in the event there is additional
material deterioration in the country’s economic prospects or
difficulties in implementing reform,” it said.  Investors are paying less attention to the views of ratings
companies and relying more on their own analysis. After Moody’s
downgraded the biggest Nordic banks in May, bond and share
prices rose. Italian and Spanish borrowing costs plunged to the
lowest in at least 11 months earlier this year as investors
ignored Moody’s downgrades.  Debt Load  Italy, bearer of the euro’s second-biggest debt load
relative to gross domestic product, yesterday sold 7.5 billion
euros of Treasury bills. Today’s auction includes securities due
between 2015 and 2023.  “The current government’s strong commitment to structural
reforms and fiscal consolidation has moderated the downward
pressure on Italy’s government bond rating,” Moody’s said.
“Moody’s recognizes that the government has proposed, and is
legislating, a reform program that has the potential to
materially improve Italy’s longer-term growth and fiscal
prospects.”  Italy will record a structural  budget surplus , net of the
economic cycle’s effects and one-time measures, of 0.5 percent
of GDP in 2013, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a July
10 report. Still, with debt set to rise to 125.8 percent of GDP
this year before peaking at 126.4 next year, Italy is struggling
to shake off the risk of contagion.  Longer Contraction  The nation, whose growth has trailed the euro region
average for more than a decade, “is expected to continue
contracting through the year owing to tight financial
conditions, the global slowdown and the needed fiscal
consolidation,” the IMF said in the report, confirming its
previous forecast of a 1.9 percent contraction this year and 0.3
percent in 2013.  Monti has been lobbying European partners to agree on a
plan to give the region’s permanent bailout fund, or ESM, more
leeway to buy the bonds of countries meeting their fiscal goals,
such as Italy and Spain, in order to lower their borrowing
costs.  Moody’s said that “the sovereign’s current Baa2 rating is
supported by significant credit strengths relative to other
euro-area peripheral economies.”  Unemployment Rate  Italy’s  unemployment rate  exceeded 10 percent for a third
straight month in May and retail sales in April dropped 6.8
percent from a year earlier, the biggest decline since at least
January 2001, recent government reports have shown.  Italy’s long-term debt is rated A- by  Fitch Ratings  and
BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Should Fitch cut Italy’s rating, it may trigger massive
selling of the nation’s bonds by investors, including
conservative Japanese pension funds and overseas money managers
that have to sell based on credit ratings,” said Shinji Kunibe,
chief portfolio manager for fixed-income investment in Tokyo at
Nissay Asset Management Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  