-- Liverpool Agrees $18.5 Million Fee for Roma’s Borini: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-13T06:48:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/liverpool-agrees-18-5-million-fee-for-roma-s-borini-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Borini Fee  Liverpool agreed a fee of 12 million pounds ($18.5 million)
with Roma for striker Fabio Borini, who would become  Brendan Rodgers ’s first signing as manager, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Rodgers knows the 21-year-old Italian well, having first
coached Borini in Chelsea’s youth team and then taking him on
loan at Swansea, the Mirror added.  Bellamy Move  Liverpool’s  Craig Bellamy  is poised to reject a return to
hometown club Cardiff City for a shock move Queens Park Rangers,
the  Sun reported .  QPR manager  Mark Hughes , for whom the striker played at
Manchester City and for  Wales , wants to tie up a deal that would
involve a nominal fee within a week, the paper added.  Teenage Playmaker  Manchester United  is closing in on signing Sao Paulo’s 19-
year-old playmaker Lucas Moura for 25 million pounds, the  Daily
Mail reported .  United’s chief scout Jim Lawlor flew to Brazil two days ago
as the club tries to secure Moura’s signature before he plays
for Brazil in a pre-Olympic Games exhibition match next week,
the Mail said. United may include Brazil midfielder Anderson as
part of the package, the paper added.  ‘Great Challenges’  Manchester United will offer  Darren Fletcher  a non-playing
role at the club if the Scottish midfielder fails to recover
from a chronic bowel condition that has sidelined him since
November, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  “Obviously he has got great challenges ahead and we are
happy to be patient with him but he won’t be starting the
season,” the newspaper cited United manager  Alex Ferguson  as
saying. “If it doesn’t work for him he knows he has a position
in the club anyway.”  Tottenham Target  Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas wants to sign Atletico
Madrid striker Adrian Lopez, who has a 16 million-pound release
clause in his contract, the  Mirror reported .  The arrival of Lopez, who scored 15 goals last season,
would put Jermain Defoe’s future at Spurs in doubt, with Reading
keen to sign the England striker, the newspaper added.  Toure to Turkey?  Manchester City  defender Kolo Toure is wanted by Turkish
club Bursaspor, which has tabled a bid of about 6 million pounds
for a player whom City paid 16 million pounds in 2009, the
 Mirror reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  