-- Japan Set to Load First Iran Crude With Sovereign Insurance
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-07-13T05:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/japan-set-to-load-first-iran-crude-with-sovereign-insurance-1-.html
Japan  will load its first Iranian
crude cargo backed by sovereign guarantees since sanctions
disrupted coverage in the international reinsurance market.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp. (5020)  and  Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019)  will
load about 1.7 million barrels of Iranian crude on the very
large crude carrier Ryuho Maru on about July 20 at Kharg Island,
the country’s biggest oil-export terminal, according to three
officials from the refiners and Japan’s trade ministry. The
tanker, owned by  Iino Kaiun Kaisha Ltd. (9119) , will be backed by the
Japanese state, they said, asking not to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Japan’s Iranian crude imports will fall in July because
refiners were unsure whether the sovereign insurance would be
available when they planned July-loading schedules last month,
the officials said. Japan’s parliament passed a bill on June 20
to provide $7.6 billion of guarantees to tanker owners that
carry Iranian oil. European Union sanctions, introduced as an
attempt to persuade  Iran  to halt its nuclear program, took
effect July 1.  The program gives ship owners sovereign guarantees to
replace reinsurance that Japan’s P&I club previously obtained
under a claims-sharing agreement with the London-based
 International Group  of P&I Clubs, according to a statement from
the transport ministry. The coverage protects against third-
party liability and environmental accidents.  Japan’s  Iranian crude imports  dropped 51 percent from a
year earlier to 632,189 kiloliters in May, or 128,253 barrels a
day, according to data compiled by the Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  