-- JPMorgan’s $4.4 Billion CIO Loss Drives Profit Down 9%
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-13T11:44:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/jpmorgan-s-4-4-billion-cio-loss-drives-profit-down-9-percent.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
 U.S. bank , reported a $4.4 billion trading loss in its chief
investment office, bigger than analysts estimated, that helped
drive second-quarter profit down 9 percent.  Net income  fell to $4.96 billion, or $1.21 a share, from
$5.43 billion, or $1.27, in the same period a year earlier, the
New York-based company said today in a statement. Six analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg estimated the CIO trading loss at $4
billion. The company also restated first-quarter earnings,
reducing net income by $459 million, and used securities gains
and an $800 million accounting benefit to help boost profit.  The trading loss may complicate efforts by Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, to restore investor confidence after
losing $39.7 billion in market value since April 5, when
Bloomberg News first reported that the company had amassed an
illiquid book of credit derivatives at the London unit. The firm
also is being probed over the possible gaming of U.S. energy
markets and was subpoenaed in global investigations of interest-
rate fixing in London.  “The restatement is not good, and at first glance, the
numbers are so-so,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank and analyst at FBR Capital
Markets Corp. in Arlington, Virginia.  JPMorgan rose to $34.79 in  New York  trading at 7:36 a.m.
from $34.04 yesterday. The shares were down 2.4 percent this
year through yesterday.  Analysts’ Estimates  Second-quarter net income excluding the effect of
accounting adjustments known as DVA was $1.09 a share. Excluding
DVA, loan-loss reserve reductions and a Bear Stearns-related
recovery, profit was 67 cents. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
had estimated adjusted earnings per share of 76 cents.  In a departure from his customary earnings-day conference
call, Dimon is meeting analysts in person for two hours starting
at 7:30 a.m. today at the bank’s New York headquarters to field
questions about the loss and what he’s doing to contain the
damage.  Dimon dismissed reports about the  London  operation as a
“tempest in a teapot” when the bank reported first-quarter
earnings on April 13. He reversed course less than four weeks
later, disclosing a $2 billion loss that he said could grow to
$3 billion or more during the quarter.  Securities Sales  JPMorgan said May 10 that it had taken $1 billion in
profits from securities sales in the CIO to mitigate the trading
loss and planned more asset sales if needed to offset the
damages, which was caused by a wrong-way bet on credit
derivatives by London trader Bruno Iksil. Dimon hired Iksil’s
boss, London CIO chief Achilles Macris, in 2006 with a mandate
to generate profits. Macris and Iksil eventually built up a
position in  credit derivatives  that was so large it couldn’t be
unwound without roiling markets.  JPMorgan said today that it recently discovered information
that suggests some individuals at the company may have been
trying to avoid showing the full amount of the losses. All
employees working on synthetic credit derivatives in the CIO
have left the bank, the company said today.  “We have already completely overhauled CIO management and
enhanced the governance standards within CIO,” Dimon said in the
statement. “We believe these events to be isolated to CIO, but
have taken the opportunity to apply lessons learned across the
firm.”  The company said the CIO loss may increase by $800 million
to as much as $1.6 billion in an extreme scenario.  Ina Drew  Chief Investment Officer Ina Drew, 55, retired four days
after the loss was disclosed with about $57.5 million in stock,
pension and other pay, according to regulatory filings and
estimates from consulting firm Meridian Compensation Partners
LLC. About $21.5 million of that money, based on the May 14
closing price, would have been automatically forfeited if she
had been fired for cause.  JPMorgan said today it will claw back compensation from
individuals responsible for the losses on a case-by-case basis.  Dimon is also grappling with historically low interest
rates that have compressed profit margins on lending as well as
yields on investments. Moshe Orenbuch, of Credit Suisse Group
AG, was among analysts who lowered earnings projections for
banks amid weak trading revenue and market turmoil caused by
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Corporate bond issuance dropped almost 19 percent in the
second quarter from $927 billion a year earlier as companies
backed away from plans to raise capital.  Europe Damper  “Europe continues to put a damper on just about
everything,” said  Nancy Bush , an analyst and contributing
editor at SNL Financial LC, a research firm based in
Charlottesville, Virginia.  Consumer credit is one bright spot for the industry as
delinquency rates decline. Fewer borrowers fell behind on their
credit-card payments in May,  2.35 percent , from 3.09 percent a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Government programs and mortgage rates near record lows have
also helped fuel higher volume and bigger profits on home loans.  JPMorgan set aside $335 million more toward its litigation
costs during the second quarter. Dimon previously told
shareholders that the company would be making as much as $24
billion in annual profit if it weren’t for all of its mortgage
losses.  Revenue fell 16 percent to $22.9 billion from $27.4 billion
during the second quarter of last year. Revenue at the
investment-banking unit fell 7 percent to $6.77 billion from
$7.31 billion last year.  Fixed Income  Fixed-income and equity-markets revenue excluding
accounting adjustments dropped to $4.54 billion from $5.36
billion a year earlier, the company said.  U.S. banks are in the middle of the industry’s worst two
years of revenue growth since the Great Depression, according to
Mike Mayo, an analyst with independent research firm CLSA Ltd.
in New York.  Retail banking, which includes home loans and checking
accounts, earned $2.27 billion, up from $383 million a year
earlier. The bank’s net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, declined to 2.47 percent from 2.72 percent a year
earlier.  JPMorgan benefited from gains in mortgage lending as low
 interest rates  and federal incentive programs encouraged
homeowners to refinance. Mortgage fees and related revenue
totaled $2.27 billion, up from $1.1 billion a year earlier.  Unemployment Rate  Demand for loans rose as the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2
percent from 9.1 percent in the same period of 2011. Mortgage
originations industrywide probably climbed 28 percent to $372
billion in the second quarter from the same period last year,
driven by refinancings spurred by federal programs, according to
the  Mortgage Bankers Association .  Fewer consumers fell behind on their credit-card payments
in the second quarter compared with the same period in 2011.
Loans at least 30 days overdue, a signal of future write-offs,
fell to 2.14 percent from 2.98 percent in 2011. Write-offs
dropped to 4.35 percent from 5.82 percent the prior year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  