-- JPMorgan May Distance Trades From Bank With Intent Claim
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-16T01:05:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/jpmorgan-claim-of-possible-trader-intent-may-help-bank.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s claim that it
found possible employee intent to misprice trades in a unit that
lost $5.8 billion may put distance between management and any
wrongdoers while providing a road map for U.S. investigators.  “E-mails, voice tapes and other documents, supplemented by
interviews” were “suggestive of trader intent not to mark
positions where they believed they could execute,” the bank
said in a  presentation  July 13 as it reported net income fell
9 percent to $4.96 billion. “Traders may have been seeking to
avoid showing full amount of losses,” the bank said, noting
management had concerns about the integrity of the prices used.
The bank didn’t provide evidence to support the allegations.  The  U.S. Department of Justice  and the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in  New York  in May began a probe of the bank’s
trading losses, a person familiar with the matter said. The
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, which regulates derivatives trading, are
also examining New York-based JPMorgan’s trading activities,
according to people familiar with those probes.  The largest  U.S. bank  by assets restated first-quarter
results to reduce net income by $459 million after a review of
the prices used in the unit. Yet multibillion-dollar losses and
an  internal report  by the bank are just the beginning of any
federal case, said Sam Buell, a former U.S. prosecutor in New
York who worked on the Enron Corp. Task Force and is now a
professor at  Duke University School of Law .  ‘Prosecute Someone’  “You can’t just say, ‘hey, this is bad, there are billions
of dollars in losses, let’s prosecute someone,”’ Buell said.
Eight weeks after Enron collapsed, the company’s board of
directors produced a report about what transpired at the energy
trader. Prosecutors, however, weren’t able to bring charges for
two more years, he said.  JPMorgan’s statement “suggests they are trying to isolate
this as a problem that occurred below the management level,”
Buell said. Any attempt to reach beyond traders to management
would be difficult for prosecutors, he said.  “In U.S. criminal law, we very rarely do hold people
criminally responsible for failure to supervise,” he said.
“You need to show not only outright knowledge but also willful
blindness -- having a strong suspicion that there is wrongdoing
and then taking steps to avoid it.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , and  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New
York office, declined to comment on JPMorgan’s statements.  Suggesting Traders  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, declined
to comment on whether the bank was suggesting traders had broken
the law. JPMorgan didn’t name any employees involved in the
potential mismarking of positions.  The discrepancy between prices used by the chief investment
office and JPMorgan’s credit-swaps dealer, the biggest in the
U.S., was first reported May 30. The trades in question, made by
a Chief Investment Office group that included Bruno Iksil,
nicknamed the London Whale because his positions grew so large,
were on so-called tranches of credit-swap indexes, people
familiar with the matter said at the time. All declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Tranches allow investors to wager on varying degrees of
risk among a pool of companies. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. Because JPMorgan had amassed such
large positions, even a small change in how the prices were
marked may have generated a big difference in the value of the
trades, one of the people said.  External Groups  Banks use internal or external groups to independently
verify that prices used by traders to value their investments
are accurate, and firms typically use one price for an asset
that may be traded in different parts of the bank, according to
Brad Hintz, a brokerage firm analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York who is the former chief financial officer of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  JPMorgan shut down synthetic trading in its CIO unit with
the exception of an $11 billion short position in “basically
liquid indexes” to hedge other credit assets, Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said last week. Positions in Series 9 of the
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a credit-swaps
benchmark known as IG9 that’s at the heart of much of the loss,
were cut by 70 percent, Dimon said.  The residual portfolio, largely in so-called tranches of
indexes that wager on the degree to which companies will default
together, was transferred to the investment bank, where they
have “the expertise” to manage it, Dimon said.  The bank transferred about $30 billion of risk-weighted
assets to the investment bank, an amount that is “down
substantially” from the peak and back to levels at the end of
2011, he said.  Voice Recordings  The e-mails and voice recordings that JPMorgan claims to
have would be particularly important to proving  securities fraud ,
said  Peter Henning , a professor at  Wayne State University Law
School  in  Detroit  and a former enforcement attorney for the SEC
between 1987 and 1991.  “That’s all very helpful to prosecutors,” he said. “It’s
what the person had in their mind at the time. Their own words
are the best way” to show intent, he said.  Henning agreed with Buell that JPMorgan is seeking to
distance itself from the traders in the unit.  “This seems to point the finger at individuals in the bank
who misled the bank,” he said.  JPMorgan restated in a regulatory filing its first-quarter
net income to $4.92 billion, rather than the $5.38 billion
previously reported. The CIO was responsible for trading losses
that the bank estimated at $2 billion in May.  Restatement  “Restatement is significant, too, because it says what we
did is wrong because it’s no longer defensible, here’s what went
wrong. We were lied to,” Henning said. “That was a way of
mitigating Dimon’s comment about a ‘tempest in a teapot.’ It
really was a tempest.”  Dimon dismissed initial reports about the loss as a
“tempest in a teapot” when the bank reported first-quarter
earnings on April 13. He reversed course less than four weeks
later, disclosing a $2 billion loss that he said could grow to
$3 billion or more during the quarter.  The release of the details last week may also be a way for
JPMorgan to dissuade employees from fighting the bank as it
seeks to take back salary and bonus payments to the traders and
executives in the CIO unit, Henning said.  CIO Unit  Ina Drew, the former head of the unit, will forfeit her pay
and other managers were ousted following the bank’s internal
inquiry. The bank accepted Drew’s offer to return about two
years of compensation, the maximum clawback allowable under
employment terms, said  Joe Evangelisti , a company spokesman.
Drew didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Other London-based managers of the CIO’s synthetic-credit
bets left without severance and will be required to forfeit as
much as two years of pay, including restricted stock and options,
the bank said in a presentation.  “JPMorgan is sending a message,” Henning said. “You have
much bigger issues to face than a clawback suit. The employees
will certainly be looked at by the SEC and DOJ.”  John Moscow, a former prosecutor in the office of Manhattan
District Attorney Robert Morgenthau, said the statement by the
bank about “intent” was unusual.  “They are tripping over themselves to suggest the
possibility the conduct may have been criminal,” Moscow, now
with Baker Hostetler LLP in New York, said. “This is quite
strong for a corporation that is not formally accusing its
people of crimes.”  Federal Investigation  As for the speed of the federal investigation, it’s too
soon to know how prosecutors will proceed, said Daniel Richman,
a former U.S. prosecutor in New York who now teaches at  Columbia
Law School .  “Here you have an interested party making a not-so-veiled
allegation of improper behavior by subordinates. It serves the
bank’s interest to identify them as rogues,” he said. “While
they in fact may be rogues, the most important thing for the
government has to be sort out what’s in this report and the
bank’s statements and determine for themselves what the facts
were and what inferences of criminal intent can be made.”  To bring a criminal case, “the burden is heavy,” Richman
said, and requires evidence someone knowingly and willfully
intended to break the law.  “What is required is to look into the mind of the person
who is being charged,” Richman said. “The fact that mistakes
were made is certainly nowhere near enough for a crime or even
civil fraud.”  Internal Probe  Prosecutors can use a bank’s internal investigation as a
tentative road-map, he said, but they will want to hear the
traders’ side of the story if at all possible. And the
government may also have to get access to people and information
that the banks don’t have at this point, said Richman.  “There’s no way to make this happen fast,” said Buell.
“Just because there is a report there is still a criminal
investigation that must be done,” he said. “There’s this
mosaic; it’s not a smoking gun. You can’t put all the pieces
together until you gather up all the millions of pieces.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at   mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 