-- JPMorgan’s Botched Trades May Generate $7.5 Billion Loss
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-13T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/jpmorgan-s-botched-trades-may-generate-7-5-billion-loss.html
Botched trades by a  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  unit that  Jamie Dimon  had pushed to boost profit were masked
by weak internal controls and may ultimately saddle the bank
with a $7.5 billion loss.  JPMorgan’s chief investment office has lost $5.8 billion on
the trades so far, and that figure may climb by $1.7 billion in
a worst-case scenario, Dimon, the bank’s chairman and chief
executive officer, said yesterday.  Net income  fell 9 percent to
$4.96 billion in the second quarter, the bank said. It restated
first-quarter results to reduce profit by $459 million after a
review of the unit found employees may have hid souring bets.  Dimon, 56, had brushed off concerns raised by some of his
most senior advisers, including heads of JPMorgan’s investment
bank, about the lack of transparency and the quality of internal
controls in the CIO in past years, Bloomberg News reported last
month, citing a person with direct knowledge of the matter.
Capping the potential loss’s size and revamping management of
the unit responsible may help him restore investor confidence.  The stock jumped 6 percent yesterday as shareholders
expressed “relief that it wasn’t worse,”  Gary Townsend , head
of Hill-Townsend Capital LLC, said of the loss. “The loss is
substantially better than many of the estimates that I was
hearing.”  Still, the shares are down 19 percent since April 5, when
Bloomberg News reported that the CIO had amassed an illiquid
book of credit derivatives. The slump equates to a $32 billion
drop in the firm’s market value.  London Whale  The mounting losses have focused regulators’ and investors’
attention on the CIO. Dimon transformed the once-conservative
unit in recent years to boost profit by buying higher-yielding
assets such as structured credit, equities and derivatives,
Bloomberg News reported on April 13, citing former employees.  One trader, Bruno Iksil, amassed positions in  credit
derivatives  so big and market-moving he became known as the
London Whale. Bets on credit-default swaps known as the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Series 9 backfired this year.  Dimon dismissed reports about the London operation as a
“tempest in a teapot” when the bank reported first-quarter
earnings April 13. He reversed course less than four weeks
later, disclosing a $2 billion loss that he said could grow to
$3 billion or more during the quarter.  Managers Ousted  The bank said yesterday it ousted managers responsible for
the transactions and will claw back their pay after an internal
inquiry found traders may have intentionally tried to hide
souring bets during the first quarter. The company didn’t name
the managers. Iksil’s boss Javier Martin-Artajo and former
 Europe  CIO head Achilles Macris were among executives who also
oversaw the trades.  JPMorgan accepted an offer by Ina Drew, the former head of
the CIO, to return as much as two years of her compensation,
according to  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for the bank. She
was awarded about $29 million compensation for 2010 and 2011,
according to JPMorgan’s regulatory filings.  The 55-year-old retired May 14 with about $57.5 million in
stock, pension and other pay, according to regulatory filings
and estimates from consulting firm Meridian Compensation
Partners LLC. About $21.5 million of that, based on the stock’s
May 14 closing price, would have been forfeited automatically if
she had been fired for cause.  Maximum Clawback  “I have enormous respect for Ina as a person and a
professional,” Dimon said yesterday at a meeting with analysts.
Irvin Goldman, who oversaw risks in the unit from February
through mid-May, said yesterday he also resigned voluntarily.  Thomas Brown , chief executive officer of Second Curve
Capital LLC, said he was surprised by how much the company
pursued in clawbacks.  “Four people gave back two years’ worth of income, which
surprised me on the high side,” said Brown, a Bloomberg
contributing editor, in an interview with  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg
Television. “That’s the maximum clawback provision. I think
it’s impressive on one hand; it’s certainly more severe than I
would have expected.”  The share gains may not last, according to  Paul Miller , a
former examiner for the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank and an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp. in Arlington, Virginia.  “Over time, it will still drift down,” Miller said in an
interview. “There’s a lot of unanswered questions with this
CIO.”  Dimon is also grappling with historically low  interest
rates  that have compressed profit margins on lending as well as
yields on investments. Moshe Orenbuch, of Credit Suisse Group
AG, was among analysts who lowered earnings projections for
banks amid weak trading revenue and market turmoil caused by
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Internal Review  Second-quarter net income excluding the effect of
accounting adjustments known as DVA was $1.09 a share. Without
DVA, loan-loss reserve reductions and a recovery related to Bear
Stearns Cos., profit was 67 cents. Analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg had estimated adjusted earnings per share of 76 cents.  The company decided to restate first-quarter figures after
executives and lawyers interviewed employees, reviewed tens of
thousands of hours of tapes and searched about 1 million e-
mails,  Michael Cavanagh , JPMorgan’s head of Treasury &
Securities Services, told reporters on a conference call.  “We just have questions about whether the traders were
doing what they need to do for accounting, which is put a mark
on their positions where they think they can exit,” Cavanagh
said. “Instead it felt more like they were pricing their marks
a little bit more aggressively, but generally inside the bid-ask
spread.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  