-- JPMorgan Swaps Fall as Bank Shifts Losing Credit-Index Trades
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-13T21:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/jpmorgan-swaps-fall-as-bank-shifts-losing-credit-index-trades.html
A gauge of risk for investors in
JPMorgan Chase & Co. debt fell to the lowest in two months as
the biggest  U.S. bank  said it shut down a  credit-derivatives 
group that caused $5.8 billion in trading losses.  Five-year credit-default swaps on JPMorgan fell 6.4 basis
points to a mid-price of 122.4 basis points as of 4:54 p.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s about the lowest since May
10, the day JPMorgan first disclosed a loss from credit
derivatives traded in its chief investment office in  London .  JPMorgan said today it shifted almost all of its credit
derivatives trades in the CIO unit to its investment bank after
a botched hedging strategy. The bank also shut down the trading
group, which had amassed positions that had a pretax loss of
$4.4 billion in the second quarter, according to a statement.
Second-quarter profit dropped 9 percent to $4.96 billion as the
loss spoiled what Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  called
“really good underlying performance” in other businesses.  “Credit investors are taking comfort that the trade issues
are moving to the rear-view mirror,”  Joel Levington , managing
director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc. in New York, wrote in an e-mail. “Core earnings were
solid. What’s left is a well-capitalized bank that can earn $20
billion annually.”  ‘Reasonable’ Outcome  The credit-derivatives losses offset gains in mortgage fees
and retail banking revenue. Earnings for the quarter ended June
30 were also boosted by $1 billion in securities gains, $2.1
billion in reserve releases and an $800 million accounting gain
on the cost of the bank’s debt.  The loss “is within the market’s scope of reasonable
outcomes,”  Adrian Miller , director of global markets strategy
at GMP Securities LLC in New York, wrote in an e-mail. “Jamie
has seemingly succeeded at mostly righting the ship after an
initial black eye.”  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said the trading loss was “not that
significant” and hadn’t swayed his opinion of JPMorgan’s
reputation.  “I’ve had enough mistakes of my own that I’m very
forgiving when something like that happens,” Buffett said today
on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty Liu ” in an
interview from the Allen & Co. media conference in  Sun Valley ,
Idaho.  CDX Index  A benchmark credit-default swaps gauge in the U.S.
declined, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index falling 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 111.9 basis
points at 5 p.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices show.  The measure decreased even as a report showed U.S.  consumer
confidence  unexpectedly dropped in July to the lowest level this
year. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of
consumer sentiment fell to 72 from a reading of 73.2 in June.
The decline missed estimates that had called for a rise to 73.5,
according to the median forecast of 69 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  The credit-swaps index, used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, typically
falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  