-- JPMorgan Says E-Mails Sought in Energy Probe Involve Lawyers
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-13T21:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/jpmorgan-says-e-mails-sought-in-energy-probe-involve-lawyers-1-.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said e-mails
sought by U.S. regulators in a probe of potential energy-market
manipulation are communications involving the advice of its
attorneys and shouldn’t be turned over.  JPMorgan, in a filing today in federal court in  Washington ,
said the 25 e-mails were sent after the U.S.  Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission  opened its investigation and after the
bank hired outside counsel to respond to the probe.  “Each of the e-mails relates to the advice of counsel with
respect to the investigation -- not the adoption of the bidding
practices under investigation,” Michele Roberts, a lawyer for
JPMorgan, wrote in the filing. “The only possible use the
commission could make of the e-mails would be to peer into the
details of respondent’s legal strategy.”  The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission sued JPMorgan
on July 2 to release the e-mails in an investigation of possible
manipulation of power markets in  California  and the Midwest by
J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp. U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly gave JPMorgan until today to explain why the
e-mails shouldn’t be turned over to investigators.  New York-based JPMorgan submitted copies of the e-mails to
the court today so they can be examined by a judge, according to
the filing.  FERC opened the probe in August after complaints from
California and Midwest grid operators that JPMorgan’s bidding
practices were abusive, according to the agency’s initial court
filing.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, and Mary O’Driscoll, a FERC spokeswoman, declined to comment on today’s
filing.  The case is Federal Energy Regulatory Commission v. J.P.
Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., 12-mc-352, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 