-- JPMorgan Moves Whale’s Trades to Investment Bank as Loss Grows
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-13T14:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/jpmorgan-moves-whale-s-trades-to-investment-bank-as-loss-grows.html
Credit derivatives trades in
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief investment office that triggered
$5.8 billion in losses have been “significantly reduced,” with
the remainder moved to its investment bank, the lender said.  JPMorgan, the biggest  U.S. bank , shut down synthetic
trading in its CIO unit with the exception of an $11 billion
short position in “basically liquid indexes” to hedge other
credit assets, Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said in a
meeting in analysts today. Positions in Series 9 of the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a credit-swaps
benchmark known as IG9 that’s at the heart of much of the loss,
were cut by 70 percent, Dimon said.  The residual portfolio, largely trades in so-called
tranches of indexes that wager on the degree to which companies
will default together, was transferred to the investment bank,
where they have “the expertise” to manage it, Dimon said. The
bank transferred about $30 billion of risk-weighted assets to
the investment bank, an amount that is “down substantially”
from the peak and back to levels at the end of 2011, he said.  The bank shifted the positions as it seeks to stem losses
from a group in  London  that included Bruno Iksil, the trader who
became known as the London Whale because the size of his bets
grew so large they drove price disparities in the market. Total
losses from those trades this year reached $5.8 billion, Chief
Financial Officer Doug Braunstein said today in a meeting with
analysts.  Trades Backfire  The CIO’s credit swaps trades, initially intended as a
hedge against another financial crisis or economic downturn,
backfired as the group sought to comply with orders from
executives late last year to reduce its positions. The bank was
left with even bigger and harder-to-manage exposures, Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said last month before the Senate
Banking Committee.  A review of the CIO also found that employees may have
sought to hide losses, the bank said today in a restatement of
its first-quarter results that reduced net income by $459
million.  An internal review “identified concerns around the
integrity of traders’ marks,” the bank said in a presentation.
The bank found “e-mails, voice tapes and other documents,
supplemented by interviews, suggestive of trader intent not to
mark positions where they believed they could execute,”
according to the presentation. “Traders may have been seeking
to avoid showing full amount of losses.”  Obscured Loss  Citing people familiar with the matter, Bloomberg News
reported May 30 that CIO was valuing some of its trades at
prices that differed from those of its investment bank, the
biggest swaps dealer in the U.S., potentially obscuring by
hundreds of millions of dollars the magnitude of the loss before
it was disclosed.  The net  amount  of credit protection bought or sold through
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a credit-
swaps benchmark known as IG9 that market participants say was at
the heart of the loss, has dropped 22 percent to $117.4 billion
in five weeks ended July 6, according to the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. That’s the least since the period ended Jan. 27.  The so-called net notional outstanding had surged an
unprecedented 67 percent to $150 billion in the 17 weeks ended
April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  