-- Naira Gains on Dollar Sale Bets, Paring 1st Weekly Fall in Four
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-07-13T11:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/naira-gains-on-dollar-sale-bets-paring-1st-weekly-fall-in-four.html
The naira strengthened, trimming its
first weekly decline in four, on speculation  oil companies  may
be selling dollars.  The currency of Africa’s largest oil producer appreciated
for the first time in four days, gaining 0.1 percent to 162 per
dollar as of 11:21 a.m. on the  interbank market  in Lagos. The
naira has depreciated 0.7 percent this week, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “There are some minor oil flows in the pipeline today, and
also the market expects the Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. to
sell dollars next week, which has resulted in a marginal
appreciation of the unit in recent hours,”  Samir Gadio , an
emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
London, said in an e-mailed reply to questions. Earlier in the
week “sales from oil companies dried up,” he said  The oil industry, including the state-owned NNPC, is the
second major source of dollar supplies in the country after the
 Central Bank of Nigeria , which offers dollars at auctions on
Mondays and Wednesdays and through interbank trading to maintain
exchange-rate stability.  Oil, Nigeria’s key export, advanced in  New York , extending
a weekly gain, as investors speculated that China’s government
will boost stimulus measures and the U.S. tightened sanctions on
 Iran . Nigerian benchmark Bonny Light crude gained for a third
day, advancing 0.7 percent to $101.27 per barrel, the highest in
more than a week.  “The stronger oil price in early July has weighed
positively on sentiment or has at least reduced the magnitude of
the negative positioning against the naira witnessed in June,”
said Gadio.  Nigeria ’s foreign-currency reserves have fallen by $1.2
billion since the end of May to $36.48 billion, according to
July 11 data compiled by the Abuja-based central bank.  The yield on Nigeria’s domestic 15.1 percent bonds due 2017
rose three basis points to 16.07 percent, according to July 12
data on the Financial Markets Dealers Association website.
Yields on the nation’s $500 million of Eurobonds due 2021 slid
two basis points to 5.52 percent.  Ghana’s cedi strengthened 0.5 percent to 1.9463 per dollar
in Accra, the capital, extending its gain this week to 0.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  