-- New York Fed Says It Knew Barclays Underreported Libor
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-07-13T21:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/new-york-fed-says-it-knew-barclays-was-underreporting-libor.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
became aware that Barclays Plc was underreporting borrowing
costs for the London interbank offered rate in April 2008,
according to documents released after U.S. lawmakers demanded
information about the rate-rigging scandal.  A Barclays employee explained to a New York Fed staff
member that the bank “was underreporting its rate to avoid the
stigma associated with being an outlier with respect to its
LIBOR submissions, relative to other participating banks,” the
New York Fed said in a statement posted today on its website.
The person “also stated that in his opinion other participating
banks were also under-reporting their LIBOR submissions.”  Members of Congress are seeking information from U.S.
regulators about the scandal that led to Barclays being fined a
record 290 million pounds ($451 million) and cost Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  his job. At least a dozen banks
are being investigated for manipulating Libor, the global
benchmark for $360 trillion of securities.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who headed the New
York Fed at the time, and Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will be
questioned about Libor at regularly scheduled Congressional
hearings this month. Senate Banking Committee Chairman  Tim Johnson , a South Dakota Democrat, said July 10 he is “concerned
by the growing allegations of potential widespread manipulation
of Libor and similar interbank rates.”  Difficult Audience  “They are going to have a very difficult audience” on
 Capitol Hill , said Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at
Federal Financial Analytics, a Washington research firm. “It’s
going to be ‘What did you know, when did you know it, and why
didn’t you do anything about it?’”  Petrou said lawmakers are unlikely to be satisfied by a
memo showing that Geithner recommended changes to the way Libor
rates are calculated to  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  in
June 2008.  The U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said
today it became aware of potential problems with the Libor rate-
setting process in 2007 and “reached out to British authorities
at the time,” according to an agency spokesman.  “We met with the  British Bankers Association  and the FSA,
which already had work underway on the integrity of the Libor
rate-setting process,” Bob Garsson, a spokesman for the OCC,
said in a telephone interview today, referring to the U.K.
Financial Services Authority.  Transcripts Sought  The New York Fed released the documents in response to a
request from Representative  Randy Neugebauer , a Texas Republican
who serves on the House Financial Services Committee, for
transcripts of communications with Barclays relating to setting
Libor from August 2007 to November 2009.  “Any manipulation of this rate is of serious concern,”
Neugebauer said in an e-mailed statement today. “We’ll continue
looking into this matter to determine who was involved in this
practice and whether it could have been prevented by
regulators.”  Twelve Democratic senators, including  Jack Reed  of Rhode
Island and  Carl Levin  of Michigan, yesterday sent a letter to
Geithner and Attorney General Eric Holder asking for an
examination of “allegations that U.S. and foreign bank
regulators may have been aware of this wrongdoing for years.”  Geithner’s recommendations on Libor were passed along to
the British Bankers’ Association by King and  Paul Tucker , at the
time markets director of the U.K. central bank, according to
correspondence released by the Bank of England today.  Memo to King  Geithner wanted procedures to prevent “misreporting,” and
the BBA, which was reviewing Libor, said it would take the
recommendations on board. He sent the memo to King after the two
discussed Libor at a meeting of central bankers in  Basel ,
 Switzerland , the previous month. Geithner was succeeded by
William C. Dudley at the New York Fed in January 2009.  “Today’s revelation is stunning,” Representative Dennis Kucinich, a Democrat of  Ohio , said in a statement. “Not only
did banks knowingly and intentionally manipulate a bedrock of
financial markets, but government regulators in both the United
States and the United Kingdom knew about the manipulation and
only offered a couple of suggestions to improve the system.”  Geithner’s recommendations included one to “establish and
publish best practices for calculating and reporting rates,
including procedures designed to prevent accidental or
deliberate misreporting.” King forwarded Geithner’s message to
Tucker, who shared them with  Angela Knight . She was then the
chief executive officer of the BBA, the lobby group which
coordinates Libor.  London-Based  “As is clear from the work culminating in the report to
Mr. King of the Bank of England, the New York Fed helped
to identify problems related to Libor and press the relevant
authorities in the UK to reform this London-based rate,” the
New York Fed said in the statement today.  Libor is calculated from a daily survey carried out for the
British Bankers’ Association, in which the world’s biggest
lenders are asked the rate they’re charged to borrow over a
variety of short-term maturities in currencies including
dollars, euros and yen. Banks are accused of low-balling
submissions for the benchmark during the financial crisis.  “It is fair to believe that, if one bank did this to allay
market concerns of their risk, that other firms coming under
market pressure may have also done the same,” said  Joshua Rosner , managing director at research firm Graham Fisher & Co.
in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  