-- Nigeria’s Revised Oil Bill Reduces Taxes for Exploration
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-07-13T16:03:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/nigeria-s-revised-oil-bill-reduces-taxes-for-exploration.html
Nigeria ’s revised oil industry bill
reduced taxes to be paid by producers after energy companies
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  opposed initial proposals as too
high.  The Petroleum Industry Bill, which was approved by the
Cabinet on July 11 for presentation to the Parliament, proposes
50 percent tax for onshore and shallow fields and 20 percent for
deepwater fields, according to a copy of the bill obtained by
Bloomberg. The original proposals were for 85 percent and 50
percent respectively.  A fiscal framework was “developed to make the industry
more investment friendly and make it more profitable for
investors,” Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke said on
July 11. At a time when more African countries are becoming oil
producers, Nigeria needed to take measures to attract investors
and remain competitive, she said.  The bill, which seeks to reform the way the oil industry of
 Africa ’s top producer is regulated and funded, was first
introduced to the parliament more than three years ago.
Lawmakers were unable to pass it before the end of the last
legislative session in May 2011. Energy companies including
Shell, Chevron,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  said in
a joint presentation to lawmakers in 2009 that the proposed tax
increases would make exploration “uneconomical.” They pump
more than 90 percent of the country’s oil through ventures with
state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  Gas Flaring  The new draft includes plans to privatize the state oil
company also known as NNPC, create an  asset management company 
which will operate as a holding company, and set up a new gas
company.  The proposed law would ban flaring of gas in the course of
oil production in Nigeria after Dec. 31. The West African
nation, which has the continent’s largest gas reserves of more
than 180 trillion cubic feet, burns away most of the fuel it
produces along with oil because it lacks the infrastructure to
process it. The petroleum minister may grant exceptions of up to
100 days to companies for safety flaring, equipment failure or
because a customer can’t receive it.  Energy companies will be required to remit 10 percent of
their profits to a fund to help develop communities in the oil
region and curb sabotage bred by resentment to ecological damage
from oil activities.  Attacks by armed groups including the Movement for the
Emancipation of the  Niger Delta  targeting Nigeria’s industry led
to output losses of more than 28 percent from 2006 to 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The disruptions
subsided after thousands of militants campaigning for more local
control of the delta’s energy resources accepted a government
amnesty and disarmed in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  