-- Nokia Plans to Close Two of Its Four China Sales Offices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-13T11:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/nokia-plans-to-close-two-of-its-four-china-distribution-centers.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  will close two of its four
regional sales offices in China, as part of a restructuring plan
the company announced last month to halt mounting losses from
plunging smartphone sales.  Nokia will shut offices in Chengdu and  Shanghai  and
consolidate operations at a northern center in Beijing and a
southern hub in  Guangzhou , Anna Shipley, a Beijing-based Nokia
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today. The moves will eliminate
jobs, she said, without providing details.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is reorganizing Nokia
after market-share gains by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Samsung
Electronics Co. devices led to a slump in sales and four
straight quarterly  losses . The company said June 14 it would cut
as many as 10,000 jobs globally and close facilities.  “As part of the announcement and planned changes that we
made on June 14, we are reviewing some elements of our  China 
business,” Shipley said in the e-mail. Nokia plans to continue
“nationwide” market coverage in the country, she said.  Nokia shares fell 0.8 percent to 1.536 euros at 2:13 p.m.
in Helsinki trading.  The company shipped more than 2 million Lumia smartphones
running on the Windows Phone operating system globally in the
first quarter, while Apple sold 35.1 million iPhones.  Nokia’s handset shipments declined 24 percent in the first
quarter, allowing Samsung to overtake the Espoo, Finland-based
company as the world’s biggest mobile-phone maker, researcher
IDC said in May. Nokia’s global share in the first quarter was
20.8 percent, trailing Samsung’s 23.5 percent. Apple had 8.8
percent of the global mobile-phone market.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  