-- Norfolk Southern Sues Buccini/Pollin Over Delaware Deal
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-13T20:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/norfolk-southern-sues-buccini-pollin-over-delaware-deal.html
Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , the second-
largest railroad in the eastern U.S., sued developer
Buccini/Pollin Group Inc. contending it’s illegally using land
to build a movie theater complex that’s a centerpiece of
revitalization plans for Wilmington,  Delaware .  The Norfolk, Virginia-based railroad alleges Buccini,
 Riverfront Development Corp. of Delaware , and Lititz,
Pennsylvania-based  Penn Cinema Management Co.  are trespassing on
land that was wrongly condemned by the Delaware Transportation
Department in an action preempted by U.S. law.  “Norfolk Southern is now and has been the lawful owner”
of the approximately 2 acres of land, and uses it as the only
spot to interchange railcars “within 100 miles” of the city’s
nearby  Delaware River  commercial port, according to a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in Wilmington.  The railroad operates on 21,000 miles of track in 22
eastern states, transporting raw materials and finished goods
into the Midwest and  Gulf Coast , according to the lawsuit and
data compiled by Bloomberg News.  Wilmington contractors have already begun work on the new
14-screen, $20 million IMAX theater complex, to join a planned
new hotel and existing convention center, minor-league baseball
park and restaurant group along the Christina River near
Interstate 95.  “We don’t have a comment at this time,” said Penn
Ketchum, managing partner of Penn Cinema, in an e-mailed
message.  Riverfront officials weren’t immediately available to
comment on the lawsuit. A phone operator at Buccini in
Wilmington said “no comment” and declined to give her name.  Norfolk Southern rose 2.6 percent to $73.69 in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Norfolk Southern v. Riverfront Development
Corp., 12-cv-872, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 