-- North Carolina Seeks Additional Data in Duke Energy Probe
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/north-carolina-seeks-additional-data-in-duke-energy-probe.html
North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper demanded communications and telephone records related to
the state’s probe of  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s merger with Progress
Energy Inc.  The requests, dated yesterday, were made to Joele Frank,
Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher in  New York , and to Browning
Investments Inc. President Michael G. Browning in Indianapolis,
who, according to regulatory filings, has served on Duke’s board
since 1990.  Cooper is investigating whether Duke violated any laws when
former Progress Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  was
replaced by Duke Chairman and CEO James Rogers hours after the
takeover of Progress closed on July 2 to create the largest U.S.
utility owner. The executives testified before the merger that
Johnson would be CEO while Rogers served as executive chairman.  The requests demand “any communication” between Frank and
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke, and to or from Browning
“relating in any way to the business of” Duke Energy, Progress
or the merged company, according to the letters.  The requests follow an order issued July 12 by the North
Carolina Utilities Commission requiring Johnson and four Duke
board members, including Browning, to appear at hearings on July
19 and 20 to testify to state regulators about Duke Energy’s
decision to replace him.  ‘Provide Testimony’  Browning and another director, Ann Maynard Gray, were
ordered to appear July 20 to “provide testimony addressing the
timing of the decision to replace Johnson with Rogers,”
according to the commission’s order.  Jamie Moser, a partner at Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer
Katcher, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Michael Browning couldn’t be reached by phone at his
office, and didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  Noelle Talley, a spokeswoman for North Carolina Attorney
General Roy Cooper, declined to comment on the demands for
information.  Tom Williams , a spokesman for Duke, said in a telephone
interview he hadn’t seen the request and couldn’t comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  