-- Obama Says Focus on Romney’s Bain Experience Appropriate
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-07-13T21:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/obama-says-focus-on-romney-s-bain-experience-appropriate.html
President  Barack Obama  said Mitt
Romney’s record at the private-equity firm  Bain Capital  LLC
deserves scrutiny because the Republican is basing his campaign
on the premise “I’m Mister Fix-It on the economy.”  “If you’re the head of a large private-equity firm, or
hedge fund, your job is to make money,” Obama said in an
interview that aired today on “CBS This Morning.” “It’s not
to create jobs.”  “It’s entirely appropriate to look at the record and see
whether, in fact, his focus was creating jobs and he
successfully did that,” Obama said when asked about the
presumptive Republican nominee’s work at Bain.  Romney is named as one of two managing members of Bain
Capital Investors LLC in annual reports filed in  Massachusetts 
as late as 2002, adding a new corporate entity to a growing
number of Bain-related investments and funds that list the
Republican presidential candidate as controlling the company
three years after he said he left it.  Separate documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, reviewed by Bloomberg News, also show Romney in 2000
as the sole stockholder of Bain Capital Investors Inc.  Departure Timeline  Romney and Bain say he retired in 1999 and ceased all
management responsibilities to run the 2002 Winter Olympics in
 Salt Lake City ,  Utah .  A report yesterday in the Boston Globe identified nine SEC
filings that named Romney as the chief executive, among other
positions, of Bain Capital three years after he took the
Olympics job. The paper said documents filed with the commission
through 2002 listed Romney as “sole stockholder, chairman of
the board, chief executive officer and president.”  The reports dominated the campaign yesterday, with Obama’s
re-election team calling the documents a “big Bain lie.”
Obama, in an interview today with Washington television station
WJLA, said Romney “attested to the SEC multiple times” that
was at the head of Bain.  “I think most Americans figure if you are the chairman,
CEO and president of a company that you are responsible for what
that company does,” Obama said. “That’s probably a question
that he’s going to have to answer and I think that’s a
legitimate part of the campaign.”  Counter Charge  Romney’s campaign charged Democrats with being dishonest. A
release this morning was titled, “With no record to run on and
no plan to fix the economy, the Obama campaign unravels amid
false and debunked attacks.”  Romney’s campaign also released a television ad saying
Democrats were using “misleading, unfair and untrue” attacks
to vilify his record in business. Television interviews with the
former Massachusetts governor were scheduled to air today on  CNN 
and  Fox News , as well as the newscasts of ABC, NBC and CBS.  This morning, Obama said that Romney’s experience running
Bain required a different set of skills and priorities than
those needed for serving as president.  “That doesn’t necessarily make you qualified to think
about the economy as a whole, because as president my job is to
think about the workers,” he said. “My job is to think about
communities where jobs have been outsourced.”  Former President  Bill Clinton  agreed that Romney’s Bain
background was relevant to the election.  “It’s just as relevant as the going over my record as
governor got when I ran for president,” Clinton said in an
interview on NBC’s “Today.” “He’s put it at the forefront.
He’s said, basically, ‘I’d be a better president ’cause I know
how to create jobs, ’cause that’s what I did.’”  Transferring Ownership  Bain said in a statement yesterday that it took a while to
transfer ownership to Romney’s successors “due to the sudden
nature” of his decision to run the Olympics. Until the
ownership situation was resolved, Romney continued to be listed
as the sole stockholder and in various executive positions in
SEC filings, the company said.  “ Mitt Romney  left Bain Capital in February 1999 to run the
Olympics and has had absolutely no involvement with the
management or investment activities of the firm or with any of
its portfolio companies since the day of his departure,” the
company said.  In August 2001, Bloomberg reported that Romney was quitting
the firm and would be a “special limited partner,” with
passive investments in Bain funds. His  voting rights  were
parceled out to the managing directors without any financial
payment, according to the Aug. 23 report.  Outsourcing Dispute  “I will look for political opportunities in Massachusetts
and Utah,” Romney said in an August 2001 interview with
Bloomberg. “My family has a history of political involvement.”  He was elected governor of Massachusetts in 2002 and served
a single four-year term.  Obama’s re-election campaign has zeroed in on Romney’s
business background in ads, linking him to the outsourcing of
U.S. jobs. Romney has said that voters are tired of politicians’
“petty” attacks.  The Obama campaign was out with a new online ad this
morning, highlighting recent reporting on Romney’s Bain tenure
and saying it was his “turn to explain” any discrepancies.  The period in dispute -- 1999 to 2002 --- has become an
issue because investments managed by Bain during that time
shipped jobs overseas and fired workers. Romney’s campaign has
said he wasn’t part of that decision-making as he was no longer
at the firm.  Conflicting Accounts  “There are serious questions that have been raised about
what information has been public, what information has been
released and what the American people don’t know,” Obama
campaign spokeswoman  Jen Psaki  said today. “When you run for
president, people deserve to know you are who you say you are.”  Obama led Romney, 50 percent to 43 percent, in a nationwide
poll released yesterday by the Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press. The  survey  gave Obama a 48 percent to 42
percent lead on who would do a better job of improving economic
conditions, and a 46 percent to 42 percent edge on improving the
job situation. The June 28-July 9 survey of 2,373 registered
voters has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.3 percentage
points.  Romney “consistently claimed he couldn’t be blamed for
bankruptcies and layoffs from Bain investments after February
1999 because he departed for the Olympics,” Obama’s deputy
campaign manager,  Stephanie Cutter , said in a statement
yesterday. “Now we know that he wasn’t telling the truth.”  A Romney campaign spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, said Romney
“had no input on investments or management of companies” after
leaving Bain in February 1999.  Romney’s personal financial report filed in June carried
the notation that “since Feb. 11, 1999, Mr. Romney has not had
any active role with any Bain Capital entity and has not been
involved in the operations of any Bain Capital entity in any
way.”  Romney, 65, is worth as much as $250 million, according to
financial documents his campaign has released.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  