-- Obama ‘Micro Targeting’ Swing Voters in Virginia Foray
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-07-13T17:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/obama-micro-targeting-swing-voters-in-virginia-campaign-foray.html
President  Barack Obama  courted the
voters who fueled his victory in  Virginia  four years ago as he
tries to hold the once-solidly Republican state in November.  Obama, with a refreshed populist message on taxes, focused
on military families and the economy in the first stop on a two-
day swing through the state’s so-called golden crescent: the
Washington suburbs of northern Virginia south through Richmond
and Hampton Roads, where most of the population is concentrated.  “When we win Virginia we’re going to have won the
election,” Obama told the overflow crowd at Green Run High
School in  Virginia Beach , where he went after meeting with the
spouses of service members at a local café.  Obama was the first Democratic presidential candidate to
win Virginia since  Lyndon Johnson  did it in 1964, and capturing
the state’s 13 Electoral College votes in November is part of
the victory map for both Obama and Republican  Mitt Romney .  While Obama took the state by six percentage points in
2008, both campaigns are forecasting a close contest this year.
Obama held a three percentage point lead over Romney in an
average of six polls taken since mid-May, as compiled by the
website Real Clear Politics.  Virginia Visits  Obama has been to Virginia 15 times since announcing his
run for re-election in April 2011, and Romney has visited six
times since announcing his candidacy in June 2011.  “The Obama campaign is doing in Virginia what they’re
doing in other battleground states,” said Quentin Kidd, a
political science professor at Christopher Newport University in
 Newport News , Virginia. “They’re micro-targeting African
Americans in Hampton Roads, and in particular African Americans
in the military. They’re micro-targeting Latinos in northern
Virginia, and they’re micro-targeting areas with a younger
population like Richmond and Virginia Beach.”  Among the states, Virginia’s economy is the most dependent
on federal defense spending through its contractors and military
bases, collecting $56.9 billion in 2009, according to a
Bloomberg Government study. It was followed by California and
 Texas .  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  and  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  are based
there;  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense
contractor, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , employs approximately
7,700 people in Virginia, or 6 percent of its global workforce.  Virginia Economy  That has helped cushion the effects of the recession.
Virginia’s unemployment rate was 5.6 percent in May, down from a
high of 7.3 percent in January 2010. By comparison, the rate
nationally was 8.2 percent and hit 10 percent in October 2009.  Still, Virginia was among four electoral battleground
states that showed declining economic health in the first three
months of the year, according to the Bloomberg Economic
Evaluation of States. The index is based on the performance of
local-company shares, tax collections,  home prices , mortgage
delinquencies, job growth and personal income.  Romney’s campaign criticized Obama over cuts in defense
spending even before Obama arrived in the state. The Republican
candidate released an open letter to Obama, accusing him of
supporting budget cuts that would shutter factories and
shipyards.  Defense Cuts  “Your insistence on slashing our military to pay the tab
for your irresponsible spending could see over 200,000 troops
forced from service,” Romney said in the statement. That “will
overwhelm overburdened state offices like the Virginia
Department of Veterans Services. It will impose suffering and
hardship on so many military families.”  Obama repeated the populist themes he’s been using on the
campaign trail, saying he is working to keep the promise of the
American dream that “even if you weren’t born into wealth”
people can provide a good home for their family and an education
for their children.  He said the ideas being put forward by Romney and
Republicans in Congress “basically involve taking the country
backward,” including providing tax cuts to the wealthy, “even
if it starts cutting into benefits that we’re providing to our
veterans.”  Obama is calling on Congress to pass a yearlong extension
of Bush-era tax cuts for families making less than $250,000 a
year while letting rates rise for higher earners.  Portraying Romney  The message is intended to highlight his differences on
economic policy with Romney, co-founder of Boston-based Bain
Capital LLC. Obama has accused Romney and congressional
Republicans of pursuing “top-down economics” that favor the
wealthy. His campaign also is focusing on Romney’s work at Bain,
a private equity firm, accusing him of profiting from the loss
of jobs in the U.S. to overseas competitors.  Bain yesterday said Romney remained its sole stockholder
and continued to be listed as the sole stockholder and in
various executive positions in Securities and Exchange
Commission filings even after leaving in 1999 to run the Winter
Olympics. The company statement was released after a Boston
Globe report raised questions about when the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee left the firm.  The timing has become an issue because his campaign
responded to reports of Bain-owned companies laying off
employees by saying the former Massachusetts governor wasn’t
responsible for actions after his departure.  Bain Targeted  Dave “Mudcat” Saunders, a longtime Virginia political
strategist who is working on Democrat Wayne Powell’s House race
against Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Republican, said the
president’s populist message is working.  “Obama should stick with Bain Capital attacks,” he said.
“Everybody in small-town Virginia feels like they’ve been taken
advantage of.”  Vicki Johnson, a 57 year-old secretary who lives in
Virginia Beach and attended the event at the high school, said
that while she supports the president she’s not sure if he can
win Virginia again.  When asked if she was at all disappointed in his first
terms she said, “I wasn’t sure he was going to turn things
around in four years anyway.”  Most of the places Obama is visiting voted for Democrat
 John Kerry  in 2004 and came out in even bigger numbers for Obama
in 2008. In Hampton Roads, where Obama will hold his second
campaign event today, Obama beat Republican Senator  John McCain 
69 percent to 30 percent. Obama won Roanoke City 61 percent to
McCain’s 38 percent, and he won Fairfax County, where he will go
tomorrow, 60 percent to 39 percent. He will also go to Richmond,
where he got 79 percent of the vote, and  Glen Allen , outside of
the capital.  Virginia Beach is the only one of the cities Obama is
visiting that voted for McCain in 2008, giving him a narrow
victory of 49.8 percent to Obama’s 49.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  