-- MobiTV Pulls $75 Million IPO, Citing ‘Unfavorable’ Conditions
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/mobitv-withdraws-75-million-ipo-citing-unfavorable-conditions.html
MobiTV Inc. (MBTV) , the maker of software
that lets smartphone users watch live television, withdrew its
plans for an initial public offering, citing “unfavorable
market conditions.”  The Emeryville, California-based company, which filed for a
$75 million IPO in August, requested in a letter to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday that the filing be
withdrawn immediately.  While the technology IPO market has slowed since the
troubled Facebook Inc. offering in May, companies are still
going public. Business-software maker  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW)  has jumped
34 percent since its debut last month, and Palo Alto Networks
Inc. and Kayak Software Corp. are scheduled to go public next
week. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has gained 3.5 percent
since the end of May, after dropping 6.3 percent that month.  MobiTV has never turned a profit, according to regulatory
filings, recording a net loss of $11.8 million last year even as
revenue rose 27 percent to $85.1 million. Live mobile television
has proven to be a challenging market, because consumers can
access free on-demand services such as Google Inc.’s YouTube and
subscription offerings from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and Amazon.com Inc.  “The actual appeal of what they have to offer from a
consumer’s viewpoint is relatively low,” said  Charles Golvin ,
an analyst covering mobile technology at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc. “People have a
relationship with Netflix, they’ve got their preferences managed
on Netflix, they get a lot of the content they want on Netflix
and they’re comfortable with that.”  Licensing Costs  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest maker of chips that run mobile
phones, closed its wireless FLO TV service last year because
consumers were gravitating more to programming on demand.  MobiTV’s business is built around providing the streaming
technology and then partnering with mobile-phone companies for
distribution. Last year, 97 percent of its revenue came from
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , Deutsche Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA Inc.
unit, AT&T Inc. and Verizon Wireless. The biggest increase in
MobiTV’s operating expense last year was the $9.5 million it
spent licensing content.  The company also has another potential competitor on the
horizon. Aereo Inc., the online TV service backed by  Barry Diller , won a court ruling on July 11 that will keep it from
being shut down while U.S. networks pursue a copyright lawsuit
against the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  