-- Stocks Surge as JPMorgan Jumps; Commodities, Euro Advance
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-07-13T20:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/oil-slides-euro-trades-near-two-year-low-on-italy-rating-cut.html
Global  stocks  rallied, ending the
longest slump since November, as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  surged
after reporting earnings and speculation grew that China and
Europe will boost stimulus efforts. The euro rebounded from a
two-year low, while cotton and nickel led commodities higher.  The MSCI All-Country World Index added 1.5 percent at 4
p.m. in  New York , snapping a  seven-day  retreat, and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.7 percent. The euro rose 0.3 percent
to $1.2240 as Medley Global Advisors predicted the  European
Central Bank  will ease monetary policy further. Cotton and
nickel advanced more than 2.4 percent to lead a gains in 22 of
24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index. Ten-year Treasury
yields increased two basis points to 1.49 percent.  JPMorgan rose 6 percent to lead the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  up 204 points, while the KBW Bank Index jumped the most
since March, as Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the
bank will still likely post record earnings for 2012 even after
a $4.4 billion trading loss from its chief investment office in
the second quarter.  Warren Buffett  said the firm’s reputation is
intact as far as he’s concerned.  “The degree to which our banking system has come back,
particularly compared to the European banks, is dramatic,”
Buffett, the billionaire chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,
said today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty
Liu ” in  Sun Valley , Idaho. “Our banking system is in terrific
shape and that can’t be said for banks around the world and it
couldn’t be said for our banks four years ago.”  China Economy  Stocks and commodities also increased after  China’s economy 
grew a less-than-estimated 7.6 percent last quarter, putting
pressure on policy makers to increase monetary easing and
investment.  “China’s growth is slowing, which will urge their policy
makers to respond with a fiscal thrust,” said Chad Morganlander, a Florham Park, New Jersey-based fund manager at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $115 billion of
assets.  The  S&P 500  rebounded following six days of losses, the
longest slump in almost two months. U.S. equities maintained
gains even as confidence among consumers unexpectedly slid in
July to the lowest level this year as the labor market showed
few signs of improvement. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan index of consumer sentiment dropped to 72 this month
from 73.2 in June, trailing the median economist projection for
a rise to 73.5.  Banks Rally  Financial shares  in the S&P 500 led gains among the 10 main
industries in the index, rallying 2.8 percent as all 81
companies increased.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the most valuable  U.S.
bank  and largest home lender, climbed 3.2 percent after earnings
increased 17 percent on strength in mortgage banking and a drop
in expenses.  Bank of America Corp., Microsoft Corp. and Caterpillar Inc.
climbed more than 2.6 percent to helped lead gains in the Dow,
with all 30 stocks in the gauge advancing except for Hewlett-
Packard Co. Phillips 66 rallied 5.9 percent after Buffett said
Berkshire Hathaway has invested in the refiner.  Procter & Gamble Co ., the world’s largest consumer-products
company, rose 2.2 percent. Board members are dissatisfied with
Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald ’s performance and are
discussing a possible leadership change, according to people
familiar with the situation. P&G jumped 3.8 percent yesterday as
the Federal Trade Commission cleared  William Ackman ’s hedge-fund
company to buy a stake.  JPMorgan Results  JPMorgan’s net income fell to $4.96 billion, or $1.21 a
share, from $5.43 billion, or $1.27, in the same period a year
earlier. The largest U.S. bank by assets also restated first-
quarter earnings, reducing net income by $459 million, and used
securities gains and an $800 million accounting benefit to help
boost profit.  Dimon said he hopes the company can buy back stock in the
fourth quarter of 2012 after it completes a review of trading
losses in the chief investment office.  By capping the size of the potential loss and revamping
management of the businesses responsible, Dimon may help restore
investor confidence after the bank’s market value dropped $39.7
billion since April 5, when Bloomberg News first reported that
the company had amassed an illiquid book of  credit derivatives 
at the London chief investment office.  “They laid it all out,” said Tom Wirth, who helps manage
$1.6 billion as senior investment officer for Chemung Canal
Trust Co. in Elmira, New York. “The overall earnings report is
showing the company is on the upswing. Earnings will continue to
do fairly well as loans come back.”  European Markets  Eight shares gained for each that declined in the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)  Storebrand ASA rallied 8.2 percent as Norway’s
second-largest publicly traded insurer said it plans to reduce
costs and meet stricter European  capital requirements  without
selling new shares. Basic-resource and telephone companies
rallied more than 2.7 percent to lead gains in all 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600.  European stock strategists are backing away from their
most-pessimistic forecasts as policy makers agree on measures to
tackle the region’s debt crisis. While sticking to predictions
for losses of as much as 16 percent, Morgan Stanley’s Ronan Carr
raised his recommendation on European equities to neutral on
July 2 and  Alain Bokobza  of Societe Generale SA said he has
started to reduce the underweight call he’s had for at least two
years. Exane BNP Paribas said investors can find bargains among
companies most reliant on economic growth.  The euro recovered after earlier slumping as much as 0.3
percent to $1.2163, the lowest since June 2010. The shared
currency strengthened against nine of 16 major peers, rising at
least 0.3 percent versus the Taiwanese dollar, Brazilian real
and Swedish krona.  ECB Speculation  The ECB is prepared to further ease monetary policy,
including lowering its deposit rate below zero percent and
implementing more non-standard liquidity measures as early as
September, if warranted, Medley Advisors wrote in a report.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 1.4 percent,
rebounding from a two-week low. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong increased 0.8
percent, the biggest one-day gain since July 3. South Korea’s
Kospi Index, Russia’s Micex and the Bovespa in Brazil each
rallied at least 1.5 percent.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield increased 15 basis points to
6.06 percent. The yield spread above benchmark German bunds was
14 basis points higher at 4.80 percentage points. Moody’s
Investors Service reduced Italy’s bond rating by two levels and
reiterated its negative outlook.  Crude oil rallied 1.2 percent to $87.10 a barrel in New
York, climbing for a third straight day. Copper surged 2.6
percent. Corn climbed 1.1 percent and soybeans rose 1.5 percent
as drought in the U.S. worsens crop conditions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  