-- Oil Rises for Third Day on China Speculation, Rising Equities
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-13T19:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/oil-little-changed-in-new-york-reversing-earlier-gain-of-1-4-.html
Oil rose for a third day, the
longest winning streak in a month, as slowing growth in  China 
fueled stimulus speculation and U.S. equities advanced.  Crude gained 1.2 percent as China’s growth declined to the
weakest pace in three years, putting pressure on the government
to act. U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
gaining for the first time in seven days.  “Increasingly there is a feel that we’ll see some stimulus
plans from places like China and you’ll see stronger economic
growth in the second half and stronger oil demand,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “We are back on a bullish trend
along with equities.”  Crude for August delivery added $1.02 to settle at $87.10 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , capping a weekly
gain of 3.1 percent. Prices are down 12 percent this year.  Brent oil for August settlement gained $1.33, or 1.3
percent, to $102.40 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  China’s economic expansion slowed for a sixth quarter,
growing at 7.6 percent in the second quarter, data from the
National Bureau of Statistics showed today. That compares with
an 8.1 percent gain in the previous period and the 7.7 percent
median forecast of economists. Industrial production increased
at a slower pace in June while retail sales growth decelerated.  Interest Rate  The People’s Bank of China on July 5 announced the second
 interest-rate  cut in a month, adding to the first since 2008.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged to intensify fine-tuning of policies,
according to a July 8 report by the official Xinhua News Agency.  China is the world’s second-biggest oil consumer after the
U.S., using 9.76 million barrels a day in 2011, according to BP
Statistical Review of World Energy.  U.S. stocks rallied as JPMorgan Chase & Co. surged after
reporting earnings.  The S&P 500 (SPX)  gained as much as 1.7 percent.
The S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities increased 1.2 percent.  Oil also advanced as the U.S. announced more sanctions on
Iran. Yesterday the Obama administration sanctioned the National
Iranian Tanker Co. and four alleged front companies for Iran’s
oil trade, the latest salvo in a U.S.-led campaign to curtail
 Iran ’s petroleum sales until it abandons illicit aspects of its
disputed nuclear program.  Freezing Assets  The U.S. Treasury Department announced it would freeze
American assets belonging to the tanker operator, known as NITC,
and block the company’s transactions from the U.S. financial
system. The Treasury identified 27 entities affiliated with the
tanker company and 58 vessels -- some of which have been
reflagged in other countries to evade international sanctions on
Iran’s petroleum sales.  “The U.S. is tightening sanctions with Iran, and that is
the whole basis for this rally,” said Phil Streible, a Chicago-
based commodities broker at RJO Futures.  Oil also gained as the euro strengthened against the dollar
as Italian borrowing costs fell at an auction. The euro rose as
much as 0.4 percent to $1.2257. A stronger euro and weaker
dollar boost oil’s appeal as an investment alternative.  Italy sold 3.5 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of new three-
year bonds, matching a maximum target, and later sold 1.75
billion euros of three longer-dated securities. The auction came
hours after Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the country’s
bond rating by two levels to Baa2 from A3 and reiterated its
negative outlook.  ‘More Easing’  “The market was higher on the idea that we are going to
see more easing coming out of China,” said  Gene McGillian , an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“You also had a little bit of positive sentiment from the well-
received Italian bond auctions.”  Oil may fall next week on concern that weaker economic
growth will reduce fuel demand, a Bloomberg survey showed.
Fourteen of 34 analysts and traders, or 41 percent, forecast
crude will drop through July 20. Twelve respondents, or 35
percent, predicted futures will rise and eight said there will
be little change.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 427,785
contracts as of 3:04 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 467,055
contracts yesterday, 17 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.43 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 