-- Oil Futures Rise on Bets China Will Boost Economy
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-07-13T12:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/oil-drop-as-demand-concern-outweighs-additional-iran-sanctions.html
Oil rose to the highest in a week as
investors speculated that  China ’s government will boost stimulus
measures and as the U.S. tightened sanctions on  Iran .  Crude futures rose as much as 1.4 percent in  New York  after
closing 0.3 percent higher yesterday. China’s economy grew at a
less-than-estimated 7.6 percent in the second quarter, data from
the National Bureau of Statistics showed. Oil in New York closed
at a one-week high yesterday after the U.S. announced additional
sanctions on Iran.  “Oil looks a little firmer after Chinese GDP this morning
wasn’t any worse than feared,” said  Michael Hewson , a London-
based analyst at CMC Markets. “Expectations of further stimulus
from Chinese authorities are driving prices for now, however
unless demand picks up then prices look likely to remain
capped.”  Crude for August delivery added as much as $1.20 to $87.28
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest since
July 5, and was at $87.03 at 1 p.m. London time. Prices are up
3.1 percent this week and 12 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange traded at $102.08 a barrel, up $1.01,
after rising to a five-week high of $102.58 earlier today. The
European benchmark crude’s premium to the New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate grade was at $15.05. The spread was $14.99
yesterday, the widest in a month based on closing prices.  Economic Slowdown  Oil may fall next week on concern that weaker economic
growth will reduce fuel demand, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Fourteen of 34 analysts and traders, or 41 percent, forecast
crude will drop through July 20. Twelve respondents, or 35
percent, predicted futures will rise and eight said there will
be little change.  Prices may also extend losses as the 100-day moving average
has almost fallen to the 200-day mean, signaling a potential
“death cross” chart formation, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The same pattern is seen for New York crude and
Brent. Investors typically sell contracts when a shorter moving
average falls below a longer one.  China’s economy   slowed  to the weakest pace since the first
three months of 2009, according to the statistics bureau. Oil
refineries in the country processed 8.79 million barrels a day
of crude in June, down 3.4 percent from May and the  lowest level 
in eight months, separate data from the bureau showed. China is
the world’s second-biggest consumer of crude.  The U.S. will target the National Iranian Tanker Co., 20
financial institutions and four “front companies” in  Hong
Kong ,  Malaysia , Dubai and  Switzerland  that it said are being
used to evade international sanctions on the Persian Gulf
nation’s oil trade, according to a Treasury Department
statement. A European Union embargo on purchases of Iranian oil
came into full effect on July 1.  U.S. officials said the intent is to encourage foreign
companies to cease oil-related business with Iran until it meets
international demands to abandon parts of its nuclear program.
Iran pumped crude in June at close to the slowest rate in 22
years, the  International Energy Agency  said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  