-- Olympic Village to Open for 16,000 Competitors, Officials
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-13T10:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/london-olympic-village-to-open-for-16-000-competitors-officials.html
Olympic organizers are making final
preparations for the July 16 opening of residential areas in
 London ’s East End, which are expected to accommodate as many as
16,000 people during the games.  Competitors and officials from more than 200 countries will
be housed in the athletes’ village in the Olympic Park, which
has a total of 2,818 apartments. About 28,000 duvets featuring
Olympic sports motifs have been provided, along with 22,000
pillows and 9,000 wardrobes.  “Things are infinitely better today than they were when we
last invited the world to London in 1948,” Mayor  Boris Johnson 
said at a press conference yesterday. “We didn’t even have a
village in 1948. They had to bring their own towels and they had
to bunk up in school classrooms in West London.”  The games start in two weeks with Oscar-winning director
 Danny Boyle  unveiling his William Shakespeare-inspired “Isles
of Wonder” curtain-raiser at the 80,000-capacity Olympic
Stadium. Olympians and officials will live around Victory Park
on tree-lined streets called Celebration Avenue, Champions Walk
and Medals Way.  Apartments range from one to five bedrooms and some
athletes will share a room, according to the  London Organizing
Committee of the Games . The athletes will sleep in single beds,
some of which are extendable for taller Olympians, the organizer
said.  U.K. developer Delancey Estates Plc and Qatari Diar Real
Estate Investment Co., a unit of the Middle East country’s
sovereign wealth fund, agreed to buy the athlete’s village in
August for 557 million pounds ($860 million) for conversion into
private homes following the games. As part of the deal, the
buyers can build an additional 2,000 residential units on the
site.  Olympians and officials will live around Victory Park on
tree-lined streets called Celebration Avenue, Champions Walk and
Medals Way.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  has opened a beauty salon
nearby, where athletes can get free treatments such as a
“three-point microsculpting facial” and flags of competing
nations painted on their fingernails.  London Mayor Johnson was offered a haircut, which he
declined in favor of a manicure. The salon shares the street
with a newsstand, dry cleaner and postal service. The bar,
called The Globe, only serves non-alcoholic drinks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 