-- Hong Kong, New York Most Expensive for Retailers as Rents Jump
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-07-13T02:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/hong-kong-new-york-most-expensive-for-retailers-as-rents-jump.html
Hong Kong  and  New York  have the
world’s costliest high streets for retailers as strong demand
and a dearth of space in the most sought-after areas push rents
higher, CBRE Group Inc. said.  Retail rents in Hong Kong jumped 19 percent in the three
months ended March 31 from a year earlier to $3,864 per square
foot per year, while prices in New York climbed 15.1 percent to
$2,475, the property broker said in an e-mailed report.  “This quarter has seen more positive aspects than the
last, with improved  consumer spending  as well as steady occupier
demand and new shopping centers,” Ray Torto, global chief
economist at CBRE, said in a separate release. “Despite
concerns over the eurozone and a slowing world economy, retailer
demand for prime space in major cities remains strong; however,
prime space is in short supply in many markets.”  In Hong Kong, average retail rents have climbed for seven
of the past eight years as fashion and luxury brands bet Chinese
shoppers will keep up their spending in the city, which has no
 consumption tax , according to London-based Savills. Sales of
luxury products excluding jewelry in the U.S. gained 6.7 percent
in the first quarter, according to MasterCard Advisors
SpendingPulse, which tracks retail sales in all payment forms.  Washington D.C. had the biggest gains during the quarter,
with rents surging about 60 percent from a year earlier, the
CBRE survey showed. Brisbane and Sydney also saw rents drop,
about 15 percent, although Sydney retained its place as the
third most-expensive city for retailers.  Total retail rents across all regions rose 0.8 percent in
the first three months of 2012 from the previous quarter, CBRE
said in the report. The Americas were in the lead, with growth
of 3.4 percent, followed by the Asia-Pacific region rising 0.5
percent. Average prime rents in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa fell 0.2 percent during the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  