-- Hong Kong Graft Charges Pressure City Chief to Crack Down
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-07-15T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/hong-kong-graft-arrests-pressure-city-chief-to-crack-down.html
Hong Kong’s anti-graft agency
charged two billionaire property developers and the city’s
former No. 2 official with bribery-related offenses, the richest
and most senior figures to be indicted in the body’s 38-year
history.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok, co-chairmen of  Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd. (16) , and two other men conspired to give Rafael Hui
payments and loans totaling HK$34 million ($4.4 million) for
unspecified favors involving Hui’s role as the government’s then
chief secretary, a Hong Kong court heard July 13.  The case may fan criticism of collusion between government
and business in Hong Kong, ranked the least corrupt territory in
 Asia  after  Singapore  by  Transparency International . That
reputation is under threat after a series of controversies
concerning conduct of officials, adding pressure on new Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying to increase scrutiny and
accountability.  “The public has come to expect increasingly high standards
of accountability and integrity of its public officials,”
former Independent Commission Against Corruption commissioner
Timothy Tong said at a conference in May.  As many as 400,000 protesters marched this month against
social issues including perceived collusion between government
and business tycoons. Some lawmakers have also lodged an ICAC
complaint against Leung over unauthorized building structures
discovered at his home. Leung, whose development secretary
resigned last week after being arrested by the ICAC in a
separate probe, is scheduled to address lawmakers today.  Wrongdoing Denied  Raymond Kwok , 59, told reporters outside Hong Kong’s
Eastern Magistrates Court July 13 that he would prove his
innocence. His brother Thomas, 60, has previously denied
wrongdoing. Sun Hung Kai said later the same day the brothers
would continue as co-chairmen, assisted by two newly promoted
deputy managing directors.  Hui, 64, declined to comment to reporters after his court
appearance. The Kwoks, Hui and the two others charged in the
case, Sun Hung Kai executive director Thomas Chan and Francis Kwan, were granted bail.  Hong Kong’s property sector is a flash point amid growing
popular discontent about a widening wealth gap and high  home
prices , according to Dane Chamorro, Asia Pacific director at
risk consultancy Control Risks.  “ Hong Kong  real estate is a classic high corruption risk
environment where a small group of players dominate the industry
and is reliant upon government for the supply of the main asset:
land,” he said.  Most Expensive  The average gross household income of the poorest 10
percent of Hong Kong people fell to HK$2,170 ($280) per month in
2011 from HK$2,590 in 2001, according to a June 18 census
report. The city has the world’s most expensive homes, with
prices advancing more than 80 percent since the start of 2009,
according to data compiled by Centaline Property Agency.  Scrutiny of the real estate sector “plays to popular
sentiment given the unprecedented run-up in property prices,”
Chamorro said.  Leung’s government should aim to resolve “deep-rooted
conflict,”  China ’s President  Hu Jintao  said in a speech after
swearing Leung in on July 1. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
emphasized the importance of running a graft-free government at
Leung’s appointment ceremony.  Giving kickbacks or providing favors to authorities
“occurs innumerable times on a daily basis in China,” Daniel Chow, a law professor at  Ohio State University , wrote in a
Wisconsin Law Review  article  about the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act and its applications in China.  China 75th  Situations where a government official refers a company
under their supervision to do business with another one owned by
a relative of the official are common, according to Chow.  Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index
in 2011 ranked Hong Kong the  12th-cleanest  out of 183 countries,
and second in Asia after Singapore. China ranked 75th, behind
Tunisia and  Brazil .  “There is a major anxiety among some Hong Kong people,”
said Sonny Lo, a professor of social sciences at the Hong Kong
Institute of Education. Is the use of connections and favors as
seen in mainland China “seeping into the political and social
fabric of Hong Kong society?”  Under Control  The ICAC was set up in 1974 after a police commander under
investigation for graft managed to walk through immigration
controls and onto a London-bound plane. The British colonial
administration acted following street protests against graft
that was “as much a part of life as breathing,” with illegal
gambling establishments and drug pushers rampant, according to
Stephen Char, who joined the commission in 1976 and worked there
for 29 years.  “Corruption is under control now but recent cases have
shown the situation could deteriorate,” Char said. “The ICAC
has wide powers of investigation and those powers are
necessary.”  Leung, the third person to lead Hong Kong since it returned
to Chinese rule in 1997, has pledged to remove exemptions that
protect the chief executive from criminal prosecution for
accepting perks such as accommodation.  His predecessor,  Donald Tsang , apologized for accepting
trips to Macau and  Thailand  on yachts and jets owned by
businessmen. Akina Fong, an ICAC spokeswoman, declined to
comment on whether the commission is investigating Tsang. The
 Department of Justice  decides on prosecutions, she said.  Broad Powers  With the ICAC’s role expanding -- its employees have
tripled since its formation to about 1,300 -- defense lawyers
criticize the agency’s arrest powers and lack of time limits on
when it must bring charges.  The concept of “innocent-until-proven-guilty” doesn’t
apply, for example, to government workers whose assets are
discovered to exceed their salaries, said Andrew Lam, a Hong
Kong lawyer and an ICAC investigator from 1977 to 1980.  “If you don’t explain, you will be guilty,” Lam said.
“The existence of the ICAC is beneficial to society as a whole
but justice for individuals is sometimes sacrificed.”  Lam himself was an ICAC target, charged with perverting the
course of justice in relation to a witness held in its custody.
He was  cleared  by Hong Kong’s highest court in 2010 after six
years and two appeals. More transparency, openness and
accountability would prevent an agency with such wide-ranging
powers from being exploited, he said.  Independent Review  Investigations can only be terminated with the endorsement
of an independent Operations Review Committee, according to
Fong. The 17-member group includes a former secretary for
constitutional affairs, current legislators, the chief executive
officer of a Hang Seng Index company, and the chairman of a
local hospital board.  The Hong Kong public demands robust  law enforcement  against
bribery, which the ICAC is equipped to tackle, according to
Tong, who was succeeded as ICAC commissioner on July 3 by former
Immigration Department chief Simon Peh.  “Recent times have seen in Hong Kong a clear shift away
from the quid-pro-quo bribery situations to a more sinister form
of self-generated advantage,” Tong said at an anti-graft
conference in May.  Public officers can abuse their position to obtain perks or
other private benefits, he said, and one challenge for the
ICAC’s efforts is the gap between public expectations and legal
definitions of corrupt behavior.  Officials should ask themselves if their conduct, even if
innocent or lawful, could be seen by the public as
inappropriate, Tong said.  If so “alarm bells should ring. In short, the sunlight
test applies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  