-- Ontario Teachers’ Private Equity Targets India
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-07-13T12:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/ontario-teachers-private-equity-targets-india.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  is
seeking private investments in India and  Latin America  to
diversify its emerging-markets focus beyond  China  and Hong Kong,
said Jane Rowe, head of private equity at the fund.  Canada ’s third-biggest pension plan, with C$117 billion
($115 billion) in assets, made its first foray into India by
investing in Mumbai-based private-equity firm Kedaara Capital
Advisors LLP, Rowe said. Kedaara is led by Manish Kejriwal,
formerly of Singapore’s Temasek Holdings Pte., and Sunish Sharma
and Nishant Sharma, previously from General Atlantic LLC.  “India’s too big to ignore,” Rowe, senior vice president
of Teachers’ Private Capital unit, said in a July 9 interview at
her Toronto office. “We should get a snapshot into what’s
taking place in the market, and we hope that in working with
Kedaara that that will be a good insight into the country.”  Teachers’ is among Canadian pension funds including Caisse
de Depot et Placement du Quebec and Canada  Pension Plan 
Investment Board that have pursued transactions outside Canada
to diversify beyond stocks and bonds. The funds have been
involved in 96 foreign deals totaling $83 billion in the past
three years, investing in toll roads, airports and shopping
malls, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Teachers’ is also looking at investing in private-equity
funds in Latin America for the first time. The Toronto-based
 fund manager , which has C$11.5 billion in private investments
primarily in  North America , Western  Europe  and Asia, is “open
for business” and has capital to invest worldwide, Rowe said.
The buyout fund unit is looking for investments that require
between C$75 million and C$300 million of equity.  ‘Incremental Opportunity’  “We’re looking for pockets of incremental opportunity in
places around the globe,” Rowe said. “We have to be open to
 emerging markets , we have to be open to the displacements that
are taking place in Europe.”  Teachers’ Private Capital invests directly in companies or
collaborates with other firms on deals, and also backs funds in
industries and regions where it doesn’t have a presence, such as
India and Latin American countries.  “We’re only just turning our minds to Latin America,”
Rowe said. “As a pension plan we’ve done a great job finding a
lot of great places to put capital at work in Latin America.
Examples include our infrastructure group in  Chile , real estate
in Brazil, and our relationship investing in Brazil.”  The firm is keeping its “core focus” on North America,
where there are “a lot of great companies and great management
teams that have value-creation plans that they want to
execute,” Rowe said.  North American Investments  Teachers’ Private Capital has about two-thirds of its
investments in North America, with stakes in U.S. companies
including health-store chain  GNC Holdings Inc. (GNC)  and sports
equipment maker Easton-Bell Sports Inc., and collaborated with
funds including  Providence Equity Partners  Fund VI LP and Silver
Lake Partners III LP in the past two decades.  Rowe said Teachers’ is also “actively looking” to invest
in funds and companies in Europe, where the firm has worked with
private equity firms such as BC Partners Ltd. and bought stakes
in companies including U.K.-based Acorn Care and Education.  Teachers’ agreed today to buy a 75 percent stake in
Norwegian outdoor apparel designer Helly Hansen Group AS from
Altor Fund II. The price wasn’t disclosed.  Teachers’ remains active in Canada. Last month, it joined a
group including  BCE Inc. (BCE) , Providence Equity Partners and Madison
Dearborn Partners LLC that agreed to buy data-center operator Q9
Networks Inc. for C$1.1 billion. The pension fund is also
waiting to close a sale of its majority stake in Maple Leaf
Sports and Entertainment Ltd. to  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  and
BCE, a C$1.32 billion deal announced in December.  Toronto and London  Rowe, a former executive vice president at  Bank of Nova
Scotia , was hired by Teachers’ in October 2010 to head its
private-equity unit. She oversees about 40 investment staff in
Toronto and London.  The private-equity unit, formed in 1991, has an internal
rate of return of 19 percent since it began, Rowe said.
Teachers’ has invested in more than 300 companies and funds and
spent C$23.6 billion in capital since inception, according to
its  website .  Teachers’ invests and administers retirement savings of
300,000 active and retired teachers in Canada’s most-populous
province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  