-- Moody’s Cuts Pakistan Credit Rating Deeper Into Junk
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-07-13T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/moody-s-cuts-pakistan-credit-rating-deeper-into-junk.html
Pakistan ’s credit rating was lowered
deeper into junk status by Moody’s Investors Service, which
cited dwindling currency reserves and political instability.  The foreign- and local-currency bond ratings were cut one
step to Caa1 from B3 with a negative outlook, Moody’s said in a
statement yesterday. That hands Pakistan its lowest assessment
in more than a decade, putting it on the same level as Cuba and
below countries including  Nicaragua .  The main driver of the move “is the increasing strain on
the country’s external payments position as a result of a rising
trade deficit and decline in capital inflows,” Moody’s said.
Weak government finances, inflationary pressures and political
uncertainty also weigh on Pakistan’s creditworthiness, it said.  Pakistan’s $200 billion economy faces the fastest inflation
in  Asia , lingering power blackouts, an insurgency on the Afghan
border and reduced aid flows. Political tension has increased
after a dispute between civilian leaders and the judiciary led
to Yousuf Raza Gilani’s ouster as prime minister last month.  The benchmark Karachi Stock Exchange 100  Index (KSE100)  fell 0.5
percent to 14,332.29 yesterday. Pakistan’s rupee, which has
weakened about 9 percent against the dollar in the past 12
months, was little changed at 94.425 per dollar.  ‘Bad News’  “This is really bad news for the market,” said Abdullah Ahmed, head of treasury at Karachi-based  Meezan Bank Ltd. (MEBL) , the
nation’s biggest Islamic lender. “Banks, which are the biggest
lenders to the government, will have to revisit their investment
strategy. Bond investors will certainly ask for a higher
interest rate after this downgrade.”  Large debt repayments to the  International Monetary Fund 
due in the period from 2012 to 2015 contributed to the ratings
action, Moody’s said. Pakistan has to repay about $7.5 billion,
with $1.2 billion already handed over as of June, it said.  Foreign-exchange reserves declined to $14.9 billion on July
12 from a record $18.3 billion at the end of the same month in
2011, figures from Pakistan’s central bank show.  The government estimates the economy probably expanded 3.7
percent in the 12 months ended June 2012. It has a goal of 4.3
percent growth for the current fiscal year, even as political
volatility and power blackouts of as long as 18 hours a day in
major cities threaten to deter investment.  ‘Odd’ Timing  The nation’s top court yesterday directed Prime Minister
Raja Pervez Ashraf to seek the reopening of graft cases against
President Asif Ali Zardari by July 25. Judges ousted his
predecessor Gilani for refusing to abide by a similar order.  The “factious” relationship between Pakistan’s elected
political leaders, the judiciary and the military undermines the
government’s ability to formulate policies to address domestic
economic challenges, Moody’s said.  Still, the timing of the ratings cut is “a bit odd” as
Pakistan will soon receive more than $1 billion from the U.S.,
said Asif Ali Qureshi,  executive director  at Optimus Capital
Management Pvt. in Karachi. He added investors are more
optimistic now than a couple of months ago when ties between the
two countries frayed.  The Pentagon is preparing to release about $1.1 billion
withheld from Pakistan’s military after the South Asian nation
agreed this month to reopen supply routes into  Afghanistan .  The withheld dollars are part of the U.S. Coalition Support
Fund to reimburse Pakistan for its support of U.S. counter-
insurgency operations, Pentagon spokesman Navy Captain John
Kirby said on July 5. Payments were suspended last year amid
increased U.S.-Pakistan tensions.  Moody’s said it may downgrade Pakistan again if its
political environment deteriorates substantially and currency
reserves decline further.  Pakistan left  interest rates  unchanged for a fourth meeting
in June to counter inflation exceeding 11 percent. That’s the
fastest pace of price increases in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  