-- Lopez Obrador Files Legal Challenge to Void Mexico Election
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-13T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/lopez-obrador-files-legal-challenge-to-void-mexico-election.html
Mexican presidential candidate
Andres Manuel  Lopez Obrador  filed a legal challenge seeking to
invalidate Enrique Pena Nieto’s July 1 victory, saying the
 Institutional Revolutionary Party  bought votes and violated the
country’s constitution.  “There was a massive vote-buying operation,” Lopez
Obrador said at a press conference in Mexico City yesterday.
Pena Nieto’s campaign has “cheated” the people, he said.  Lopez Obrador said that his campaign is presenting evidence
to the nation’s electoral tribunal that the PRI, as Pena Nieto’s
party is known, had ballots marked in favor of its candidate
before the election began. Pena Nieto also benefited from
favorable media coverage, Lopez Obrador said.  The PRI will defend the election’s results before the
tribunal against the “unfounded” charges, party leader Pedro
Joaquin Coldwell said in a televised speech yesterday following
Lopez Obrador’s remarks.  A recount of more than half of 50.3 million ballots cast
was completed July 6, giving Pena Nieto 38.2 percent compared
with 31.6 percent for Lopez Obrador.  This is about “defending the votes of millions of Mexicans,
who driven by a democratic spirit, went to the polls to
demonstrate their political preferences,” Coldwell said. “The
only problem with this election is having had a proven and
repeatedly bad loser.”  After losing the 2006 race to President  Felipe Calderon  by
less than a percentage point, Lopez Obrador’s supporters
occupied Mexico City’s central plaza and main business avenue
for weeks with encampments. Lopez Obrador said Calderon’s
victory was the result of fraud.  Movement  This time, Lopez Obrador, who is from the Democratic
Revolution Party, said he’ll start a peaceful “movement to
defend democracy.” He did not specify what actions the movement
would take.  The electoral tribunal, which has final authority over
voting results, has until Sept. 6 to decide on the case and
announce the next president, who would assume office Dec. 1.  Lopez Obrador’s challenge is unlikely to change the results
of the vote, although it probably will slow legislation Pena
Nieto has pledged to promote even before taking office, said
 Carlos Ramirez , an analyst with Eurasia Group, a Washington-
based policy research organization.  “It will increase the political cost the victorious
Institutional Revolutionary Party will face in proposing reforms
early in the new political cycle,” Ramirez said in a research
note July 11. The challenge “will immediately test Pena Nieto’s
real commitment to reforms,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  