-- Mortgage Database MERS Reaches Settlement With Delaware
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-13T20:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/mortgage-database-mers-reaches-settlement-with-delaware.html
Merscorp Holdings Inc. , which
operates a mortgage registry, settled a lawsuit brought by the
Delaware Attorney General  Beau Biden  that accused the company of
engaging in deceptive practices.  Merscorp Holdings agreed to conduct regular audits of its
records for accuracy and maintain a database that allows
homeowners to learn who owns their mortgage, Biden said today in
a statement.  The MERS system, which tracks ownership interests in
mortgages and servicing rights, has been targeted in lawsuits by
the attorneys general of  New York  and  Massachusetts . Biden
contended in his lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington that the company’s records were inaccurate and that
it impeded the ability of homeowners to fight foreclosures and
obtain loan modifications from lenders.  Banks created MERS to reduce costs and speed up the process
of bundling mortgages into securities, according to Biden. The
company built “an unregulated shadow mortgage registry” that
allows mortgage records to be changed without any oversight,
Biden said in court papers.  Bank of America  Merscorp Holdings’ shareholders include  Bank of America
Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and mortgage-finance companies  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac , according to its website. Bank of America
and Wells Fargo were among five banks that reached a
$25 billion settlement with state and federal officials this
year over foreclosure practices.  Biden said his settlement will increase the transparency
and accuracy of mortgage records.  “MERS’s inaccurate and unreliable records raised serious
questions about who owns what in America,” the attorney general
said in the statement. “The steps MERS will now take will help
answer those questions.”  The settlement agreement requires Merscorp Holdings to
maintain a database accessible online and by phone that allows
homeowners to see who owns their mortgage and services the loan,
according to Biden’s office. Records of the MERS system must be
audited, with the results reported to Biden’s office, the
attorney general said.  Merscorp Holdings already has implemented the measures in
the settlement nationally except the reports to Biden’s office,
Jason Lobo, a company spokesman, said in a phone interview. The
Reston, Virginia-based company didn’t admit to wrongdoing.  ‘Best Interests’  “We are pleased to have come to an agreement with the
state of Delaware that both serves the best interests of
Delaware homeowners and protects the value Merscorp Holdings
brings to its members,” Chief Executive Officer Bill Beckmann
said in an e-mailed statement.  Jason Miller , a Biden spokesman, said in an e-mail that
Merscorp Holdings may have voluntarily taken steps to correct
its records after state and federal authorities exposed its
problems. Under the settlement, the company is obligated to make
reforms and “will be held accountable if it does not follow
through,” Miller said.  The case is Delaware v. Merscorp Inc., CA6987, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  