-- Hovnanian Swaps Drop, Bonds Climb on Lot Deal With Blackstone
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-13T20:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/hovnanian-swaps-drop-bonds-climb-on-lot-deal-with-blackstone.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  bonds
rose to the highest price since May 2011 and the cost to protect
against its default declined after Blackstone Group LP agreed to
buy a group of development lots from the homebuilder.  Hovnanian’s $797 million of 10.625 percent notes climbed
4.3 cents to 101.75 cents on the dollar at 3:54 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The yield fell to 10
percent from 11.4 percent. Credit-default swaps on Hovnanian’s
debt dropped 8.4 percentage points to a mid-price of 30.1
percent upfront, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  Blackstone’s GSO Capital Partners LP will add to a
portfolio of Hovnanian housing development sites that totals 620
lots costing $65 million, including both acquisition and
development expenses, the companies said today in a statement.
GSO also intends to raise its equity stake in  New Jersey ’s
biggest homebuilder by exchanging $15 million of Hovnanian’s
notes for about 3.9 million shares.  The deal provides “a sizable liquidity source that will
enable Hovnanian to buy enough land to grow the company,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by Susan Berliner wrote in a
note to investors today. “GSO now has a vested interest in
HOV’s survival and perhaps” would be willing to provide
additional capital, the analysts wrote.  Capital Boost  JPMorgan raised its recommendation on  Red Bank , New Jersey-
based Hovnanian debt to ‘neutral’ from ‘underweight,’ citing
recovery in new-home sales and the capital boost provided by
GSO. The debt-to-equity exchange should reduce Hovnanian’s
interest expenses by $1.7 million, the analysts estimated.  Hovnanian reported its first profit after eight quarters of
losses on June 6 as rising demand for new homes boosted revenue
in the quarter ended April 30.  New home sales  rose to an annual
rate of 369,000 in May, the most since April 2010, according to
data from the Commerce Department.  “We firmly believe that the U.S. residential real-estate
market has bottomed and that Hovnanian is uniquely positioned to
capitalize on the recovery,” Doug Ostrover, GSO founding member
and partner, said in the statement.  ‘Sufficient Liquidity’  The $125 million deal with Blackstone announced today gives
Hovnanian the option to buy back the lots on a quarterly basis.
Hovnanian and New York-based Blackstone plan to identify
additional land parcels totaling as much as $60 million to add
to the portfolio, according to the statement.  “Many investors were worried that if the demand
environment continued to improve, Hovnanian Enterprises would
not have sufficient liquidity to participate in the housing
recovery,” Barclays Plc analysts led by Vincent Foley wrote in
a note to investors today. “This new partnership could solve
this issue.”  Hovnanian’s credit-default swaps, which typically fall as
investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, mean
investors would pay $3.01 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of the company’s debt.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  