-- Low Temperatures in Brazil Coffee-Growing Areas May Hurt Trees
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-13T12:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/low-temperatures-in-brazil-coffee-growing-areas-may-hurt-trees.html
Low temperatures in coffee-growing
areas over the weekend in Brazil, the world’s largest producer,
may hurt some trees, according to broker Flavour Coffee.  A cold front will bring low temperatures to cultivation
areas in the southern part of  Minas Gerais , the biggest arabica-
producing state, Somar Meteorologia said in a report yesterday.
Temperatures will reach 1 degree Celsius (34 degrees Fahrenheit)
in high places in the region, the weather forecaster said,
adding that there was no risk of frost in growing areas and some
trees could “feel the effects of the cold air.”  “Generally speaking, young trees if exposed to low
temperatures tend to suffer more than adult and old trees,” Rio
de Janeiro-based Flavour Coffee said in a report e-mailed
yesterday. “Temperatures should drop considerably, perhaps even
reaching freezing in some high districts.”  Rains in growing areas in June delayed the start of the
crop and are resulting in “poor” quality beans, Flavour Coffee
said. Most of the coffee traded this week was from the 2011-12
season that ended last month, according to the report.  “The volume of new sales on exporters’ books is below,
much below historical Brazilian arabicas participation on FOB
market at this time of the year,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker at
Cazarini Trading Co. in Varginha,  Brazil , said in a report e-
mailed yesterday. He was referring to the export market.  Buyers of fine cup coffee for shipment in September to
December are getting a discount of 12 cents a pound to the price
on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New York , unchanged from
last week, the broker said. Good cup quality beans for August
and September are trading at a discount of 20 cents a pound to
the exchange price, also unchanged, data from the broker show.  Price Difference  Fine cup quality beans are usually 3 to 4 cents more
expensive than good cups, according to Flavour Coffee. Rains are
set to reduce the availability of fine cup coffee, helping widen
the price difference between the two.  “The issue so far is more one of delays and a loss in
quality, rather than quantity of bags,” Judy Ganes-Chase,
president of Katonah, New York-based J. Ganes Consulting LLC,
said in a report e-mailed yesterday. “Usually, this would be
reflected more differentially than on an outright basis.”  Buyers of conillons, as Brazilian robusta coffee is known,
are paying a premium of 7 cents a pound ($154 a metric ton) to
the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London  for July and
August shipment, according to Flavour Coffee data. That is
unchanged from last week.  “Local roasters and soluble industry were active buyers,”
the broker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  