-- Palo Alto Said to Receive Enough Orders to Cover IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-07-13T17:57:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/palo-alto-said-to-receive-enough-orders-to-cover-ipo.html
Palo Alto  Networks Inc., the
provider of Internet firewalls that’s planning to go public next
week, has attracted more than enough orders to cover its share
sale, according to a person with knowledge of the process.  The person, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are private, declined to indicate by how many
times the initial public offering is oversubscribed. Palo Alto
and its shareholders are selling 6.2 million shares at $34 to
$37 each, regulatory  filings  show.  Technology companies are winning investors’ interest as the
U.S. market picks up again after a monthlong drought following
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s May 17 IPO, the largest on record for an
Internet business. Palo Alto and four other companies aim to
complete initial offerings in New York next week, the busiest
since April 30.  The offering is scheduled to price on July 19, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mike Haro , a spokesman for Santa
Clara, California-based Palo Alto, didn’t respond to an e-mail
message and a phone call seeking comment. Pen Pendleton, a
spokesman for  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the bank leading the sale,
declined to comment.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
are also helping manage the sale.  Higher Valuation  The midpoint of Palo Alto’s price range would value the
company at about $2.36 billion, or about 11 times  sales  in the
12 months through April, Bloomberg data show. That’s almost
double the average of 5.7 times for similar-sized  peers  such as
Juniper Networks Inc. and Check Point Software Technologies
Ltd., which are named as competitors in Palo Alto Networks’
filing.  The Palo Alto, California-based company, founded in 2005,
is offering 4.69 million shares to fund working capital, while
existing holders are offering 1.5 million, regulatory filings
show. Venture firms  Greylock Partners  and  Sequoia Capital  aren’t
selling shares and combined will own more than 41 percent of the
company after the IPO.  Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK) , Five Below Inc.,  Fender Musical
Instruments Corp. (FNDR)  and Durata Therapeutics Inc. are also
scheduled to go public in the U.S. next week. Together with Palo
Alto, the companies are seeking to raise a combined $693
million, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  