-- Pentagon Restarts $100 Million Fund to Speed Arms Exports
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-07-13T15:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/pentagon-restarts-100-million-fund-to-speed-arms-exports.html
The U.S. Defense Department has
restarted a fund designed to speed exports of military gear to
allies, with $100 million for initiatives such as stockpiling
equipment for resale to partners.  The Defense Security Cooperation Agency, which oversees
foreign military sales, won congressional approval in this
year’s budget to revive the Special Defense Acquisition Fund to
“provide speed and flexibility to the Foreign Military Sales”
program, agency spokesman  Charles Taylor  said in an e-mail in
response to questions.  The Defense Department will coordinate with other U.S.
departments in advance and use the fund to buy military
equipment from U.S. suppliers, such as body armor, night-vision
devices, armored vehicles and small patrol boats in anticipation
of demand from allies and partners, Taylor said. Otherwise, the
agency must wait for a buying nation to sign a letter of
agreement with the U.S. before it can place orders, he said.  Top U.S. suppliers of such equipment include body-armor
maker  Ceradyne Inc. (CRDN)  of  Costa Mesa , California;  Exelis Inc. (XLS)  of
McLean, Virginia, a maker of night-vision gear; and  Oshkosh
Corp. (OSK)  of Oshkosh,  Wisconsin , which makes armored trucks.  The export fund was established in 1981 and stripped of
money when defense budgets were trimmed in the 1990s “as part
of the peace divided,” Taylor said.  The Pentagon fund has been used in the past to export items
such as radios, ammunition, anti-tank missiles, Stinger
missiles, and trucks to countries in the Middle East during
Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm, according to the
Pentagon agency’s website.  Export Teams  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has said it’s critical to
improve the capacity of U.S. allies and partners around the
world to police their neighborhoods. The Pentagon’s strategic
guidance issued in January calls for “sharing the costs and
responsibilities of global leadership.”  The Pentagon created Expeditionary Requirements Generation
Teams last year that send “acquisitions experts abroad to help
our allies better define and better streamline their requests,”
Panetta said in a June 28 speech in Washington.  The teams help allies draft letters of request for U.S.
equipment and assist in obtaining the material, Taylor said.
Teams have completed missions in Uzbekistan and Bulgaria, he
said.  The teams generated 33 letters of request for Uzbekistan
and Bulgaria, of which four orders were completed, author Susan
McClure wrote in an article published last year by the Defense
Institute of Security Assistance Management. The Pentagon’s
Defense Security Cooperation Agency didn’t specify what items
were delivered to both countries when asked in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  