-- Peregrine Bankruptcy Judge Lets Firm Run Through Sept. 13
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-13T20:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/peregrine-bankruptcy-judge-allows-firm-to-run-through-sept-13.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
Chapter 7 liquidation trustee can operate the firm until at
least Sept. 13, a  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  judge said.  Judge Carol A. Doyle in  Chicago  issued the ruling today
after Robert Fishman, a lawyer for Trustee  Ira Bodenstein , said
his client needed time and a number of critical employees to
complete work that was in progress when the firm sought
 bankruptcy protection  on July 10.  There were “numerous transactions in the middle of being
executed” when the bankruptcy filing was made, Fishman said.
Without the requested time and retained staff it would be
“simply impossible” to accurately assess the firm’s holdings
and figure out who they belong to, he said.  Peregrine, based in  Cedar Falls ,  Iowa , with offices in
Chicago, filed for bankruptcy a day after the  National Futures
Association  said it identified a shortfall of about $200 million
in customer funds on deposit.  Its bankruptcy petition lists more than $500 million in
assets and more than $100 million in liabilities. The broker
estimates it has more than 10,000 creditors, according to the
filing.  Russell Wasendorf Sr., the firm’s founder and chairman, was
arrested today on a charge of making false statements to federal
regulators, U.S. Attorney Stephanie Rose in  Cedar Rapids , Iowa,
said. He is due to make an initial appearance before a federal
magistrate judge there later today.  Signed Statement  On July 9, Wasendorf was found by employees semiconscious
in his car outside the Cedar Falls office, having attempted
suicide by piping exhaust fumes into a car’s passenger
compartment, according to the Black Hawk County sheriff’s
department report. He was hospitalized immediately.  Found with him was a signed statement in which the founder
said he’d been embezzling Peregrine funds for two decades,
according to an affidavit by  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
Special Agent William F. Langdon filed in court with the
criminal complaint.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued
Peregrine and Wasendorf in federal court in Chicago on July 10,
alleging they misappropriated client funds and that at least
$200 million was unaccounted for.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in Chicago appointed
attorney Michael Eidelman as receiver for the business and for
Wasendorf.  ‘Still Incapacitated’  Randall Lending, a lawyer for Eidelman, appeared at today’s
hearing. Afterward, he said he had no new information about
Wasendorf’s condition except that the Peregrine founder was
“still incapacitated.”  Late yesterday, Bodenstein’s lawyer filed papers with Doyle
seeking permission for the trustee to temporarily run the firm
with 57 key employees. It had a staff of 241 before the
bankruptcy.  “He needs to operate this business for a while,” Fishman
told the judge, explaining Bodenstein wouldn’t solicit new
customers or engage in trading.  Doyle called the trustee’s proposal a “logical route” to
follow and granted the request without opposition.  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  