-- Peregrine Chief Wasendorf Charged With False Statements
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-13T22:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/peregrine-chief-wasendorf-charged-with-false-statements.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Russell Wasendorf Sr. said in a signed
statement linked to his suicide attempt that he committed fraud
for two decades at his  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based company,
according to a federal complaint.  Wasendorf, 64, charged by U.S. prosecutors with making
false statements to federal regulators, was ordered to be held
in custody today by U.S. Magistrate Judge Jon Scoles at an
initial appearance in a  Cedar Rapids , Iowa, federal court,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Deegan said in a telephone
interview. Scoles set a detention hearing for July 18.  Wasendorf appeared in court with Assistant Federal Defender
Jill Johnston, Deegan said. Johnston didn’t immediately reply to
a voice-mail message seeking comment on the proceeding.  Peregrine filed for bankruptcy a day after the  National
Futures Association  said it identified a shortfall of about
$200 million in customer funds on deposit. Wasendorf told the
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation that the estimated amount of
loss from his fraud exceeded $100 million.  False Statements  Its bankruptcy petition lists more than $500 million in
assets and more than $100 million in liabilities. The broker
estimates it has more than 10,000 creditors, according to the
filing.  “Wasendorf made false statements to the United States
Commodity Futures Trading Commission regarding the value of
customer segregated funds held by Wasendorf’s company, Peregrine
Financial Group Inc.,” from 2010 to July 2012, Cedar Rapids
U.S. Attorney Stephanie Rose said today in press statement
announcing the charges.  The commodities regulator, in its own complaint filed at
the U.S. courthouse in  Chicago  on July 10, accused Wasendorf and
his firm of misappropriating at least $200 million in customer
money. “The whereabouts of the funds is currently unknown,”
the agency said.  Wasendorf attempted to commit suicide outside the firm’s
Cedar Falls office building on July 9, according to a Black Hawk
County,  Iowa , sheriff’s report.  “I have committed fraud. For this I feel constant and
intense guilt,” Wasendorf said in a signed statement detailing
his fraud that was found with a suicide note with him in his
car, according to an affidavit by FBI agent William F. Langdon
filed on July 11.  Customer Accounts  “Through a scheme of using false bank statements I have
been able to embezzle millions of dollars from customer accounts
at Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,” Wasendorf wrote, according
to the signed statement. “The forgeries started nearly 20 years
ago and have gone undetected until now.” He even learned to
deceive regulators by forging online bank statements, he said in
his statement.  Wasendorf left a copy of that statement for his son in the
company office before trying to kill himself. He verified that
he wrote the statement, according to the complaint.  Starting with Firstar Bank, which became  U.S. Bank , and
Harris Bank, Wasendorf forged the company’s bank statements,
“the very core of PFG,” the futures brokerage, he said. He
also made forgeries of official letters and correspondence from
the bank, along with trade confirmation statements. He used
Photo Shop, Excel, scanners, laser and ink jet printers to
produce “convincing forgeries” of almost every bank document.  After closing the Harris Bank account, Wasendorf “only had
to falsify” one set of statements, he said.  Sole Access  The key to his 20-year fraud was maintaining sole access to
the company’s accounts at U.S. Bank, the Peregrine founder said.
The statements were always delivered to him directly when they
arrived by mail. Within a few hours he had made counterfeit
statements and gave the forgeries to his accounting department,
he said.  “No one else ever saw an actual U.S. Bank statement,” he
said.  Wasendorf, who started the futures brokerage as a one-man
shop working out of the basement of his home, hid his fraud from
his employees “with careful concealment and blunt authority,”
he said.  As the company grew, he added workers, making sure
“everyone knew I was the guy in charge,” he said. “If anyone
questioned my authority I would simply point out that I was the
sole shareholder.”  Rules, Procedures  He was the only one with online access to PFG’s account,
and instructed the bank’s representatives to “interface” only
with him. He would establish such “rules and procedures as each
new situation arose,” he said.  Forged statements and account confirmation forms contain
“purported” signatures of authorized U.S. Bank representatives
that were sent to regulators, according to the affidavit.  Wasendorf’s son, referred to in the affidavit as Russ Jr.,
first examined a forged Peregrine bank statement on July 9,
obtaining it from Peregrine’s accounting department on the day
of his father’s suicide attempt, he told law enforcement
officers.  Financial statements based on a forged bank statement
showing Peregrine’s customer accounts at U.S. Bank with a
balance of $221.8 million as of Dec. 31 was sent to regulators
including the CFTC, according to the affidavit. The account
actually held only $6.3 million, it said.  ‘Difficult Decision’  “I had no access to additional capital and I was forced
into a difficult decision: Should I go out of business or cheat?
I guess my ego was too big to admit failure,” Wasendorf said in
his statement.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12mj131, U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).
The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).
The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-5383, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  