-- Peru Bonds Rally Most in Year on Outlook for Global Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-07-13T20:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/peru-bonds-rally-most-in-year-on-outlook-for-global-stimulus.html
Peruvian bonds posted their biggest
weekly advance in a year amid speculation central banks around
the world will take more action to bolster growth, spurring
demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market assets.  The yield on the nation’s 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond
due in August 2020 fell 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage
point, to 4.64 percent today, extending the week’s drop to 27
basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s
the steepest fall since the week ended May 6, 2011. The price
rose 1.94 centimos this week to 121.22 centimos per sol.  “ Peru  has benefited from the liquidity flowing into”
emerging-market debt, said Estefany Castillo, an economist at
Scotiabank Peru in  Lima . “The sol isn’t very volatile and has
an appreciatory trend, so it’s less risky in the eyes of a
foreign investor.”  The sol gained 0.2 percent to 2.6240 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit. Data
from Peru’s financial regulator show that’s the strongest level
since 1997. The currency advanced 1 percent this week.  Demand for the currency stems from expiring sol
non-deliverable forward contracts and companies’ buying soles to
pay worker bonuses, central bank research director Adrian Armas
told reporters on a conference call today.  The central bank  bought  $184 million in the  spot market 
today to slow the sol’s advance, extending its purchases this
week to $360 million.  Treasuries fell and U.S. stocks gained as slowing expansion
in  China  fueled wagers policy makers will boost stimulus
measures. A “significant” number of European Central Bank
Governing Council members are prepared to ease monetary policy,
including cutting the deposit rate further, if the region’s
financial crisis worsens, according to a report from Medley
Global Advisors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  