-- Peugeot Falls to 23-Year Low on Possible Government Role
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-13T15:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/peugeot-plunges-over-state-intervention-concerns-paris-mover.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  plunged to a new
23-year low over concerns that the French government may step in
after Europe’s second-largest carmaker announced plans to close
a factory and cut jobs.  Peugeot dropped 54 cents, or 7.7 percent, to 6.48 euros in
Paris trading today. The stock has plummeted 76 percent in the
last year, valuing the French carmaker at 2.3 billion euros
($2.8 billion).  Moody’s Investors Service today placed its Peugeot rating
on review for a possible downgrade, a day after the carmaker
said it will close the first auto factory in  France  in 20 years
and cut a total of 14,000 jobs to stem mounting losses. Industry
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said the government doesn’t “accept
the plan as it is.” Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault called the
closing and workforce reductions a “true shock.”  “You get headlines that the French government might not be
entirely happy with the plan that Peugeot has presented here,”
said Erich Hauser, a Credit Suisse analyst in  London  with an
underperform  recommendation  on the shares. “That leaves the
shareholders in a very vulnerable position and makes it
increasingly likely that you need some sort of government
support. The risk is definitely on the side of shareholders.”  Peugeot’s bonds fell the most of any corporate security in
the Markit iBoxx Euro Corporates Non-Financials index. The
carmaker’s 4.25 percent bonds due 2016 fell 2.9 euro cents today
to 96.03 cents on the euro, extending the week’s decline to 3.5
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cash Burn  Credit-default swaps on Peugeot jumped 28 basis points
today to 757, near the record 777 set June 27 and up from 400 in
March. A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros annually. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Peugeot has been consuming about 200 million euros in  cash 
monthly since the middle of last year, and has a target of
restoring operating cash flow to a break-even level by the end
of 2014, the company said yesterday. The first-half operating
loss at the automotive unit will reach 700 million euros
compared with profit of 405 million euros a year earlier.  Capacity utilization at Peugeot’s factories in the period
dropped to 76 percent from 86 percent a year earlier.
Overcapacity in western  Europe  may more than double to about 2
million vehicles in 2012, according to research company IHS
Automotive.  Rising Overcapacity  Moody’s, which rates Peugeot one level below investment
grade at Ba1, said the decision to place the Paris-based
carmaker on watch for a possible downgrade was “triggered by a
deterioration in the company’s already weak capacity utilization
of its European plants in the first half of 2012, resulting in a
high cash-burn rate.”  “If Peugeot were downgraded by one notch, it would most
probably trigger a downgrade for its bank,” Anne-Barbara Nicco,
a fixed income analyst at Oddo Securities, said by phone. “The
bank would remain rated in the investment grade category, but
with higher financing costs. But that wouldn’t be the end of the
world. Peugeot is able to keep a comfortable liquidity situation
to finance any cash burn until the end of next year at least.”  Peugeot sold 1 billion euros in new stock to existing
shareholders this year and plans to sell 1.5 billion euros in
assets to raise cash and lower its debt load. Peugeot is
planning to sell a majority stake in its profitable Gefco
trucking unit, Luc Nadal, the unit’s chief, said this week.
Peugeot aims to complete the sale by October, he added.  Asset Sales  Asset disposals thus far have included the Citer vehicle-
rental unit that the carmaker sold to Enterprise Holdings Inc.
on Feb. 1 for 440 million euros and an agreement announced April
2 to sell Peugeot’s 48-year-old headquarters building in Paris
to Ivanhoe Cambridge for 245.5 million euros.  “You can easily calculate with these items that the level
of financial security has been improved in the first half,”
Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a Peugeot spokesman, said in an email.
“It is more than sufficient to cover our financial needs and
will largely also cover the cost of restructuring.”  Peugeot’s first-half deliveries slumped 13 percent, in
contrast to an 8.9 percent increase in group sales reported
today by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest carmaker, which was
bolstered by Asian and U.S. growth.  Slumping Market  Europe’s auto market, which peaked in 2007, may not recover
to pre-recession levels until 2018,  Renault (RNO)  SA sales chief
Jerome Stoll said on July 11, when he scrapped the French
carmaker’s target range for sales growth in 2012. Renault is
still predicting it will deliver more vehicles this year than
last because of growth outside Europe.  “What’s happening at PSA doesn’t take us by surprise,”
French President  Francois Hollande  said in an interview
published today by Le Monde newspaper. “It’s not up to me to
call a meeting at the Elysee Palace,” his residence and office.
“It’s the role of the concerned ministers to be socially
involved.”  Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin said in an interview
on RTL radio today that he’s ready to “open the books” to the
government to show that French labor costs are too high. Another
round of car-scrapping incentives isn’t the answer, Varin said.
The CEO said yesterday at a Paris press conference that seeking
state help is “not on the agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  