-- Philippine Stocks Movers: AgriNurture, JG Summit, Robinsons Land
-- B y   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-07-13T08:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/philippine-stocks-movers-jg-summit-robinsons-sm-investments.html
Shares of the following companies
had  unusual  moves in  Philippine (PASHR)  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close in Manila.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  rose 0.2 percent to
5,214.52, snapping a five-day losing streak. The measure fell
2.8 percent this week, the sharpest loss since the week ended
May 18.  AgriNurture Inc. (ANI)  , a fruit and vegetable grower,
rose 1 percent to 8.49 pesos, the highest close since July 9.
The company is negotiating and finalizing expansion and
acquisition agreements in  Hong Kong , China, Australia, the U.S.
and Europe, it said in a stock-exchange filing. It will use unit
AgriNurture HK as a vehicle for the acquisitions, the filing
said.  Robinsons Land Corp. (RLC)  , the nation’s second-largest
shopping mall operator, increased 3.8 percent to 18.20 pesos,
the highest close since May 8.  JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS)  ,
parent of Robinsons, rose 2.1 percent to 32.70 pesos, snapping a
four-day retreat. Robinsons is in discussions with Japanese
billionaire Kazuo Okada in connection with his Manila casino
project and “nothing definitive has been concluded,” Robinsons
President Frederick Go said. The Philippine Daily Inquirer
reported that Robinsons is in talks to run the project’s gaming
and retail operations.  Megaworld Corp. (MEG)  , the residential towers builder
owned by billionaire Andrew Tan, increased 1.8 percent to 2.22
pesos, the sharpest gain since June 29. Tan’s group may build
the residential component of Okada’s casino resort, according to
Kristina Garcia, investor relations officer at Alliance Global
Group Inc., Tan’s publicly listed holding company and parent of
Megaworld. “Talks are very preliminary,” she said.  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SMPH)  , the nation’s biggest
shopping mall operator, increased 3.9 percent to 13.38 pesos,
the sharpest gain since June 18. The stock’s 12-month share-
price estimate was raised to 16.50 pesos from 15.53 pesos by
Alex Pomento, analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd.  With assistance from Ian Sayson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  