-- Polish Rate Setter Calls for Biggest Rate Cut Since 2009
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-13T09:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/polish-policy-maker-calls-for-biggest-rate-cut-since-2009-1-.html
Poland ’s central bank, which raised
borrowing costs two months ago, has room to deliver the biggest
cut in its  main interest rate  since 2009 to fight an economic
slump, central banker Andrzej Bratkowski said.  “It would be justified to cut the rate by half a point at
the September meeting,” Bratkowski  told TVN CNBC television 
late yesterday. Economic growth will slow to less than 2 percent
in the fourth quarter and will be “slightly” more than 2
percent for the full year, he said.  That would be the biggest reduction since the Narodowy Bank
Polski lowered its benchmark rate by 75 basis points in February
2009 as the European Union slipped into recession. Poland was
the 27-nation bloc’s only member to avoid a contraction that
year. The economy is set to expand 2.7 percent this year, the
slowest since then, according to the EU.  The central bank, which has kept its benchmark rate at 4.75
percent since May, doesn’t predict a pickup in  inflation ,
leaving it free to cut interest rates to boost economic growth
if required, Governor  Marek Belka  told journalists in Beijing
yesterday. He also said economic growth may decelerate to about
2 percent “for one or two quarters,” adding that if that were
to happen, the slowdown will be followed by a rebound.  ‘Serious Risks’  “A half-point cut would mean the economy is weakening
severely and for now nothing like that is happening,”  Piotr Bielski , an economist at  Bank Zachodni WBK (BZW)  in Warsaw said in a
telephone interview. “Bratkowski, though, clearly sees serious
risks outside Poland and points to a necessity of considering
that negative external environment in Polish monetary policy to
a larger extent.”  The zloty traded at 4.2028, a 0.1 percent gain from late
yesterday. The government’s 10-year bond yields fell to 4.968
percent, the lowest since April 2006.  Unlike most central banks from  Brazil  to  Turkey , Polish
policy makers have maintained a tightening bias, having raised
rates in May by a quarter-point after inflation exceeded their
target for 20 months. Belka said that time that “he hopes the
sentence on possible tightening won’t disappear from the bank’s
post-meeting statements as it would be a bad sign on the Polish
economy.”  The Czech central bank cut its main  interest rate  to a
record low of 0.5 percent on June 28. European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi yesterday said inflation in the euro area
is slowing faster than expected, justifying last week’s rate cut
to a record low of 0.75 percent, when the ECB also reduced its
deposit rate, which has steered market rates since the financial
turmoil started, to zero.  ‘Not Convinced’  The Polish Monetary Policy Council will hold its next rate
meeting on September 4-5. None of eight rate changes passed by
the council since the 75 basis-point cut in 2009 was bigger than
a quarter point.  Jan Winiecki, another member of the rate-setting panel,
today said he sees no reason to lower interest rates.  “I’m not convinced of the inflation slowing trend,” he
said in an interview with TVN CNBC.  Forward-rate agreements, or FRAs, used to speculate on
interest rates, dropped to 43 basis points below the Warsaw
interbank offered rate at 9:30 a.m. in Warsaw, the most since
April 2009 and showing expectations for a quarter-point rate cut
within six months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Full Justification’  The inflation rate will fall to 1.8 percent in 2014, below
the central bank’s 2.5 percent target, from 2.7 percent in 2013
and 3.9 percent this year, according to updated inflation and
GDP Projection published by the central bank July 9. Economic
growth will ease to 2.1 percent in 2013 from 2.9 percent this
year, before rebounding to 3 percent in 2014.  “The falling inflation rate, weaker economic growth and
the government’s planned fiscal consolidation provide full
justification for a preemptive rate cut,” Elzbieta Chojna-Duch,
a member of the central bank’s Monetary Policy Council, said in
an interview on July 9, citing the “unambiguous picture”
provided by the bank’s forecast. She declined to say if she
would submit a motion to lower borrowing costs adding that “a
rate cut could occur this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  