-- Pro-Obama Super-Pac Raised $6 Million in June for Attacks
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-14T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/pro-obama-super-pac-raised-6-million-in-june-for-attacks.html
A super-political action committee
devoted to helping re-elect President  Barack Obama  raised more
than $6 million in June, its best month yet, said  Bill Burton ,
Priorities USA Action co-founder and former White House
spokesman.  The super-PAC has taken in a total of $20 million and has
another $20 million in commitments, Burton said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend. Priorities expects to raise and spend $100
million by the Nov. 6 election between Obama and presumptive
Republican nominee Mitt Romney, he said.  Democrats initially were reluctant to give to super-PACs,
organizations that can receive unlimited donations from
individuals and corporations, which emerged after a 2010 Supreme
Court decision. Burton said they’re now opening their
checkbooks.  “People look at the polls, and they see this is a tight
race,” he said. “And I think that they’re concerned about the
hundreds of millions of dollars that’s coming in from the right
in this election.”  Burton said he anticipates fundraising help from some of
Obama’s Cabinet members, as well as former President  Bill Clinton  -- though none has pitched in to date. “He has said he
will be helpful,” Burton said of Clinton.  Obama, who had expressed a distaste for super-PACs, in
February signaled to his supporters that contributions to
Priorities would help him hold the White House.  Big Donors  Irwin Jacobs, the former chairman of  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , and his
wife, Joan, contributed $2 million in June, Burton said.   Other
donors include  Dreamworks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg , who gave $2 million in startup money
May 2011 and comedian  Bill Maher , who wrote a $1 million check
in February.  Most super-PACs and the presidential candidates are due to
report their June fundraising numbers to the  Federal Election
Commission  by July 20.  Priorities has aired 5,959 television ads in five swing
states in the 30-day period ended July 9, according to New York-
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. The five
states are  Colorado , Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Virginia,
which have a total of 89 electoral votes.  All of the ads are critical of Bain Capital LLC, the
Boston-based private-equity firm that Romney co-founded. Burton
said the super-PAC has spent “$10 million talking about Mitt
Romney’s career in business” -- an expenditure that he said has
paid off.  Bain Damage  “It’s one of the only things that’s actually moved numbers
in this race,” Burton said. “You look at any public poll, any
private poll, the focus groups, they all say that. What was
supposed to be  Mitt Romney ’s biggest asset, his experience in
business, has actually become one of his biggest liabilities.”  An ABC News/Washington Post  poll  out this month and a Wall
Street Journal/NBC  survey  last month showed that people who live
in swing states -- where the attack ads dominate the airwaves --
are more likely than the general population to view Romney’s
business career negatively.  The Obama campaign is also weighing in on Romney’s tenure
at Bain.  Ads by Priorities and the president’s campaign team, which
by law cannot coordinate, feature laid-off workers from GST
Steel, a Kansas City company that Bain took over in 1993. It
went bankrupt in 2001.  ‘Offshoring’ Jobs  Priorities and the Obama campaign also have said that Bain,
during Romney’s tenure, invested in companies that shipped work
to overseas  call centers  and factories, “offshoring” U.S.
jobs.  Romney’s campaign has fired back with TV ads calling such
attacks “unfair and untrue.” Romney says he left operational
duties at Bain in 1999 to run the Salt Lake City 2002 Olympics.  “I had no role whatsoever in managing  Bain Capital  after
February of 1999,” Romney said in an interview yesterday with
 CNN . “This is all an effort on the part of the president’s
campaign to divert attention from the fact that the president
has been a failure when it comes to reigniting America’s
economy.”  Romney’s assertions about his role at Bain after February
1999 have come under scrutiny since federal and state business
filings show him listed as the sole stockholder or chief
executive officer in Bain-related investments and funds as late
as 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  