-- Protest Artist Creates Big Noise at New York’s Whitney
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/protest-artist-creates-big-noise-at-new-york-s-whitney.html
A 100-foot-long (30 meter) white
curtain, stretching almost the width of the  Whitney ’s third-
floor gallery, is the first work you encounter in the exhibition
“Sharon Hayes: There’s So Much I Want to Say to You.”  Printed across it in big black letters is the artwork’s
title: “Now a chasm has opened between us that holds us
together and keeps us apart.”  The work’s cryptic and multipurpose function (sign,
paradox, invitation, barrier) is a metaphor for this mid-career
retrospective, which lures viewers in, then keeps them at bay.  Born in 1970, Hayes is a “protest” artist who straddles
the line between art and dissent. Her platform is the street and
the soapbox, not the studio and the easel. She works mainly with
words (written and spoken, her own and others).  Rough around the edges, the show at the  New York  museum is
a site-specific installation that utilizes fabricated and found
artworks, including dozens of yard signs, all arranged on and
around a series of stepped wooden platforms and bleachers
resembling those used at political rallies.  Headache-inducing, it comprises a confusing cacophony of
rebellious voices -- an oversaturation of signage, words, images
and talking heads (some loud, some silent, some heard only
through headphones), all buoyed by the acrid smell of new, raw
plywood and cheap carpet.  Vintage Words  It features posters, videos, recordings, taped
performances, sound works and ephemera. Plastered around the
gallery is a collection of vintage record albums featuring the
spoken words of dignitaries from  John F. Kennedy  to  Jerry Falwell  to Dwight Eisenhower and Evel Knievel.  The show embraces issues as diverse as heartache, war,
poverty, apartheid,  women’s rights , gay pride, the abduction of
Patty Hearst and the shooting of Trayvon Martin.  One spoken-word record, presenting the wisdom of Rev.
Francis L. Filas, asks: “The Battle of the Sexes … can it be
avoided?”  Hayes clearly has a lot to say. Amid this onslaught of
verbosity, however, it’s almost impossible to hear the
individual -- let alone the artist -- among the mob.  Clearer and more concise is the Whitney’s “Signs &
Symbols,” a handsome though uneven exhibition of about 80
drawings, prints, paintings, photographs and sculptures from the
mid-1940s to the late-1950s.  Abstract Mythology  The show’s premise is that the postwar period in the U.S.
is usually associated with the machismo and heroic scale of
Abstract Expressionism but that mid-century American
abstractionists also explored more intimate and universally
symbolic forms and mythologies.  Unfortunately, “Signs & Symbols” perpetuates the myth
that U.S. art of this period was born out of a break with,
rather than a reinvestigation of, earlier, revolutionary
European abstract art.  It also is pandering, predictable and occasionally off
course. Can’t the Whitney mount a 20th-century group show
without including one or more of the Pop trinity  Jasper Johns ,
 Roy Lichtenstein  and  Robert Rauschenberg ?  Despite these shortcomings, “Signs & Symbols” has merit.  Like the European abstractionists before them, artists here
draw on sources as varied as children’s art, primitive masks,
Egyptian hieroglyphs, prehistoric cave painting and calligraphy.  Crash Course  “Signs & Symbols” develops relational themes through a
diverse range of works by  Louise Bourgeois , Adolph Gottlieb,
Alfred Jensen, Louise Nevelson, Isamu Noguchi,  Jackson Pollock ,
 Mark Rothko  and  David Smith .  Letting your eyes wander among analogous forms is to get a
crash course in abstraction.  In Noguchi’s marble sculpture “The Gunas” (1946),
interlocking vertical forms suggest ancient architecture,
figures, totems, weapons and machines.  Noguchi’s enigmas speak to Smith’s “Hudson River
Landscape” (1951), a linear, steel sculpture that conflates
ship, bridge, river, face, mountain and lightning storm.  Flesh out “Signs & Symbols” with more Noguchi and Smith,
jettison Johns’s misplaced “Study for Three Flags” (1958), and
this show would be even clearer.  “Sharon Hayes: There’s So Much I Want to Say to You” runs
through Sept. 9 and “Signs & Symbols,” which is supported by
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , is on through Oct. 28 at the Whitney
Museum of American Art, New York. Information: +1-212-570-3600
or  http://whitney.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and  NYC
Weekend  Best.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 