-- Rangers Soccer Club Dropped to Scotland’s Fourth Level by Vote
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-07-13T15:25:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/rangers-soccer-club-dropped-to-scotland-s-fourth-level-by-vote.html
Rangers Football Club Plc was
dropped to the fourth tier of Scottish soccer in a vote of
Scottish Football League clubs today.  The 30 teams in the SFL, which oversees the three divisions
below the Scottish Premier League, voted at a meeting today in
Glasgow to have the reformed Rangers club start at the lowest
level. The club went into liquidation last month.  “Today’s decision has been one of the most difficult for
all concerned, but it has been taken in the best interests of
sporting fairness which is the fundamental principle of the
Scottish Football League,” the league said in a statement on
its website.  SFL Chief Executive David Longmuir said at a televised news
conference that 25 of the 30 clubs voted for Rangers to join the
Third Division.  The clubs had been asked to consider letting Rangers into
its top division in return for a 1 million-pound ($1.56 million)
payment from the Premier League for television rights, end-of-
season promotion playoffs and league reconstruction.  The 54-time Scottish champion went into liquidation after
U.K. tax authorities rejected a plan to allow the club to avoid
bankruptcy. The Glasgow-based club said in a  statement  on its
website the Premier League has talked of creating its own second
tier that Rangers would be invited to join.  “It was mooted last week that plans for an SPL2 would
swing into action in the event of today’s outcome, but it is not
known if this will be the case,” according to the statement.  10 Players  Manager Ally McCoist told the club’s website this month
that playing in the Third Division might give the club a better
chance of rebuilding after 10 players refused to join the new
company that Charles Green formed to buy the club’s assets for
5.5 million pounds.  The club was put into administration on Feb. 14 by previous
owner  Craig Whyte , who owed HM Revenue & Customs and other
creditors more than 134 million pounds, including potentially
more than 93 million pounds to tax collectors. The tax
authorities rejected a proposal for creditors to receive a total
of 8.5 million pounds as part of a Company Voluntary Arrangement
to let Rangers exit administration.  Whyte bought an 85 percent stake in Rangers last year from
 David Murray  for 1 pound, in return for repaying 18 million
pounds of loans to Lloyds Banking Group Plc.  Scottish soccer would “wither on the vine” if Rangers
wasn’t allowed to join the SFL’s top division, Scottish Football
Association Chief Executive Stewart Regan said on July 4. Clubs
in the Premier League may face losses of 15.7 million pounds if
Rangers was not admitted to the top division of the Football
League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net . 