-- Treasury Yields Rise Amid Central-Bank Stimulus Wagers
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-07-13T21:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/treasury-yield-is-3-basis-points-from-low-before-ppi-data.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields rose
from almost record lows amid speculation central banks around
the world will take more action to stimulate the economy.  U.S. stocks gained, snapping the longest losing streak in
almost two months for the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  and
lessening the allure of government debt, as slowing expansion in
 China  fueled wagers policy makers there will boost stimulus
measures. Treasuries fell after wholesale prices in the U.S.
unexpectedly increased in June for the first time in four
months, a government report showed.  “There’s a lot of concerns out there, and global growth is
diminishing,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist
in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21 primary dealers
that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “The expectations of
central banks helping out, doing something” to stimulate
activity, are growing.  The 30-year bond  yield  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.57 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell to an all-
time low of 2.5089 percent on June 1. The benchmark 10-year
note’s yield rose one basis point to 1.49 percent after dropping
to a record low 1.4387, also on June 1.  Treasury 10-year note yields will fall to 1.35 percent by
the end of the year, according to Credit Suisse Group AG, a
primary dealer.  “The risk-appetite rally has stalled,” Credit Suisse
researchers wrote in a note today. “The market now must
consider the real possibility of recession before the Fed even
gets around to executing an exit strategy.”  ‘Excessively Low’  The 0.1 percent gain in the  producer price index  followed a
1 percent decrease the prior month, Labor Department figures
showed in  Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 70 economists called for a 0.4 percent fall. Excluding
volatile food and energy, the so-called core measure increased
0.2 percent as projected.  Consumer prices were unchanged last month, after falling
0.3 percent in May, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the report on July 17.  “With yields at excessively low levels, it doesn’t take
much of a catalyst to push yields higher,” said Guy LeBas,
chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in Fixed income assets.
“It’s a response to the producer-price index numbers, which
were higher than expected.”  ECB, Fed  China’s growth slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest
pace since the global financial crisis, putting pressure on
Premier  Wen Jiabao  to boost stimulus to secure a second-half
economic rebound.  U.S. notes headed for a third  weekly advance  after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Italy’s debt rating, citing its
deteriorating outlook.  The  European Central Bank  is prepared to ease monetary
policy, including cutting its deposit rate further, if the
region’s financial crisis worsens, according to a Medley Global
Advisors report obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Fed has purchased $2.3 billion of mortgage and Treasury
debt in two separate rounds of quantitative easing, or QE. Some
Fed policy makers said the central bank will probably need to
take more action “to promote satisfactory growth in employment
and to ensure that the inflation rate would be at the
Committee’s goal,” according to the record of the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s June 19-20 gathering.  ‘Economic Slowdown’  “All indications look like there’s an economic slowdown
coming and Treasuries are still a good buy,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of Treasury trading at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York. “ Europe  reared its ugly
head again today. That’s why we have people flocking toward
Treasuries.”  The  term premium , a model created by the Fed that includes
expectations for  interest rates , growth and inflation, showed
Treasuries were at the most expensive level ever this week. The
gauge fell to a  record  negative 0.9617 percent on July 10. It
was negative 0.9273 percent today.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
2.07 percentage points, versus 2.29 percentage points year ago.  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to guide monetary
policy, was 2.43 percentage points as of July 10. The figure has
dropped from 2012’s high of 2.78 percentage points set in March.  “We could be due for a bit of a relief selloff,” said
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors. “But every selloff of late has been met by good
buying.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  