-- Reggie Jackson Apologizes for Critical Comments in SI Interview
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/reggie-jackson-apologizes-for-critical-comments-in-si-interview.html
Hall of Famer  Reggie Jackson  has
apologized for critical comments he made about Major League
Baseball players including  New York  Yankees third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  and the late New York Mets catcher Gary Carter.  The Yankees asked Jackson, 66, a special adviser to the
team, to stay away from the team before the All-Star break after
he challenged the legitimacy of Rodriguez’s home run total and
Carter’s admission into the Hall of Fame in a Sports Illustrated
article.  “In trying to convey my feelings about a few issues that I
am passionate about, I made the mistake of naming some specific
players,” Jackson said yesterday in a statement e-mailed by the
Yankees. “I have been proactively reaching out to make personal
apologies to those within the Hall of Fame community that I
offended, and to the Yankees organization for any disruption
that I caused in the clubhouse.”  Jackson spent five of his 21 major league seasons with the
Yankees and ranks 13th on the career list with 563 home runs.  In his comments to  Sports Illustrated , Jackson said he has
an issue with players who used performance-enhancing drugs and
that there are “real questions” about Rodriguez’s home run
totals because he acknowledged using such substances while with
the  Texas Rangers  from 2001-03. Rodriguez ranks fifth on the MLB
career list with 642 homers.  Jackson also discussed players he believes to be unworthy
of being in the Hall of Fame, a group he said includes Carter,
who died in February.  “This was inappropriate and unfair to those players, some
of which are very close friends of mine,” Jackson said. “There
are ways to speak from the heart without hurting people, and I’m
disappointed that I didn’t take greater care in expressing my
views.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  