-- Republican Tax Cut Costs Much More Than Obama’s: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   S t e v e   W a l s h
-- 2012-07-13T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/republican-tax-cut-costs-much-more-than-obama-s-bgov-barometer.html
Competing plans from President
 Barack Obama  and House Republicans for extending the Bush-era
tax cuts differ by $68 billion in what they would cost the
Treasury in lost revenue.  The BGOV Barometer shows Obama’s call for Congress to pass
a one-year extension of the cuts for families making less than
$250,000 annually would cost the U.S. $358 billion in forgone
tax revenue for a year. That compares with $426 billion from a
Republican plan to extend cuts for all earners, according to an
analysis by the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation
requested by Senate Finance Committee Republicans.  If the tax cuts were to be made permanent, the plans differ
by $966 billion in lost tax revenue over a decade, with the
Republican proposal costing the Treasury $4.5 trillion in
forgone revenue versus $3.6 trillion for Obama’s plan.  Extending tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans makes no
sense because it “would cost us about $1 trillion,” Obama said
in a speech July 10 in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.  A third approach -- extending tax cuts for everyone making
less than $1 million -- would make the dent in U.S. Treasury
revenue $25 billion larger than Obama’s plan, according to the
joint tax committee’s data.  U.S. Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, is among
lawmakers representing higher earners who have argued for such
an intermediate approach. Across a decade, such a plan would end
up costing the U.S. $366 billion more in lost revenue than
Obama’s proposal.  Tax Increase  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican presidential
nominee, portrays Obama’s proposal as a tax increase, rather
than maintaining the status quo for some. Romney said at a town
hall-style event in  Grand Junction , Colorado, on July 10 that
taxes shouldn’t be raised on job-creators.  If Congress doesn’t act, all tax cuts initially enacted in
2001 and 2003, during President  George W. Bush ’s first term, and
extended by Obama and Congress in 2010 would expire at year-end.
The top  tax rate  for ordinary income would climb to 39.6 percent
from 35 percent; the highest capital gains rate would rise to
23.8 percent from 15 percent, and dividends would be taxed as
ordinary income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Walsh in Washington at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  