-- RIM Must Pay $147 Million Over Mformation Patent
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/research-in-motion-must-pay-147-2-million-in-mformation-suit.html
Research in Motion Ltd ., the
BlackBerry device maker seeking a comeback after falling behind
Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , was found liable by a federal jury
for $147.2 million in damages for infringing patents held by
Mformation Technologies Inc.  Jurors determined that closely held Mformation, based in
Edison,  New Jersey , proved at trial in federal court in  San
Francisco  that RIM software enabling companies to manage
workers’ BlackBerry devices remotely from a server infringed
Mformation’s inventions. The software is called BlackBerry
Enterprise Server.  Mformation, a maker of mobile-device management software,
sued RIM in 2008, alleging infringement of two patents. The
company claimed it disclosed details of the technology to RIM
during licensing discussions. After refusing to take a license,
the BlackBerry maker modified its software to include the
patented systems, Mformation said in its complaint.  RIM denied wrongdoing and said the patents were invalid,
according to court filings.  Mformation proved that RIM should pay a royalty of $8 each
on 18.4 million units for a total of $147.2 million, the jury
found yesterday after a trial that lasted three weeks.  Past Sales  Amar Thakur, Mformation’s attorney, said the jury’s damage
award is for royalties on past sales of devices to nongovernment
U.S. customers. Damages for future sales outside the U.S. and
government customers could increase the amount by two to three
times, he said in an interview after the verdict.  RIM Chairwoman Barbara Stymiest said July 10 that the
company is considering all strategic options even as it pushes
for a January release of the BlackBerry 10. The release of the
BlackBerry 10 operating system, the linchpin of its comeback
plan, has been delayed twice. In June, RIM reported a first-
quarter loss excluding restructuring expenses that was more than
five times bigger than what analysts had predicted.  Sales tumbled 43 percent to $2.8 billion, and the company
said it would cut 5,000 jobs, about a third of its workforce.
RIM’s stock has lost about 95 percent of its value since peaking
in 2008. RIM’s share of the global smartphone industry fell by
more than half to 6.4 percent in the first quarter, according to
research firm IDC. Google’s Android increased to 59 percent,
while Apple accounted for 23 percent.  ‘Single Patent’  “While the verdict is in favor of MFormation on some
claims of the single patent remaining in suit, five of eight
claims were found to be invalid,” Crystal Roberts, a
spokeswoman for Waterloo, Canada-based RIM, said in an e-mail.
“The court still has to decide the question of ‘Obviousness’
with respect to the validity of the only patent in suit.”  Roberts said RIM has a pending request before the court to
reverse yesterday’s verdict.  The case is Mformation Technologies v.  Research in Motion
Ltd. (RIM) , 08-04990, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  