-- Tribune Judge Grants Approval for Newspapers Chain’s Exit Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/tribune-judge-approves-newspapers-chain-s-reorganization-1-.html
Tribune Co. won approval for its
reorganization plan, the first of two rulings the biggest
newspaper publisher in bankruptcy needs to leave court
protection.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey overruled the remaining,
minor objections to the plan and said in an opinion issued
yesterday in Wilmington,  Delaware , that he would sign an order
approving the plan after final wording changes were made.  “The confirmation process has been lengthy and hotly
contested in this bankruptcy,” Carey wrote, referring to one of
the many disputes that arose during the almost four-year-old
case.  Tribune may be able to exit bankruptcy by August, or by the
end of the year at the latest, depending on how long it takes
the Federal Communications Commission to make a key second
ruling, Chief Reorganization Officer Don Liebentritt said last
month.  Tribune finished the last major court hearing in its
bankruptcy last month.  “We have a great mix of media assets, our businesses are
profitable and we continue making progress on executing our
digital and mobile strategies,” Chief Executive Officer Eddy Hartenstein told employees in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
“There are a lot of exciting challenges ahead.”  The company still needs to win approval from the FCC to
transfer its TV and radio licenses to the new owners before it
can exit bankruptcy.  Legal Claims  Tribune, based in  Chicago , is trying for the second time to
win approval of a reorganization plan that settles legal claims
against the senior lenders that funded the company’s 2007
buyout, which some creditors said left the television and
newspaper company insolvent.  Tribune owes creditors about $13 billion. The company is
valued at more than $7 billion, Tribune said in court papers.  The company owns the Los Angeles Times, the  Chicago Tribune 
and television and radio stations around the country.  Under the reorganization plan, when Tribune exits
bankruptcy, the company will be owned by the lenders who funded
its 2007 $8.2 billion buyout.  The case is In re Tribune Co., 08-bk-13141,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  