-- Richard Zanuck, ‘Driving Miss Daisy’ Producer, Dies at 77
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-07-14T00:46:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/richard-zanuck-producer-of-driving-miss-daisy-dies-at-77.html
Richard Zanuck , the Oscar-winning
film producer behind “Driving  Miss Daisy ” and the son of the
founder of Twentieth Century Fox, has died. He was 77.  Zanuck, whose production credits included “Jaws” and
“The Sting,” died today of a heart attack at his home in
 Beverly Hills ,  California , according to a statement from his
publicist, Jeff Sanderson.  Fired from Fox by his father, Darryl F. Zanuck, the young
producer went on to a career that spawned some of Hollywood’s
most memorable films. They included the 1990 best picture winner
“Driving Miss Daisy,” featuring Jessica Tandy and  Morgan Freeman , and “The Verdict,” with  Paul Newman . He was an
uncredited executive producer on 1965’s “The Sound of Music,”
according to the Internet Movie Database.  “In 1974, Dick Zanuck and I sat in a boat off  Martha’s
Vineyard  and watched the mechanical shark sink to the bottom of
the sea,” Jaws director  Steven Spielberg  said in a statement.
“Dick turned to me and smiled. ‘Gee, I sure hope that’s not a
sign.’ That moment forged a bond between us that lasted nearly
40 years.”  Zanuck partnered with director Tim Burton on films for more
than a decade, including 2001’s “Planet of the Apes” and this
year’s “Dark Shadows,” released by  Warner Bros .  “Richard always gives it to me straight, even if it’s
something I don’t want to hear,” Burton told the Los Angeles
Times in May. “He has always based everything on the story and
the best thing for the film. That’s something you can see if you
look at his whole career as a producer. For me, there’s a lot of
trust.”  Fox Firing  Zanuck started in the business working for his father, who
co-founded Twentieth Century Pictures in 1933 and merged it with
the larger Fox Film Corp. in 1935.  Richard Darryl Zanuck was born in Los Angeles on Dec. 13,
1934. His mother was actress Virginia Fox. He graduated from
 Stanford University , and served in the military before joining
his father as a story and production assistant at Twentieth
Century Fox.  He produced his first film, “Compulsion,” at 24, and at
28 became the head of production at the studio. Over the next
eight years, Fox won three best-picture Oscars, for “The Sound
of Music,” “Patton” and “The French Connection.”  In 1970, according to the AP, Darryl Zanuck fired his son
in an effort to save his own job. The maneuver failed and the
father was soon out too.  “It was hard to see my father go through that,” Richard
Zanuck said of the episode, according to Imdb.com. “I recovered
from being fired, I don’t think he ever did.”  It wasn’t until shortly before Darryl Zanuck’s death in
1979 that the reconciled, the AP said.  Shark Incident  Richard Zanuck moved to Warner Bros., where he worked with
his future partner,  David Brown . They left to form Zanuck/Brown
Co., which lasted for a decade and a half. As an independent
producer, Zanuck helped Steven Spielberg make his first film,
“The Sugarland Express,” then the box-office hit “Jaws.”  In the statement, Spielberg said Zanuck “taught me
everything I know about producing.”  Zanuck produced numerous other movies, including “Cocoon”
and “The Road to Perdition,” as well as the 2000 Oscars
presentation with his third wife, Lili Fini Zanuck. His
collaborations with Burton include “Sweeney Todd,” “Charlie
and the Chocolate Factory and ‘‘Big Fish.’’  Zanuck was twice divorced. He married actress Lili Gentle
in 1958 and had two daughters, Virginia and Janet, according to
the AP. With Linda Harrison, whom he married in 1969, he had two
sons, Harrison and Dean.  He is survived by Lili F. Zanuck, whom he married in 1978,
his two sons and nine grandchildren, according to his publicist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Gittelson at 
 sgittelson@bloomberg.net  