-- Rich Passing Up $10 Million Opportunity to Gift Tax-Free
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/rich-passing-up-10-million-opportunity-to-gift-tax-free.html
John Glass expanded his family
business to more than 90 employees from seven workers over four
decades. Last year, U.S. tax laws prompted him to gift about $2
million of company stock to his three daughters.  Glass, 70, and his wife are debating passing on more of
their interest in Illco Inc., a refrigeration and air
conditioning distributor based in Aurora, Illinois, before the
lifetime  tax  exclusion on gifts of as much as $10.24 million per
couple expires Dec. 31. Like the majority of America’s
wealthiest families, they’ve yet to take full advantage of an
opportunity wealth advisers call unprecedented.  Families can save millions in taxes by making large gifts,
said Lisa Featherngill, a managing director at San Francisco-
based  Wells Fargo & Co.’s (WFC)  Abbot Downing wealth-management unit.
Fewer than 10 percent of clients with at least $10 million have
used even part of the exemption or plan to by December, said
two-thirds of certified public accountants surveyed by the
American Institute of CPAs. The New York-based group collected
data from 227 accountants who also are financial planners.  “The global economic issues that we experienced and
continue to see today have made individuals far more careful and
far more concerned with deciding to part with wealth,” said
Chris Heilmann, chief fiduciary executive at U.S. Trust, a unit
of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.  “There
is an unprecedented opportunity to take advantage” of the tax
break before it expires.  December Deadline  Legislation enacted in 2010, which raised the lifetime
gift-tax exclusion to $5 million from $1 million for each person
starting last year, is set to expire. For 2012, the inflation-
adjusted figure is  $5.12 million  for each person. It will drop
to $1 million on Jan. 1 unless Congress acts.  Money or property given while alive may be subject to the
gift  tax , and wealth transferred at death may incur levies
applied to estates, according to the  Internal Revenue Service .
Under current law, an estimated  3,300 households  may have to pay
estate taxes this year, according to the Washington-based  Tax
Policy Center . The figure would increase to about 52,500 estates
next year if the exemption drops to $1 million, data from the
nonpartisan research group show.  The dilemma Glass faces is making sure he and his wife have
enough money for the rest of their lives while also trying to
pass on their largest asset to their daughters who are employees
of the company, he said.  “I know how much time and energy and money my dad has
spent working with people trying to figure out how to pass a
company onto his kids who really want to take it,” said Karen
Madonia, 48, Illco’s chief financial officer and Glass’s middle
daughter. Bill Bergamini, a son-in-law, is the company’s
president.  Liquidating Inventory  Next year, the gift- and estate-tax exemptions are
scheduled to drop to $1 million per person with amounts above
that taxed at as much as 55 percent. Glass said if he and his
wife die next year and their combined taxable estate is worth
$10 million at the time, that means their daughters may have to
liquidate some assets or part of the business to pay those
taxes.  Under this scenario, the family may owe about $4.5 million
in federal estate taxes and about $1 million of  Illinois  estate
taxes, said Linda Hirschson, an estate-tax lawyer at Greenberg
Traurig LLP in New York.  Families are focused on whether the current gifting
opportunity will expire, and they aren’t rushing to pass on
wealth because the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009 has made
them more pragmatic about market  volatility , said Abbot
Downing’s Featherngill, whose clients usually have at least $50
million in investable assets. About 20 percent of her clients
have made large gifts in the past 18 months. Some have given
away less than the law allows and are waiting to transfer more
in the future if the exemption stays high.  Irrevocable Trusts  About 59 percent of accountants surveyed said their clients
who have or will use the gift-tax exemption are giving $1
million or less, data from the  American Institute of CPAs  report
show. The study is scheduled to be released this month.  For families with more than $100 million, deciding to
transfer as much as $10 million now may be an easier decision
because it’s a much smaller percentage of their net worth, said
John Olivieri, a partner in the private clients group at the law
firm White & Case LLP in  New York  who establishes trusts for
individuals and families. Many are setting up irrevocable trusts
for children or grandchildren and transferring assets such as
second  homes  that have the potential to appreciate.  New Hampshire  People are designating trustees in states such as New
Hampshire and  Delaware  because so-called dynasty trusts can
exist there without expiration dates and most assets in them may
appreciate forever without triggering federal gift, estate or
generation-skipping transfer taxes, said David Scott Sloan,
chairman of the private wealth services estate-planning practice
at the law firm Holland & Knight LLP in  Boston . Delaware has a
110-year restriction on  real-estate assets .  Trust assets overseen by Hampton, New Hampshire-based
Perspecta Trust LLC have increased 400 percent to more than $1.5
billion in the past two years, said Scott Baker, a principal at
the firm who also is chairman and president of the  New Hampshire 
Trust Council, a nonprofit organization representing the state’s
trust companies. Perspecta, which caters to those with more than
$100 million in net worth, has added six billionaire trust
clients since 2010.  “The goal is to have the appreciation take place within
the trust, or conversely, outside of one’s taxable estate,” he
said.  Projecting Growth  If a couple gifts $10 million of assets to a trust this
year, and if its value appreciates by 5 percent annually over
the next 30 years, the trust would be worth $43 million, Baker
said. That may save the family about $15 million in federal
 estate taxes  under the current 35 percent in the code. Should
the federal rate be 55 percent, as is scheduled for in 2013, the
savings would increase to more than $23 million.  “It’s not only moving $10.2 million today, it’s the growth
on that over 50 years,” said Chris Zander, one of the founding
partners at New York-based Evercore Wealth Management, whose
clients have at least $5 million in investable assets.  People should run the numbers and consider if the gift
works in the case of investments declining or increasing, and if
there’s a death of a spouse or divorce, said Nadine Gordon Lee,
president of the New York-based wealth-management firm Prosper
Advisors LLC, whose clients usually have at least $2 million in
investable assets.  “You don’t want to impoverish yourselves to take care of
your kids,” she said.  IRS Rules  Taxpayers also should be aware that if they retain a
partial interest in the property they intended to give away, the
IRS may drag it back into their estate for tax purposes upon
their death, said Sloan of Holland & Knight. Those who transfer
a second home and wish to still use it, for example, may have to
pay fair market rent to the new owners of the property.  Families considering making large gifts this year should
get their documents drafted now even if they want to wait until
December to “pull the trigger,” said Jere Doyle, senior vice
president at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.’s  wealth-management
unit. “By the end of the year, estate planning attorneys are
going to be up to their eyeballs.”  It takes time to have appraisals done on illiquid assets
for gift-tax purposes before they may be transferred into
trusts, said Saly Glassman, a managing director and wealth-
management adviser at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  “We don’t want to be starting the process and discussing
this over Thanksgiving,” she said.  Obama’s Proposal  The fate of the estate and gift taxes, like other
provisions in the code set to expire by Jan. 1, is tied up in a
fiscal debate between Republicans and Democrats as the November
presidential election nears. Neither party has called for
allowing the estate tax threshold to fall to $1 million.  President  Barack Obama  proposed in his most recent  budget 
to set the federal parameters at a $1 million gift-tax exemption
and $3.5 million estate-tax exclusion. Amounts above those
limits would be taxed at as much as 45 percent, compared with 35
percent today. The restoration of those parameters, which
existed in 2009, would reduce the nation’s deficit an estimated
$119 billion over the next decade, compared with today’s rules,
according to the proposal.  Illco’s Glass said he is waiting to see if Congress acts.  “If it looks like it’s going to the $1 million, I will do
another big transfer this year on Dec. 31,” said Glass, who
already has irrevocable trusts established for his daughters.
“You’re on pins and needles waiting for all of this to
happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  