-- Romania’s Interim President Says Constitution Wasn’t Breached
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-07-13T18:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/romania-s-interim-president-says-constitution-wasn-t-breached.html
Romania’s interim President  Crin Antonescu  said the country’s constitution wasn’t breached amid
impeachment proceedings against suspended President Traian Basescu.  Basescu was the only official who didn’t respect the
constitution and was suspended because of that by parliament,
Antonescu said today in a speech in Bucharest.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  and EU President
 Herman Van Rompuy  expressed concern over measures by Prime
Minister Victor Ponta’s government, while German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  condemned the cabinet’s efforts to curtail the
power of Romania’s Constitutional Court. EU officials warned
that a referendum on whether to remove suspended Basescu must
adhere to the law.  “The President of Romania, even if his interim, doesn’t
take orders from anybody, except from the parliament and the
citizens,” Antonescu said. “The laws of Romania are made only
in Romania.”  He added that “in what concerns the impeachment
referendum, there is no confusion: the legislator is the
parliament, not the  Constitutional Court .”  Barroso said in a statement yesterday after meeting Ponta
that the Romanian government should restore the powers of the
Court, appoint an ombudsman backed by all parties and establish
independent procedures to appoint a prosecutor and anti-
corruption czar.  Ponta assured EU leaders this week that the referendum on
whether to remove Basescu, scheduled for July 29, will respect a
court ruling requiring the participation of a majority of
eligible voters.  The political turmoil today pushed the leu to a record low
of 4.5688 per euro as of 4:02 p.m. in Bucharest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  