-- Romania’s Leu Drops to Record Versus Euro on Political Turmoil
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-07-13T10:16:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/romania-s-leu-drops-to-record-versus-euro-on-political-turmoil.html
Romania ’s leu declined to the lowest
level on record as concern deepened the political turmoil will
derail pledges to international lenders and Germany expressed
concern over government efforts to sideline the country’s high
court and oust the president.  Romania’s currency depreciated as much as 0.5 percent to
the lowest intraday level on record of 4.5633 per euro and
traded at 4.5618 as of 1:10 p.m. in Bucharest. The leu has
dropped 2.5 percent against the euro this month, the worst
performance among 27 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  The leu is headed for its second weekly decline after a
power struggle between President Traian Basescu and Prime
Minister Victor Ponta led to Basescu’s suspension on July 6.
Germany summoned the Balkan nation’s ambassador in Berlin to
express  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s “great concern” over the
efforts by Ponta’s government “to curtail the jurisdiction of
the constitutional court,” the country’s chancellery said in a
statement yesterday.  Romania is at risk of the government facing increased
pressure to relax fiscal policy, the  International Monetary Fund 
said July 2. Romania pledged to cut a  budget deficit  to below 3
percent of the economic output by the end of this year, under a
5 billion euros ($6.1 billion) precautionary accord with lenders
signed last year as a safeguard against  European debt crisis . A
review of Romania’s progress under the accord is set to start as
early as July 24, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Romania’s central bank Governor Mugur Isarescu, who may buy
and sell the leu to control swings in the currency, said
yesterday that the bank has limited room to prop up the currency
because a “massive sale” of funds would siphon off foreign-
exchange reserves too much amid foreign capital inflows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  