-- Romney Gets Cheney’s Help Fundraising at Resort Destination
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/romney-raises-cash-with-cheney-in-latest-resort-fundraising-stop.html
Mitt Romney, with help from former
Vice President  Dick Cheney , concluded his week-long fundraising
tour of resort destinations enjoyed by the rich and famous with
a stop at the mountain village of Jackson Hole, Wyoming.  Last night’s events for the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee included a dinner at Cheney’s home outside
Jackson Hole in Wilson. The $30,000-per-couple gathering wasn’t
open to the media.  Romney started his week with three July 8 fundraisers in
the Hamptons on New York’s Long Island, culminating in a dinner
at the Southampton beach house of  David Koch , an energy
billionaire. The next day he raised money in Aspen, Colorado,
followed by a stop in Hamilton, Montana, for a  fundraiser 
organized by brokerage company founder  Charles Schwab .  “I have some strong feelings about what we need in a
president, about how difficult the job is and the kind of
challenges a president has to deal with,” Cheney told several
hundred donors last night under a tent outside a country club at
an Arnold Palmer-designed golf course with views of the Teton
Mountain Range. “I think there is only one man that can be
president of the United States who meets those requirements, and
that’s Governor Mitt Romney.”  Romney, who called Cheney a “great American leader,” didn’t
mention former President  George W. Bush  in an almost 20-minute
speech, though he did mention Bush in later remarks at the
dinner.  Talented Fundraiser  A former private-equity executive, Romney has shown a
talent for fundraising throughout his presidential campaign,
most recently working with the  Republican Party  to surpass the
totals for President  Barack Obama  and allied Democratic
committees.  Last night’s reception, photo line and dinner -- with more
than 500 guests attending -- were expected to raise more than $4
million. Former Wyoming Senator  Alan Simpson  and billionaire oil
executive  Harold Hamm  were among those present.  Romney’s fundraising prowess has spurred Obama to sign an
e-mail appeal headlined, “I Will Be Outspent,” and his
campaign manager,  Jim Messina , to caution backers that a
Republican money advantage “could cost us the election.”  Still, this week’s stops by Romney in resort areas many
Americans can’t afford as vacation destinations potentially
bolsters the Democratic narrative of the Republican as an out-
of-touch multimillionaire. The  Democratic National Committee 
released  an ad  the day of the Koch-hosted fundraiser calling
attention to it.  Focus of Controversy  Democrats also zeroed in on Romney’s association with
Cheney, a focus of controversy during his tenure as Bush’s
second-in-command.  “It should come as no surprise that Vice President Cheney
is hosting a fundraiser for  Mitt Romney ,” Melanie Roussell, a
spokeswoman for the Democratic National Committee, said in a
statement. “Not only has Romney suggested we return to the
unilateral approach to foreign policy that got us bogged down in
Iraq, but he also plans to carbon copy the failed economic
policies of the past -- the same policies that benefitted a few,
while leaving the middle class out to dry.”  A Bloomberg National Poll last month showed a majority of
likely voters, 55 percent, view Romney as out of touch with
average Americans, compared with 36 percent who say that about
Obama.  Tapping the Wealthy  The president also has been raising money among the wealthy
and well-known. He attended a fundraiser at the Manhattan home
of actress  Sarah Jessica Parker  last month as well as one in May
at the Hollywood home of actor  George Clooney .  Romney’s campaign this week reported combining with
Republican Party committees to raise $106 million in June, more
than the $71 million announced by Obama and other Democratic
groups. It was the second straight month Romney and the
Republicans outpaced Obama and the Democrats in fundraising.  It’s become common for Romney to raise $2 million or more
on a single night. During his July 9 stop in Aspen, he collected
$2.5 million, according to a Romney campaign aide who wasn’t
authorized to disclose such information to the media.  The dinner at Cheney’s home could help Romney tap
additional financial support from Bush administration loyalists,
especially those who worked closely with the 71-year-old former
vice president. It also comes with some risk as Romney tries to
woo independent voters and some Democrats.  Polarizing Figure  Cheney remains a polarizing figure outside of the
Republican base, in part because of his backing of broad
executive powers and his sponsorship of aggressive interrogation
techniques such as simulated drowning known as waterboarding.  Romney has tapped several former Bush administration
officials to be advisers, including  Ed Gillespie , a political
strategist, and  Glenn Hubbard , who focuses on economic policy.
Whether Romney will assign Bush and Cheney speaking slots at the
 Republican National Convention  in Tampa Aug. 27-30 is unknown.  As he prepares to make a trip to Europe and Israel later
this month, Romney started to turn more attention to criticizing
Obama’s foreign policy.  “His foreign policy mistakes, I believe, may be even longer
lasting in their negative impact on the country,” Romney said,
after arguing that Obama has not kept his focus enough on
improving the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Wilson, Wyoming, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  