-- Romney Takes to TV Newscasts to Defend Record at Bain
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/romney-takes-to-tv-newscasts-to-defend-record-at-bain.html
Mitt Romney, on the defensive after
a fresh round of criticism over his record as a  Bain Capital  LLC
executive, struck back against the Obama campaign and called the
attacks “disgusting and demeaning.”  Under pressure from Republicans who want him to be more
forceful in responding to President  Barack Obama  and his allies,
Romney said he had no management role at the private equity firm
after February 1999 and demanded that the president apologize
for aides who claim he is lying about when he resigned his
position.  “I had no role whatsoever in managing Bain Capital after
February of 1999,” Romney said from Laconia,  New Hampshire , in
an interview with  CNN  yesterday. “This is all an effort on the
part of the president’s campaign to divert attention from the
fact that the president has been a failure when it comes to
reigniting America’s economy.”  Romney, who grants interviews sparingly, made the circuit
of five television newscasts last night. He is seeking to change
the narrative of the presidential race after a challenging week
in which he saw his economy-focused message largely drowned out
by Democratic charges that he had a hand in layoffs and job
outsourcing at Bain.  Globe Report  A July 12 report in the Boston Globe identified nine
Securities and Exchange Commission filings that named Romney as
the chief executive, among other positions, of Bain Capital
three years after he said he left the firm to run the 2002 Salt
Lake City  Olympic Games . Those were years in which Bain
completed a series of deals that resulted in relocating jobs
overseas and bankruptcies that led to worker firings. Romney’s
campaign has said he wasn’t part of that decision-making as he
was no longer at the firm.  The Globe report said documents filed with the SEC through
2002 listed Romney as “sole stockholder, chairman of the board,
chief executive officer and president.”  Obama campaign aides pointed to the report as evidence that
Romney committed a felony by misrepresenting his role in the
company in federal documents. In the interviews, Romney called
on Obama to apologize for those attacks.  “He ought to disavow it and rein in these people who are
running out of control,” Romney said on ABC News. “He sure as
heck ought to say that he’s sorry for the kinds of attacks that
are coming from his team.”  Tax Returns  Romney also said he doesn’t plan to release additional
years of tax returns beyond those for 2010 and 2011, though
officials in both parties have called on him to disclose more of
his filings. “Those are the two years that people are going to
have,” he said on CNN. “That’s all that’s necessary for people
to understand something about my finances.”  His media offensive came after several weeks of grumbling
among Republicans that Romney isn’t answering attacks about his
record from Obama and his allies, or presenting a compelling
enough case for his election.  “This man has a success pattern in his life,” said Mel
Sembler, a Romney fundraiser in  Florida . “We had better start
talking about it.”  Romney’s campaign has taken steps to bolster its messaging
operation, recently elevating longtime adviser  Kevin Madden , his
2008 spokesman, to a more prominent role in dealing with the
media and announcing yesterday it has hired two experienced
communications aides, Danny Diaz and Kevin Sheridan.  Television Ads  And Romney’s team sought his week to answer the Bain
criticism with a fresh round of television advertisements that
cast Obama as a desperate candidate making dishonest charges
about Romney’s Bain background.  A new ad uses a clip of Obama’s own words from the 2008
campaign. “If you don’t have a record to run on, then you paint
your opponent as someone people should run from,” Obama says in
the spot, his words interspersed with assertions that the recent
Bain reports had been found to be untrue.  Earlier yesterday, Obama said it is proper to scrutinize
Romney’s record at Bain.  “I think most Americans figure if you are the chairman,
CEO and president of a company, that you are responsible for
what that company does,” Obama said in an interview with
Washington television station WJLA. “That’s probably a question
that he’s going to have to answer and I think that’s a
legitimate part of the campaign.”  Annual Reports  Romney is named as one of two managing members of Bain
Capital Investors LLC in annual reports filed in  Massachusetts 
as late as 2002, adding a new corporate entity to a growing
number of Bain-related investments and funds that list the
Republican presidential candidate as controlling the company
three years after he said he left it.  Separate documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, reviewed by Bloomberg News, also show Romney in 2000
as the sole stockholder of Bain Capital Investors Inc.  Romney, 65, is worth as much as $250 million, according to
financial documents his campaign has released.  Bain said in a statement this week that it took a while to
transfer ownership to Romney’s successors “due to the sudden
nature” of his decision to run the Olympics. Until the
ownership situation was resolved, Romney continued to be listed
as the sole stockholder and in various executive positions in
SEC filings, the company said.  ‘No Involvement’  “ Mitt Romney  left Bain Capital in February 1999 to run the
Olympics and has had absolutely no involvement with the
management or investment activities of the firm or with any of
its portfolio companies since the day of his departure,” the
company said.  In August 2001, Bloomberg reported that Romney was quitting
the firm and would be a “special limited partner,” with
passive investments in Bain funds. His  voting rights  were
parceled out to the managing directors without any financial
payment, according to the Aug. 23 report.  “I will look for political opportunities in Massachusetts
and  Utah ,” Romney said in an August 2001 interview with
Bloomberg. “My family has a history of political involvement.”  He was elected governor of Massachusetts in 2002 and served
a single four-year term.  Obama led Romney, 50 percent to 43 percent, in a nationwide
poll released this week by the Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press. The  survey  gave Obama a 48 percent to 42
percent lead on who would do a better job of improving economic
conditions, and a 46 percent to 42 percent edge on improving the
job situation. The June 28-July 9 survey of 2,373 registered
voters has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.3 percentage
points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  