-- Rupiah Falls Most Since May as Exports Damp Growth; Bonds Drop
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-07-13T02:27:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/rupiah-falls-most-since-may-as-exports-damp-growth-bonds-drop.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah had its biggest
weekly drop since May and  government bonds  declined as exports
contracted and the central bank cut its growth forecast.  The economy will expand 6.1 percent to 6.5 percent this
year, compared with a previous estimate of 6.3 percent to 6.7
percent,  Bank Indonesia  said in a  statement  yesterday, after it
kept its  reference rate  at 5.75 percent. Indonesia may see
little to no export growth this year, after May’s overseas sales
contracted by 8.5 percent, the most since September 2009, Vice
Minister of Trade Bayu Krisnamurthi said on July 11.  “Weakening exports are definitely a concern because our
foreign-exchange reserves would go down and our supply of
dollars will decrease,” said Bayu Kurniawan, a currency trader
at PT Bank Ekonomi Raharja in Jakarta. “There will be a
slowdown in growth as driven by external factors, but it should
remain reasonable.”  The rupiah fell 1 percent this week to 9,501 per dollar as
of 9:11 a.m. in Jakarta, the biggest loss since the five days
ended May 25, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency was little changed today. One-month
implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to
price options, held at 8.25 percent.  The  World Bank  predicts the Indonesia economy may expand 6
percent this year, compared with its 6.1 percent estimate in
April, it said in a report yesterday. ING Financial Markets
forecasts Bank Indonesia will cut its reference rate by 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, before the end of the year,
 Tim Condon , chief Asia economist in Singapore, wrote in a report
released today.  The government’s benchmark 10-year bonds snapped seven
weeks of gains, pushing the  yield  up four basis points this week
to 6.10 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield
climbed one basis point today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  