-- Russia Seen Freeing Hands on Rates as Price Growth Jumps
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-07-13T16:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/russia-holds-rates-for-7th-month-as-inflation-reaches-2012-peak.html
Russia ’s central bank signaled for
the first time this year that it was prepared to combat
inflation with higher rates as risks to economic growth fade.  Policy makers voted to hold the  refinancing rate  at 8
percent, a quarter point above the record low, for a seventh
month, Bank Rossii said today in a statement on its website.
Money-market rates were at an acceptable level for the “nearest
future,” the bank said, dropping a reference to the “coming
months” used after every rates meeting this year.  The decision keeps the world’s largest energy exporter on
the sidelines of a global push for monetary stimulus as  Europe ’s
debt crisis threatens to derail the world economy. Brazil,
 India ,  South Korea  and  China  have reduced borrowing costs this
year to ease credit flows and spur growth.  “They’re freeing their hands to take any policy-rate
actions that may seem appropriate down the road,”  Alexander Morozov , chief economist at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Moscow, said by
telephone. “Overall it means a shift in terms of the balance
between inflation and economic growth risks in favor of a higher
risk related to inflation.”  Russian bonds advanced, sending yields to near two-month
lows. The country’s ruble-denominated bonds due in 2021 rose
after the announcement, bringing the yield down 15 basis points
to 7.96 percent, the lowest since May 3. Russia’s 2018 ruble
Eurobond also rose, cutting the yield 7 basis points to 6.291
percent.  Ignatiev’s Target  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev has set out to cap
inflation at 5 percent to 6 percent this year after delivering
record-low price growth in 2011. The regulator is shifting to
targeting inflation and aims to limit price growth to 5 percent
in 2014.  That goal has left Russia as the last major emerging market
to hold rates this year. Central bankers in China, Russia’s
largest trading partner, have cut rates twice since the start of
June to reverse a slowdown in growth. The  Bank of Korea 
unexpectedly cut borrowing costs for the first time in more than
three years yesterday after  Brazil  reduced its benchmark rate
for an eighth straight time.  Bank Rossii also held the auction-based  repurchase rate ,
its main tool for providing rubles to lenders, at 5.25 percent
and the  overnight deposit rate  at 4 percent. This month’s change
in wording may mean an increase in Russia’s policy rates should
inflation concerns persist and growth remain strong, Morozov
said.  Fastest Pace  Inflation was 5 percent as of July 9 compared with a year
earlier, the fastest pace since December, Bank Rossii said in
the statement. Consumer prices rose 4.3 percent from a year
earlier in June, up from a record-low 3.6 percent the previous
month after a drop in the ruble stoked costs for imported food.  The government’s failure to cope with rising prices and
falling incomes remains Russians’ top grievance with policy
makers, according to a  poll  published yesterday by the Moscow-
based  Levada Center . Forty-five percent of respondents said it
was a top concern, 15 percentage points above the next biggest
complaint over authorities’ inability to create jobs.  The government also increased prices on utilities such as
electricity and water from July 1, six months later than usual,
contributing to the increase in prices, the Federal Statistics
Service said July 11. Inflation in the year to date was 4
percent as of July 9, down from 5.1 percent in the same period
last year, the service said.  Growth Outlook  Growth in Russia, the world’s ninth-largest economy, slowed
in the second quarter to about 3.9 percent or 4 percent, Economy
Minister Andrei Belousov said late yesterday in Yalta, Ukraine.
Still, the government may raise its 2012 economic growth
forecast to as much as 4 percent from 3.4 percent now as
investment and retail sales grew more than forecast, he said
last month.  Russian economic output “remains near its potential
level,” and demand is not yet putting pressure on prices, Bank
Rossii said in the statement. Retail sales “remain high,” with
lending to households and low unemployment seen supporting
consumer demand going forward, policy makers said.  Bank Rossii and the Russian government have signaled they
are “quite afraid” of accelerating inflation, Vladimir Miklashevsky, an economist at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Helsinki, said
by e-mail.  “It is understandable from their point of view,” he said.
“High inflation is politically dangerous.”  ‘Additional Risks’  Accelerating food-price inflation “combined with
uncertainty regarding this year’s harvest of the main crops has
become a source of additional inflationary risks” the central
bank said today.  Russia’s grains and legumes crop will be about 85 million
metric tons, below the previous estimate of 94 million tons,
Agriculture Minister Nikolai Fedorov said June 25.  Still, that doesn’t mean Bank Rossii will rush to tighten
monetary policy, according to Dmitry Polevoy, chief economist
for Russia at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Moscow.  “The inflation shock comes from regulated tariffs, a low
base effect, and a rebound in food prices from the bottom,” he
said in an e-mail to clients. The factors are “all transitional
in nature and so will start reversing in the first half of
2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  