-- San Bernardino City Government Being Probed by Sheriff
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/san-bernardino-city-government-being-probed-by-sheriff.html
San Bernardino,  California ’s city
government, which has said it will seek bankruptcy court
protection, is being investigated for possible criminal activity
by the county sheriff’s department.  The investigation, which is also being conducted by the San
Bernardino County District Attorney and the city’s police
department, began “several months ago” at the request of city
officials, the sheriff’s department said yesterday in a
 statement  posted on its website.  The investigation was ongoing and details wouldn’t be
released, according to the statement.  Interim city manager Andrea Travis-Miller said there was no
evidence of fraud or criminal activity, only accounting
practices “that were sloppy at best.”  The city council voted July 10 to file for municipal
bankruptcy. If it files a Chapter 9 petition, it would be the
third California city this year to seek court protection. A
Chapter 9 filing allows the city to suspend payments to
creditors while it seeks court approval for a plan that balances
its revenue with its debt.  The city of 209,000, about 65 miles (105 kilometers) east
of Los Angeles, is so broke it can’t cover its payroll, Travis-
Miller said at the time of the vote.  San Bernardino would follow Stockton, a community of
292,000 east of  San Francisco , which on June 28 became the
biggest U.S. city to enter bankruptcy. Mammoth Lakes, a mountain
resort of 8,200, sought court protection from creditors July 3
saying it can’t pay $43 million owed on a legal judgment, more
than twice its general-fund spending for the year.  Confronting a $45 million shortfall, San Bernardino faces
insolvency because of deficit spending, pension and debt costs,
and a lack of revenue growth, according to a June 26 budget
analysis posted on the city’s website. Officials have declared
fiscal emergencies, negotiated for concessions from employees
and reduced the workforce by 20 percent in four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  