-- San Bernardino at Brink Awaits Calpers Pension Tab
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/san-bernardino-at-brink-awaits-calpers-pension-tab.html
The Southern  California  city of San
Bernardino has seen its workers’ pension costs more than double
since 2006, adding to the fiscal stress that led it to the brink
of bankruptcy.  Next week, the city of 209,000 will learn annual returns of
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , which may
say it failed to meet its investment target. When the nation’s
biggest public pension underperforms, the most-populous state
and its municipalities may have to help make up the difference,
straining budgets that are still rebounding from the recession
that ended in 2009.  “Pension funds lose money every time they don’t earn as
much as they assume they will earn,” said  David Crane , a
Democrat who was an economic adviser to former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a Republican. “When they don’t earn that, they
need the governments who are on the hook for all these
liabilities to put up more money.”  San Bernardino on July 10 became the state’s third
municipality to decide to seek  bankruptcy protection  in as many
weeks. Calpers, as the $234 billion pension is known, is already
the biggest unsecured creditor of Stockton because the city owes
the fund money for worker pensions. The community of 292,000
east of  San Francisco  on June 28 became the biggest U.S. city to
enter bankruptcy after talks with bondholders and labor unions
failed.  Pressured Cities  Growing obligations to workers are pressuring cities
nationwide.  Central Falls ,  Rhode Island , filed for protection in
August under the weight of labor costs. In the wake of the 18-
month recession, cities have faced diminished revenue and state
support, forcing officials to reduce services and payrolls.  Municipalities faced a fifth straight year of lower revenue
in 2011, according to the  National League of Cities .  Declining tax collections, growing worker costs and a
jobless rate in the metropolitan area of almost 12 percent
contributed to help push San Bernardino toward  bankruptcy court .  The city’s obligation to Calpers grew from $11.8 million in
2006 to $25.5 million in the fiscal year that began July 1,
according to annual reports prepared for the city by the fund.
Boosts to benefits and salaries, combined with an aging
workforce that increased retirements, contributed to the higher
pension costs.  “Calpers has said we can add benefits on and it won’t cost
us more,” said  Jim Morris , chief of staff to San Bernardino
Mayor Pat Morris. “When you open up new benefit levels that
puts upward pressure on everybody.”  The city faces a $45 million deficit, according to a budget
analysis.  Yield Demands  Investors this week demanded the most extra  yield  in six
months to own bonds of California localities amid the bankruptcy
votes. General-obligation debt from issuers in the state yielded
as much as 1.04 percentage points above top-grade securities on
average, matching the most since January, according to Bloomberg
Fair Value  index (SPX)  data.  Taxable Build America Bonds issued by the San Bernardino
Joint Powers Financing Authority in December 2010 and maturing
in 2030 traded yesterday at an average yield of about 9.3
percent, up from 7.6 percent July 9, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  The amount the city must pay as a percent of payroll for
firefighter and police pensions grew to 30.1 percent this year
from almost 19 percent in 2008. The increase was fueled in part
because Calpers had to increase requested contributions after
the fund lost almost a quarter of its value in the year through
June 2009. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 38.5 percent
in 2008.  ‘Financial Struggles’  “The financial struggles for California’s cities and
counties are difficult issues for everyone involved,”  Brad Pacheco , a Calpers spokesman, said in a statement. “Calpers is
committed to working with the affected parties to address
pension obligations. The unprecedented losses resulting from the
recession have impacted the rates we must charge to honor the
commitment employers have made to their employees.”  The fund expects to earn 7.5 percent annually to cover the
costs of providing pension benefits to almost 540,000 people. It
spreads out any gain or loss over 15 years to shelter
municipalities from volatility in yearly results.  Its daily market value was down about 2 percent for last
fiscal year through June 28, a period in which the  S&P 500 
gained about 0.6 percent. Still, the fund has beaten its
benchmark 15 times since 1990 and earned 7.9 percent annually on
average in the last 15 years. It is set to report its results as
soon as July 16.  Mayor’s Objection  San Bernardino’s City Council, over the objection of the
mayor, in 2007 granted more lucrative pension benefits to
workers, including allowing them to retire at the age of 55.  “It was a contentious thing,” Morris said. “It should
have never been done. Given longevity, we will soon end up
paying these people more in their retirement than they ever
earned on active duty.”  The city has 102 former employees who collect annual
pensions exceeding $100,000, according to data provided by
Calpers.  The $3.7 trillion municipal-debt market rallied yesterday
along with Treasuries. Yields on 10-year tax-exempt bonds rated
AAA fell 0.05 percentage point to 1.77 percent, the lowest since
mid-May, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Following are pending sales:  DORMITORY AUTHORITY OF THE STATE OF  NEW YORK  plans to sell
$1 billion of debt backed by personal-income-tax revenue as soon
as July 17 through competitive bid, according to bond documents.
Proceeds will help finance capital projects for the State
University of New York system and the  City University  of New
York and support environmental infrastructure projects. (Updated
July 13)  MIAMI-DADE COUNTY,  Florida , is set to issue $540 million of
sales-tax revenue bonds as soon as next week. The sale will
refund debt and help finance transportation projects, according
to bond documents. (Updated July 13)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  