-- SAP Chiefs Say Current Spending Levels Could Affect Bonuses
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-13T07:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/sap-chiefs-say-current-spending-levels-could-affect-bonuses.html
SAP AG (SAP) , the biggest maker of
business-management software, told employees that their bonuses
are at risk if the company doesn’t manage to reduce expenses
after reporting profit that grew more slowly than sales.  The operating margin, based on non-IFRS accounting
standards, fell 0.8 percentage points to 30 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, the Walldorf, Germany-based
company said yesterday. Profit was trimmed by the acquisition of
SuccessFactors Inc. and an increase in employees by about 5,200,
or almost 10 percent, over the first six months.  “For the rest of 2012, this means optimizing effectiveness
at our current cost level and avoiding additional expense
growth,” co-Chief Executive Officers Jim Hagemann Snabe and
 Bill McDermott  wrote in an internal letter to staff following
the publication of the results. “This will allow us to reach our
internal goals for the year, as a continuation of the current
spending levels could affect our bonus payout.”  Snabe’s and McDermott’s pay was raised by more than 40
percent each for 2011, and both received 950,000 euros ($1.2
million) in share-based bonuses for both 2010 and 2011. SAP paid
shareholders a record  dividend  of 1.10 euros for last year, and
the company has earmarked 460 million euros to 500 million euros
for a bonus program that allows all employees to tie a part of
their compensation to the share price.  The company is also spending to get more customers to adopt
new products. In April, SAP said it would spend almost $500
million to entice clients to adopt its in-memory Hana database-
management software, develop new applications based on the
technology and challenge Oracle Corp.’s dominance in the
database business.  SAP announced the hiring of Luisa Deplazes Delgado as its
new head of personnel yesterday, after lacking a full-time chief
of human resources for a year following the departure of
Angelika Dammann.  German magazine WirtschaftsWoche reported the contents of
SAP’s internal letter earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  