-- Sawiris to Buy Gold Miner La Mancha for $493 Million
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-07-13T20:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/sawiris-to-buy-gold-miner-la-mancha-for-492-million.html
Naguib Sawiris, the Egyptian
billionaire founder of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , plans to add
gold to his investments after agreeing to buy Canada’s  La Mancha
Resources Inc. (LMA)  for about C$500 million ($493 million).  Sawiris’ Weather Investments II SARL will pay C$3.50 a
share for La Mancha, the Montreal-based company said today in a
statement. That’s 45 percent more than La Mancha’s 20-day
average price before today and compares with the 50 percent
average premium in gold takeovers valued $100 million or more
announced this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a 13 percent discount to La Mancha’s 52-week high,
which is pretty decent in this market,” Nicholas Campbell, a
Vancouver-based analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp., said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a good price and it’s in cash too.”  As well as telecommunications, the Sawiris family has
interests in construction, fertilizers, cement, real estate and
hotel development, La Mancha said. Buying the Canadian company
will give Sawiris gold mines in Africa and  Australia .  La Mancha rose 52 percent to C$3.42 at the close in
Toronto.  The shares  fell 18 percent this year before today.  La Mancha said it put itself up for sale at the request its
majority  shareholder  Cie. Francaise de Mines et Metaux, a unit
of French nuclear company  Areva SA (AREVA) , which has agreed to tender
its 63 percent stake to Weather.  La Mancha is being advised by BMO Capital Markets and law
firm Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP. Areva’s financial adviser is
Deutsche Bank AG and its legal counsel is Blakes. Weather is
being advised by Societe Generale SA and Norton Rose LLP.  The value of the deal is based on the 142.7 million shares
of La Mancha that were outstanding at June 29, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  