-- Seattle Genetics CEO Says Drug Growth Path Means No Sale
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-07-13T20:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/seattle-genetics-ceo-says-drug-growth-path-means-no-sale.html
Seattle Genetics Inc. (SGEN)  Chief
Executive Officer  Clay Siegall  says he has a model for growth of
the biotechnology company’s only drug, cancer treatment
Adcetris:  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s $6.7 billion-seller Rituxan.  Adcetris received U.S. clearance in August for use by
Hodgkin’s lymphoma patients who failed on other therapies, a
smaller market than the front-line treatment the company aims
for after added trials are completed in the next few years.
Rituxan, approved as an initial treatment for lymphoma in 1997,
took a similar path, Siegall said in a telephone interview.  Analysts expect Adcetris to reach $437 million in  sales  in
2015, the average of three estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The
drug’s prospects have boosted the company’s shares 50 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of more than
$2.9 billion. That potential also makes Seattle Genetics less
likely to seek a merger or be acquired now, Siegall said.  “Adcetris is a very important brand, and can become a $1
billion brand in a number of years,” Siegall said. The
drugmaker has “great trajectory going forward, so it’s not a
time where we feel that it’s right for the company to get sold
or flipped.”  Seattle Genetics fell 1.4 percent to $24.99 at the close in
 New York .  Adcetris combines a cancer-targeting antibody with the
cell-killing effects of chemotherapy. The drug, known chemically
as brentuximab, is Seattle Genetics’ first product, and was also
cleared by regulators to treat patients with a rarer cancer
known as systemic anaplastic large cell lymphoma or ALCL, who
had also failed previous treatments.  Killer Disease  Hodgkin’s lymphoma  will be diagnosed in an estimated 9,060
U.S. patients this year and will cause the death of about 1,190
people, according to the  National Cancer Institute  in Bethesda,
 Maryland . The disease begins in the white-blood cells and most
commonly strikes people from ages 15 to 35 and older than 55.  Roche’s Genentech unit “also initially got approved in one
type of low-grade lymphoma, and then got approved in a variety
of different aggressive and high grade lymphomas, and even some
other non-lymphomas,” Siegall said.  Half of the 14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey recommend
purchasing Seattle Genetics shares, with three rating them a
sell.  “Despite the limited number of patients, we believe that
the drug also has substantial opportunity,” beyond its current
regulatory clearance, Mani Mohindru, an analyst with Think
Equity LLC in New York, wrote in a note to clients on July 5.  Roche is based in  Basel , Switzerland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  