-- Singapore GDP Unexpectedly Shrinks as Europe Crimps Exports
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-07-13T06:32:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/singapore-s-economy-shrinks-as-europe-turmoil-constrains-exports.html
Singapore ’s economy unexpectedly
contracted last quarter as manufacturing fell, adding to signs
of a deepening slowdown in Asian expansion as  Europe ’s debt
crisis curbs demand for the region’s goods.  Gross domestic product  fell an annualized 1.1 percent in
the three months through June from the previous quarter, when it
climbed a revised 9.4 percent, the Trade Ministry said in an e-
mailed statement today. The median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.6 percent gain. The economy
expanded 1.9 percent from a year earlier.  The  Asian Development Bank  cut its growth forecast for the
region, and a report today showed today  China ’s  expansion  eased
for a sixth quarter to the slowest pace since 2009. Singapore’s
 exports  declined in May from the previous month, and a shrinking
economy could put pressure on the central bank to ease monetary
policy, according to Bank of America Corp.  “The outlook on the growth side looks dim,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America, who
accurately predicted today’s GDP contraction. “If a technical
recession does occur, chances are the Monetary Authority of
Singapore may have to ease policy come October.”  The  Singapore dollar  was trading at 1.2699 against the U.S.
currency as of 2:25 p.m. local time from 1.2697 earlier. The
yield on 3.125 percent notes due September 2022 touched 1.306
percent, Bloomberg E-bond prices show, the least since at least
June 1998.  Elevated Inflation  Manufacturing slid 6 percent last quarter from the previous
three months, compared with a 20.9 percent gain in the first
quarter. Construction rose 0.3 percent, slowing from a 27.9
percent surge. Services added 0.4 percent, down from a 2.7
percent pace.  The central bank, which uses the  exchange rate  to manage
 inflation , tightened policy in April by allowing faster currency
gains to contain price increases. The nation’s 5 percent
inflation rate is the fastest in  Southeast Asia  after  Vietnam .  “The likelihood of a nuanced policy easing is now
growing,”  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., said in a note after the report.
“Wage gains have moderated and inflation is set to moderate
more appreciably in the second half. As such, the risks of a
wage-price spiral are significantly reduced, and more
importantly, downside risks to growth far outweigh.”  China Slowdown  Singapore guides the local dollar against a basket of
currencies within an undisclosed band and adjusts the pace of
appreciation or depreciation by changing the slope, width and
center of the band.  The local dollar is the second-best performer among the 11
most-traded Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg, gaining about
2 percent against its U.S. counterpart this year.  China, one of the biggest drivers of Singapore’s export
growth last year, reported today gross domestic product expanded
7.6 percent last quarter from a year earlier, compared with an
8.1 percent gain in the previous period. The  Bank of Korea 
reduced its growth forecast for this year after unexpectedly
cutting  interest rates  yesterday.  “Global uncertainties continue to weigh on manufacturing
as well as service driven industries,” said  Irvin Seah , an
economist at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. in Singapore. “The risk
towards a shift to a more gradual appreciation stance will
increase if we see a continued downside risk to GDP.”  Non-oil domestic exports account for about 60 percent of
Singapore’s economy, he estimates. DBS is Southeast Asia’s
biggest banking group.  Home Sales  Singapore’s  export growth  held below 4 percent from a year
earlier in both April and May, while  retail sales  rose at a
slower pace in April as spending at department stores eased and
vehicle purchases fell. Private home sales in May slumped 32
percent from a month ago to their lowest this year.  Temasek Holdings Pte, the state-owned  investment company ,
said this month profit declined 16 percent in the last fiscal
year as contributions from units fell amid the global slowdown.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America cut their 2012
growth forecasts for Singapore today. Goldman Sachs expects
expansion of 2.5 percent in 2012, while Bank of America predicts
a pace of 1.9 percent from a previous forecast of 2.5 percent.  The city-state added fewer jobs than initially estimated in
the first quarter, and the seasonally adjusted  unemployment rate 
for the three months through March rose to 2.1 percent from 2
percent the previous quarter, a report showed last month.  Located at the southern end of the 600-mile (965-kilometer)
Malacca Strait and home to one of the busiest container ports,
the city state is vulnerable to fluctuations in overseas demand
for manufactured goods. The government has boosted financial
services and tourism to try and cut reliance on exports.  Today’s Singapore GDP report is based on advance estimates
that are computed largely from data in the first two months of
the quarter. An updated estimate of second-quarter performance
will be released in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Singapore at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  