-- South Africa Yields Fall to Record on Foreign Demand; Rand Gains
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-07-13T13:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/south-africa-yields-fall-to-record-on-foreign-demand-rand-gains.html
South African bonds gained, driving
yields to record lows, after  Italy ’s downgrade by Moody’s
Investors Service made the debt of the continent’s biggest
economy more attractive. The rand appreciated.  Yields on the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.98 percent at
3:30 p.m. in Johannesburg after falling to 6.95 percent earlier,
the lowest on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rand advanced less than 0.1 percent to 8.3158 per dollar,
trimming its second successive weekly decline to 0.6 percent.  Moody’s cut Italy’s bond rating two steps to Baa2, citing a
deteriorating economic outlook. That pushed Italy’s rating two
levels below South  Africa ’s, boosting the relative
attractiveness of the country’s debt. The rand will probably
return 6 percent by year-end, the best so-called carry trade
among 16 major currencies, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on current market rates and currency forecasts.  “The longer  South Africa ’s rating remains unchanged the
higher its relative global rating climbs,” Quinten Bertenshaw,
a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, wrote in e-mailed
comments. “This can only be good from the perspective of fund
flows toward South Africa.”  Foreign investors were net buyers of 2.3 billion rand ($277
million) of South African bonds yesterday, bringing foreign
purchases this year to 58.3 billion rand, according to JSE Ltd.
data. That compares with 47.3 billion rand for the whole of
2011.  Interest Rate  South Africa’s central bank has left its benchmark
repurchase rate unchanged at 5.5 percent since November 2010 to
aid growth in Africa’s biggest economy. Falling inflation may
give the Monetary Policy Committee room to ease when it meets on
July 19.  Inflation eased to 5.7 percent in May from 6.1 percent a
month earlier, the slowest pace of increase in prices since
September. Inflation is on a declining trend and will probably
remain within the range through 2014, Reserve Bank Governor Gill
Marcus said on July 4.  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on interest
rates, dropped 2.5 basis points today to 5.17 percent, the
lowest since November. The rate is 41 percent below the
Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating traders see more
than an 80 percent probability of a rate cut within six months.  “The parameters of debate within the MPC will be between
doing nothing or cutting at upcoming meetings,” Bruce Donald, a
currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg,
wrote in an e-mailed research note. “Lower inflation gives the
Reserve Bank more room to manoeuvre; now the question is whether
growth anxieties are or will become severe enough to prompt a
rate cut.”  The risk of the economy slowing more this year has
increased, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in an interview
in Los Cabos,  Mexico , on June 16. Gross domestic product
expanded 3.1 percent last year and will rise 2.7 percent this
year, Gordhan said in his Feb. 22 budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  