-- Spain Uses State Lottery to Fund Regions as Its Bonds Slump
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-13T16:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/spain-s-national-lottery-to-help-bail-out-cash-starved-regions.html
Spain  will use its national lottery,
the operator with the biggest jackpot in the world, to provide
aid to regional governments as the nation struggles to avoid a
second  bailout  itself.  The state-owned lottery will contribute 6 billion euros
($7.3 billion), taking out a loan against future revenue, to a
fund of as much as 18 billion euros to fund redemptions and
deficits for regions that request it.  Regions, many of which have been shut out of debt markets
for more than a year, will pay a “small spread” above the
central government’s  yields  to borrow from the fund, de Guindos
said. The government will demand budget cuts in return from the
regions that choose to use the fund, he said.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond rose four basis
points to 6.68 percent as of 5:54 p.m. in  Madrid , pushing the
spread with similar German maturities to 5.42 percentage points.  Spain’s  10-year borrowing costs  surged above 7 percent in
June for the first time since the euro was created after the
country requested as much as 100 billion euros in European loans
to shore up a banking sector burdened with bad loans.  ‘Fat One’  Loterias & Apuestas del Estado, a debt-free company the
government tried to list on the stock market last year, has
operated for almost 250 years in the world’s fourth-largest
lottery market. The company’s annual Christmas draw, known as El
Gordo, or the Fat One, had a prize pool last year of 2.3 billion
euros. It had 2.6 billion euros of profit in 2010, according to
the annual report.  The government also approved budget cuts announced by Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  on July 11, a reform of local government
and measures to increase shop opening hours, lift restrictions
on retailers to offer discounts and help exporters get
financing.  Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said the
government aims to increase competitiveness through some 20 laws
scheduled for adoption in the second half of the year, including
an energy-sector overhaul.  Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro confirmed changes in
value-added tax rates, and announced most items in the reduced
10 percent rate category will be transferred to the general
rate, itself increased to 21 percent from 18 percent.  “We had no choice,” Montoro told reporters. “We were
forced by circumstances, by the recommendations, forced by the
absolute priority to reduce the  budget deficit .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  