-- Spanish Banks’ ECB Loans Leap to Record Amid Bailout: Economy
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-07-13T10:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/spanish-banks-net-ecb-loans-leap-to-record-337-billion-euros.html
Spanish lenders’ net borrowings from
the  European Central Bank  jumped to a record 337 billion euros
($411 billion) in June as the European bailout agreement failed
to ease their access to funding.  Net average ECB borrowings climbed from 288 billion euros
in May, the Bank of  Spain  in Madrid said today. Gross borrowing
was 365 billion euros, up from 325 billion euros in May,
accounting for 30 percent of borrowing in the euro region.  Spain asked for as much as 100 billion euros of European
loans to bail out its banks on June 9 as the government’s access
to financial markets narrowed and its bond yields rose to about
7 percent. Banks’ increased dependence on the ECB may reflect
deposit flight from Spain, which is suffering the biggest slump
in foreign investment since the start of the euro.  “The fear is that this was triggered by a further deposit
outflow,” said Tobias Blattner, a European economist at Daiwa
 Capital Markets  in  London . “It’s a very large sum.”  Residents’ deposits fell 2.5 percent in April from March,
according to Bank of Spain data, declining 5.4 percent from the
same month a year ago. Non-residents withdrew 24.6 billion euros
of stock and bond investments in April, the most since at least
1999, and compared with 4.54 billion euros a year ago, the
regulator’s data show.  Investors Leave  Non-residents cut their holdings of Spanish bonds to 37.5
percent of the total in May, from 51.5 percent at the end of
last year. That has left Spanish banks, which were among the
biggest beneficiaries of the three-year loans offered by the ECB
in December and February, to pick up the slack as the government
increasingly depends on them for financing.  Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond yield rose to 6.68 percent
at 12 p.m. today in  Madrid , compared with 6.64 percent
yesterday, after Moody’s Investors’ Service downgrade Italy’s
credit rating to Baa2 from A3, one step above Spain and two from
junk. Italy’s 10-year bonds yield 67 basis points less than
Spain’s, compared with 113 basis points on June 19.  Adding to Spain’s liabilities, the government plans to
approve today a program to help regional governments regain
access to capital markets that have been shut to them for more
than a year. The Treasury will offer guarantees for debt
issuance to regions that need them and demand budget cuts in
return, Deputy Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said in
Madrid today.  China’s Growth  Spain is trying to rein in its  budget deficit  with the
biggest cuts and tax hikes on record, undermining household
spending that’s already depressed by indebtedness and a 25
percent jobless rate. Exports, which the government is relying
on to drive the recovery, declined in April for the first time
in two years, as growth in foreign markets eased.  China ’s growth slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest
pace since the global financial crisis, data showed today,
putting pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao  to boost stimulus.
Singapore reported an unexpected economic contraction as China’s
slowdown undermines the global recovery already threatened by
Europe’s debt crisis and limited U.S. job growth.  U.S. companies are feeling the effects of China’s
deceleration.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the second-biggest
maker of processors for personal computers, this week reported
an unexpected drop in quarterly sales in part because of
weakness in China.  Cummins Inc. (CMI) , a maker of truck engines,
reduced its revenue forecast, saying demand in  Brazil , China and
 India  isn’t improving as the company anticipated.  The slowdown is cooling inflation. In the U.S., wholesale
prices probably fell 0.5 percent in June from May, compared to a
1 percent drop the previous month, economists forecast. The data
are due at 2:30 p.m. in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  