-- Airlines Jump as Stimulus Bets Spur ADR Rebound: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-15T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/stimulus-prospects-spur-rally-as-airlines-jump-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  rebounded from a
nine-month low in  New York  after the slowest pace of growth in
three years for the world’s second-largest economy fueled
speculation policy makers will take further stimulus measures.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York gained 1.2 percent to 87.77 on July
13, trimming its loss last week to 3.7 percent.  China Southern
Airlines Co. (ZNH)  and  China Eastern  Airlines Corp. surged more than 8
percent after the government pledged to increase investments in
the industry and ease taxation.  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO) 
rose after announcing a $10 million share repurchase plan,
halting an eight-day slump of 52 percent.  Gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent last quarter
from a year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
July 13 from Beijing. The pace, a three-year low, compares with
a 7.7 percent median forecast of economists. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said last week that the government will focus on promoting
investment growth in order to stabilize economic expansion and
would intensify fine-tuning of policies.  “The market is taking off as there’s certainly the
possibility the government will take measures to intervene,”
Kevin Pollack, managing director at Paragon Capital in New York,
said by phone on July 13. “Steps to spur the economy can mean
lower  interest rates  or other actions. That’s built as a
positive for investors.”  Increase Investment  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., increased 1.5 percent to
$32.5, cutting its decline last week to 2.6 percent. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.7 percent to 1,356.78,
snapping the longest losing streak since May, as JPMorgan Chase
& Co. rallied after reporting earnings. The gauge added 0.2
percent for the week. The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  Index of mainland
stocks slid 1.7 percent last week to 2,185.90.  Data released last week also showed China’s import and
export growth slowed in June and consumer prices rose the least
in more than two years. The People’s Bank of China cut benchmark
interest rates for the second time in a month on July 5, and has
lowered required-reserve ratio for lenders three times since
November to bolster credit.  “The government’s tone has changed from sounding
complacent several months ago to talking about investment now,”
Michael Ding, who helps manage $2.2 billion at U.S. Global
Investors, said in a July 13 telephone interview from  San
Antonio ,  Texas .  “Government investment in infrastructure
projects is more efficient in helping spur growth than monetary
policy easing, which takes time to see effects.”  Airlines Surge  American depositary receipts of Guangzhou-based China
Southern surged 9.8 percent, the most since October, to a four-
month high of $24.29. The ADRs traded 0.8 percent above its Hong
Kong stock, the highest premium since June 20. Each ADR
represents 50 underlying shares of the company.  China will increase the investment for civil aviation
construction and development, and improve tax support policy for
the industry, according to the State Council’s online statement
posted July 12.  Shanghai-based China Eastern, the nation’s second largest
carrier, jumped 8 percent to $16.97, the strongest rally since
November. The carrier expects net income in the first half to
fall more than 50 percent from a year ago, the company said in a
 regulatory filing  July 13, citing slower growth in passenger
traffic and weaker cargo demand amid a global slowdown along
with rising jet fuel prices.  China  Southern filed a similar statement to the Hong Kong
Stock Exchange on July 10, forecasting first-half profit to fall
at least 50 percent.  Ambow Buyback  Ambow, a tutoring services provider, climbed 4.9 percent to
$2.36 in New York on July 13, snapping an eight-day slump. Its
ADRs jumped as much as 28 percent July 13 after the Beijing-
based company said in a statement its board approved a plan to
buy back as much as $10 million worth of its outstanding shares
with cash.  “We believe that our ability to generate cash will remain
strong and have confidence in our fundamentals,” Jin Huang,
Ambow’s founder and chief executive officer, said in the
statement.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , China’s biggest video website operator, and
Tudou Holdings Ltd., the second biggest, rose for a second day
after a filing showed their merger deal awaits shareholders’
approval.  Youku gained 2.3 percent, the most since July 3, to $18.92
in its second day of a rally. Tudou advanced 2.7 percent to a
three-day high of $29.02.  Youku-Tudou Deal  Beijing-based Youku filed a preliminary prospectus to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on July 13 showing it
will issue shares to Tudou’s shareholders for the merger
announced in March. The filing also included the companies’
notices of shareholder meetings to approve the deal.  Holders of Tudou’s ADRs will receive 1.595 ADRs of Youku
for each Tudou ADR they own, according to the companies’ March
12 statement. The transaction, which was valued at $925 million
when announced, has a current  value  of $731 million, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  China’s  yuan  weakened 0.23 percent last week to 6.3789 a
dollar in  Shanghai , the lowest close since Nov. 30, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. The  seven-day
repurchase rate , a benchmark money-market rate, dropped for a
third week on speculation the central bank will ease monetary
policy.  The government may report foreign direct investment data
for June as early as today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  