-- Storebrand Plans to Meet Capital Targets Without New Equity
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-07-13T08:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/storebrand-plans-to-meet-capital-targets-without-new-equity-1-.html
Storebrand ASA (STB) ,  Norway ’s second-
largest publicly traded insurer, said it plans to reduce costs
as it tries to meet stricter European capital requirements
without selling new shares.  Storebrand will cut costs by at least 400 million kroner
($66 million) by 2014 and lower risk in its investment
portfolios to meet proposed Solvency II requirements due to come
into effect within two years, the Oslo-based company said in its
second-quarter report today.  “Storebrand’s target is to manage the transition to
Solvency II without raising new equity capital,” it said. The
insurer is also considering a “price increase to customers in
the public sector,” it said, without providing further detail.  European regulators plan to impose common capital standards
for insurers in  Europe  through rules known as Solvency II from
next year, with full application coming in 2014. The rules
require insurers not to set aside any capital for holdings of
sovereign debt from countries within the European Economic Area,
which includes the 27 members of the European Union as well as
Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.  Second-quarter net income declined to 136 million kroner
from 445 million kroner a year earlier, Storebrand said today.
That missed the 179 million-krone average estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Net premium income rose to 5.8
billion kroner from 5.7 billion kroner a year earlier.  ‘Risk Manageable’  Norway is planning changes to occupational pension product
rules to ensure life insurers can adjust to the stricter  capital
requirements  as well as longer  life expectancy . The changes to
insurance-based products include two alternative models for
regulating cost and risk-sharing among insurers, employers and
workers, the Banking Law Commission said on June 28.  Storebrand is “positive” to the changes, which are
“better adapted to new capital requirements through Solvency II
than existing defined benefit-based pensions,” the company
said. “Capital requirements arising from the new products will
be risk-manageable,” it said.  Shares in Storebrand gained as much as 11 percent, the most
since June 20, and traded  10 percent  higher at 24.42 kroner as
of 10:05 a.m. in Oslo, making it the biggest winner today on the
Oslo Stock Exchange’s benchmark OBX index. Shares in the insurer
have gained 47 percent since falling to a 2012 low of 16.62
kroner on June 12, giving the company a market value of 11
billion kroner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  