-- Strategist Who Saw Rigged Libor Calls Failure to Fix Hazardous
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-07-13T23:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/strategist-who-saw-rigged-libor-calls-failure-to-fix-hazardous.html
A failure to fix the “broken”
London interbank offered rate risks long-term disruptions to
financial markets, according to the strategist who first brought
attention in 2008 to the possibility that the benchmark was
understating lending costs.  “The accuracy of Libor is a matter of keen interest to
everyone, from homeowners in Peoria,  Illinois , to the largest
companies in the world,” Scott Peng, the head of global
portfolio solutions at SECOR Asset Management LP, wrote
yesterday in Investment & Pensions  Europe . “Libor may be
broken, but it can still be salvaged with some major structural
changes.”  Libor’s reputation has been dented by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
admission that it submitted false rates for the benchmark for
financial products valued at $360 trillion worldwide. Other
banks have lowballed their submissions, according to testimony
before British lawmakers last week from  Robert Diamond , who
resigned as  chief executive officer after Barclays was fined
290 million pounds ($451 million) in the scandal.  As head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Citigroup Global
Markets Inc. in  New York , Peng co-authored a note titled “Is
Libor Broken?” on April 10, 2008. The report, which triggered
global focus on the risk that the benchmark was mispricing bank
lending rates, said European banks were likely submitting lower-
than-actual transacted rates to avoid “being perceived as a
weak hand in a fragile market.”  Three-month Libor, 2.71 percent at that time, was likely
too low by between 20 basis points and 30 basis points, Peng
wrote in the Citigroup note with co-authors Chintan Gandhi and
Alexander Tyo. The rate was 0.46 percent yesterday. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Transaction Hierarchy  London-based Barclays, along with some of the world’s
biggest financial institutions, is facing an international
investigation into an attempt by lenders in the U.K. and U.S. to
rig Libor.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, among the
regulators that levied the fine against Barclays, has laid out a
hierarchy of transactions or instruments that panel member banks
should consider when deciding on what rate to submit in the
daily Libor fixing.  Libor is derived from a survey of London banks conducted
each day by  Thomson Reuters  Corp. on behalf of the British
Bankers’ Association. Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg
News, competes with Thomson Reuters in selling financial and
legal information and trading systems.  Lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from each other for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a set number of quotes are excluded, those
remaining are averaged and published for each currency by the
bankers’ association before noon.  Misstated Costs  Libor, to be a viable money market benchmark, must be
redefined as a transaction-based rate, Peng, who is based in New
York, wrote in the op-ed. Regulators and central banks must also
take steps to foster a secondary market for short-term bank debt
with increased liquidity and transparency, according to Peng.  Finally, a permanent bank-funding backstop must be created,
similar to temporary programs created in the U.K. and U.S.
during the crisis, such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.  As the financial system reeled with the crisis that
followed the collapse of the U.S. subprime mortgage market,
banks routinely misstated borrowing costs to avoid the
perception they faced difficulty raising funds,  Tim Bond , then
head of  asset allocation  at  Barclays Capital , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview in May 2008.  Inconsistencies Noted  Investors also speculated that the global benchmark was
taking place as early as 2008. Respondents in an ACI-The
Financial Markets Association survey taken May 2008 said Libor
didn’t reflect actual money-market rates, with the greatest
discrepancies involving rates based in U.S. dollars.  Eighty-two percent of the 106 respondents agreed that Libor
didn’t represent actual rates in money markets, according to the
2008 survey conducted in conjunction with the 47th annual ACI
World Congress in Vienna from May 29 to May 31. Of those members
noting a discrepancy, 24 percent indicated inconsistencies
mainly involved U.S. dollar Libor, which varied by 15 to 25
basis points from actual rates.  Timothy F. Geithner  sent  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn King recommendations in 2008 to revamp Libor. Geithner wanted
procedures to prevent “misreporting,” and the bankers’
association, which was reviewing Libor at the time, said it
would take the recommendations on board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  