-- Sun Hung Kai Co-Heads to Face Graft Charges, RTHK Reports
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-07-13T04:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/sun-hung-kai-co-chairmen-arrive-at-hong-kong-anti-graft-agency.html
The billionaire co-chairmen of  Hong
Kong ’s biggest property developer will face bribery-related
charges, public broadcaster  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported
as Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  returned to the headquarters of the
city’s anti-graft agency three months after being arrested.  The brothers left the  Independent Commission Against
Corruption  today without commenting, while shares of  Sun Hung
Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  were halted from trading. The Kwoks and Hong
Kong’s former No. 2 official Rafael Hui will appear in court
this afternoon on charges linked to bribery and misconduct in
public office, RTHK reported, without saying where it got the
information.  The case may add pressure on Hong Kong’s Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying, who took office July 1, to address public
concerns on the conduct of government officials. His development
secretary resigned yesterday after the Apple Daily newspaper
reported he had misused government’s housing allowances. Leung
himself is being accused of misleading the public about illegal
structures built at his home.  “Hong Kong’s reputation as a corruption free environment
is already tainted,” said Billy Mak, a professor of finance and
decision making at the Hong Kong Baptist University. “The
government will still need to do something to restore investors’
confidence in the market here.”  Wrongdoing Denied  The Kwoks have previously denied wrongdoing and Sun Hung
Kai spokeswoman Margaret Ng today declined to comment. The
company said it suspended its shares from trading pending a
price-sensitive announcement.  Colin Cohen, a lawyer for  Thomas Kwok , declined to comment.
A lawyer for Raymond Kwok didn’t immediately return an e-mail
requesting a comment. Hui declined to comment to reporters when
he left ICAC today.  Sun Hung Kai, Hong Kong’s biggest developer by value, has
fallen 14 percent since the March 29 arrests, compared with a
3.1 percent decline in the Hang Seng Property Index. Brokerages
including Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc have cut their
recommendations on Sun Hung Kai’s stock since the Kwoks’ arrest.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. suspended its ratings.  Standard & Poor’s  changed the outlook on the developer’s A+
 credit rating  to negative after the arrest, saying that ICAC’s
probe “may weaken the stability of its management and
reputation of the company.” Moody’s Investors Service also
changed the company’s A1 outlook to negative from stable.  ICC, IFC  Sun Hung Kai built and runs the 118-floor International
Commerce Centre, which at 484 meters (1,588 feet) is Hong Kong’s
tallest building, as well as the International Finance Centre
complexes in Hong Kong and  Shanghai .  Sun Hung Kai has said the brothers, who are out on bail,
will continue to run the company, and the arrests won’t affect
normal business operations.  Sun Hung Kai has been run by Thomas Kwok, 60 according to
the latest company reports, and Raymond Kwok, 59, since the
ouster as chairman in 2008 of their elder brother Walter. Walter
is still a non-executive director.  Walter Kwok  applied to the  High Court  in 2008 to prevent
the board from removing him from office, alleging that his
brothers opposed his inquiries into impropriety in the way the
company awarded construction contracts, and other corporate
governance issues.  He was arrested in May as part of the probe. Walter Kwok
wasn’t seen at the ICAC today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  