-- Sun Hung Kai Heads, Ex-Hong Kong No. 2 Charged With Graft
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-07-13T13:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/sun-hung-kai-co-chairmen-ex-hong-kong-no-2-charged-with-graft.html
(Corrects number of loans in second paragraph.)  The billionaire co-chairmen of Hong
Kong’s biggest developer  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16)  and the
city’s former No.2 government official were charged with bribery
and public misconduct by the city’s anti-graft agency.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok and two other men conspired to
provide Rafael Hui with free use of two apartments and three
unsecured loans for unspecified favors involving Hui’s role as
the government’s then chief secretary, the  Independent
Commission Against Corruption  said in a  statement  today. Sun
Hung Kai promoted two executives to deputy managing directors to
assist the co-chairmen, who will retain their current roles at
the company, the developer said in a separate statement.  Hong Kong’s highest profile graft case adds to pressure on
the city’s Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took office July
1, to address public concern over the conduct of government
officials. His development secretary resigned yesterday after
the  Apple Daily  reported he had misused housing allowances.
Leung himself has been accused of misleading the public about
illegal structures built at his home.  “This reminds the public about the problem of collusion
between business and government,” said James Sung, a political
scientist at the  City University  of Hong Kong. “The lack of
trust in the government will threaten Leung’s governance. The
public fear that his cabinet may also have the same
misconduct.”  Magistrate David Dufton today allowed bail for the Kwoks,
Hui and two other men charged in the case: Sun Hung Kai’s
 executive director  Thomas Chan and Francis Kwan. Hui, 64, and
Kwan were ordered not to leave Hong Kong.  October Hearing  No pleas were entered in the hearing, which lasted about 30
minutes, at Hong Kong’s Eastern Magistrates Court today. Dufton
adjourned the hearing until Oct. 12.  Colin Cohen, a lawyer for  Thomas Kwok , 60, declined to
comment before the hearing. A lawyer for Raymond Kwok, 59,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail requesting comment. Hui
declined to comment to reporters after the hearing.  The Kwoks have previously denied wrongdoing and Sun Hung
Kai spokeswoman Margaret Ng didn’t return calls from Bloomberg
News seeking comments. The company’s shares will resume trading
in Hong Kong on July 16 after being suspended today, it said in
a Hong Kong stock exchange filing today.  Shares Slump  “The fundamentals of the company probably won’t be
affected by this,” said Adrian Ngan, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Citic Securities Co. “Investors who are concerned about the
probe would have sold their holdings already so I don’t see the
actual charging could drag down the share price that much
further.”  Sun Hung Kai,  Hong Kong ’s biggest developer by value, has
fallen 14 percent since the March 29 arrests, compared with a
3.1 percent decline in the Hang Seng Property Index. Brokerages
including Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc have cut their
recommendations on Sun Hung Kai’s stock since the Kwoks’ arrest.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. suspended its rating.  Moody’s Investors Service maintained a negative outlook on
Sun Hung Kai today, saying “the latest development is credit
negative for SHKP, as its reputation is now further at risk,”
according to a statement.  Sun Hung Kai built and runs the 118-floor International
Commerce Centre, which at 484 meters (1,588 feet) is Hong Kong’s
tallest building, as well as the International Finance Centre
complexes in Hong Kong and  Shanghai .  Brother Ousted  Sun Hung Kai has been run by Thomas and  Raymond Kwok  since
the ouster as chairman in 2008 of their elder brother Walter.
Walter is still a non-executive director.  Thomas and Raymond Kwok will continue to discharge their
duties with the assistance of new deputy managing directors Mike
Wong and Victor Lui, Sun Hung Kai said in the stock exchange
filing today. Wong and Lui are both executive directors at
present. In addition, Adam Kwok, a son of Thomas, and Edward
Kwok, a son of Raymond, were named as alternative directors to
their fathers, the developer said.  Wong will assist in land development, planning and
construction, he said at a press conference broadcast on
television today. Lui said he will assist in property sales,
land acquisition and the disposal of non-core assets.  Walter Kwok  applied to the  High Court  in 2008 to prevent
the board from removing him from office, alleging that his
brothers opposed his inquiries into impropriety in the way the
company awarded construction contracts, and other corporate
governance issues.  Employment History  He was arrested in May as part of the probe. Walter Kwok
wasn’t seen at the ICAC today. Adrian Cheung, a spokesman hired
by him, declined to comment.  Chan, an executive director in charge of land acquisitions
and project planning at Sun Hung Kai, was the first among the
five defendants to be arrested by the ICAC. Chan has been an
executive director of the company since 1987.  Kwan worked at the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd.
for nearly 10 years before resigning in 2004. He last served as
senior vice-president of the company and was chief operating
officer of the Hong Kong Futures Exchange Ltd.  After 30 years in government, Hui set up a consulting firm
in 2003, offering advice to Sun Hung Kai. Less than a year
later, he became a director of Kowloon Motor Bus Holdings Ltd.,
a unit of the developer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  