-- Swatch May Be Allowed to Reduce Supplies, Business Montres Says
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-07-13T15:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/swatch-may-be-allowed-to-reduce-supplies-business-montres-says.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR)  may be allowed in
2014 and 2015 to cut supplies to third parties of movements, or
a watch’s internal mechanism, to 70 percent of the quantity
delivered in 2010, an industry website reported, citing a Swiss
regulator.  A proposal from  Switzerland ’s competition authority,  Comco ,
would enable the volume delivered by Swatch’s ETA unit to be
reduced to 50 percent and then 30 percent in subsequent years,
according to a  document  posted July 9 on the Business Montres
website.  Comco said in May that it extended provisional measures for
a year, allowing Swatch to lower supplies to third parties, to
give the regulator more time to complete an investigation into
the matter. The biggest maker of Swiss watches last year won
provisional backing from Comco to cut deliveries to competitors,
forcing many companies to find other suppliers or invest in
their own capacity. Swatch has been required to supply movements
to third parties because of its dominant position.  Comco has prepared a draft proposal covering the supply of
watch parts by Swatch to third parties, Patrik Ducrey, a
spokesman for the competition body, said today by phone. He
declined to provide details or verify the content of the
document posted on the Business Montres website.  “It is a proposal that has been agreed upon” with Biel,
Switzerland-based Swatch, he said. “The proposal is now under
consultation with the companies concerned” until the end of
August.  Under the draft proposal, another Swatch unit, Nivarox,
could reduce deliveries in 2014 and 2015 to third parties for
components that form part of a movement to 90 percent of 2010
levels and could gradually reduce supplies to 30 percent in 2022
and 2023, according to the document.  Beatrice Howald, a spokeswoman for Swatch, couldn’t be
reached immediately by e-mail for comment.  Swatch’s ETA unit is estimated by analysts to make about
two-thirds of the mechanical movements used in Swiss watches.
Swatch has said some ETA movements being sold to wholesalers end
up in fake watches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 