-- Syms, Filene’s Win Approval to Send Creditors Exit Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-07-13T21:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/syms-filene-s-win-approval-to-send-creditors-exit-plan.html
Bankrupt  Syms Corp. (SYMSQ) , the discount
clothing chain, and its Filene’s Basement LLC unit won court
approval to send a reorganization plan to creditors for a vote.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , approved the company’s disclosure
statement, an outline of the retailers’ reorganization plan to
exit bankruptcy, according to court documents.  After shutting down operations and selling off its
remaining inventory, Syms, the committee of unsecured creditors
and the equity committee debated and negotiated how best to
develop a plan to exit court protection. After mediation, the
company and shareholders reached an agreement on a plan, which
is now also supported by the unsecured creditors, according to
court documents.  The company will reorganize around Syms real estate assets,
valued at about $147 million, which they would then manage,
lease and sell over the coming years, according to court
documents. Syms filed an amended reorganization plan this week
adding new elements including an equity rights offering and a
share buyback from majority stockowner Marcy Syms, according to
the disclosure statement.  The company will seek court approval of the plan at an Aug.
29 hearing.  Marcy Syms, who owns about 54.4 percent of the company’s
equity, has agreed to sell her stake for $2.49 a share for a
total of about $19.6 million, which will be paid over time,
court papers show.  Rights Offer  The company will hold an equity rights offer for existing
shareholders to raise about $25 million, according to the
disclosure statement. Investors that don’t participate would be
diluted by about 13 percent. The offering will be backstopped by
DS Advisors LLC, Esopus Creek Value Series Fund LP-Series A and
Marcato Capital Management LLC.  After paying exit costs,  60 percent of the proceeds of the
offering and real estate sales will go to pay creditors and 40
percent to pay off Marcy Syms until she receives $10.7 million.
The remainder she is owed would be paid once all creditors
claims have been satisfied.  The value of the reorganized Syms shares will be
“difficult to predict,” the company said in the disclosure
statement. Based on the real estate value and the influx of
shares, they may be worth $1.50 to $2, assuming creditor claims
are between $100 million and $110 million.  Share Value  The share value could “vary significantly” due to the
undulating real estate prices which “could be significantly
greater than the $147 million” estimate ascribed to it. In the
near future, Syms will sell off 13 properties and another three
in the midterm after getting leases. It will then sell its
prized asset, the “Trinity” property located in lower
 Manhattan .  Over a four- to five-year period, the company says it could
get as much as $120 million more for Trinity if it is developed
as a mixed-use building, adding as much as $7.22 a share. Syms
also cautioned that the market may deteriorate as well.  “Expectations for future  shareholder value  depend largely
on the Trinity Property, as the other properties owned by Syms
likely will be necessary to pay creditor claims,” the company
said in the disclosure statement.  Syms has no secured claims and its unsecured creditors,
owed about $53.9 million, would be paid in full. Syms and the
shareholders committee say that Filene’s is insolvent, which the
unsecured creditors disputed.  Creditor Recovery  To resolve the issue, Syms will allow Filene’s creditors to
receive a recovery from Syms assets. Filene’s trade creditors
would be paid in full over time, while Filene’s creditors with
lease rejection claims will get a recovery of 75 percent.
Filene’s creditors have the option to receive a payout of zero
to two percent to retain its right to sue Syms.  The company listed  assets  of $236 million, including $97.7
million in real estate inventories, and liabilities of $94
million, according to court papers.  Syms, based in Secaucus,  New Jersey , was founded by  Sy Syms 
in 1958. The company bought Filene’s Basement in a bankruptcy
auction for about $64.4 million in June 2009. They had 25 Syms
stores and 21 Filene’s Basement locations.  Filene’s, famous for the “Running of the Brides” wedding
gown sale, was founded by Edward Filene in 1909, when he opened
up his Boston basement to clear out merchandise from his
family’s department store, eventually leading other retailers to
bring their unsold goods to him, according to the store’s
 website .  Syms rose more than 11 percent to $4.50 today in over-the-
counter trading.  The lead case is In re Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511, U.S
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  