-- Syrian Activists Say About 200 Killed in Hama Massacre
-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 2012-07-13T01:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/syrian-activists-say-about-200-killed-in-hama-massacre.html
Syrian security forces killed as
many as 200 people in the town of Tremseh, in central Hama
province, according to anti-government activists.  The Syrian Revolution General Commission, an opposition
group, said yesterday that there were more than 150 corpses in
the town mosque, and that there is no full count yet since
people are still searching for the dead. Another group, the
Local Coordination Committees, used a figure of at least 122.  The major political opposition group, the Syrian National
Council, called for an urgent United Nations Security Council
meeting on the alleged massacre,  Al Arabiya  said. The group also
called for UN monitors to document the atrocities in the town.  There was no independent confirmation of the killings, and
it was not initially clear whether members of the UN monitoring
mission would be able to safely visit the town.  The reported killings come a week before the deadline for
the UN Security Council to decide whether to extend the observer
mission’s 90-day mandate in light of the continuing violence.
The monitors’ operations have been largely suspended because of
the violence and the danger posed to its members.  The Syrian Revolution Commission, on its website, said
Tremseh was surrounded at dawn by forces loyal to President
Bashar al-Assad and shelled for two hours, during which time
electricity and all sorts of communication were cut off.  Afterwards, government forces and members of the Shabiha
militia entered the town with the help of helicopters, the group
said. People were executed, including women and children,
according to the report.  Bodies Burned  Some bodies were found in the river, and people are still
searching for dead bodies, the commission said. Most victims
were refugees from nearby towns,  Al Jazeera  reported citing
activists. The activists said people were killed with knives and
some bodies were burned, the news organization reported.  Official Syrian media provided a different account of the
events. Syrian security forces clashed with “terrorist” groups
-- the government’s term for anti-Assad fighters -- in Tremseh
after a call for help was made by residents, the Syrian Arab
News Agency said. The clashes led to “severe losses” among the
terrorists and three government security personnel were killed,
SANA said, citing sources it did not identify.  Word of a massacre of civilians spread in  Syria . Colonel
Riad al-Asaad, head of the opposition Free Syrian Army, called
for a nationwide strike.  “I urge people to close down all roads and call upon all
government employees to stay at their homes and not go to work
in official directorates and to hold a general strike so we can
paralyze the entire country, because this regime does not
understand anything apart from the language of force,” he told
Al Jazeera in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  