-- Syria’s Bloody Massacre Raises Calls for Action on Assad
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-07-13T21:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/syria-s-bloody-massacre-raises-calls-for-action-on-assad.html
The bloodiest massacre in Syria’s
17-month conflict along with the suspected movement of chemical
weapons adds pressure on the  United Nations  Security Council to
punish a regime that  Russia  has so far shielded.  The opposition Syrian National Council said as many as 305
people were killed in a July 12 assault on the Sunni village of
Tremseh in Hama province. Separately, the Wall Street Journal
cited unnamed U.S. officials as concerned about evidence that
the Syrian government was moving some chemical weapons from
storage sites for unknown reasons.  Both elements add urgency to a planned July 18 vote in  New
York  on a Western-drafted Security Council resolution
threatening President Bashar al-Assad with measures such as
sanctions. Russia has said it will continue to use its veto to
protect its Soviet-era ally, drawing attention to how
ineffectual the international community has been in trying to
resolve the longest of the Arab revolts.  “We have two significant developments and we cannot even
get this passed?”  Andrew Tabler , a fellow at the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy, said in a telephone interview.
“There is no point in a resolution with no teeth, and even this
doesn’t have much bite to it. How else can Assad be stopped?”  Time is running out for UN special envoy  Kofi Annan ’s peace
efforts, which in five months have failed to produce any
semblance of a promised cease-fire. His transition plan, which
envisions Assad’s mediated exit within a year, hinges on Russia
withholding its veto.  ‘Grim Reminder’  “Tragically, we now have another grim reminder that the
Council’s resolutions continue to be flouted,” Annan said in
his letter addressed to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and
transmitted to the 15-member body. Action “is imperative and
could not be more urgent in light of unfolding events.”  The assault on Tremseh began at dawn when Syrian troops
surrounded the town of 10,000 residents, most of them  Sunni
Muslims , with 150 tanks and armored vehicles and started
shelling, Syrian National Council member Abdulrahman Alhaj said
yesterday by phone from Istanbul. Then soldiers, backed by the
pro-government Shabiha militia, stormed the town for five hours,
he said.  That version is challenged by the state-run Syrian Arab
News Agency, which said the deaths were the result of a clash
between security forces and “terrorist” groups -- as the
government characterizes anti-regime fighters -- after local
residents called for help.  There was no independent account, and late yesterday the
 Associated Press  reported local activists were reducing their
death estimates.  Mandate Expires  Major-General Robert Mood, commander of the UN observer
mission in Syria, said his team verified fighting in Tremseh
that involved mechanized units and helicopters. The unarmed
military monitors were still trying to reach the site of the
suspected massacre. Their operations have been largely suspended
because of the danger posed to them.  The three-month mandate for the UN’s Syrian mission expires
July 20. Russia seeks a 90-day extension with no strings
attached. The U.S.,  France  and the U.K. will agree to a rollover
of 45 days and only if measures with bite are put against Assad.  The failure of the mission to help diminish the violence in
Syria has made the presence of peacekeepers unpopular. The
Syrian National Council, a political umbrella for anti-
government activists, said yesterday it “ceases its cooperation
with the Annan mission and calls on the  Arab League  and the
United Nations to end the mission.”  Annan’s Fate  Annan is scheduled to meet with Russia Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  on July 16 in Moscow, Russian news agencies
reported.  If Russia can’t be convinced to abstain, Annan will
probably have to resign, leaving the international community
virtually out of diplomatic options, according to  Richard Gowan ,
associate director for crisis diplomacy and peace operations at
the New York University Center on International Cooperation.  Russia resists Western insistence on invoking Chapter 7 of
the UN Charter, a tool it accused the West of abusing last year
to overthrow  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi. While Russia and  China 
have twice blocked efforts by the U.S. and its European allies
to punish Assad, the stakes in wielding a veto are now higher.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said reports of the
latest massacre in Syria are “shocking and appalling” and
urged the  United Nations Security Council  to agree on “urgent
action.” Hague made the comments in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  “History will judge this Council,” U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“Its members must ask themselves whether continuing to allow
the Assad regime to commit unspeakable violence against its own
people is the legacy they want to leave.”  Chemical Weapons  The violence in Syria since the March 2011 start of the
uprising against Assad has claimed more than 15,000 lives,
according to aid agencies figures cited as credible by the UN.
At least 66 people were killed yesterday around the nation, the
Local Coordinating Committees, an activist group that tracks the
daily death toll, said in an e-mail.  New concerns about  Syria ’s stockpile of sarin nerve agent,
mustard gas and cyanide also adds a further dimension to
conflict. The Wall Street Journal story on July 12 said it
wasn’t clear if the chemicals were being moved with the
intention to use them, as a feint or to better secure them.  Syria’s cache of advanced weapons make “Libya look like an
antique gun show,” Representative Mike Rogers, a Republican
from  Michigan  who is chairman of the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence. “I am very concerned that as the
situation in Syria deteriorates, these weapons could fall into
the wrong hands,” such as al-Qaeda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  