-- U.K. Stocks Rise; Mining Companies Rebound on China Data
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-07-13T16:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/u-k-stocks-rise-mining-companies-rebound-on-china-data.html
U.K. stocks  climbed, led by a
rebound in mining companies, after Chinese economic data
heightened speculation authorities will roll out additional
measures to support growth.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  both rose at least
3.5 percent as copper rallied for a third day.  ITV Plc (ITV)  jumped
3.7 percent as investors speculated the company may become a
takeover target.  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  paced a rally in European phone
companies.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index gained 57.88 points, or 1 percent, to
5,666.13 at the close in London. The volume of shares changing
hands on the gauge was 26 percent lower than its 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The broader FTSE All-
Share Index also added 1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index increased 0.9 percent.  China ’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, according to the National Bureau of
Statistics. The pace, a three-year low, compares with an 8.1
percent gain in the previous period and the 7.7 percent median
forecast of economists.  Investors “had positioned themselves for worse, so in that
regard, 7.6 percent is certainly a win,” said  Chris Weston , an
institutional trader at IG Markets. “We feel the numbers are
probably the best-case scenario for risk assets, as the print
was just weak enough to keep the markets’ anticipation of
aggressive easing alive.”  Industry, Retail  Separate data also showed that Chinese industrial
production increased at a slower pace in June, while retail
sales growth decelerated.  Stocks fell yesterday, led by a retreat in commodity
shares, after minutes from the U.S. Federal Reserve’s latest
policy meeting failed to signal more stimulus measures to spur
economic growth. The FTSE 100 has still advanced 7.7 percent
from its 2012 low on June 1.  A  gauge  of mining companies climbed 2.9 percent, advancing
for the first time in three days as copper led base metals
higher on the London Metal Exchange.  Kazakhmys jumped 6.1 percent to 744 pence, Vedanta
Resources added 3.5 percent to 914.5 pence, BHP Billiton Ltd.
rose 3.1 percent to 1,805.5 and  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  rose 3 percent
to 1,071 pence.  ITV Speculation  ITV climbed 3.7 percent to 74.95 pence amid speculation the
broadcaster may become a takeover target after Japan’s Dentsu
Inc. agreed to buy Aegis Group Plc for 3.16 billion pounds ($4.9
billion) yesterday.  Alex de Groote, an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co. in
London said the Aegis’s takeover offer is “probably” driving
ITV’s shares today.  The “market is making a read-across that other companies
out there are attractive as potential bid targets,” he said in
a phone interview.  BT Group increased 3.5 percent to 222.3 pence. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said in a note to clients that all fixed-line
companies will benefit from yesterday’s decision by European
Union regulators not to force firms to provide discount prices
for access to their copper networks.  EU Digital Agenda Commissioner Neelie Kroes yesterday said
lowering prices would not encourage greater investment in faster
broadband networks.  G4S, Experian  G4S Plc (GFS)  fell 1.5 percent to 278.7 pence, extending
yesterday’s 2.6 percent retreat, after the company failed to
arrange enough security for the London Olympics.  The U.K. government yesterday said it will deploy 3,500
extra soldiers to provide security at the Olympics after G4S,
the company with the contract to protect the games, said it
won’t have enough staff available.  U.K. Home Affairs Committee Chairman Keith Vaz has asked
G4S Chief Executive Officer Nick Buckles to testify on the
shortfall in Olympic security guards on July 17.  Experian Plc (EXPN)  retreated 2 percent to 932 pence as the
company said it was “mindful of tougher conditions in some
markets including the  euro zone .” Experian today reported a 7
percent increase in total revenue for the first quarter, led by
 Latin America .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  