-- U.K. Libor Inquiry a ‘Whitewash,’ Omitted Lawmaker Mann Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-13T16:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/u-k-libor-inquiry-a-whitewash-omitted-lawmaker-mann-says-1-.html
John Mann , an opposition  Labour
Party  member of the U.K. Parliament’s Treasury Committee,
attacked the inquiry into the Libor-rigging scandal as a
“whitewash” after he was left off the panel.  A motion submitted to the House of Commons today named
Andrew Tyrie, the Conservative lawmaker who heads the Treasury
Committee, to lead the probe. Fellow Tory Mark Garnier, Labour’s
Andy Love and Pat McFadden and Liberal Democrat John Thurso are
the other members from the lower house. Mann said he and Tory
Andrea Leadsom, a former Barclays Plc banker, should have been
included.  “Because we are too outspoken we have been blocked,” Mann
said in an e-mailed statement. “This exposes the inquiry as a
total whitewash with  Andrew Tyrie  reaching his conclusions in
advance of the meetings. We need to get to the bottom of this
scandal and I’m therefore setting up my own inquiry into this
dreadful mess.”  Barclays, the second-biggest U.K. bank, agreed last month
to pay 290 million pounds ($448 million) in regulatory fines for
rigging the London interbank offered rate, spurring the
resignations of Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier.
The U.K. Serious Fraud Office opened a criminal probe into
Libor-rigging last week.  Under Oath  Unusually for a parliamentary committee, the Libor panel
will be able to appoint a lawyer to question witnesses on its
behalf and to question those witnesses under oath. It’s the
result of a compromise between Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Tory-led government and the Labour Party, which had called for a
full judicial inquiry along the lines of the one currently
looking into media standards under Judge Brian Leveson. The
government rejected that as too time-consuming.  The panel, to be known as the Parliamentary Commission on
Banking Standards, will look at “professional standards and
culture of the U.K. banking sector, taking account of regulatory
and competition investigations into the LIBOR rate-setting
process,” as well as “lessons to be learned about corporate
governance, transparency and conflicts of interest, and their
implications for regulation and for government policy,”
according to the wording of a motion published on Parliament’s
website.  ‘Fully Accountable’  “The recent scandals demonstrate the need for higher
standards in banking,” Tyrie said in an e-mailed statement.
“The perpetrators of wrongdoing should be held fully
accountable for their actions. It is the fact that so many
appear to have got off scot-free that really sticks in the
gullet of the electorate.”  The motion requires the inquiry, which will also include
members of the upper, unelected House of Lords, to recommend
legislative action by Dec. 18.  When Diamond testified before the Treasury Committee last
week on Libor, Mann told the former  Barclays (BARC)  CEO that his voters
viewed him as running a “rotten, thieving bank” and suggested
he give his recent annual bonuses to a homeless charity.
“Either you were complicit in what was going on, or you were
grossly negligent, or you were incompetent,” he said.  “Do you live in a parallel universe to the rest of the
U.K.?” Leadsom asked Diamond during that hearing. “You say
it’s the culture that saved Barclays, but it’s the culture
that’s the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  