-- S&P 500 Erases Weekly Loss on JPMorgan Rally, China
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-07-13T20:40:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/u-s-stock-futures-gain-amid-china-stimulus-speculation.html
U.S. stocks rallied, erasing a
weekly loss for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  jumped after reporting earnings and speculation grew
that China will boost stimulus measures.  JPMorgan surged 6 percent to lead gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  after Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
said the bank will still likely have record earnings this year
even after reporting a $4.4 billion trading loss from its chief
investment office in the second quarter. Wells Fargo & Co.
climbed 3.2 percent after reporting a 17 percent rise in profit.
 Phillips 66 (PSX)  climbed 5.9 percent after  Warren Buffett  said his
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has invested in the refiner.  The S&P 500 gained 1.7 percent to 1,356.78 at 4 p.m. New
York time and advanced 0.2 percent for the week. The index had
fallen for six consecutive days, dropping 2.9 percent amid
concern over corporate earnings. The Dow added 203.82 points, or
1.6 percent, to 12,777.09 today. Trading in exchange-listed
stocks in the U.S. was 5.48 billion shares, 18 percent below the
three-month average.  “Six straight days down, the market is looking for
something better,” Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.6 billion as
senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., based in
Elmira, New York, said in a telephone interview. “You started
with China and JPMorgan added to it. The confidence is that the
trading loss is 95 percent of the way behind us. The company is
on the upswing.”  Slowdown Concern  Equities retreated yesterday as concern about a slowdown in
the global economic recovery and American corporate earnings
overshadowed a rally in  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and homebuilders.
Four out of the six S&P 500 companies that reported results this
week beat analysts’  earnings  estimates while one missed, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Overall, profits probably decreased
2.1 percent in the second quarter, the first drop in almost
three years, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  China’s growth slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest
pace since the global financial crisis, putting pressure on
Premier  Wen Jiabao  to boost stimulus to secure a second-half
economic rebound.  Gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, the National Bureau of
Statistics said today. The pace, a three-year low, compares with
an 8.1 percent gain in the previous period and the 7.7 percent
median forecast of economists.  Monetary Stimulus  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis and a global slowdown
drove the  S&P 500  down as much as 9.9 percent from a four-year
high in April through June 1. The index has since rebounded 6.2
percent as central banks in Europe and China cut  interest rates 
and the  Federal Reserve  signaled it will take more actions if
the labor market doesn’t show “sustained improvement.”  The S&P 500 is trading at 13.7 times reported 12-month
earnings, 16 percent below the average  multiple  of 16.4 since
1954, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts predict
S&P 500 earnings will increase 6.4 percent this year. The S&P
500’s earnings yield is 7.31 percent, close to the highest on
record when compared with the 10-year Treasury rate, according
to Bloomberg data going back to 1962.  “There is massive value in this market,” Randy Bateman,
chief investment officer of Huntington Asset Management in
Columbus, Ohio, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
$14 billion. “It’s going to be the vacillation between the
perception of good value in the market and the concern over the
economy.”  Consumer Confidence  Equities maintained their gains even after the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment
unexpectedly declined in July to the lowest level this year. A
Labor Department report showed wholesale prices unexpectedly
rose in June for the first time in four months, reflecting an
increase in food costs.  All 10  industry groups  in the S&P 500 gained as financials
jumped the most, rising 2.8 percent. The Morgan Stanley Cyclical
Index of companies most-tied to the economy rallied 2.1 percent,
after declining 0.9 percent yesterday. The KBW Bank Index soared
3.3 percent, the most since March, with all of its 24 stocks
rising.  JPMorgan surged 6 percent to $36.07 for the biggest advance
in both the Dow and the S&P 500. Net income fell to $1.21 a
share from $1.27 a year earlier and the lender also restated its
first-quarter earnings to show net income was $4.92 billion,
rather than the $5.38 billion previously reported.  Dimon Speaks  Dimon said he hopes the company can buy back stock in the
fourth quarter of 2012 after it completes a review of trading
losses in the chief investment office. By capping the size of
the potential loss and revamping management of the businesses
responsible, Dimon may help restore investor confidence after
the bank’s market value dropped $39.7 billion since April 5,
when Bloomberg News first reported that the company had amassed
an illiquid book of  credit derivatives  in its chief investment
office.  Wells Fargo (WFC)  gained 3.2 percent to $33.91. Net income
advanced to 82 cents a share on strength in mortgage banking and
a drop in expenses. The average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, excluding some special items, was 81 cents a share.  Other lenders advanced.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  increased 4.6
percent to $7.82.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  climbed 5.4 percent to $26.65.  “The degree to which our banking system has come back,
particularly compared to the European banks, is dramatic,”
Buffett, the billionaire chairman of Berkshire, said today on
Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty Liu ” in an
interview from the Allen & Co. media conference in Sun Valley,
Idaho. “Our banking system is in terrific shape and that can’t
be said for banks around the world and it couldn’t be said for
our banks four years ago.”  Phillips 66 rallied 5.9 percent to $34.94. Berkshire has
invested in the refining business that was spun off by
ConocoPhillips this year, Buffett said.  Homebuilders Gain  An S&P  index of homebuilders  climbed 1.1 percent. D.R.
Horton Inc. advanced 1.8 percent to $18.70 after MKM Partners
boosted the stock to buy from neutral, citing accelerating
growth in new home sales.  P&G, the world’s largest consumer-products company, climbed
2.2 percent to $65.09. Board members are dissatisfied with Chief
Executive Officer  Robert McDonald ’s performance and are
discussing a possible  leadership change , according to people
familiar with the situation. P&G jumped 3.8 percent yesterday
after Federal Trade Commission cleared  William Ackman ’s Pershing
Square Capital Management LP to buy a stake, sparking
speculation that he may urge the company for more asset sales.  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  slumped 16 percent to $20.36 for
the biggest retreat in the S&P 500. The maker of laser and
inkjet printers said second-quarter sales and profit would be
lower than it had expected due to weak demand in Europe and
unfavorable exchange rates.  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , a rival in the printer market, slipped
1.9 percent to $18.98 for the only loss in the Dow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in  New York  at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  