-- U.S. Money Funds Cut U.K. Holdings in Shift From Europe
-- B y   R a d i   K h a s a w n e h   a n d   A l b e r t o   F u e r t e s
-- 2012-07-13T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/u-s-money-funds-cut-u-k-holdings-in-shift-from-europe.html
The 10 biggest prime U.S. money
market funds cut holdings of securities issued by U.K. banks by
$13.7 billion in June, the largest amount of any country, as the
funds continued a shift away from  Europe .  Holdings of European banks, including those outside the
euro currency area, declined by $29.5 billion, according to a
monthly survey by the Bloomberg Risk Newsletter. The total
invested in European banks, at $148.8 billion as of June 30, is
the lowest since at least September, when Bloomberg started
collecting data for the 10 funds.  U.S. money funds have reduced funding for European banks
amid concerns that  credit quality  will worsen. Longer-term
credit ratings for the four largest U.K. banks, which don’t
directly affect the ability of money funds to invest in their
short-term securities, were downgraded by Moody’s Investors
Service in June. The  European Central Bank , which sets  interest
rates  for the countries that share the euro, lowered deposit
rates to zero on July 5, causing some U.S. managers to
temporarily shut European money funds to new investors.  Fund holdings issued by London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  fell 33
percent from the end of May to $16.8 billion, according to the
survey. That represented the largest dollar decline in the month
for an individual bank.  Barclays, Lloyds  Barclays may have needed less money market funding after
increasing its pool of liquid assets, including central  bank
deposits , to 173 billion pounds ($267 billion) at the end of the
first quarter, from 152 billion pounds at the end of last year,
according to a first-quarter results filing.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  holdings declined 68 percent to
$1.7 billion, while those of Royal Bank of Scotland Plc dropped
20 percent to $11.3 billion. London-based Lloyds had 106 billion
pounds of primary liquid assets available to meet wholesale
funding needs at the end of March, according to a results
presentation, against 91 billion of borrowing maturing in less
than one year. RBS had a liquidity buffer of 153 billion pounds
against 80 billion pounds of short-term funding, according to a
first-quarter presentation.  Simon Eaton, a spokesman for Barclays, Rebecca Nelson at
RBS and Sarah Swailes at Lloyds declined to comment.  Rabobank, ING  Holdings in securities issued by Netherlands-based banks
fell by $11.7 billion in June, the second-biggest drop among all
countries in dollar terms.  Rabobank International and  ING Groep NV (INGA) , both based in
Amsterdam, accounted for the decline in money-market investments
in the Netherlands. ING’s borrowing from the funds fell 42
percent to $7.1 billion, while Rabobank’s was cut 46 percent to
$7.7 billion.  ING had 224 billion euros in available collateral at the
end of the first quarter, compared with 192 billion euros in
December 2011, according to its first-quarter results. Rabobank
had about 161 billion euros of short-term assets available to
cover short-term funding at the end of last year, according to
its annual report.  “ING uses a multitude of sources for both short-term and
long-term funding,” Frans Middendorff, a spokesman at ING, said
in an e-mailed statement. “Funding size from specific sources,
like U.S. money market funds, varies depending on what best
suits our needs from period to period.”  Hendrik Jan Eijpe, spokesman at Rabobank, declined to
comment.  Short-Term Funding  In addition to selling commercial paper, certificates of
deposit and repurchase agreements to money funds, banks can
obtain short-term funding from central banks, interbank
repurchase agreements, or by increasing deposit rates to attract
more money from individual customers. Banks can also hold cash-
like instruments in a liquidity pool to meet redemptions.  Japanese banks attracted money funds for the third month in
a row. Holdings of Japanese banks increased 12 percent in June
to $69.9 billion, the most of 12 countries included in the
survey.  The survey included Fidelity Cash Reserves, JPMorgan Prime
Money Market Fund, Vanguard Prime Money Market Fund, Fidelity
Institutional Prime Money Market Portfolio, Fidelity
Institutional Money Market Portfolio, BlackRock TempFund,
Federated Prime Obligations Fund, Schwab Cash Reserves, Western
Asset Institutional Liquid Reserves and Dreyfus Cash Management
Fund.  Total assets under management at the 10 funds declined to
$649.8 billion on June 30, from $674.7 billion. All prime U.S.
money funds held $1.4 trillion as of July 10, according to
research firm iMoneyNet in Westborough,  Massachusetts .  Prime funds are those not restricted to securities backed
by the U.S. government.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radi Khasawneh in London at 
 rkhasawneh1@bloomberg.net ;
Alberto Fuertes in London at 
 afuertes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Dunbar at 
 ndunbar1@bloomberg.net  