-- U.S. Sprinter Dunn Pulls Out of Olympics After Failed Drug Test
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-13T17:55:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/u-s-sprinter-dunn-pulls-out-of-olympics-after-failed-drug-test.html
Sprinter Debbie Dunn withdrew from
the U.S. Olympic team after failing a drug test during the
selection trials last month.  Dunn, who finished fourth in the 400 meters at the trials
on June 24 in Eugene,  Oregon , said in a statement that the U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency informed her that a sample she gave contained
an elevated testosterone/epitestosterone level. Artificial
testosterone can be used to enhance performance by growing
muscle.  While she didn’t claim a spot in the 400 meters at the
 London  Games, the  34-year-old Dunn  was on the team as a
potential member of the women’s 1,600-meter relay squad.  “While I work with Usada to resolve this matter, I am
withdrawing from my relay pool position for the 2012  Olympic
Games ,” Dunn said. “I do not want any issue like this to
distract from my teammates’ focus for the biggest meet of their
lives. I wish Team USA best in London as I work toward resolving
this matter.”  The testosterone/epitestosterone, or T/E, ratio is used to
check whether the naturally occurring substances are within
normal limits.  Usada is testing a second urine sample, Travis Tygart,
chief executive officer of the  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based
organization, said in a statement.  “Usada appreciates Ms. Dunn voluntarily removing herself
from the Olympic team while the full facts surrounding her
elevated T/E ratio and  adverse carbon isotope ratio  analysis are
evaluated,” Tygart said. “As in all cases all athletes are
innocent until and unless proven otherwise.”  Dunn was the world indoor champion in the 400 meters in
2010, when she was also the U.S. outdoor champion. She would
have been competing in her first Olympics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 