-- U.S. East Coast Heat Wave May Boost Energy Use 30%
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-13T12:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/u-s-east-coast-heat-wave-may-boost-energy-use-30-to-60-.html
The Midwest and Northeast may use as
much as 60 percent more energy to cool homes and businesses into
next week amid another round of high temperatures.  The heat will probably peak along the northern U.S. and
East Coast by July 17 with temperatures in the 90- to 100-degree
Fahrenheit (32 to 37 Celsius) range, rising to 5 to 8 degrees
above normal from Montana to the Canadian Maritimes, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group LLC. The area
includes  Chicago , Toronto, New York and Washington.  The temperatures may mean people use 30 to 60 percent more
energy to cool down from  Colorado  to the Atlantic, said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri .  Heat-driven high electricity use can cause spot energy
prices to rise as utilities try to meet demand, as well as boost
prices for natural gas, which accounts for about 32 percent of
the fuel used to make power in the U.S.  This year, prolonged high temperatures and lack of rain
across the Midwest have also caused corn prices to jump,
reaching $7.48 a bushel yesterday, the highest for a most-active
contract since Sept. 13. The U.S. Agriculture Department cut its
outlook for domestic corn output by 12 percent a month after
predicting a record harvest.  The heat in the eastern U.S. and Canada may recede after
the middle of next week, while hanging on mainly in the Midwest,
said Rogers, who’s based in Bethesda,  Maryland . By July 23 to
July 27, Rogers predicts, the East Coast will have near-seasonal
conditions while the hottest areas will be North and South
Dakota, Iowa and western Illinois.  The temperature in New York’s Central Park is forecast to
reach 90 tomorrow and be at 94 by early next week, according to
the  National Weather Service . Washington may also reach 90
tomorrow and then rise to 95 next week.  Chicago is forecast to reach 90 today and 97 early next
week. Toronto is expected to hit 91 today and rise to 93,
according to Environment Canada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  