-- U.S. Stocks Gain for Week, Erasing Loss on JPMorgan Rally
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-07-14T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/u-s-stocks-gain-for-week-erasing-loss-on-jpmorgan-rally.html
U.S. stocks rose for the week,
reversing losses on the final day, as a rally in  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and speculation China will boost stimulus measures
tempered concern about earnings and the global economy.  JPMorgan jumped 6.4 percent for the week as Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  said the bank will probably post record
earnings for 2012 even after reporting a $4.4 billion trading
loss.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  surged 6.2 percent for the second-
biggest gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average . Technology and
raw-material shares in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slumped
more than 1.2 percent amid concern a slowdown in the global
economic recovery will damp demand.  The S&P 500 gained 0.2 percent to 1,356.78 for the week.
The index jumped 1.7 percent on July 13 after falling for six
consecutive days. The Dow added 4.62 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 12,777.09 during the week.  “The market was oversold, JPMorgan news was not as bad,
and we had some data that was a little bit better,” Sasha Kostadinov, portfolio manager at Cleveland, Ohio-based Shaker
Investments LLC, which manages about $100 million, said in a
telephone interview. “Any small change in the outlook can cause
a big change, because there’s a lot of money to be put to
work.”  Concern about earnings and the global economy weighed on
stocks during the first four days of the week as investors
braced for what is projected to be the first decline in  S&P 500 
profits in almost three years. The Citigroup Economic Surprise
Index for the U.S., which measures how much reports are missing
or beating the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys, fell to
minus 64.9 on July 10. That signals recent economic data trailed
forecasts by the most since August.  Central Banks  Investors looked to central banks during the week for
evidence of further stimulus action to spur economic growth.
U.S. stocks pared losses on July 11 as minutes from the  Federal
Reserve ’s June meeting showed two participants believed more
bond purchases are appropriate, while two others said they would
be warranted in the absence of “satisfactory progress” in
cutting unemployment or if downside risks increase.  The stock rally on the final day came as China’s growth
slowed for a sixth quarter to the weakest pace since the global
financial crisis, putting pressure on Premier Wen Jiabao to
boost stimulus to secure a second-half economic rebound. The
 European Central Bank  is set to ease monetary policy, including
cutting its deposit rate further, if Europe’s debt crisis
worsens, according to a Medley Global Advisors report Bloomberg
News obtained.  ‘Tremendous Liquidity’  “The volatility in stocks should continue,” Philip Tasho,
chief investment officer at Alexandria, Virginia-based Tamro
Capital Partners LLC, which manages about $1.7 billion, said in
a July 12 phone interview. “There is tremendous liquidity
across the board from every single central bank, trying to keep
the ship afloat so it doesn’t tank.”  Financial shares had the biggest gain among 10 industries
in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  for the week, climbing 1.6 percent. JPMorgan led
gains in the group, rising 6.4 percent to $36.07.  By capping the size of the potential loss and revamping
management of the businesses responsible, Dimon may help restore
investor confidence. The bank’s market value dropped $39.7
billion since April 5, when Bloomberg News first reported that
the company had amassed an illiquid book of credit derivatives
at the London chief investment office.  Wells Fargo  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the most valuable U.S. bank and largest
home lender, climbed 2.6 percent to $33.91 after second-quarter
earnings increased 17 percent on strength in mortgage banking
and a drop in expenses.  “The degree to which our banking system has come back,
particularly compared to the European banks, is dramatic,”
 Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With Betty
Liu” in an interview from the Allen & Co. media conference in
Sun Valley, Idaho.  P&G  rallied  6.2 percent to $65.09. Activist investor
 William Ackman  bought a stake in the maker of Tide laundry
detergent and Duracell batteries, increasing pressure on Chief
Executive Officer  Robert McDonald , who came under fire from
analysts earlier this year when P&G lost market share to
competitors.  Health-care stocks  in the S&P 500 rose 1.3 percent as a
group. Merck & Co. jumped 4.7 percent to $43.47, its highest
value in four years. The company said it will stop testing an
experimental drug meant to prevent bone fractures in women with
osteoporosis because the therapy worked so well in a trial.  Technology Slumps  Disappointing earnings by  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and
 Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  helped give technology stocks the
worst performance as a group, falling 1.7 percent.  AMD, the second-biggest maker of processors for personal
computers, lost 15 percent to $4.90 after reporting an
unexpected drop in second-quarter sales, citing weakness in
China and Europe. Printer-maker Lexmark plunged 25 percent, the
most since 2005, to $20.36 after saying second-quarter sales and
profit would be lower than it had expected due to poor demand in
Europe and unfavorable exchange rates.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the largest semiconductor maker,  declined  3.5
percent to $25.25, while  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
largest personal-computer maker, fell 3 percent to $18.98.  Food Prices  The  S&P 500 Materials Index (S5MATR)  retreated 1.3 percent on
speculation a slowing global economy could curb demand.  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the largest U.S. dairy processor, tumbled
the most in 11 months, losing 13 percent to $14.52 after the
U.S. Department of Agriculture reduced its production estimate
for raw milk and raised its price forecast.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the first company in the Dow to report second-
quarter results this week, slipped 3.5 percent to $8.42.  Four out of the six S&P 500 companies that reported results
this week beat analysts’ earnings estimates while one missed,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Overall, profits probably
decreased 2.1 percent in the second quarter, the first drop in
almost three years, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  