-- U.S. Justice, Regulators Must Widen Libor Probe, 12 Senators Say
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-13T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/u-s-justice-regulators-must-widen-libor-probe-12-senators-say.html
The U.S. Justice Department and a
council of financial regulators should widen their investigation
into possible manipulation of the London interbank offered rate,
12 Senate Democrats said yesterday following a $448 million
settlement with  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “This scandal calls into further question the integrity of
many Wall Street banks and whether our prosecutors and
regulators are up to the task of regulating them,” the senators
said in letters to Eric Holder, U.S. attorney general, and
members of the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is
led by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and includes
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . “Much more needs to
be done.”  The letter was signed by Senators Carl Levin of Michigan,
Jack Reed of Rhode Island, Dianne Feinstein of California, Tom
Harkin of Iowa, Sherrod Brown of Ohio,  Jeff Merkley  of Oregon,
Robert Menendez of New Jersey, Patrick Leahy of Vermont,  Sheldon
Whitehouse  of Rhode Island, Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey,
Daniel Akaka of Hawaii and Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire.  Barclays, the second-biggest U.K. bank, agreed last month
to pay 290 million pounds ($448 million) in regulatory fines for
rigging Libor, which spurred resignations of the chairman, the
chief executive officer and its chief operating officer. The
fines raised speculation about penalties that may be imposed on
other banks involved and the cost of lawsuits that follow.  “Just like the banks and executives they oversee,
regulators who were involved should be held to account for any
failures to stop wrongdoing that they knew, or should have known
about,” the senators wrote.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  today will release
documents on troubles it detected with Libor during the
financial crisis, a spokeswoman said yesterday.  The documents “will show that the New York Fed took prompt
action four years ago to highlight problems with Libor and press
for reform,” said the spokeswoman, Andrea Priest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  