-- US Airways Gets Voice in AMR Bankruptcy By Buying Debt
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-13T19:04:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/us-airways-gets-voice-in-amr-bankruptcy-by-buying-debt.html
US Airways  Group Inc. seized an
opportunity to influence bankruptcy proceedings for potential
merger target  American Airlines  by buying $1 million worth of
parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s debt.  US Airways paid $630,000 to buy AMR’s 6.25 percent notes
due in October 2014 and become a creditor in the bankruptcy, the
Tempe, Arizona-based airline said. News of the purchase
yesterday followed American’s statement that the airline is
ready to consider strategic alternatives, including a possible
merger, to its plan to exit bankruptcy as a stand-alone company.  As a creditor, US Airways gains the right to show up at
bankruptcy hearings, comment on issues before the judge and file
documents in the court record, said Ivan Kallick of Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips, and other bankruptcy lawyers. US Airways
Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker has said he wants to merge
with American, although a formal bid hasn’t been made.  “Parker is saying, now there is no way you can lock me
out,” said  Anthony Sabino , co-founder of New York-based  Sabino
& Sabino  law firm. “Now we’ll know every step from things of
great magnitude to the ridiculously trivial. He’s saying, ‘I
knocked on the door, I grabbed a chair and I’m sitting at the
table.’ The timing is exquisite.”  A combination of American, now the third-biggest U.S.
carrier, and No. 5 US Airways would create the world’s largest
airline, surpassing current leader  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL) , based on miles flown by paying passengers.  Union Support  US Airways garnered support from American’s unions in
April, reaching contracts with pilots, flight attendants,
mechanics, baggage handlers and other airport ground workers,
contingent upon a merger. It has been working to build support
among American bondholders and other creditors.  Becoming a participant in the bankruptcy case “will be
particularly important now that AMR has publicly committed
itself to a review of strategic alternatives,” said Todd Lehmacher, a US Airways spokesman.  US Airways was one of five carriers that American CEO  Tom Horton  mentioned when he talked to the airline’s bankruptcy
creditors committee about strategic options on July 10, people
familiar with the matter have said. The others are  JetBlue
Airways Corp ., Alaska Airlines,  Frontier Airlines  and Virgin
America Inc.  US Airways acknowledged purchasing the debt in a court
filing yesterday in which it also supported an American request
that U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane extend to the end of this
year its exclusive right to submit a reorganization plan. The
motion, supported by the creditors committee, is set for a July
19 hearing.  ‘Meaningless Ploy’  “US Airways’ filing in court is a meaningless ploy to
garner publicity,” said  Bruce Hicks , an American spokesman.
“US Airways admits they own a very small amount of debt which
gives them no special position with the court or in this
process.”  The $1 million in debt held by US Airways compares with
$29.6 billion in total debt that AMR listed in its Chapter 11
filing.  While US Airways gains a voice in the bankruptcy process,
the carrier may have to work harder to convince the judge that
it’s speaking as a creditor on certain issues and not as a
potential merger partner, said Michael Friedman, a bankruptcy
attorney with Richards Kibbe & Orbe. The airline had no position
in the case just as a would-be suitor.  ‘Treasure Chest’  “They’ll have the challenge of convincing the court that
what they say is related to their role as a creditor,” he said
in an interview today. “It’s a low-cost way of not being booted
out of the process from the get-go, but it’s not as if they hit
the treasure chest and are now going to be heard on all matters
or what they say is going to carry any more weight than other
creditors.”  American, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , will begin contacting
“interested parties” soon to lay out possible restructuring
options, Horton told employees in a letter.  American reached an agreement in May with its nine-member
creditors committee, which has a voice in major decisions during
bankruptcy, to evaluate alternatives by comparing them against
its stand-alone plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  