-- Veolia Said in Advanced Talks With Highstar on Waste Unit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-07-13T20:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/veolia-said-in-advanced-talks-with-highstar-on-waste-unit.html
Highstar Capital is one of three
suitors in final-round talks with  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) , the
world’s biggest water company, to buy its U.S. waste management
unit, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Private equity firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC and
Brazilian conglomerate Estre Ambiental SA are the other bidders,
said the people, who asked to remain anonymous because talks are
private. A deal, which may be valued at $1.5 billion to $2
billion, may be announced in the next two weeks, said one of the
people.  Highstar Capital, the infrastructure-focused private equity
firm once affiliated with  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , has
shown the most interest of all potential bidders, one of the
people said. The New York-based firm already operates U.S. waste
management businesses Advanced Disposal Services and Interstate
Waste Services through Star Atlantic, in which it first invested
in 2005, its website shows.  Veolia climbed as much as 3.8 percent to 9.09 euros, the
most in two weeks, after an earlier Reuters report and traded at
9.03 euros at 5:46 p.m. in  France . The stock has fallen 50
percent the past 12 months, valuing the utility at 4.71 billion
euros ($5.76 billion).  Madison Dearborn, founded 20 years ago in Chicago, makes
acquisitions in the consumer, energy, power and health-care
industries. Estre Ambiental manages landfills and operates water
and waste-treatment businesses throughout  Brazil  and  South
America .  Sandrine Guendoul, a spokeswoman for Veolia in Paris,
declined to comment, as did Chuck Dohrenwend, a spokesman for
Madison Dearborn. An official at Highstar didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment. An official at an external press
office representing Sao Paulo-based Estre Ambiental didn’t
immediately return a call and an e-mail seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  