-- Visa, MasterCard Settle Merchants’ Swipe-Fee Lawsuit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-14T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/visa-mastercard-settle-merchants-antitrust-swipe-fee-suit.html
Visa Inc. (V) , MasterCard Inc. and some
of the biggest U.S. banks agreed to a settlement of at least
$6.05 billion in a price-fixing case brought by retailers over
credit-card swipe fees.  The total value of the settlement is $7.25 billion to a
class of about 7 million merchants in the U.S. that accept Visa
and MasterCard credit cards and debit cards, a law firm for the
merchants, Robins Kaplan Miller & Ciresi LLP, said in a
statement.  Visa, the world’s biggest payments network, said its share
of the settlement filed yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn,
New York, was about $4.4 billion. Visa said the proposed
settlement payments, including costs incurred by  MasterCard Inc. (MA) 
and card-issuing banks, would be about $6.6 billion. That amount
would include about $525 million for individual claims.  “We believe settling this case is in the best interests of
all parties,” Visa Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders
said yesterday in a statement.  The agreement, which provides for a temporary reduction in
rates for merchants and allows them to impose surcharges on
customer purchases, follows a seven-year legal battle with U.S.
retailers that accused the two largest payment networks of
conspiring with banks to fix swipe fees, or interchange.  Intense, Difficult  “It’s been an extraordinarily intense and difficult
settlement to reach,” K. Craig Wildfang, a lead lawyer for the
plaintiffs, said in a phone interview. “Everything about this
case is big and complicated.”  “But here we are and it’s a truly historic
accomplishment,” he said.  The dispute began in 2005, a year before MasterCard’s
 initial public offering  and three years ahead of San Francisco-
based Visa’s. Merchants alleged the companies violated antitrust
law by fixing the swipe fees, which average about 2 percent of
the purchase price. Proceeds generate more than $40 billion a
year for U.S. banks.  The case had been set for trial in September before U.S.
District Judge John Gleeson in Brooklyn.  The settlement includes a $6.05 billion cash payment,
according to yesterday’s filing. That amount would be reduced if
some plaintiffs don’t agree to participate.  The settlement also provides for a temporary rebate of
about one-tenth of a percentage point on the fees charged
retailers, according to the filing. The agreement includes
modifications in Visa and MasterCard rules to allow merchants to
tack surcharges on to bills based on the fees.  Market Unreformed  Those rule changes wouldn’t take effect in states where
laws specifically prohibit credit-card surcharges, said Douglas
Kantor, a lawyer for the National Association of Convenience
Stores. The association said yesterday in a statement it
wouldn’t participate in the settlement, saying the agreement
offers too much to Visa and MasterCard and is unfair to
merchants.  “The settlement doesn’t reform the market,” Kantor said.
“It will still have Visa and MasterCard setting the fees so the
banks don’t have to compete.”  MasterCard, the world’s second-biggest payments network,
said the settlement would cost it $790 million.  “Our decision to settle is based on our belief that
MasterCard and our stakeholders are best served by an amicable
resolution,” Noah Hanft, general counsel for the Purchase, New
York-based company, said in a statement. “We know that
merchants care about their customers and anticipate that they
will not impose checkout fees, particularly because the value
merchants derive from card acceptance far exceeds their costs.”  Visa Rises  Visa rose 2.3 percent to $126.91 in extended trading in New
York. MasterCard advanced 2.9 percent to $442.  The agreement follows a 2010 settlement with the  Justice
Department  in which the two payment networks agreed to allow
merchants to steer customers to different credit cards or other
forms of payments by offering incentives. New York-based
 American Express Co. (AXP)  is still fighting the government lawsuit.  American Express, the third-biggest U.S. network, and No. 4
 Discover Financial Services (DFS) , based in Riverwoods, Illinois,
aren’t defendants in the merchants’ lawsuit.  Visa and the banks that issued its cards would be
responsible for two-thirds of the settlement in the merchants’
suit, while MasterCard and its card-issuing banks will pay the
rest, the companies said in February 2011 regulatory filings.  Visa Escrow  Visa’s share would be paid from a litigation escrow account
established under a plan designed to have the costs incurred by
U.S. banks that owned the company before its 2008 initial public
offering, according to its statement yesterday. When Visa
deposits money into the escrow account, it has the effect of a
stock repurchase. Visa had $4.28 billion in uncommitted funds
set aside to cover litigation at the end of March.  “Our first take is that the settlement terms are better
than expected for the networks -- most importantly, credit
interchange is only being cut 10 basis points for eight
months,”  Jason Kupferberg  , a Jefferies & Co. analyst, said in
a note to clients. “This outcome should be positive for shares
of Visa and MasterCard.”  Defendants in the case include  Bank of America Corp. ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Frank Keating , president and CEO of the American Bankers
Association, described the settlement as a win for retailers,
though not for consumers.  Banking Industry  “While the banking industry may not like all the results
in this case, our industry is ready to put this matter behind us
and continue playing a critical role in our nation’s economic
growth and job creation,” he said in a statement.  Before their IPOs, Visa and MasterCard were controlled by
consortiums of the largest banks. After regulatory actions
around the globe targeted the fees, the banks took the payment
networks public in hopes of evading antitrust liability, the
merchants alleged in court filings.  Few publicly traded retailers would be willing to apply
surcharges because making one form of payment more expensive
would impede the spending of consumers already struggling
through a weak U.S. economic recovery, said  Paul Swinand , an
analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago.  “The risk of ticking off the customer would keep most big
national companies from doing it,” Swinand said.  Consumers who use credit also spend more, which may curtail
purchases, especially high-priced items such as electronics and
jewelry.  Psychological Barrier  “They don’t want to put up a psychological barrier on
spending,” said Russell Walker, a professor at Northwestern
University’s Kellogg School of Management. Adding surcharges
“would be an immediate bump to revenue, however that discounts
any reaction that customers would have,” he said.  The possibility of a new revenue stream may be too much for
some merchants to pass up. In industries with less competition,
such as airlines, adding surcharges may be easier, Walker said.  Last month in Australia, where retailers can apply
surcharges, regulators set limits after concerns that merchants
were applying fees above transaction costs.  “If you have an opportunity to levy a fee, do you just
cover the cost, or do you create a new revenue source?” Walker
said.  What probably will emerge in the U.S. is that the ability
to add surcharges will give major chains such as  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  more leverage in negotiating swipe fees,
according  Ed Mierzwinski  of the U.S. Public Interest Research
Group in Washington.  Chains’ Clout  Large chains already use the clout of their transaction
volumes to negotiate lower swipe fees than smaller competitors
and having surcharges will boost that advantage, Walker said.  “If you are a larger retailer, you can expect more
power,” Walker said. “For the smaller retailer, it will be
harder to be treated in the same manner.”  Even if retailers don’t impose surcharges, the settlement
also allows the use of incentives and discounts to steer
consumers toward payment forms with lower fees. Some gas
stations are already doing this by offering lower prices per
gallon for debit or cash than for credit.  What large retailers would do with a decline in credit card
swipe fees remains to be seen. Retail industry advocates say the
savings from a reduction in interchange costs will bring down
prices for consumers.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  lowered prices on more
than 3,000 products following the cut in debit card swipe fees
mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, according to American Banker.  Handout  The Electronic Payments Coalition, which represents Visa,
MasterCard and banks, counters that retailers aren’t passing on
savings. The trade group says the reduction in debit-card swipe
fees was an $8 billion handout to merchants.  “The question is are you shifting dollars from banks to
consumers or from banks to merchants?” Swinand said.  The National Retail Federation, which is not a party to the
lawsuit, expressed reservations about the settlement.  “The money is significant but money is only temporary --
it’s here today and spent tomorrow,”  Mallory Duncan , the
federation’s general counsel, said in a statement. “What we
need are changes in the rules that bring about transparency and
competition that would be here for years to come.”  The case is In re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant
Discount Antitrust Litigation, 05-md-01720, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York, at
   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  