-- Vivendi’s Search for Activision Suitors Off to Slow Start
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i ,   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-07-13T21:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/vivendi-s-search-for-activision-suitors-off-to-slow-start.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou, looking for a buyer for the company’s $8.27 billion
stake in  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , is finding little enthusiasm
among potential suitors.  Fourtou, in an interview yesterday at the Allen & Co. media
conference in  Sun Valley , Idaho, said Vivendi may sell its 61
percent stake in Activision, the largest U.S. video-game
publisher.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , maker of the Xbox console,  Take-Two
Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO)  and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the world’s
largest entertainment company, aren’t pursuing bids, people with
knowledge of their plans said.  “It’s a possibility,” Fourtou said of a sale after
walking with Activision Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick.
His comments marked the first public confirmation that the
holding is on the block. Asked if he was trying to find a buyer
at the event, Fourtou said: “We’re always looking at
opportunities for all of our businesses.”  The Sun Valley retreat, known for big media deals, may
offer the best hope for Fourtou and Kotick to attract a suitor,
 Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in Los
Angeles, said in an interview. Activision’s focus on packaged
games at a time when the business is moving online will be a
deterrent, he said.  “This is the beauty contest,” Pachter said. “If you
can’t get a date there, you’re probably going to die a
spinster.”  Strategic Fit  Just as Vivendi considers Activision a non-core asset,
other media companies don’t see a strategic fit for the Santa
Monica, California-based company, Pachter said.  For weeks, Paris-based Vivendi has canvassed possible
buyers, people familiar with the matter have said.  Microsoft, while approached, isn’t actively considering a
bid, according to one person. That could change, the person
said. The  software company , based in Redmond, Washington, would
have to consider that buying Activision may jeopardize sales of
the company’s “Call of Duty” games for rival consoles made by
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nintendo Co.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , is unlikely to bid
for Activision, according to a person with knowledge of the
company’s plans.  Take-Two, the New York-based publisher of “Grand Theft
Auto” and “Red Dead Redemption, isn’t interested, a person
with knowledge of the company’s plans said.  Tencent, Nexon  Vivendi gained 3.5 percent to 15.77 euros today in Paris.
The stock has risen 20 percent since Bloomberg News reported on
June 7 that the future of Activision would be discussed at a
senior executive meeting.  Activision, also the publisher of the ‘‘World of Warcraft”
online game, gained 1.7 percent to $12.10 at the close in New
York, giving the company a market value of $13.5 billion. The
shares are down 1.8 percent this year.  Vivendi is seeking a cash sale, one person said. That could
complicate any deal with China’s  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  or
Japan’s  Nexon Co. (3659) , both of which were approached, according to
the people. Neither company has sufficient cash to fund such a
purchase.  Wayne Hickey, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to
comment, as did  John Christiansen , a spokesman for Nexon.
Catherine Chan, a spokeswoman for Tencent, and Alan Lewis, a
spokesman for Take-Two, said their companies do not comment on
market speculation.  Disney CEO  Robert Iger  brushed off reporters’ questions on
July 10 about Activision, saying “I’m talking to everyone” at
Sun Valley.  ‘Great Weather’  Kotick, who has led Activision for at least 20 years, has
seen his largest shareholder transformed from a stable, hands-
off investor to a candidate for breakup. Strolling yesterday
with Fourtou, he walked away before the chairman’s comments to a
reporter.  Asked a day earlier about a sale, Kotick replied, “It’s
great weather.”  Vivendi will consider selling Activision shares on the
market if it can’t find a buyer, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last month. The French company is planning to make
some announcements about its strategy when it reports first-half
earnings on Aug. 30, a person familiar with the matter said.  With few expressing interest in buying control of
Activision, a large public sale of stock may depress the price,
said  Arvind Bhatia , an analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
Dallas. Kotick may need to line up partners for a management-led
plan to buy Vivendi’s stake, he said.  Debt Ratings  “Any transaction that happens will involve Activision as
one of the partners,” Bhatia said in an interview. “Whether
it’s today or in three months, I don’t think it really matters
that much.”  Vivendi’s net debt totaled about 12.5 billion euros at the
end of March. The company has been warned by Moody’s Investors
Service and Fitch Ratings that its debt rating may be cut unless
it reduces liabilities. The stock fell to a nine-year low in
April, before the departure last month of CEO Jean-Bernard Levy
in a clash over the direction of the company.  Activision had $3.48 billion in cash and no debt as of the
first quarter, according to company filings. The stock trades at
14.6 times trailing earnings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, below its 25.4 in fiscal 2010 and a five-year high of
67.6 in 2007.  The multiple reflects investor uncertainty over growth
prospects during a transition phase for the video-game industry
with the introduction of the first new consoles in seven years,
Edward Woo, an analyst with Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC in
 Irvine , California, said in a recent interview.  Industry growth is now taking place on social-media
websites such as Facebook.com and away from traditional
consoles.  U.S. sales of packaged games like those played on Xbox or
PlayStation fell 6 percent to $8.83 billion last year, according
to researcher NPD Group Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  