-- Vodafone, Hutchison Agree to Share Irish Phone Networks
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-13T20:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/vodafone-hutchison-agree-to-share-irish-phone-networks.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  agreed to share
its wireless infrastructure with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  in
Ireland as the companies seek to reduce costs.  Vodafone and Hutchison’s Three Ireland unit will combine
their mobile-phone networks in about 2,000 locations,
eliminating duplicate sites, the companies said in a statement
yesterday. The joint venture will be responsible for purchasing
equipment and maintaining the sites.  Vodafone and Hutchison said that the partnership will free
cash for expanding into new technologies, such as fourth-
generation high-speed mobile  data networks . Vodafone, based in
Newbury, England, has a similar agreement with  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s
O2 unit in the U.K. European operators are increasingly relying
on network sharing deals to lower costs after regulators blocked
some merger and takeover attempts.  “Securing future investment for technologies in a
competitive market is critical to maintaining a sustainable
business,” said Jeroen Hoencamp, CEO of Vodafone Ireland.  In Ireland, former monopoly Eircom Group and O2 signed a
mobile network sharing partnership last year. Hutchison this
year unsuccessfully submitted two separate bids to buy Eircom.  Vodafone’s American depositary receipts rose 1.4 percent to
close at $28.59 yesterday. Each ADR represents 10 common shares.
The ADRs of Hutchison, the Hong Kong-based company owned by
billionaire  Li Ka-Shing , rose 2.2 percent to $17.85. Each ADR
represents two common shares.  Upgrade Costs  Hutchison agreed to acquire Orange Austria in February in a
deal valued at 1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion). Hutchison plans
to merge its Austrian Three unit with Orange, making it the
country’s third-biggest mobile provider after  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) 
and  Deutsche Telekom (DTE)  AG’s T-Mobile Austria business. On June 29,
the European Commission opened a full antitrust probe of the
deal.  The average European operator will spend about 2 billion
euros to upgrade an existing network to fourth-generation
network technology to cover 75 percent of a country with 50
million people, according to researcher Idate. Spending could be
three times as expensive for an operator starting from scratch,
it said.  Companies that share infrastructure can cut their costs by
as much as 40 percent per site,  France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s head of
European network performance, Christian Luginbuhl, said this
year. Luginbuhl spoke after  France Telecom  announced that it
would team up with Deutsche Telekom to share networks in Poland
and prepare them for an upgrade to 4G.  In the U.K., France Telecom merged its Orange network with
Deutsche Telekom’s T-Mobile in 2010, creating Everything
Everywhere in a bid to save more than a total of 4 billion euros
in network, marketing and administrative costs by 2014. That
deal, cutting the number of network operators in the country
from five to four, paved the way for joint procurement projects
and network sharing across all their markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  