-- Volkswagen First-Half Sales Growth Accelerates on China
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W u e s t n e r
-- 2012-07-13T11:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/volkswagen-first-half-sales-growth-accelerates-on-china.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s biggest
carmaker, reported accelerating first-half sales growth as
Chinese and U.S. demand helped its premium Audi division and
namesake VW brand.  Deliveries in the first six months of 2012 rose 8.9 percent
from a year earlier to 4.5 million cars, vans and sport-utility
vehicles, Wolfsburg, Germany-based Volkswagen said today in a
statement. Sales jumped 11 percent in June to 798,500 vehicles.  Volkswagen has a target of overtaking  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to become the world’s biggest carmaker by
2018, bolstered by its presence in  China . Sales gains at VW,
which also owns mass-market carmakers Seat and Skoda as well as
the high-end Bentley and Lamborghini marques, contrast with
declines at European competitors including  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
and  Renault SA (RNO) , which are more dependent on the region.  “As opposed to the other manufacturers, VW profits from
its strong position in China and, in Europe, from its premium
brand Audi,” said Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst
at IHS Automotive research company. “Also, VW cars are seen as
‘premium-like,’ with Skoda and Seat absorbing customers that
cannot afford a VW.”  Asian Gains  First-half sales growth, helped by new versions of Audi’s
A3 hatchback and VW’s mid-sized Passat, was dominated by
increases of 18 percent in the Asia-Pacific region and 22
percent in  North America . China is the biggest national market
for the VW and Audi brands.  Deliveries in western  Europe  outside Germany fell 5.7
percent. Including gains of 4.4 percent in its home country and
27 percent in the central and eastern part of the region,
deliveries in Europe rose 1.8 percent, Volkswagen said.  Global sales “developed very well” in the period, “but
that is by no means cause for euphoria,” Christian Klingler,
Volkswagen’s sales chief, said in the statement. “The economic
situation, particularly in western Europe, remains tense and
difficult.”  Volkswagen  rose  as much as 1 percent to 135 euros and was
trading up 0.2 percent at 1:31 p.m. in Frankfurt. The company’s
preferred stock has gained 16 percent this year, valuing the
carmaker at 60.9 billion euros ($74.3 billion).  Peugeot’s Decline  Peugeot’s first-half deliveries fell 13 percent. The Paris-
based carmaker, Europe’s second-biggest, said yesterday that it
plans to shutter a plant in  France  by 2014, the country’s first
auto-factory closing in two decades, because it doesn’t expect
the region’s market to pick up soon. Peugeot stock dropped to a
23-year low today amid investor concern that France’s government
may intervene in the reorganization plans.  Renault, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-Billancourt,
reported a 3.3 percent decline in first-half car sales. The drop
prompted the automaker to scrap a target range for full-year
delivery growth, though it’s sticking to a prediction that sales
will rise thanks to gains outside Europe.  The VW figures don’t include numbers from Porsche AG, the
sports-car maker it’s taking full control of on Aug. 1. The
brand reported a 14 percent gain in first-half sales to 69,171
cars and SUVs, boosted by a 19 percent jump in June, as a new
version of the 911 model won customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wuestner in Berlin at 
 cwuestner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  