-- Vote-Buying Efforts Remain Time-Honored as Mexicans Reap Gifts
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-07-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/vote-buying-efforts-remain-time-honored-as-mexicans-reap-gifts.html
When it comes to accepting campaign
gifts, Rogelio Garcia is an equal-opportunity voter.  The unemployed Mexican chauffeur went shopping at his local
Soriana supermarket in the capital last week with gift cards
worth 2,300 pesos ($170) he says were given to him by the
campaign of incoming President Enrique Pena Nieto. He said he
also received handouts from supporters of  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , the runner-up, who accused Pena Nieto’s  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , or PRI, of buying the July 1 election.  “I’ll take giveaways wherever I can get them,” said
Garcia, standing outside one of two Soriana supermarkets in
 Mexico  City that were closed due to safety concerns on July 3
and July 4 after throngs of shoppers rushed to spend gift cards
supplied by the PRI, according to its opponents.  Like Garcia, poor Mexicans who make up about  half of the
population  have grown to expect gifts come election season.
While Lopez Obrador may have a tough time proving that fraud by
Pena Nieto’s side swung the election, given the 3.3-million-vote
margin, the charges illustrate one of the challenges facing
Mexico’s young democracy, said  Andrew Selee  at the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars.  Twelve years after one-party rule ended, parties have
convinced some voters their support should go to the highest
bidder, he said.  “Politicians are preying on peoples’ needs in a way that
demeans the quality of their vote,” said Selee, director of the
Washington-based center’s Mexico Institute. “It’s always a
problem when people see their vote as a tool to get concrete
benefits and not as a way of setting long-term policy.”  Undermining Democracy  While Mexico’s democracy has strengthened since Pena
Nieto’s party began opening up electoral politics to competition
in the 1990s after ruling alone for six decades, the continued
buying of votes by the nation’s dominant parties undermines that
progress, said Duncan Wood, a professor of international
relations at the Autonomous Technological Institute of Mexico.
At the local level, it also raises the specter of drug gangs
elevating candidates who are soft on crime, setting back the
nation’s crackdown on the cartels, Selee said.  Lopez Obrador , 58, who lost to Pena Nieto by more than six
percentage points, has accused the PRI of buying millions of
votes using tactics that included giving away bank cards from
Monex Grupo Financiero SA and gift certificates from
Organizacion Soriana SAB. He said yesterday he’s filing a legal
challenge to invalidate the election results, which he called
unconstitutional. The electoral tribunal, which has final
authority over voting results, has until Sept. 6 to decide on
the case and announce the president elect.  Video Footage  Pena Nieto’s opponents have helped make their case by
posting videos on the Internet that they say show the PRI
exchanging gifts for support.  One video  that’s received more than 1.25 million views on
YouTube shows people clustered in a courtyard festooned with PRI
banners, listening to an organizer explain how they’ll be
compensated if they promote Pena Nieto. The video ends abruptly
after the unknown cameraman is spotted filming and is escorted
away by someone who appears to be a campaign organizer.  Near-daily accusations by Lopez Obrador haven’t affected
investors’ optimism in Mexico’s economy. The extra yield
investors demand to own Mexican dollar debt instead of U.S.
Treasuries has fallen 13 basis points since the election to 189,
compared to a decline of 8 points to 366 for  emerging markets 
globally, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Mexico’s benchmark IPC stock  index  has climbed 8.6 percent
this year, reaching a record on July 3, while the peso’s 3.7
percent advance is the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  No Qualms  Garcia said he lives outside the capital in a working-class
suburb of Mexico state, which was governed until 2011 by Pena
Nieto. He said he has no qualms about taking gifts from
political parties, and that offerings from the PRI and
groceries, pens and a tote bag given by Lopez Obrador’s
Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD, didn’t sway his decision
when he pulled the curtain closed on the voting booth. Garcia
declined to say for whom he voted.  “The woman said she came on behalf of the PRI,” Garcia
said, recalling when he accepted the gift card in his home.
“People said, ‘Don’t take it,’ but why not? I voted for
whomever I wanted in the end.”  Being Framed?  The PRI has denied the vote-buying allegations. Pena Nieto,
45, said on July 10 that his party is being “framed.”  In this
year’s election “there was no vote buying and there was
complete equality,” Aurelio Nuno, a spokesman for Pena Nieto’s
campaign, said in an e-mailed response to a request for comment.  Lopez Obrador had thousands of supporters camp for weeks in
Mexico City’s main square in 2006 to protest what he alleged was
President  Felipe Calderon ’s stealing of the election.  Veronica Juarez, a PRD spokeswoman, said by phone that
while her party hands out t-shirts and baseball caps at rallies,
it doesn’t distribute groceries or money.  Mexico’s attorney general is investigating the PRI, as well
as Soriana and Monex. Both companies have denied any involvement
in the distribution of the cards.  The alleged attempts to buy votes are a vestige of Mexico’s
authoritarian past, when the PRI maintained its grip on power by
promising peasants everything from food to bags of cement to
patch up shacks, said Wood.  “It’s a lot more common in rural areas where people are
not as educated on free and fair elections,” Wood said.  Uphill Battle  Lopez Obrador faces an uphill battle in trying to prove
that whatever vote-buying did occur is enough to invalidate the
results. While under Mexican electoral law offers of cash and
gifts are illegal when a party asks for a vote in return, such
practices aren’t listed in the constitution as a valid reason
for voiding an election.  While the ruling  National Action Party , whose candidate
finished third, isn’t seeking to overturn the results, outgoing
President Calderon has called for a full investigation. His
party also wants authorities to probe whether the PRI exceeded
campaign spending limits and used local government budgets to
boost candidates.  Allegations of vote-buying aren’t restricted to Mexico.
It’s a commonly alleged practice throughout  Latin America , from
rural areas in northeastern  Brazil  dominated for generations by
land-owning families to the industrial suburbs of  Buenos Aires 
that have helped the Peronist Party carry eight out of 10
Argentine presidential elections it was allowed to compete in
since its creation in 1946.  In Mexico, the PRI’s “extensive” network of gift giving
has helped it remain the largest party by membership and state
governorships even after it lost the presidency in 2000, Selee
said.  Drug Violence  Electoral payola may also be exploited by the nation’s drug
cartels, especially in local races, he added.  “There is no doubt that the need to pay off patronage
networks at election time has helped drug traffickers and other
criminal organizations buy favor with politicians,” Selee said.  The persistence of the time-honored practice shouldn’t
obscure the progress Mexico’s democracy has made in the past two
decades, Wood said.  The nation has come a long way since 1988, when PRI
candidate Carlos Salinas de Gortari beat Cuauhtemoc Cardenas,
who founded Lopez Obrador’s party. Then-President Miguel de la  Madrid  later acknowledged that the vote was rigged.  In response to public outcry, the Federal Electoral
Institute, an independent agency that oversees elections, was
created under Salinas.  Subtle Canvassing  Gone, mostly, are the days when parties would pay cash to
voters to physically hand over their ballots, Wood said. As a
result, some canvassers have taken a more subtle tack.  Gerardo Leon said he and his wife were given a Soriana card
worth 100 pesos to attend a PRI rally in Mexico state and asked
to go to the polls, although he was never told which candidate
to support. Like Garcia, he didn’t provide his age.  “All parties do this,” Leon said in an interview outside
the same closed Soriana supermarket where Garcia stood. Leon
begged a reporter not to write a story that may hurt the chances
of lower-income families receiving pre-election gifts. “This
isn’t news,” he said.  While offering gifts for votes may violate electoral law,
the presence of international observers makes it difficult for
parties to know how Mexicans cast ballots that are secret, said
Robert A. Pastor, a national security adviser for Latin America
during the presidency of  Jimmy Carter  and now a professor at
American University in  Washington .  “It’s a sign that their ballot is worth something,” said
Pastor, who has served as an observer for five Mexican elections
as well as ones in  Nicaragua , Liberia and  China . Mexico has left
behind the days when presidents handpicked their successors, and
while vote-buying is unethical, Pastor said the effort parties
make to connect with voters is “not a bad thing in a country in
a democratic transition.”   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  