-- Wells Fargo Adds $669 Million to Buy Back Bad Home Loans
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-13T17:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/wells-fargo-adds-239-million-to-buy-back-bad-home-loans.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, braced itself for more demands for refunds of
faulty mortgages by adding the most to a  reserve fund  covering
such claims since at least 2009.  The bank cited stepped-up scrutiny by government-backed
buyers such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  as it set aside $669
million in the second quarter, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo
said in a statement. The lender said it expects more demands for
refunds on loans sold to the two firms from 2006 through 2008.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the so-called government-
sponsored enterprises, are seeking reimbursement after buying
mortgages during the U.S. housing bubble that were backed by
faulty data about borrowers and properties. The flaws give the
GSEs the right to “put back” the mortgages, or resell them to
banks, boosting costs for lenders including Wells Fargo.  “This addition to the reserve was a result of our ongoing
dialogue with them including some communication very late in the
quarter,” Wells Fargo Chief Financial Officer Tim Sloan told
analysts on a conference call. “We believe the additional
reserve we added this quarter is appropriate to cover losses
associated with these higher-than-expected demands.”  Sloan, 52, said he continues to see “behavioral changes”
from the GSEs, echoing other banks that have seen increased
scrutiny from the GSEs. McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac and
Washington-based Fannie Mae were seized by the U.S. in September
2008 after purchases of risky loans pushed the firms to the
brink of collapse. Since then, the two taxpayer-owned firms have
received almost $190 billion from the U.S. Treasury Department.  ‘Healthy Conversation’  Wells Fargo, led by Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf ,
58, had $1.67 billion in outstanding repurchase demands at the
end of the quarter, according to the statement. The bank had
$1.76 billion in repurchase reserves as of June 30.  “There’s going to be a lot of healthy conversation with
the agencies on whatever future demands they’re going to
provide,” Sloan said. “These were based on conversations in
which we expected future demands, as opposed to specific
demands.”  Wells Fargo’s costs tied to faulty mortgages and shoddy
foreclosures now exceed $7 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bank said yesterday it will pay $125 million
and set up a $50 million assistance fund to settle U.S.
allegations that it discriminated against minority borrowers.  Expenses tied to faulty mortgages and foreclosures have
cost the five biggest U.S. home lenders more than $72 billion
since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wells Fargo reported today that second-quarter profit rose
17 percent to a record $4.62 billion on strength in new  mortgage
loans .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 