-- Wells Fargo, Libor Defense, Tax Legislation: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-13T11:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/wells-fargo-libor-defense-tax-legislation-compliance.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, will pay $125 million and set up a $50 million
assistance fund to settle U.S. allegations that it discriminated
against minority borrowers.  The bank will also stop using outside brokers to create
mortgages, according to a statement yesterday from Wells Fargo.
The accord settles U.S. accusations in  court filings  that the
bank put creditworthy Hispanic and African-American borrowers
into more expensive subprime loans from 2004 to 2007, and that
mortgage brokers through 2009 added charges that caused minority
borrowers to pay higher fees, costs and interest than similar
white borrowers.  The San Francisco-based bank, which controls about a third
of the market for all  new home loans , denied it engaged in
illegal discrimination and said it agreed to settle solely to
avoid litigation, according to a proposed consent order. The
company reported a $15.9 billion profit last year.  “Wells Fargo asserts that throughout the period of time at
issue in this proceeding and to the present, it has treated all
customers fairly and without regard to impermissible factors
such as race and national origin,” the bank said in the consent
order, which must be approved by a federal judge.  In a separate statement, Wells Fargo said it will stop
funding loans through independent mortgage brokers and after
today won’t accept new applications from them. The lender will
still process and close existing applications, and the decision
to stop dealing with brokers, known as wholesale lending, was
made “on its own volition,” according to the statement.  The settlement with Wells Fargo is the second-largest fair-
lending accord reached by the  Justice Department  after a record
$335 million settlement with  Bank of America Corp.  announced in
December. Countrywide, acquired by Bank of America in 2008,
assessed higher fees and  interest rates  on more than 200,000
black and Hispanic borrowers, the Justice Department said at the
time.  The case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 12-cv-01150, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  In the Courts  Vodafone, France Telecom May Claim Tax Back After EU Court Win  Vodafone Group Ltd. (VOD)  and  France Telecom SA (FTE)  should be able to
reclaim “a lot of money” from Spain after the European Union’s
top court said a Spanish mobile-phone related tax they were
forced to pay is illegal.  A fee imposed by local authorities in Spain on companies
for the right to use infrastructure such as mobile-phone masts
on municipal property is illegal, the EU Court of Justice ruled.
Vodafone’s and France Telecom’s Spanish units argued the tax was
unlawful and only the owners of the masts should have to pay.  “For the companies it was important to win this case
because a lot of money is at stake,” said Jose Luis Buendia, a
lawyer at Garrigues in Brussels, who was among those
representing Vodafone Spain in the case.  Mobile-network operators, including Vodafone and France
Telecom, that use the facilities of other companies to provide
their services in Spain have sued the municipalities that impose
the tax. With more mobile phones than people in Europe, the
region’s operators are increasingly relying on sharing and
combining networks to lower the costs of expansion and offer
faster data downloads.  “EU law prohibits” countries in the 27-nation region
“from imposing that fee on operators who, without owning that
infrastructure, use it to provide mobile-telephony services,”
the Luxembourg-based court said in a statement.  There are more than 1,390 laws imposing such taxes in
Spain, according to court documents.  Vodafone and France Telecom representatives didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment on the ruling. Spanish
Industry Ministry officials didn’t immediately return calls and
e-mails seeking comment.  While the companies argued that under EU law such a tax
can’t be imposed on companies that just use mobile-related
infrastructure on public land, the Spanish government said the
tax is lawful because the companies occupy public property.  The cases are: C-55/11, C-57/11, C-58/11, Vodafone Espana,
France Telecom Espana.  RBS Asks Court to Block $1 Million Bonus to Ex-Risk Chief  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  asked a London court to
approve a decision to block a 700,000-pound ($1 million) bonus
awarded to its former head of corporate risk solutions before
his dismissal.  Gary Cottle, who headed risk solutions in the investment
banking division, lost his job when the unit was restructured in
2011 and refused to accept an alternative post, RBS said in
court documents.  The bank said it is entitled to withhold the final payment
of a 1.9 million-pound deferred bonus granted in 2009 because
Cottle acted “unreasonably” in turning down the role,
according to the May filing.  “If I had been offered a suitable role I would still be
there,” Cottle said by phone.  Legal disputes in London over bonus payments have shed
light on the culture of compensation in financial services,
which some say contributed to the near collapse of the banking
industry. More than 100 bankers won a court ruling in May
against  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  to force payment of individual bonuses
worth as much as $2.6 million.  European regulators toughened bonus rules in 2011 to
discourage the type of risk-taking that led to the 2008
financial crisis. The guidelines limit cash payouts to about
one-quarter of the total to ensure incentives are linked to
long-term performance, with the rest paid in deferred
securities.  The case is The  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  v. Mr.
Gary Cottle,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division,
HQ12X01948.  Deutsche Bank, RBS Face Top Libor Legal Tab, Morgan Stanley Says  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  may
have the highest litigation costs of 16 banks that face
potential fines and lawsuits for rigging benchmark interest
rates,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  analysts estimate.  Morgan Stanley, based in New York and the sixth-biggest
U.S. bank, isn’t on the panel of firms that sets Libor rates.  Legal expenses stemming from probes into manipulation of
the London interbank offer rate, or Libor, could range from $59
million for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  to as much as $1.04 billion
for Deutsche Bank and $1.06 billion for Edinburgh-based RBS,
according to estimates published yesterday by Morgan Stanley’s
 Betsy Graseck  in New York and Huw van Steenis in London. The
costs probably would apply in 2013 and 2014, they wrote.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the second-biggest U.K. bank, agreed last
month to pay 290 million pounds ($447 million) in regulatory
fines for rigging Libor, spurring resignations of the chairman,
the chief executive officer and its chief operating officer. The
fines raised speculation about penalties that may be imposed on
other banks involved and the cost of lawsuits that follow.  Former Barclays CEO Robert Diamond is being counseled by
Dechert LLP.  “Dechert has been representing Mr. Diamond on this matter
from the onset of the Libor investigation in 2010,” Beth
Huffman, a spokeswoman for the firm, said in a telephone
interview. He is represented by firm Chairman Andrew Levander
and Cheryl Krause, a partner in the Philadelphia office, Huffman
said.  Levander also represents J.  Ezra Merkin , who ran so-called
feeder funds involved in  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme;  Jon
Corzine , the former head of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ; and  John
Thain , the former head of Merrill Lynch, who is now chairman and
chief executive officer of  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) , Huffman said.  Norton Rose in London is counseling Diamond as well, Legal
Week reported. Sarah Webster and Gavin Collins of Norton Rose
didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Senate Doesn’t Advance Competing Small-Business Tax Plans  The U.S. Senate, stalled by partisan divides over tax
policy, didn’t advance rival Democratic and Republican proposals
to provide tax breaks to small companies.  Senators voted 73-24 yesterday to reject a Republican plan
to give businesses a 20 percent tax cut. They also voted 53-44
for a Democratic plan to offer tax breaks for hiring and capital
investment. To overcome procedural hurdles, the Democratic plan
needed 60 votes to advance.  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said
opposition to his party’s plan shows that Republicans are
willing to damage the economy to help their chances in the
November election.  “We are talking about a tax cut for small businesses
here,” Schumer said. “That’s mother’s milk to Republicans.”  The votes previewed the debate over income tax cuts
scheduled to expire at the end of the year. Senators plan to
vote in the next few weeks on competing income-tax plans, and
Republicans said yesterday’s debate ignored the uncertainty
caused by the threat of higher taxes in 2013.  “If we are serious about providing true tax relief that
will help small businesses grow, we can sit here and debate
whether a Band-Aid will be the cure to our ailing economy,”
said Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the top Republican on the
Senate Finance Committee. “Or we can begin the debate over how
to prevent historic tax increases from hammering our small
businesses and farms.”  The Republican proposal is H.R. 9. The Democratic proposal
is S. 2237.  Compliance Action  Bank of Commonwealth Ex-CEO, Officials Charged With Fraud  The former chief executive officer of Virginia’s Bank of
the Commonwealth was among six people indicted for an alleged
fraud conspiracy involving a coverup of the bank’s financial
condition from 2008 to 2011.  Edward Woodard, 69, who ran the bank for more than three
decades, was charged in a 25-count indictment unsealed yesterday
in federal court in Norfolk, Virginia. Three other former bank
executives and two borrowers were also charged.  “Bank insiders were unwilling to fully acknowledge the
deterioration in the bank’s loan portfolio,” according to the
indictment. “They were concerned that the bank’s declining
health would negatively impact investor and customer confidence,
and that capital erosion would affect the bank’s ability to
accept and renew brokered deposits.”  The executives concealed shortfalls by overdrawing demand-
deposit accounts to make loan payments and extending new loans
or additional principal on existing loans to cover payment
deficiencies, the U.S. charged in the 51-page indictment.  Prosecutors are seeking $71 million in criminal forfeiture.  Woodard is charged with conspiracy to commit bank fraud,
bank fraud, false entry in a bank record, unlawful participation
in a loan, false statements to a financial institution and
misapplication of bank funds. Each charge carries a maximum
penalty of 30 years in prison.  From 2008 until it closed in 2011, the Norfolk-based bank
lost almost $115 million. The bank’s failure will cost the U.S.,
through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., more than $260
million, according to the indictment.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney  Neil MacBride  in
Alexandria, Virginia, declined to comment on the indictment.  Andrew Sacks, a lawyer for Woodard, said his client will
plead not guilty to the charges, which he called “absolutely
unfounded.”  The case is U.S. v. Woodard, 12-cr-00105, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Norfolk).  Progress Energy’s former CEO to Testify on Leadership Switch  Former Progress Energy Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Bill
Johnson  will testify to North Carolina regulators about  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s decision to replace him hours after the companies
combined to create the largest U.S. utility owner.  The North Carolina Utilities Commission yesterday ordered
Johnson and four Duke board members to appear at hearings on
July 19 and 20. Johnson was replaced by Duke Chairman and CEO
James Rogers hours after the takeover of Progress closed on July
2. The executives testified before the merger that Johnson would
be CEO while Rogers served as executive chairman.  The hearings are an expansion of the agency’s inquiry,
following July 10 testimony from Rogers. The commission asked
former Progress directors E. Marie McKee and James Hyler Jr. to
appear on July 19 with Johnson, who will be speaking publicly
about his unexpected resignation for the first time. Duke
directors Ann Maynard Gray and Michael Browning were ordered to
appear July 20.  Four former directors of Raleigh, North Carolina-based
Progress have said they would have opposed the merger had they
known Rogers would remain in charge.  North Carolina’s attorney general is investigating whether
Duke violated any laws with its boardroom maneuver. State law
allows the commission to rescind, alter or amend its June 29
order approving the merger, said Sam Watson, the agency’s
general counsel.  Rogers told commissioners the Duke board “lost
confidence” in Johnson during the final weeks of the 18-month
merger review. The two management teams clashed over a plan to
address antitrust concerns in North and South Carolina and the
fate of Progress’s shuttered Crystal River 3 nuclear plant,
highlighting differences in corporate culture.  Wade Smith, Johnson’s attorney, said in an e-mail yesterday
that Johnson will “gladly attend and answer all the questions
the commission members have.”  For more, click here.  Interviews  Euribor Should Be Overseen by EU Regulators, EBF Chief Says  European Union authorities should directly oversee the euro
interbank lending rate following the interest-rate manipulation
scandal in London, the head of the banking group that
administers Euribor said.  The European Securities and Markets Authority should
supervise how banks submit estimates of interest rates to borrow
or lend to one other, Guido Ravoet, the chief executive officer
of the European Banking Federation, said in an interview
yesterday.  Confidence in the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
a benchmark for $360 trillion worth of financial products
worldwide, has been dented by Barclays Plc’s admission that it
submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who resigned as London-
based Barclays’s CEO after the bank was fined 290 million pounds
($447 million), told British lawmakers last week that other
banks also lowballed Libor submissions.  Barclays’s submitters received at least 58 requests for how
they should report the Euribor rate from September 2005 to May
2009, 20 of them from traders at other banks, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority said last month. Short-term interest-rate
contracts valued at 241 trillion euros ($293 trillion) are based
on the three-month Euribor futures contract, making it the
world’s fourth-largest interest-rate futures contract by volume,
the FSA said.  Efforts by banking groups to oversee Euribor and Libor are
“not enough,” because the rates have become widely used
benchmarks, EU spokesman Stefaan De Rynck said yesterday. The
European Commission is reviewing the governance of the rates and
how they are calculated, De Rynck said.  EU antitrust regulators in October raided banks that offer
financial derivatives linked to the Euribor rates, saying they
were investigating possible collusion.  For more, click here.  EU Lawmakers Seek ‘Huge Package’ of High-Frequency Trading Rules  European Union lawmakers are targeting reaching a deal by
September on a “huge package” of rules to regulate high-
frequency trading as part of a broader effort to toughen a draft
financial-markets law.  Markus Ferber, the legislator leading the effort in the
European Parliament, said the assembly is determined to go
beyond proposals made last year by EU Financial Services
Commissioner  Michel Barnier .  “The commission has proposed nothing, to be serious,”
Ferber said in an interview with Bloomberg News. “They have
said that something needs to be done, and that they will adopt
technical standards to do it, but they don’t say in what
direction they want to go. I think we can organize a huge
package to regulate high-frequency trading.”  Legislators are weighing measures including stipulating
minimum lengths of time that orders must be maintained,
regulating minimum price movements of securities -- known as
tick size -- and setting rules on fee structures, Ferber said.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny after the so-called flash crash in May 2010, during
which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000
points. Companies active in such trading have warned that
interfering with their strategies would raise investor costs and
harm financial stability.  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
made its proposals last year as part of revisions to financial-
market rules known as Mifid.  Comings and Goings  SEC Seeks to Add Structured Note Expert to Enforcement Division  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission wants to hire
an expert in structured products and derivatives for two years
to help in “policing the industry,” the agency said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We want to identify areas of risk, so that we can get
ahead of the problems,” Ken Lench, head of the structured and
new products unit, said in the statement. “We therefore want a
candidate who knows what the trends are, what is hot, and what
is new.”  In April, the SEC posted a letter on its website that was
sent to banks, asking for added disclosure to their structured
note prospectuses, including estimates of “fair value” at the
time of sale. The agency also requested that issuers explain how
they set up a secondary market for the notes, how they use the
proceeds raised from sales and how important the business is to
their funding needs.  The U.S. structured-note industry has come under scrutiny
from regulators for the securities’ complexity and lack of
transparency. Banks sold $45.9 billion of SEC-registered
securities in 2011, down from a record $49.5 billion a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  