-- Wells Fargo’s Second-Quarter Profit Climbs on Mortgages
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-13T20:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/wells-fargo-s-second-quarter-profit-climbs-on-mortgages.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the most valuable
U.S. bank and largest home lender, reported second-quarter
profit increased 17 percent on strength in mortgage banking and
a drop in expenses.  Net income advanced to a record $4.62 billion, or 82 cents
a share, from $3.95 billion, or 70 cents, a year earlier, the
San Francisco-based company said today in a statement. Income
before taxes and provisions climbed, and the shares posted their
best gain in four months.  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 58, countered record-
low  interest rates  and narrower margins with more home lending
and purchases of loan portfolios from European banks. Wells
Fargo creates a third of all U.S. mortgages and said today that
new applications set a quarterly record.  “Wells did the best job of the big players in the mortgage
market and therefore they’ve garnered a share as the other
fellows have fallen by the wayside,” billionaire  Warren Buffett 
said today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop With  Betty
Liu .” Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is the bank’s biggest
stakeholder with more than 7 percent of the common stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Price  Wells Fargo rose 3.2 percent to $33.91 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York   trading . The stock gained 23 percent this year, compared
with 17 percent for the 24-company KBW Bank Index, and ranked as
the largest U.S. lender by market value at $180 billion.  Revenue increased 4 percent to $21.3 billion from a year
earlier, while slipping 1.6 percent from the first quarter. The
net interest margin held steady in the period from the first
three months of this year at 3.91 percent.  Results were aided by a $400 million release of loan-loss
reserves, the bank said. Income before taxes and provisions, a
measure that helps filter out one-time items and focus on
operations, advanced 12 percent from a year earlier and almost 3
percent from the first quarter.  Wells Fargo updated its target for planned expense cuts,
saying it won’t be able to get quarterly costs below $11.25
billion due to increased revenue opportunities, according to the
statement. The company, in comments from Chief Financial Officer
Timothy J. Sloan, said its efficiency ratio is a better gauge of
expense management.  Credit Quality  Credit performance improved, Chief Risk Officer Mike
Loughlin said in the statement. “We expect continued but more
modest improvement for the remainder of the year, and we
continue to expect future reserve releases in 2012,” he said.  Mortgage banking income climbed to $2.89 billion, a 79
percent increase from last year’s second quarter and up $23
million from the first quarter, according to the company.  The bank set aside almost $670 million to cover repurchase
demands, an increase of almost $240 million over the first
quarter. Wells Fargo cited more demands for refunds on loans
sold to government-sponsored entities from 2006 through 2008.
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  typically have the right to “put
back” mortgages if defects are later discovered in data about
borrowers and properties that backed the loans.  Nationwide home loan originations in the U.S. probably
climbed 28 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier to
$372 billion, according to estimates from the Washington-based
Mortgage Bankers Association. About three-fourths of those were
refinancings, the MBA estimates.  Europe’s Distress  Wells Fargo has been among the most active U.S. banks
buying loan portfolios and businesses from distressed European
lenders. The company agreed to purchase  Germany ’s WestLB AG’s
subscription-financing business and about $3 billion in loans,
according to a June 25 statement.  The yield on the company’s securities portfolio climbed to
4.32 percent from 4.19 percent in the first quarter as lower-
yielding mortgage securities were replaced with higher paying
municipal bonds and other debt. Wells Fargo had $9.5 billion in
unrealized gains on the portfolio at the end of June.  Banks are searching for revenue growth as record-low
interest rates cut into margins and an  unemployment rate  above 8
percent puts a damper on new credit. The U.S. Treasury 10-year
note yielded 1.44 percent intraday on June 1, the lowest on
record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Low interest rates continue to be one of the biggest
fundamental headwinds facing banks today,” FBR Capital Markets
Corp. analyst  Paul Miller  wrote in a July 9 report.  Commercial Loans  Net interest margins, the difference between what banks
make on loans and pay for funds, have been squeezed by falling
rates and slack demand among borrowers. The 25 largest U.S.
commercial banks held $4.09 trillion in loans and leases on June
27, a 0.6 percent gain over March, according to the  Federal
Reserve .  Mortgage banking and commercial-and-industrial lending have
shown strength. C&I loans at the 25 biggest lenders climbed 3.7
percent over the first quarter to $772.2 billion in the week
ended June 27, according the Fed.  “We like WFC as  best in breed ,” Miller wrote, referring
to the company by its stock ticker. Firms with strong mortgage-
banking income will outperform competitors this quarter, Miller
wrote.  Wells Fargo does relatively little business in  Europe 
compared with larger peers such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
biggest U.S. bank by assets, and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , ranked third.  Wells Fargo agreed this week to pay $125 million and set up
a $50 million assistance fund to settle U.S. allegations that it
discriminated against minority borrowers. Sloan said the company
has already set aside funds to cover the cost. The bank will
also stop using outside brokers to create mortgages in efforts
to ensure compliance, the bank said.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 