-- Wholesale Prices in U.S. Rise for First Time in Four Months
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-13T12:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/wholesale-prices-in-u-s-rise-for-first-time-in-four-months.html
Wholesale prices in the U.S.
unexpectedly rose in June for the first time in four months,
reflecting an increase in food costs.  The 0.1 percent gain in the producer price  index  followed a
1 percent decrease the prior month, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The  median  estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 70 economists called for a 0.4 percent fall.
Excluding volatile food and energy, the so-called  core  measure
increased 0.2 percent as projected.  A. Schulman Inc. and  Kennametal Inc. (KMT)  are among companies
anticipating  raw materials  costs will remain restrained as
markets from  Europe  to  Asia  cool. Weakening growth in the U.S.
also may limit price pressures through the production pipeline,
reinforcing Federal Reserve policy makers’ projections that
inflation is likely to be subdued.  “I’m not concerned about inflation at all at this point,”
said  Michael Moran , chief economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
America Inc. in  New York , who correctly forecast the gain in
prices. “Some decline in commodity prices and a slower rate of
growth in both the U.S. and globally suggests restrained prices
in coming months.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the report as
slowing growth in  China  fueled speculation policy makers will
boost stimulus measures. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index maturing in September climbed 0.3 percent to 1,333 at
8:44 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  were little changed,
with the yield on the benchmark 10-year note at 1.49 percent
compared with 1.48 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  Economists’ estimate for producer prices ranged from an
increase of 0.2 percent to a decline of 1.3 percent.  Compared with the same month a year earlier, companies paid
0.7 percent more for goods, matching the 12-month gain in May as
the smallest since October 2009.  The core index increased 2.6 percent in the 12 months ended
in June, the smallest year-to-year gain since June 2011.  The gains in the PPI were led by a 0.5 percent increase in
food, reflecting the biggest increase in meat prices since July
2011, the report showed.  Energy costs dropped 0.9 percent from the prior month,
which included a record 2.1 percent drop in residential
electricity.  About 70 percent of the increase in the core measure was
attributed to a 1.4 percent advance in the cost of light motor
trucks, the biggest in a year.  Raw Materials  Expenses further down assembly lines continued to drop last
month, indicating price pressures will remain restrained. The
cost of intermediate goods decreased 0.5 percent, the third
consecutive decline. Crude goods fell 3.6 percent, the fourth
straight fall.  Akron, Ohio-based  A. Schulman (SHLM) , a supplier of plastic
compounds, anticipates raw-material costs will be relatively
unchanged and said companies from which it buys goods seem to
have little pricing power.  “Every month somebody tells us they’re going to increase
their price,” Chief Executive Officer Joseph Gingo said on a
July 10 conference call with analysts. “And every month,
they’re not able to push it through because there is no demand,
or soft demand.”  Producers benefiting from retreating costs for oil and
other materials include Kennametal, a Latrobe, Pennsylvania-
based supplier of cutting tools to manufacturers. The lower
expenses will be a “tailwind,” Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso said on a June 6 conference call with analysts.  Fed Outlook  Contained price pressures give the Fed more room to try to
spur the three-year expansion. Declining consumer inflation
reflected reductions in the price of crude oil and gasoline, and
“measures of long-run inflation expectations continued to be
stable,” policy makers said in minutes of their June meeting
released this week.  Producer prices are one of three monthly inflation gauges
reported by the Labor Department. The import-price index fell
2.7 percent in June, the biggest plunge since December 2008, a
report showed yesterday. Prices excluding fuel fell 0.3 percent,
the most in almost two years.  The cost of living index, the broadest of the three
measures, may have been little changed last month, economists
predicted ahead of the July 17 data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  