-- Twitter, VirnetX, BCE, Gawker, FIFA: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-13T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/twitter-virnetx-bce-gawker-fifa-intellectual-property.html
Amid the technology industry’s
penchant for patent lawsuits, Twitter Inc. unveiled a plan in
April designed to curb the court confrontations. The proposal,
which limits how companies could use patents against rivals, had
a strong ally in Yammer Inc.  That might now change, according to a Tech Blog report on
Bloomberg.com.  Last month,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said it would buy Yammer, which
makes social-networking tools for companies, for $1.2 billion.
Patent experts said it’s unlikely the software giant will
handicap its new toy with the restrictive patent rules.  “I doubt that Microsoft would allow this to transpire,”
Victor Siber, the former chief intellectual property counsel for
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBN)  who’s now a partner at
Baker & Hostetler LLP, wrote in an e-mail. “Because Microsoft
is a substantial target for patent litigation, it would reserve
all of its options to countersue or initiate litigation.”  Days before Twitter started talking about its patent
initiative, Microsoft agreed to pay $1.06 billion to acquire
more than 800 patents from AOL Inc. Microsoft has recently
engaged in several patent lawsuits, including with  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility unit and  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)   The effort by Twitter was widely publicized as a flower-
power, feel-good solution to all the litigation. The proposal
came at a time when  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  were still
entangled in lawsuits over social-networking patents and when
the mobile industry had become increasingly confrontational.  Twitter touted its proposal, called the Innovator’s Patent
Agreement, as a way to prevent lawsuits from impeding
innovation. It was also seen as a way to attract talent in the
highly competitive market for tech workers. For companies that
adopt the new rules, patents could only be used for defensive
reasons unless the people named on a patent give permission for
filing a lawsuit.  Carolyn Penner, a Twitter spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the progress of that initiative. Mac Brown, a spokesman for
Microsoft, and Shelley Risk, a spokeswoman for Yammer, declined
to comment on their plans because the acquisition hasn’t closed
yet.  Letting Yammer adopt the patent policy would be “too big a
change for Microsoft given the recent history,” said Ron Laurie, a managing director for consulting firm Inflexion Point
Strategy LLC who has done work with Microsoft. “It would be
very strange to me if they would follow the Twitter policy given
the intense competition in that market.”  VirnetX, Mitel End Patent Litigation, Sign Licensing Agreement  VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC) , an Internet security company, has
settled patent litigation  against Mitel Neworks Corp. , according
to a joint company statement.  Under terms of the agreement, Mitel, of Kenata, Ontario,
has taken a license to some VirnetX patents for a one-time
payment and an ongoing royalty on future sales. The license
agreement runs through to the expiration date of the licensed
patents, the companies said.  The patent infringement case VirnetX brought against Mitel
in federal court in Texas is to be dismissed, the companies
said. No other terms of the settlement were disclosed.  VirnetX sued Mitel in federal court in Tyler, Texas, in
January 2011, alleging that patents 6,502,135, 7,418,504, and
7,921,211 were infringed.  The case is VirnetX Inc. v.  Mitel Networks Corp. (MITL) , 6:11-cv-
00018-LED, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  AOL, Huffington Post, Accused of Infringing ‘Mindful’ Trademarks  AOL Inc. (AOL) , the New York-based web services company, and its
 Huffington Post  unit were sued for trademark infringement by a
Georgia resident.  In a complaint filed July 11 in federal court in Atlanta,
Kathleen Hall of Clarkesville, Georgia, claims her “Mindful
Living,” and “Mindful Travel” trademarks were infringed. The
two marks were registered, respectively, with the U.S. Patent
and Trademark office in August 2009 and August 2011.  She  uses the marks  in association with various services she
offers related to spiritual and personal growth, she said in her
pleadings. She objects to a Huffington Post website related to
healthy living, and to the use of the phrases “Mindful Living”
and “Mindful Travel” on that site.  Hall said she has never authorized the Huffington Post’s
use of her marks, and that she is damaged by the company’s
actions. The public is confused by the unauthorized use of her
marks, she says.  She asked the court to bar AOL and the Huffington Post’s
use of her marks, and for the company’s profits derived from the
alleged infringement. Additionally, she requested awards of
money damages, litigation costs and attorney fees.  AOL didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Kathleen Hall v. AOL Inc., 1:12-cv-02415, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Canada Top Court Partly Upholds Rogers Music Download Appeal  Canada’s  Supreme Court  ruled that while Internet providers
don’t have to pay communication tariffs when consumers download
music to computers or mobile phones, they must pay tariffs when
music is streamed over networks.  “Copyright protection is not dependent on the
technicalities of methods of transmission,” the court said in a
decision released yesterday. “It is necessary to consider the
broader context.”  A group of carriers including  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  Telus Corp. (T)  and  Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B) 
had appealed a Federal Court of Appeal decision that said
downloading content from an online music service qualifies as
communication “to the public,” and should be subject to
tariffs levied on broadcasters.  The Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of
Canada had argued that tariffs should apply both when music is
downloaded to be played later and when it is sent over a network
to be played simultaneously.  In a separate case, the court ruled that copyright tariffs
don’t apply when previews of songs are played by online music
stores owned by companies such as Apple Inc.  The cases are Rogers Communications Inc. v. Society of
Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada, 33922, and
Society of Composers, Authors and Music Publishers of Canada v.
Bell Canada, 33800, Supreme Court of Canada.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Gawker’s Jalopnik Receives Demand to Remove 2014 Corvette Images  Gawker Media LLC’s website aimed at car aficionados
received a cease-and-desist letter for posting images of what is
allegedly  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s  2014 model Corvette .  Ray Wert, Jalopnik.com’s editor in chief, said in the story
accompanying the images that “GM so doesn’t want you to see
these.” The images were derived from a marketing video from a
GM supplier intended to show off the supplier’s manufacturing
capabilities, according to Jalopnik.  That film included renderings of the 2014 Corvette model,
Jalopnik said.  Jalopnik then received a letter from  Schafer & Weiner PLLC 
of Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, counsel for the supplier. The
letter,  which is posted  on the Jalopnik.com website, demanded
that the offending images be removed and all access to them be
disabled.  The images disclosed trade secrets belonging both to the
supplier and to GM itself, the  law firm  said in the letter.
“Simply put, it is well-known in the industry, including
automotive publications such as Jalopnik, that the information
the Images contain is closely guarded proprietary information,
and not consensually available to the public,” according to the
firm’s letter.  The supplier threatened litigation and warned that if this
were to ensue, Jalopnik could potentially face having to pay
money damages and court costs, including the supplier’s attorney
fees.  Jalopnik refused to remove the images, saying they were
“newsworthy and a matter of public concern” and that they
 already were available  to the public through the posting of the
film on Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing site.  FIFA Head Says Kickbacks Revealed in Secret Documents were Legal  The president of soccer’s governing body, FIFA,  Sepp
Blatter , said he took no action against his predecessor and the
ex-head of the Brazilian soccer federation over kickbacks they
received because the payments weren’t illegal.  The Swiss Federal Court ordered the release July 11 of
previously secret documents that showed former FIFA President
 Joao Havelange  and  Ricardo Teixeira , who was a member of the
soccer body’s executive committee, received as much $22 million
between them from the collapsed International Sport and Leisure
marketing company. The payments were for deals related to the
 World Cup .  The report’s publication had been delayed as Teixeira and
Havelange attempted to have it blocked. FIFA last year agreed
for it be released after coming under media pressure. Instead of
disciplining the duo, FIFA paid a Swiss court 2.5 million Swiss
francs ($2.54 million) in compensation on the condition that
criminal proceedings against Havelange and Teixeira were
dropped.  Blatter confirmed that he was an individual listed as
“P1” in the report. The report said P1 and Havelange signed
marketing deals with ISL on behalf of Zurich-based FIFA in 1997
and that Havelange and Teixeira, Havelange’s former son-in-law,
profited from the agreements. Havelange and Teixeira received at
least $1 million and $13 million, respectively. Blatter today
referred to the payments as “commission” that was legal at the
time.  “Back then, such payments could even be deducted from tax
as a business expense,” Blatter said in an interview published
on FIFA’s website. “Today, that would be punishable under law.
You can’t judge the past on the basis of today’s standards.
Otherwise it would end up with moral justice. I can’t have known
about an offense that wasn’t even one.”  Blatter said he’d have preferred the names of all officials
mentioned in the document to have been published “to put an end
to the speculation once and for all.”  Blatter’s re-election in 2011 to a fourth four-year term
came after his only challenger, Mohamed bin Hammam, quit before
an investigation was opened into allegations he tried to bribe
voters. Bin Hammam, who denies wrongdoing, is appealing a life
ban from the sport.  The soccer organization is reforming its structures as a
response, and after a group tasked by Blatter said the ethics
committee he created in response to ISL in 2006 wasn’t fit for
purpose. On July 17 it will name heads of two new bodies
designed to investigate and adjudicate on officials accused of
breaking rules.  “The reform process is moving exactly in this direction,”
Blatter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 