-- Xstrata Profit Slide Hurts Qatari Push for Higher Glencore Bid
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-07-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/xstrata-profit-slide-hurts-qatari-push-for-higher-glencore-bid.html
Qatar is demanding another $4.2
billion from  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  for  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  at the
same time that analysts are reducing profit estimates for the
Swiss mining company faster than its peers.  Xstrata, due to report first-half earnings on Aug. 7, will
post a 39 percent drop in net income for 2012 to $3.5 billion,
according to the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg in the past month. The analysts have cut their
projections by an average 25 percent, or $1.2 billion, in the
last 28 days. Glencore’s profit will fall 2.7 percent for the
year, according to six analyst estimates made in that period.  Glencore’s 17 billion-pound ($26 billion) all-share offer
was derailed when Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, the second-
largest holder, said last month it wanted the bid raised by 16
percent. Xstrata is the biggest exporter of utility-grade coal.
Prices for the fuel “collapsed” in the second quarter,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG, slumping about 17 percent.  “The weakness in thermal coal markets this year has been
very surprising to most analysts,” said  Jeff Largey , a mining
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. “It makes it harder
to justify a bigger premium if it looks like Xstrata’s earnings
are the relatively weaker set of the pair. It gives Glencore a
better position from a bargaining point of view.”  Qatar Holding LLC, owner of about 11 percent of Xstrata,
surprised analysts and investors two weeks ago by calling for
this year’s biggest takeover offer to be raised. Glencore has
offered 2.8 of its shares for each one in Xstrata, seeking the
66 percent it doesn’t already own.  Xstrata’s Value  An offer at 3.25 “would provide a more appropriate
distribution of benefits of the merger whilst properly
recognizing the intrinsic stand-alone value of Xstrata,” the
Qatar fund said June 26. The fund, advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , has
built its stake in Zug, Switzerland-based Xstrata at a cost of
about $4.3 billion.  Officials for Xstrata, Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore,
and Qatar Holding declined to comment.  Xstrata shares traded as high as 2.85 times to Glencore’s
in London on March 2. The ratio dipped as low as 2.58 on June 25
and was at 2.67 yesterday.  Fair value for a transaction would be a ratio of 3.4 to 3.8
Glencore shares for each one in Xstrata, Exane BNP Paribas
analyst Sylvain Brunet wrote in a report yesterday. Brunet cut
his 2012 earnings estimate for Xstrata by 13 percent because of
the drop in coal prices.  Qatari Negotiations  “Thermal coal prices are very low at the moment, but it
doesn’t mean it’s low in perpetuity,”  Andrew Keen , an analyst
at HSBC Holdings Plc in London, said by phone. “That’s
overplayed by the market. At the moment the Qataris are
essentially controlling the vote. The ratio will be really a
function of the negotiation between Glencore and Qatar.”  Thermal coal prices at the Australian port of Newcastle,
the benchmark for  Asia , averaged $95 a ton in the second
quarter. That was 23 percent lower than the 2011 average of $123
a ton.  “Concerns about the ongoing problems in the  euro zone  and
the Chinese government’s reduced forecast of economic growth
have resulted in deteriorating sentiment,” Xstrata said in a
May 31 assessment of its markets, in which it cited declines in
metals and coal prices since the start of 2012.  Xstrata will get about a third of its earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization from coal in 2012,
according to Macquarie’s Largey, who has cut his 2012 per-share
earnings estimate for the company by 17 percent and by 9 percent
for 2013. About 42 percent of Ebitda comes from copper, Largey
said.  Seaborne Coal  “Xstrata has by far the most exposure to seaborne thermal
coal,”  Christopher LaFemina  and Seth Rosenfeld, London-based
Jefferies Group Inc. analysts, said July 9. It derives about 29
percent of its sales from the fuel. “As a result of its high
leverage to the seaborne thermal coal price and its relatively
high financial leverage, Xstrata has recently suffered very
significant mark-to-market earnings downgrades.”  Xstrata advanced 2.8 percent to 846.8 pence yesterday in
London. Glencore rose 2.3 percent to 316.65 pence.  Analysts have trimmed their fiscal 2012 net income estimate
for  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, by
3.3 percent in the past month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Estimates for Rio Tinto Group’s 2012 profit have dropped 8.7
percent.  Glencore and Xstrata have set Sept. 7 as the date for
postponed shareholder votes on the deal that were originally
scheduled for this week. Qatar’s acceptance is critical to the
transaction’s success, given that just 16.48 percent of opposing
Xstrata investors can block it.  Ivan Glasenberg  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, the coal
trader turned billionaire mining dealmaker, has so far ignored
demands from investors for this year’s biggest takeover offer to
be raised. Qatar’s position on the deal is “firm,” Prime
Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabr al-Thani, who’s also
chairman of Qatar Holding, said last week in  London .  Activist shareholder Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC on
July 3 backed Qatar’s position in seeking an increased offer of
3.25. The New York-based investor said Xstrata assets including
the Antapaccay copper mine in  Peru , the Koniambo nickel project
and the Collahuasi copper expansion are “not yet reflected in
the valuation of the company,” it said in a letter.  “It takes extreme long-term forecasts to get to a fair
value ratio of 3.25, which is very difficult to justify,”
London-based UBS AG analysts Myles Allsop, Ben Davis and
Danielle Chigumira wrote in a June 28 report. “Glencore is less
likely to increase the exchange ratio if it believes it could
attempt to merge again in 12-plus months on better terms.”  Glencore Profit  Glencore reports first-half earnings on Aug. 21. The
world’s biggest publicly traded commodities supplier will post
net income of $3.9 billion for the full year, according to the
average estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
who have updated their projections in the past month have cut an
average $789 million, or 17 percent, from their estimates, data
show. Glencore derives some of its earnings from Xstrata through
its 34 percent holding in the mining company.  “Even though metal prices have been under pressure,
physical trade flows have still remained relatively strong and
that may have allowed them to weather this period of weak
commodity prices better than a traditional miner,” Macquarie’s
Largey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  