-- Hyundai Motor Rises After Union Says It Will Resume Talks
-- B y   R o s e   K i m
-- 2012-07-13T06:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/hyundai-motor-rises-after-union-says-it-will-resume-talks.html
Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s
largest automaker, rose the most in almost a month in Seoul
trading after its labor union said it will resume negotiations
with the company next week.  The shares rose 3.4 percent to 226,000 won at the 3 p.m.
close on the Korea Exchange, their biggest gain since June 18
and ending a six-day streak of declines. Affiliate Kia climbed
2.5 percent as the benchmark Kospi index advanced 1.5 percent.  Hyundai Motor’s union, which ended discussions with
management June 28, has agreed to resume negotiations with the
company on July 18, according to Kim Gi Hyuk, a union spokesman,
and an e-mailed response from the company today. That helped
raise optimism Hyundai will avert prolonged work stoppages that
would dent earnings.  “I expect an agreement to be reached between the union and
the company before end of August,” Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst
at KB Investment & Securities Co., said by telephone. “Today’s
partial stoppage is nothing Hyundai or Kia can’t overcome.”  The announcement comes two days after union workers at
 South Korea ’s two largest automakers -- both headed by Chairman
Chung Mong Koo -- voted to authorize labor leaders to stage
strikes.  Employees at the carmakers are staging eight-hour stoppages
today to seek higher wages and reduced working hours. Though
both companies have had labor-related disruptions periodically,
today’s stoppages are the first official strikes -- ones that
are legally sanctioned and approved by union members through a
vote -- for Hyundai since 2008 and the first at Kia since 2009.  Broader Strike  Today’s action is also part of a broader strike spearheaded
by the  Korean Metal Workers Union , an umbrella labor group with
about 150,000 members in the automobile, machinery, steel, and
shipping industries.  The stoppages will result in 7,000 vehicles valued at 135
billion won ($117 million) in lost production for Hyundai and
Kia, according to the companies.  Hyundai Motor’s management will seek further talks to
resolve its differences with the union, the company said in an
e-mail yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  