-- Zuckerberg Says Mobile Shift Is His Biggest Challenge
-- B y   J o n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-07-13T20:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-13/zuckerberg-says-mobile-shift-is-his-biggest-challenge.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said his hardest job right now is
figuring out how to adapt the world’s largest social network to
mobile devices.  Bringing Facebook’s features to handheld gadgets is
difficult because the user experience is so different than on
desktop computers, he said in an interview from the Allen & Co.
media conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. Zuckerberg, meanwhile,
played down the tribulations of running a newly public company.  “Things are not much different,” said Zuckerberg, who
started Facebook eight years ago from his dorm room at Harvard
University. “I’m focused on building product.”  Facebook is under pressure to get more advertising revenue
from its mobile service in order to maintain growth. To bolster
the handheld version of its product, the Menlo Park, California-
based company is developing location-based features that let
marketers target users with more relevant pitches.  Concerns about slowing growth have driven down Facebook’s
shares 19 percent since they began trading in May. The stock
fell less than 1 percent to $30.72 at the close today in New
York.  Zuckerberg was joined at the Allen & Co. event by other
technology and media executives, including Apple Inc. CEO  Tim Cook , Washington Post Co. chief Don Graham, and venture
capitalist and Facebook board member  Marc Andreessen .  Even with all the additional scrutiny, Facebook’s IPO
hasn’t been the biggest recent transition in Zuckerberg’s life,
the 28-year-old said in the interview.  The same week as Facebook went public, Zuckerberg married
longtime girlfriend Priscilla Chan.  “The bigger change was getting married,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jon Erlichman in  San Francisco  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  