-- ‘Insidious: Chapter 2’ Tops De Niro Film to Lead Theaters
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-09-16T21:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/-insidious-chapter-2-beats-de-niro-film-to-top-weekend-sales.html
“Insidious: Chapter 2,” the low-budget horror sequel from  FilmDistrict Distribution LLC , took
first place in U.S. and Canadian theaters with $40.3 million in
weekend sales.  “The Family,” a mobster comedy with Robert de Niro,
garnered $14 million for second place in its debut,
Hollywood.com Box-Office said today in a statement. “Lee
Daniels’ The Butler” reached $100 million in its fifth week.  With “Insidious: Chapter 2,” director James Wan returns
to theaters tapping into the same appetite for horror that
brought audiences out to see his earlier films, including this
year’s “The Conjuring” and 2004’s “The Saw.” Made for an
estimated $5 million, the second “Insidious” was projected to
take in $40 million by BoxOffice.com.  “This was just an amazing performance,”  Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com-Box Office, said in a
phone interview. “For films that can create their budgets
modestly, like ‘Insidious: Chapter 2,’ September can be a great
month to take advantage of.”  “Insidious: Chapter 2” features the haunted Lambert
family as they seek to uncover the mysterious childhood secret
that has left them dangerously connected to the spirit world.
The movie, which derives themes from classics including
“Poltergeist,” “The Exorcist” and “The Shining,” opened
after mixed reviews last week.  “Insidious” Review  “This busy-yet-dull sequel feels like Wan robotically
flexing his manipulation of fright-film signposts, an exercise
more silly than sinister,”  wrote  Robert Abele in the Los
Angeles Times.  “Insidious,” the 2011 original, also from FilmDistrict,
was made for $1.5 million and collected $97 million in theaters
worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  “The Family,” a dark action comedy from Luc Besson,
follows the mobbed-up Manzoni clan as De Niro and his co-star,
 Michelle Pfeiffer , find it hard to drop old habits when the
family relocates to Normandy,  France , under witness protection.
The film was projected to take $9 million by BoxOffice.com.  The movie is “a messy brew that is a bit too slack to get
all the way to actually being good,” wrote Mark Olsen in the
Los Angeles Times.’’  Returning Films  Among returning films,  Universal Pictures ’ “Riddick,” the
science fiction film starring Vin Diesel, fell to third place
from first with $6.8 million. The movie, the third in the
franchise, stars Diesel as a bounty hunter, left for dead on a
sun-scorched planet, who finds himself up against an alien race
of predators.  “Instruction Not Included,” the Spanish-language film
from Pantelion Films and  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , placed
sixth with $4.9 million. Starring and directed by Mexican TV
star Eugenio Derbez, the movie chronicles the life of an
unemployed playboy-turned-Hollywood stuntman who must raise a
child by himself.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 30 percent to
$89.5 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance year-to-date is down 1.9 percent, while revenue is up
1.4 percent to $7.9 billion.  The following table has U.S. movie  box-office  figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales for Sept. 13-15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  