-- ‘Mr. Burns’ Sees Post-Apocalyptic, Simpsons World: Stage
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-09-16T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/-mr-burns-sees-post-apocalyptic-simpsons-world-stage.html
“Mr. Burns, a Post-Electric Play”
is that rarest of comedies: funniest if you already know the
punch lines.  Anne Washburn’s eccentric post-Apocalypse parable, at
 Playwrights Horizons , examines perseverance in catastrophe and,
at times late in the play, demands it of the audience.  The first act begins as all energy sources have crashed.
The  power grid  is down, nuclear plants are exploding and whole
cities have been wiped out.  A small clique of roving stragglers has gathered around a
campfire, sharing second-hand news of disaster and rumors of
survivors. They’re armed to the teeth for protection against the
night -- and one another.  To pass the time, they recount, in as fine detail as
memories allow, episodes of “ The Simpsons ,” particularly
1993’s “Cape Feare” parody of the grisly 1991 “ Cape Fear ”
remake.  Matt (Matthew Maher) seems to have the best recall and,
with his verbal hesitations, is an appealing storyteller.  Eventually, the tale-tellers develop their “Simpsons”
memories into a traveling stage show, complete with commercial
breaks.  Homer Runs  They support a cottage industry of dialogue researchers
and “Simpsons” anthropologists. Rival troupes stake claims to
coveted episodes.  “It still kills me they have ’Streetcar,’” says Matt,
referring to another legendary Simpsons parody-cum-homage.  The players (Maher, Gibson Frazier and Quincy Tyler
Bernstine, among the best) have begun to bicker over “true
meaning” and “theatrical process.”  Would dramatic realism (like making Sideshow Bob’s bruises
look painful) sacrifice the essential joy of consequence-free
cartoons?  Act II gives us the answer, 75 years later: The joy is
gone.  The troupe presents a bastardized “Cape Feare” as a
foreboding and violent pastiche, borrowing from Grand Guignol,
Commedia dell’arte and experimental theater.  Their grotesque Simpsons half-masks evoke the hideous, pig-faced doctors and nurses at the end of “Eye of the Beholder,”
the classic “ Twilight Zone ” episode.  Art, Life  Nukes notwithstanding, “Mr. Burns” seems only marginally
interested in the causes of social breakdown.  As directed by Steve Cosson, the play could be interpreted
as Christian allegory, with its ragtag band of believers
codifying half-remembered myths into elaborate and self-serious
(not to mention profitable) rituals, martyrs included.  Joyless rituals aren’t much fun to watch. The second act of
“Mr. Burns” is insufferable. Composer Michael Friedman’s
“Feare” operetta is witty enough in its Gilbert & Sullivan
allusions, but it’s an intellectual exercise, glumly presented,
absent charm -- and a long, long way from Springfield.  Through Oct. 6 at Playwrights Horizons, 416 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-564-1235;
 http://www.playwrightshorizons.org .
Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 