-- Abbott Names Australian Cabinet With Bishop Only Female
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-09-16T06:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/abbott-names-coalition-cabinet-after-winning-australian-election.html
Australian Prime Minister-elect
 Tony Abbott  announced his Cabinet team to see through the
coalition government’s first-term pledges, attracting criticism
for including just one female member.  Mathias Cormann, 42, was named finance minister and Andrew
Robb, 62, was given the trade and investment portfolio in a
ministerial lineup that largely preserves the roles senior
Liberal-National lawmakers held in opposition. Foreign Affairs
Minister  Julie Bishop  will be the only woman in the team.  “This is the team to provide strong and stable
government,” Abbott told reporters in Canberra, saying that 15
members of the Cabinet have previous ministerial experience.  Having won the Sept. 7 election, Abbott, 55, needs to
navigate legislation through a Senate where the balance of power
is held by the Greens until mid-2014, when it switches to a
patchwork of minor center-right parties. One of his main tasks
will be edging the budget back toward a surplus at a time when
economic growth is forecast to slow.  Other members of the Cabinet, to be sworn in Sept. 18,
include:  Joe Hockey  as treasurer; Warren Truss as deputy prime
minister and minister for infrastructure and regional
development; Eric Abetz as employment minister; George Brandis
as attorney-general; and Barnaby Joyce as minister for
agriculture. Abbott nominated Bronwyn Bishop, 70, to be speaker
of parliament’s lower house.  Female Ministers  Abbott said he was disappointed there was only one female
Cabinet member and said Sophie Mirabella would have been
included were she not in a close race to keep her parliamentary
seat.  Chris Bowen , the interim leader of the  Labor party , said
the government of  Afghanistan  had more women in its Cabinet, and
criticized Abbott for not representing key areas such as tourism
with dedicated portfolios. Outgoing Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
had six women in his Cabinet.  The coalition has won 90 seats in the 150-member lower
house to Labor’s 55 with  vote counting  yet to be completed. With
Rudd resigning as Labor leader,  Bill Shorten , a former unionist
and party powerbroker, and Rudd’s former deputy, Anthony
Albanese, face a ballot of party lawmakers and rank and file
members to succeed him -- a process that may take more than a
month.  Along with abolishing Labor’s carbon and mining levies,
Abbott wants to lower the business-tax rate by 1.5 percentage
points while funding a A$5.5 billion ($5.1 billion) per year
maternity-leave program that will give highly-paid new mothers
up to A$75,000 over six months.  Budget Surplus  Abbott plans to reduce the civil service by at least 12,000
positions and deliver a budget surplus of 1 percent of gross
domestic product within a decade. The incoming administration
has also pledged to lower subsidies for carmakers, slash red
tape and cancel handouts to parents of school children.  The Treasury last month forecast deeper budget deficits in
the next three years and cut its growth estimate for 2013-14 to
2.5 percent from 2.75 percent seen in May. Unemployment will
rise to an 11-year high of 6.25 percent by mid-2014, it said.  Abbott, a former Rhodes Scholar and trainee priest, takes
office at a time of transition for  Australia ’s economy as a
mining-investment boom wanes. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has
reduced  interest rates  by 2.25 percentage points since late 2011
in a bid to revive employment-intensive industries including
construction.  There has been “a very serious deterioration in our
budgetary situation,’’ Abbott told reporters. “We will bring
the budget back into surplus as quickly as we responsibly can,
consistent with the election commitments that we’ve given.”  Cormann, Robb  Cormann was  born in Belgium  and migrated to Perth in 1996.
He worked for the Liberals’ Western Australia state branch, was
general manager for a health insurance company and became a
senator in June 2007. He served as shadow assistant treasurer
and shadow minister for financial services and superannuation.  Robb was shadow minister for finance, deregulation and debt
reduction while the coalition was in opposition. He will be
responsible for making progress in Australia’s free-trade
agreement negotiations, Abbott said.  The Cabinet lineup reflects Abbott’s “message to the
electorate that he wants to provide a very steady, no-surprises
type of government,” said Stephen Stockwell, a political
analyst at Griffith University in Brisbane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  