-- Accidental E-Mail Shows Clegg Plan to Attack U.K. Tory Partners
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-16T11:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/accidental-e-mail-shows-clegg-plan-to-attack-u-k-tory-partners.html
An e-mail accidentally sent to
journalists by Liberal Democrat headquarters gave new details of
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s plans to woo voters by
attacking his Conservative coalition partners.  The e-mail, entitled “Conference Top Lines” and marked
“not for forward distribution,” was intended for lawmakers
talking to the media today at the party’s annual convention in
Glasgow, Scotland. It was instead sent out to reporters
attending the conference. Along with answers to potential
questions ranging from government borrowing to cider taxation,
the memo gave lawmakers lines they could use to attack the
opposition Labour Party and Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Tories.  “The Conservatives on their own cannot build a fairer
society,” the memo instructed Liberal Democrat lawmakers to
say. “In government we have blocked Tory plans to allow bosses
to fire staff at will, give an inheritance-tax cut to
millionaires and let schools be run for profit.”  With the next general election 20 months away, Clegg is
seeking to win back voters alienated by his 2010 decision to go
into government with the Conservatives and to position his party
at an equal distance between the Tories and  Ed Miliband ’s
Labour.  A YouGov Plc poll published today of people who voted
Liberal Democrat in 2010 found 59 percent saying the party had
got worse since then, against 9 percent who said it had got
better. YouGov interviewed 1,593 adults Aug. 30 to Sept. 4.  The e-mail told lawmakers to attack Labour by saying the
party “cannot be trusted to build a stronger economy.”  While guidance on how to talk about the Tories did not
mention Cameron by name, Miliband was singled out as a “weak
leader of a divided party that has nothing to say about the big
issues of the day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Glasgow,  Scotland , at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Glasgow, Scotland, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  