-- Air France Regional Bases Said to Face Cuts as Rivals Bite
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-09-17T08:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/air-france-regional-bases-said-to-face-cuts-as-competition-bites.html
Air France-KLM Group is reviewing
provincial bases in southern  France  created just a year ago as
 Europe ’s biggest airline grapples with losses that caught it by
surprise, two people familiar with the matter said.  The airline is considering a reduction in frequencies to
some destinations, and shutting routes with the biggest losses
outright, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the considerations aren’t public.  Air France (AF)  is also
reviewing prices, the people said. Frederic Gagey, chief
executive officer of the French unit, will present his strategy
to the central employee committee tomorrow, they said.  The domestic overhaul is part of a broader restructuring
under new CEO Alexandre de Juniac that aims to trim the cargo
business and overhaul operations at home and in Europe that have
lost money for years. Air France announced plans in June to cut
2,600 job through voluntary departures, joining western European
rivals that are also slashing thousands of positions as
competition from low-cost carriers intensifies.  “Air France is behind its competitors in terms of
restructuring, that’s why they need further measures,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris. “While the
most recent results started showing the fruits of some of their
initial moves on short-medium haul traffic, Air France is still
one or two years behind the competition.”  Laying Groundwork  The French carrier’s shares have advanced less than 1
percent this year, and traded at 7.06 euros at 10:09 a.m. in
Paris. The performance compares with a 75 percent gain at
British Airways Parent  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA. (IAG)   Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , which announced yesterday that CEO
Christoph Franz plans to leave next year, has lost 1.7 percent
since the start of 2013.  At tomorrow’s meeting, the airline won’t give specifics on
proposed steps, instead presenting the business case for the
changes, and providing employees with at least some financial
information to make the case clearer, two of the people said.  The first announcements are for internal distribution only
and the airline has no immediate comment, according to an
official at the Paris-based airline.  Discussions with workers will lay the groundwork for an
Oct. 4 meeting between management and employees at which
measures will be formalised, the people said. Management is also
expected to tell the employee group that a fleet of all-cargo
planes should be cut from 13 to four, they said.  No Turnaround  Air France established bases in Marseille, Nice and
Toulouse less than a year ago, betting that local planes and
crews would avoid commutes and save money, as well as expand its
offerings to a local population eager for new routes.  Whereas flights to cities including Istanbul and  Athens 
proved popular, losses mounted on heavier-than-expected
competition from  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and Ryanair Holdings Plc.  While the airline had factored in a return to profit last
year at the local operations, instead it suffered a loss that
was a multiple of the expected gain, one of the people said.
There are no plans to close bases outright, the person said.  The carrier has rebuilt domestic and regional offering
around the Transavia low-cost subsidiary created by KLM, which
flies non-hub services using  Boeing Co. (BA)  737s to transport mainly
leisure fliers provided by tour operators. Its Hop! unit, formed
last year from disparate regional airlines, offers point-to-point services with a fleet of 98 regional planes.  While Air France may seek ways to redistribute some
traffic, the feasibility would need to be explored given the
vastly different roles of Transavia and Hop!, said Helene
Abraham, Hop! Executive Vice President for Commercial.  “Our ambition is to serve business traffic offering more
frequencies than anybody else,” she said in an interview
yesterday in  London  at a low-cost airline conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  