-- Malaysians Brace for Austerity as Najib Cools Spending: Economy
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-09-17T01:46:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/malaysians-brace-for-shift-to-austerity-as-najib-cools-spending.html
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak returned to power this year with the help of a spending
spree that boosted consumption. Now voters could feel the pinch
as he tries to appease a different group: rating companies.  Najib’s government raised subsidized fuel prices for the
first time since 2010 this month and has said it will delay some
infrastructure projects, seeking to contain the budget gap and
shore up the current account after  Fitch Ratings  cut  Malaysia ’s
credit outlook to negative in July. It is also considering a
goods and services tax in the 2014 fiscal plan due Oct. 25.  The shift toward austerity could cool the domestic demand
and investment that kept Malaysia’s  gross domestic product 
rising an average 6 percent in the three years through 2012. The
country joins Asian  emerging markets  such as Indonesia in
confronting slower growth as they deal with the side effects of
spurring local consumption, undermining the region’s role as the
main driver of global expansion.  “It’s payback time,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG, who cut
Malaysia’s 2013 growth forecast to 4.4 percent from 5 percent
this month. “Current-account deterioration, fiscal balance
deterioration, higher leverage, all these things are the price
you have to pay” for boosting domestic demand, he said.  Along with rising  national debt  and a dwindling current-account surplus, Malaysians have also accumulated Southeast
 Asia ’s highest level of household borrowings at 80.5 percent of
GDP, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The central
bank in July imposed curbs including a shorter maximum tenure
for mortgages, saying household indebtedness has expanded by an
average of 12 percent per annum in the past five years.  Spending Restraint  The government’s spending restraint is aimed at maintaining
confidence in Malaysia’s fiscal outlook as capital outflows from
emerging markets deliver particular trauma to countries like
India and Indonesia, which are grappling with current-account
deficits and budgets burdened with subsidy costs.  The ringgit weakened about 2 percent this quarter, among
the worst performers in Asia. The country’s default risk rose
above that of the  Philippines  for the first time this year.  At 53.3 percent, Malaysia’s debt-to-GDP ratio is the
highest among 13 emerging Asian markets after  Sri Lanka ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Fitch cited rising debt
levels and a lack of budgetary reform when it cut the country’s
rating outlook. Moody’s Investors Service said this month the
 budget deficit  may exceed 4 percent of GDP this year, warning
the government’s fiscal targets will become “increasingly out
of reach” without additional measures to contain it.  Underweight Positions  The  yield  on Malaysia’s 10-year ringgit-denominated bonds
reached 4.13 percent on July 31, the highest level since January
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate has
since declined 38 basis points, or 0.38 percentage point, to
3.758 percent.  As the prospect of reduced U.S. monetary stimulus fueled a
selloff in emerging-market stocks and currencies in recent weeks,
analysts at Barclays Plc last month recommended that investors
hold underweight positions in Malaysian and Thai government debt.
Credit Suisse said the two are “most obvious potential
candidates” to face stress in their external financing after
India and  Indonesia .  Barclays yesterday changed its recommendation to neutral,
citing the ringgit’s underperformance against the Korean won and
saying the government has taken steps to address the rating
companies’ concerns.  Inflation Risks  Malaysian consumers and businesses from builders to
retailers are bracing for rising prices and slower economic
growth, as the 11 percent increase in diesel and gasoline costs
this month raises inflation risks while the potential slowdown
in state spending cuts construction and maintenance contracts.  “Food is going to be more expensive and I think we will
have to reduce eating out,” said scrap-metal dealer Selvarajoo
Sinnapan, 54, who has three cars and two trucks. “What I am
more worried about is the price of food and other basic daily
necessity things. I am sure many farmers and traders will start
hiking up prices.”  Economic growth may slow to 4.3 percent this year, the
worst performance since the global recession in 2009, according
to DBS Group Holdings Ltd. The banking group cut its forecast
from 5 percent this month, saying the government’s efforts to
improve fiscal health will dent  consumer spending  and investment.  Najib went on a spending binge to woo voters before the May
election, including smartphone rebates for youths, household
electricity subsidies and higher wages for civil servants. He’s
now focusing  government spending  on more specific areas, saying
public projects with low import content will continue while
those requiring more imports will be “sequenced accordingly.”  Exports Fall  Elsewhere in the region,  Singapore ’s  exports  unexpectedly
fell in August from a year earlier. The  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia , in minutes from its Sept. 3 meeting released today,
repeated it retains the option of reducing rates and said a
further decline in the currency would aid the economy as
resource investment slows.  Trade and current-account balances in the euro area for
July are due today. The U.S. Federal Reserve begins its policy
meeting at which it will decide whether to reduce its $85
billion-a-month stimulus program.  Last week, Najib said Malaysia will set up a trust to
expand education, home ownership and other affirmative-action
measures for ethnic Malays and indigenous people as part of
policies to further boost their share of the economic pie.  Malaysia joins Indonesia in a shift toward fiscal restraint.
President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  in June raised fuel prices
for the first time since 2008.  Consumer Debt  The Malaysian fuel-price increase will hurt sales at
retailers, said Raymond Teo, president of the Malaysian
Retailers Association. Contractors and builders would also have
reduced business opportunities when the government reschedules
some infrastructure projects, according to a Malay contractors
association and the Master Builders Association Malaysia.  Even Malaysians like T.Y. Hooi who are still willing to
invest in property will come up against central bank measures to
curb  household debt . Since 2009, the 29-year-old entrepreneur
has bought four condominiums around Kuala Lumpur.  “High  consumer debt  will limit the extent to which
consumer spending can expand going forward,” said Chua Hak Bin,
a Singapore-based economist at Bank of America. “Robust
consumer spending over the past decade was partly driven by
leverage. That can no longer be an engine of growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  