-- Alexander to Pledge to Tax Assets of Rich in Break From Tories
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/alexander-to-pledge-to-tax-assets-of-rich-in-break-from-tories.html
Chief Secretary to the Treasury
 Danny Alexander  will pledge that his  Liberal Democrats  will seek
to tax the assets of Britain’s wealthiest, as the party seeks to
distance itself from its Tory coalition partners.  “Taxes on the very wealthy will be one of our central
promises for the next Parliament,” Alexander will say in a
speech to delegates today at the party’s annual conference in
Glasgow, Scotland, according to extracts released by his office.
“Our nation’s debt will need to be reduced” with five years of
further spending cuts to eliminate the structural deficit, and
“it wouldn’t be fair to pass it on to future generations,” he
will say.  As Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservatives seek to
reap the credit for a  strengthening economic recovery,  the
Liberal Democrats are trying to persuade voters they have made a
difference in government in the runup to the next general
election in 2015. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  criticized
Cameron at the conference three days ago, arguing the Tories are
too extreme to be allowed to govern alone.  In a motion approved by party delegates yesterday,
Alexander said taxation should focus on wealth rather than
income. The conference voted in favor of introducing a system of
taxation on land value, taxing  capital gains  at the same level
as income and bringing in a so-called mansion tax for
 residential properties  valued at more than 2 million pounds
($3.2 million).  Demographic Pressures  “The pressures of an ageing and growing population will
have to be paid for,” Alexander will say. “As we think about
the choices facing us in the next Parliament, the  tax policy  we
agreed yesterday puts us in a strong position. Liberal Democrats
will ensure that those who have the most will continue to
contribute the most.”  A call to consider reintroducing the top 50 percent income-tax rate, scrapped by Tory Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in March last year, was narrowly defeated by 224 votes
to 220 yesterday.  “The only way we can disassociate ourselves from this Tory
top-rate tax cut is to commit ourselves to reintroducing it,”
Liberal Democrat lawmaker John Leech said during the debate.
“At the 2015 election, I don’t want the debate to be about tax
cuts for millionaires, I want it to be about our commitment to
taking the poorest out of tax altogether.”  Delegates also voted against Tory plans to introduce tax
breaks for married couples, backing an amendment that called the
proposal “discriminatory, unnecessary and expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Glasgow,  Scotland , on
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  