-- Halliburton Fires Brazil Workers at Petrobras Wells, Union Says
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-09-16T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/halliburton-fires-brazil-workers-at-petrobras-wells-union-says.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the second biggest
U.S. oil service provider by revenue, is firing workers in
 Brazil  after Petroleo Brasileiro SA and other oil producers
scaled back drilling in low producing areas, according to an oil
workers union.  Halliburton has dismissed “about 100 workers over the past
three months,” Helio Guerra, a director at the Sindipetro Norte
Fluminense union said in a Sept. 13 phone interview. The firings
are sparked mainly because Petrobras is developing a smaller
amount of new wells in older areas, especially in the Campos
basin, as it seeks to increase efficiency, he said.  Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster
last year created a 1 billion reais ($439 million) program to
focus on increasing output efficiency at the off-shore Campos
basin, which it started developing in the 1980s, and reducing
the rate of decline of about 10 percent a year at the area’s
older fields. The spending is part of Petrobras’s 2012-2016
business plan, which aims mainly at developing the mostly
untapped pre-salt reserves discovered six years ago.  Beverly Stafford, a spokeswoman for Halliburton, didn’t
respond to three e-mails and two phone calls seeking comment. An
official at Petrobras’s press office had no immediate
comment on the dismissals.  Other service suppliers have also fired employees, with
 Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  having dismissed about 60 workers in August,
Guerra said. The union is holding meetings with Halliburton to
discuss alternatives and the company is seeking to re-locate
some workers abroad, he said.  “Due to the changing business conditions in Brazil, there
is a need to more closely align our resource levels to current
market demands,” Christine Mathers, an  press official for
Baker Hughes, said in an e-mailed statement. “Unfortunately,
our alignment objectives have resulted in headcount reductions
for us in Brazil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  