-- Landis+Gyr Wins Biggest Smart-Meter Contract in U.K.
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-09-16T12:34:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/landis-gyr-wins-biggest-smart-meter-contract-in-u-k-.html
Landis+Gyr won a 600 million-pound
($956 million) contract to supply smart meters in the U.K., the
biggest single order for the devices that measure gas and power
use in real time.  The order means Landis+Gyr, a Swiss metering company bought
in 2011 by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , will supply  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s British Gas
unit with more than 10 million gas and power meters in its
planned rollout of 16 million units, a British Gas official said
today by phone, asking not to be named citing company policy.  It’s the second record contract in five weeks for Britain’s
smart-meter industry after  Telefonica SA (TEF)  was named on Aug. 14 as
the preferred bidder for two deals valued at 1.5 billion pounds
to help transmit data gathered by the devices. The U.K., seeking
energy savings and lower bills, plans to install 53 million
meters by the end of the decade in a 12 billion-pound program.  “This is the largest deal of its kind worldwide and sets a
new industry standard for working in partnership,” Landis+Gyr
Chief Executive Officer Andreas Umbach said in a statement. “It
allows us to achieve significant economies of scale in meter
production, to expand our U.K. operations and to further
establish the U.K. as a global center of smart energy.”  New Jobs  Landis+Gyr will probably double its 600-person U.K. staff
as a result of the deal, according to the statement e-mailed by
British Gas, which itself may add 500 workers after already
announcing 1,000 smart-energy jobs. The meters, to be installed
through 2020, may cut an estimated 5 percent off energy bills,
or 65 pounds a year, not including inflation, British Gas said.  “The data and communications announcement last month
provided the clarity and government commitment behind the
rollout,” said Colin McKerracher, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in London. “Now we’re seeing the first major
energy retailer ready to move ahead with a large rollout.”  Enel SpA (ENEL)  installed 32 million smart meters from 2001 to
2006 with technology from  Echelon Corp. (ELON)  The project cost 2.1
billion euros ($2.8 billion) when accounting for communications
infrastructure and software, McKerracher said. The only other
deals of comparable size today are in China, and those are split
into tenders so individual contract awards are smaller, he said.  The Telefonica deal and other data and communications
contracts announced on the same day in August totaled 2.4
billion pounds.  “This puts the U.K. at the center of Europe’s smart-metering rollout,” McKerracher said, citing delays in  France 
and  Germany  and possible financing difficulties in  Spain . “You
have more than 3 billion pounds in contracts announced in just
over a month showing that the U.K. smart-metering market is not
only moving, it’s moving quite quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  