-- Aramco Plans First Satorp Exports This Month: Persian Gulf Oil
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-09-16T06:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/aramco-plans-first-satorp-exports-this-month-persian-gulf-oil.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest
crude exporter, plans to make the first shipments this month of
oil products from a  joint-venture refinery  that’s starting up at
the Persian Gulf port of Jubail.  Yemen’s Aden refinery will this week award a tender for
supply of gasoline, diesel and fuel oil for the fourth quarter.  Rabigh Refining and Petrochemicals Co. will take 16 days to
repair ethane cracker furnaces damaged in a Sept. 11 power
failure at the facility on Saudi Arabia’s west coast, the
company said in a  statement .  The following is a weekly summary of Persian Gulf crude-and
product-market news and forthcoming events:  Crude  Libya  declared force majeure on crude exports from the
Mellitah, Hariga and Zawiya terminals on Sept. 12 amid continued
worker strikes, state-owned National Oil Corp. said in a
statement.  The holder of  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves is pumping
about 200,000 to 300,000 barrels a day, compared with its post-revolution high of 1.6 million barrels achieved a year ago,
Prime Minister Ali Zaidan said in Tripoli Sept. 11.  Crude prices are being affected by geopolitical events and
Saudi Arabia will continue to keep the market well-supplied,  Ali Al-Naimi , that country’s oil minister said in Seoul Sept. 12.
The biggest member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries is producing at the highest level in 32 years.  “The oil market’s fundamentals are good and the market is
well-balanced,” he said. “Saudi Arabia and other producers
remain willing and capable of meeting any additional demands.”  Iraq , the second-largest OPEC producer, last week released
its October oil price differentials, raising levels to  Asia  and
the U.S. Iraq boosted the premium for October shipments of
Basrah Light crude to buyers in Asia to the highest since August
2012, raising it to 80 cents more than the average of the Oman
and Dubai benchmarks, from a 15 cent premium for September.  The discount for October shipments of Basrah Light to the
U.S. narrowed to $1.65 a barrel less than the Argus Sour Crude
Index, from a $1.85 discount for September. The premium for
Kirkuk crude rose to $1.40 more than ASCI for October, from
$1.20 this month.  Discounts for October sales to  Europe  widened, with Basrah
Light set at $3.80 a barrel less than Dated Brent and Kirkuk at
$2.30 below the benchmark.  Kuwait Petroleum Corp. raised its official selling price
for October crude to Asia by 40 cents to a premium of 95 cents a
barrel more than the average of the Oman and Dubai benchmarks,
the company said Sept. 11.  In regional trading, Oman and Dubai grades both declined
for a second week this month in spot trading. Oman fell 69 cents
a barrel, or 0.6 percent, to $109.40 a barrel in the week ended
Sept. 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Dubai crude
decreased $1.15 a barrel, or 1.1 percent, to $108.81 a barrel.  European benchmark Brent crude’s premium to Mideast marker
Dubai declined for the first week in four. The Brent-Dubai
exchange futures for swaps, or EFS, slipped $1.40 to $5.40 a
barrel in the week ended Sept. 13, according to data from PVM
Oil Associates.  Refined Products, Fuel Tenders and Refineries  Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and partner Total SA said they will
offer this month the first fuel to be exported from their joint-venture refinery at Jubail.  Saudi Aramco  may sell one or two
cargoes of fuel oil from the venture known as Saudi Aramco Total
Refining and Petrochemical Co., or Satorp, two people with
knowledge of the situation said last week.  Exports of gasoline and diesel are set to follow next month
as new units of the refinery begin operation, the people said.
Saudi Aramco Products Trading Co., an Aramco division, will sell
the fuel oil in cargoes of 80,000 metric tons through direct
negotiation, rather than by tender, one person said.  Satorp, 62.5 percent owned by Aramco with the rest held by
Total, is processing about 120,000 barrels a day of Arab Light
oil at a crude distillation unit, with another CDU to start up
next month. A coking facility, which will break down  fuel oil  to
produce diesel and gasoline, is to begin operations in November
and will enable the refinery to process heavier oil grades.
Satorp confirmed in a statement Sept. 12 that the plant was
starting and that it would export products this month.  Yemen’s Aden Oil Refinery Co. is seeking to buy gasoline,
gasoil and fuel oil for supply during the fourth quarter,
according to tender documents obtained by Bloomberg Sept. 12.  Tenders for 350,000 metric tons of gasoline and 720,000
tons of gasoil for delivery from October through December closed
Sept. 12 and Sept. 13, respectively. Offers to supply 375,000
tons of high-sulfur fuel oil were due Sept. 15.  Petro Rabigh, as the Saudi chemicals and refining company
is known, said it plans to restart in the next few days furnaces
in the ethane unit that weren’t damaged during the  power
failure . The crude refining unit was not damaged and electricity
was restored by the evening of Sept. 11, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  