-- Harris Says Newark Arena More Important in Devils Sale Than Team
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-09-16T16:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/harris-says-newark-arena-more-important-in-devils-sale-than-team.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  co-founder Josh Harris said  Newark ’s Prudential Center was a more
important financial piece in his purchase of the New Jersey
Devils than the hockey team itself.  Harris and David Blitzer, a New Jersey native and senior
managing director of Blackstone Group LP, purchased the National
Hockey League franchise last month in an agreement that also
gave the partnership control of the Prudential Center.  Located three blocks from Newark’s main transportation hub,
the $385 million Prudential Center was opened in 2007. Harris
called it “one of the most modern arenas in the country.”  “And we think that with the new capital structure and the
new ownership group and the new management that we put in, that
we’ll be able to make this arena really realize its potential
financially,” Harris said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Harris, who bought the National Basketball Association’s
Philadelphia 76ers in 2011, acquired the NHL team in a deal
valued at about $300 million.  Harris has already made changes to the Devils’ business
personnel, hiring Scott O’Neil as chief executive officer. The
former president of Madison Square Garden Sports, O’Neil is also
the chief executive of the 76ers.  Harris said he viewed the Prudential Center as
complementary to New York City’s two main arenas, Madison Square
Garden in  Manhattan  and the Barclays Center in Brooklyn. The
home of the NBA’s New York Knicks and NHL’s New York Rangers,
the Garden is completing a $1 billion private renovation. The $1
billion Barclays Center, home of the NBA’s Brooklyn Nets, opened
last year.  Two Stops  “If you’re a big concert event and you stop in New York,
you’re probably going to play one of MSG and Barclays, and this
arena,” Harris said of the Devils’ home.  O’Neil said in another Bloomberg Television interview last
week that the Prudential Center was the fourth-highest grossing
arena in the nation, behind Barclays, the Garden and Staples
Center in Los Angeles. He didn’t offer specific figures or the
source of his information.  Located about 11 miles (18 kilometers) from New York City,
the Prudential Center has been a one-tenant building since the
Nets moved to  Brooklyn  prior to the 2012-13 season. Harris said
the venue’s concerts and special events would be enough to
sustain the building without a second professional team.  “Having a basketball team, an NBA team, in this arena is
not in the business plan right now,” Harris said. “We don’t
think it’s necessary.”  City Bonds  The city of Newark sold about $200 million in bonds in
2004, backed by airport and marine-terminal revenue, to pay for
the arena, with the Devils saying they put in about $185
million. The Devils relocated to the Prudential Center from the
Izod Center in East Rutherford, New Jersey, in 2007.  Winners of three Stanley Cup titles, the most recent
following the 2002-03 season, the Devils have missed the
playoffs in two of the past three seasons. That followed a 21-year stretch in which the team missed the postseason just once.  The Devils struggled financially under the ownership of
former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. executive Jeff Vanderbeek.
Forbes estimated in November that the Devils were worth $205
million, 19th among the NHL’s 30 teams, with $122 million in
revenue.  Wharton, Harvard  Harris holds a bachelor’s degree from the University of
Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business and a master’s degree
from the Harvard Business School. At Apollo, he profited by
focusing on ailing companies. In 2008, he led a $2 billion
investment in  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , a failing Dutch
chemicals maker, on which Apollo eventually made a $9.6 billion
profit.  Harris said he isn’t expecting returns from the Devils’
purchase to be as significant or as quick as his private-equity
investments. He said he’d like to see returns from 1 percent to
20 percent, without getting more specific.  “These are the kinds of things that appreciate over a
long, long period of time -- generations,” he said. “I get to
have fun, earn a decent return and hopefully make some money in
the process and help the community as well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  