-- Art Dealer Rosales Pleads Guilty to Fake Painting Sales
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-09-16T21:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/art-dealer-glafira-rosales-pleads-guilty-in-fraud-case.html
A  Manhattan  art dealer pleaded
guilty to selling more than $30 million in fake works
purportedly created by Mark Rothko, Jackson Pollock and other
renowned 20th century artists.  Glafira Rosales admitted that from 1994 to 2009 she helped
sell more than 60 phony artworks to two New York galleries,
including the defunct Knoedler Gallery LLC, and hid the proceeds
in offshore bank accounts. The galleries sold the works to
collectors for $80 million, according to prosecutors.  Rosales pleaded guilty to nine counts of conspiracy, wire
fraud, money laundering and tax crimes in a hearing today in
Manhattan federal court before U.S. District Katherine Polk Failla.  “I agreed with others to sell works of art claimed to be
created by various expressionist artists including Mark Rothko,
Jackson Pollock and Robert Motherwell, and to make false
representations as to the authenticity and provenance of those
works,” Rosales told Failla today. “These works of art were
actually fakes created by an individual residing in Queens.”  Rosales faces as long as 20 years in prison on the most
serious charges of conspiracy, wire fraud and money laundering.
Rosales agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in exchange for the
possibility of leniency when she’s sentenced.  Art School  Prosecutors claim Rosales conspired with her long-time
companion, whom they didn’t name, in the fraud. The phony
artworks were created by the unnamed Queens, New York, painter
who had trained in a New York art school, according to the
government.  Prosecutors said Rosales told the galleries that some of
the works were being sold by a Swiss client who wished to remain
anonymous. Others she claimed were being sold by a Spanish
collector.  Rosales agreed to pay as much as $81 million in restitution
to victims of the scheme, Failla said. She also agreed to
forfeit cash, artwork and her Sands Point, New York home. Failla
told Rosales, a citizen of  Mexico  who was naturalized in the
U.S. in 2009, that she may lose her U.S. citizenship as a result
of her guilty plea.  The case is U.S. v. Rosales, 13-cr-00518, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  