-- Asian Stocks Advance as Summers Withdraws From Fed Race
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-09-16T10:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/asian-stocks-advance-as-summers-withdraws-from-fed-race.html
Asian  stocks  rose after  Lawrence
Summers  withdrew from consideration to be the next  Federal
Reserve  chairman, paving the way for  Janet Yellen , who some
investors say may favor a slower reduction in U.S. stimulus.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index  increased 1.7
percent to 464.84 as of 6:30 p.m. in Hong Kong, its highest
close since May 30. More than three shares rose for each that
fell on the gauge, which climbed 5 percent this month through
last week. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 1.1
percent.  Summers withdrew his nomination to lead the Fed before a
two-day policy meeting starting tomorrow at which the central
bank is forecast to reduce monthly stimulus, known as
quantitative easing. Summers, a former  treasury secretary , would
tighten Fed policy more than Yellen, who was his main rival to
replace Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders last week.  “It’s quite positive for equities,” George Boubouras,
Melbourne-based chief investment officer at Equity Trustees
Ltd., where he helps oversee about $28 billion, said by
telephone. “It puts Yellen back on the cards as the favorite.
She’s more aligned to retaining accommodative policy and is seen
as not being as brash as Summers might have been.”  Regional Gauges  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  index gained 1 percent and Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.5 percent to close at a five-year high.
New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index increased 0.9 percent to a record
close. Singapore’s Straits Times Index jumped 1.9 percent.
Taiwan’s Taiex index surged 1.4 percent and  Hong Kong ’s Hang
Seng Index climbed 1.5 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
slipped 0.2 percent. Japanese markets are closed for a holiday.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s biggest gold producer,
jumped 5.1 percent in Sydney as the bullion’s price rose.
Tencent Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest Internet company, rose
2.5 percent to a record in Hong Kong.  SK Hynix (000660)  Inc., the world’s
No. 2 maker of computer-memory chips, gained 2.8 percent in
Seoul after a report that U.S. rival Micron Technology Inc. is
cutting its production by about 30 percent.  Summers’ announcement comes one day ahead of a meeting at
which Fed policy makers will taper $85 billion in monthly bond-buying by $10 billion, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “I have reluctantly concluded that any possible
confirmation process for me would be acrimonious and would not
serve the interests of the Federal Reserve, the Administration,
or ultimately, the interests of the nation’s ongoing recovery,”
Summers wrote in a letter to President  Barack Obama .  Three Choices  Obama said in a statement that he accepted Summers’s
decision and praised his former economic adviser.  Summers, 58, was one of three names that Obama had
mentioned as possible replacements for Bernanke, whose term as
Fed chairman ends on Jan. 31. Yellen, 67, the current Fed vice
chairman, was also on Obama’s candidate list along with  Donald
Kohn , 70, a former Fed vice chairman, the president said
earlier. Summers until today was the president’s favorite.  Fifty-seven percent of investors surveyed in a Bloomberg
Global Poll say they don’t expect a sudden change in the markets
if the Fed cuts its bond purchases because they already
anticipate tapering action.  The U.S. is seeking support from its allies to confiscate
 Syria ’s chemical arsenal after forging an agreement with  Russia 
over the weekend.  Assad Deadline  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  agreed on a framework for finding,
securing and destroying Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s stock
of poison gas. The deal calls for early signs of progress,
giving Assad one week to submit an inventory of his toxic
weapons, and calls for initial inspections in Syria by November.  “We have a supportive environment for risk assets today,”
Mark Lister, the head of private wealth research at Craigs
Investment Partners Ltd. in Wellington, said by telephone. “We
have some sort of proposal to avoid military action on Syria,
and so that adds to the positive tone. Summers wasn’t really
favored by the market as he was seen as higher risk, that he
might change strategy, be less supportive” of quantitative
easing.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index excluding  Japan  has risen for
three straight weeks as data showed  China’s economy  is picking
up. The gauge was valued at 12.6 times  estimated earnings  on
Sept. 13, compared with a multiple of about 15.3 for the S&P 500
and 14.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold Producers  Gold producers advanced after the bullion climbed as much
as 0.8 percent, heading for a second day of gains. Newcrest
Mining jumped 5.1 percent to A$12.63 in Sydney. Zhaojin Mining
Industry Co. rose 6.1 percent to HK$6.83 in Hong Kong.  Zijin
Mining Group Co. (2899) , China’s largest gold producer, climbed 3.9
percent to HK$1.89.  Tencent (700)  gained 2.5 percent to HK$421.20 in Hong Kong.
Barclays Plc reiterated its overweight rating on the stock and
raised its share-price forecast by 16 percent to HK$450, saying
the company is well-positioned to benefit from growing usage of
mobile Internet.  SK Hynix added 2.8 percent to 29,800 won in Seoul. Micron
Technology, the largest U.S. maker of computer-memory chips, is
reducing capacity by about 30 percent as it shifts some
production to NAND flash memory, which are used in mobile
devices such as smartphones and tablets, Taipei-based DigiTimes
reported, citing a supplier it didn’t identify.  Korean Air Lines Co., the country’s biggest carrier, jumped
9.3 percent to 36,600 won in Seoul, the most since October 2011,
on the first day of trading after being split into two
companies.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of chips, rose 2.9 percent to NT$105.50 in
Taipei. Overseas investors bought 3.35 million more of the
company’s shares than they sold on Sept. 14, the biggest foreign
net purchases among Taipei-listed shares, according to data from
the Taiwan stock exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  