-- Assad Cheered in Syria for Canny Survivor’s Delaying Tactics
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-09-17T16:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/assad-cheered-in-damascus-for-canny-survivor-s-delaying-tactics.html
Osama Salloum was on the balcony of
his Damascus apartment last week when a procession of honking
cars celebrating President Bashar al-Assad’s birthday passed by.  The 34-year-old accountant joined the youths waving flags
and singing patriotic songs not only because he wanted to mark
Assad’s Sept. 11 birthday, “but also to express gratitude for
the government’s wise policies that prevented a U.S. strike,”
he said. “Syrian diplomacy has borne the best of fruits.”  Assad’s agreement to the seizure and elimination of  Syria ’s
chemical weapons was his first significant political concession
to Russia and the international community since the conflict
started in 2011. Rather than weakness, supporters like Salloum
are lauding the move as a diplomatic coup.  While averting a U.S.-led attack that might have tipped the
balance in favor of his rebel opponents, Assad is buying time
and extending his Alawite family’s 42-year rule of the majority
Sunni Muslim country. The “diplomatic triumphs” will boost the
chances of a political settlement, Prime Minister Wael al-Halaqi
told state-run television today.  “Assad knows how to play this game,” Shadi Hamid,
director of research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar, said
from  Washington . “He knows how to manipulate his opponent. He’s
a master at that and that’s what you need in order to survive
ruling as a minority regime in Syria.”  Staying Put  The unrest in Syria began with peaceful anti-Assad protests
in March 2011 as leaders entrenched in their positions for
decades began to crumble across the Arab world.  Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled to Saudi
Arabia in January 2011. Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  was
forced out a month later. Protests led to Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi’s ouster and later killing in October 2011. Ali Abdullah Saleh’s rule in Yemen was undermined and he was replaced through
a negotiated settlement in February 2012.  The Syrian crisis turned violent after Assad’s troops began
firing on the protesters later in 2011.  It gradually turned into a sectarian war pitting the mainly
Sunni opposition against the regime of Assad, whose Alawites are
an offshoot of Shiite Islam. The rebel fighters failed to unite
and various strains of al-Qaeda and other more radical militants
joined the war, raising international concerns about an Islamist
state should Assad be deposed.  Waiting Game  “His waiting game worked,” said Joshua Landis, director
of the Center for Middle East Studies at the University of
Oklahoma in Norman. “This story was framed in the first year as
tyranny versus freedom. Now the story is framed as al-Qaeda
versus a tyrannical dictator.”  Assad, 48 last week, took over as president when his
father, Hafez al-Assad, died in 2000. He was in power for almost
three decades following a 1970 coup, balancing Soviet military
aid with adapting to U.S. foreign policy including joining
coalition forces against  Iraq  in the 1990-1991 Gulf War.  “Assad believes that time is on his side,” Landis said by
telephone. “The longer this drags out, the more the world will
accept his vision of Syria, where he is the secular responsible
power and that the opposition are terrorists and al-Qaeda.”  At the heart of U.S. plans for a military strike against
Assad was his alleged use of chemical weapons in an attack on
Aug. 21 that killed more than 1,400 people. United Nations
inspectors found “clear and convincing evidence” that
poisonous sarin gas was used in an attack near Damascus last
month, according to a report yesterday.  ‘Clever Move’  The Syrian National Coalition, the main political
opposition, said Assad’s government should not be allowed to go
unpunished for the atrocities.  “If the world does not act now, this war will continue,
and thousands more will die,” Najib Ghadbian, the coalition’s
special representative to the UN, said in a statement.  Under the accord to give up the chemical weapons arsenal
the Syrian government must divulge the location, types,
quantities and production sites by a Sept. 21 deadline.  The deal has made Assad “weaker because it came at a
serious cost, but not as weak as he would’ve been after a
strike,” said Paul Salem, director of the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace’s Middle East Center in  Beirut . “In
that sense, he did a clever move. Given his two bad options, he
took the less bad one.”  Rebel Response  The rebels, who had hoped that an American strike would
open up opportunities on the ground they could capitalize on,
have rejected the U.S.-Russian plan that envisions international
monitors taking control of Syria’s chemical weapons until they
can be destroyed or removed from the country by mid-2014.  Colonel Qassem Saadeddine, a member of the rebel Free
Syrian Army’s high command, said he worries that Assad would use
the next few months to prolong the life of the regime.  “For him, time is an advantage,” Saadeddine said. “He
will use it to keep himself in power and protect himself from
prosecution for using chemical weapons.”  Fighting meanwhile continues across Syria. At least 160
people were killed yesterday, 35 of them civilians, according to
the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  While giving up chemical weapons used as a strategic
deterrent in the Middle East ultimately will weaken Assad, his
“new lease of life” at the negotiating table allows him to
cement gains on the battlefield, said Salem at Carnegie.  Blueberry Hill  In Damascus, the mood among Assad supporters is jubilant as
residents celebrate the postponement of military action.
“Imagine the destruction, the loss of life that would’ve been
incurred by the strike,” Salloum said by phone.  One man Assad’s supporters credit for standing by their
country is Russian President Vladimir Putin. An  online video 
showing Putin crooning “Blueberry Hill” is making the rounds
of social media among Syrians.  The agreement with  Russia  reflects how Assad comes out
stronger, getting the U.S. “off his back,” said Hamid, the
researcher at the Brookings Doha Center.  “That’s certainly the kind of approach that many dictators
in the Arab world use: just survive in the meantime and get
through the rough patch,” he said. “Assad is a survivor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  