-- Aussie Rises to 3-Month High on Fed Prospects, Syria; Bonds Jump
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-09-16T07:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/aussie-reaches-three-month-high-on-fed-chairman-bets-syria-deal.html
Australia’s dollar rose to a three-month high amid speculation Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet
Yellen  will become the next head of the U.S. central bank and
maintain stimulus that’s supported risk assets worldwide.  The South Pacific nation’s bonds surged after former
Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  withdrew his name from
consideration for the Fed post. The Aussie and New Zealand’s
kiwi dollar gained versus most of their major peers after the
U.S. and Russia agreed on a plan to eliminate Syria’s chemical
weapons, supporting demand for higher-yielding assets.  “I’m a bit more upbeat on the Aussie purely from a dollar
point of view,” said  Robert Rennie , the chief currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest
lender. “What you have to read into the market’s move is that
this is a combination of Summers and  Syria , but it is a risk-positive story.”  Australia’s currency strengthened 1 percent to 93.34 U.S.
cents as of 5 p.m. in Sydney after reaching 93.94, the highest
since June 19. It climbed 0.4 percent to 92.20 yen. The kiwi
advanced 0.8 percent to 81.99 U.S. cents after touching 82.30,
the strongest since May 16. It appreciated 0.2 percent to 80.98
yen.  The  yield  on Australia’s three-year note dropped six basis
points to 2.85 percent, while the rate on the 10-year security
sank nine basis points to 4 percent.  Japan’s markets are closed today for a national holiday,
while the MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index of shares
jumped 1.5 percent.  ‘Huge’ News  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said in a statement he accepted
the withdrawal of Summers for the Fed job. Obama had also
mentioned Yellen as a potential candidate after  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s term as chairman expires on Jan. 31, with policy
makers preparing to reduce bond purchases, known as quantitative
easing.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Co-Chief Investment
Officer  Bill Gross  said the exit of Summers from the Fed
leadership race was “huge” for risk-on and  yield-curve  trades.  MSCI’s ex-Japan stocks gauge gained 12 percent since the
Fed announced the third round of quantitative easing on Sept. 13
last year till Bernanke first mentioned the possibility of
slowing the purchases on May 22.  The Fed will probably taper its monthly debt buying to $75
billion from the current $85 billion pace at its two-day meeting
that starts tomorrow, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  ‘More Pro-growth’  “The markets have it right -- she would be more pro-growth
and would keep rates lower for a longer,”  Chris Rupkey , the
chief financial economist in New York at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., said about Yellen in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “That’s not good for the U.S. dollar. It
is good for U.S. stocks.”  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  will meet with French
President  Francois Hollande  and his counterparts from France and
the U.K. to build support for a plan to eliminate Syria’s
chemical weapons. Kerry negotiated the accord with Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov .  The Reserve Bank of Australia will tomorrow release minutes
of its Sept. 3 meeting when the central bank kept its benchmark
interest rate on hold at a record-low 2.5 percent and omitted a
reference to scope for further stimulus.  Traders see a 38 percent chance that RBA Governor  Glenn
Stevens  and his policy board will reduce rates by the end of the
year, overnight-index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
likelihood was estimated at 62 percent at the end of August.  Aussie, Kiwi  New Zealand is scheduled to report second-quarter gross
domestic product on Sept. 19, which economists forecast grew 0.2
percent from the January-March period. The nation’s Reserve Bank
said on Sept. 12 that interest-rate increases will likely be
required next year from the all-time low of 2.5 percent as
inflation picks up.  Two-year  interest-rate swaps  fell four basis points to 3.53
percent in New Zealand. The contracts, often used to bet on the
direction of future monetary policy, earlier reached 3.57
percent, the highest since Aug. 4, 2011.  Barclays Plc recommends selling the Australian dollar
against its  New Zealand  counterpart.  “While the September statement again excluded an explicit
easing bias, we expect a weak easing bias to come through” in
the RBA meeting minutes, Barclays’ currency strategists,
including Singapore-based Hamish Pepper, wrote in a research
note yesterday. Higher-than-estimated growth in New Zealand’s
GDP “would likely be NZD-positive, especially against AUD.”  The Aussie climbed 0.1 percent to NZ$1.1385 today, snapping
a three-day slide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  