-- Watson Leads Australia to One-Day Cricket Series Win in England
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-17T00:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/australia-beats-england-by-49-runs-to-win-one-day-cricket-series.html
Shane Watson  smashed 143 off 107
balls as  Australia  beat  England  by 49 runs in their one-day
cricket decider to close its four-month tour of the U.K. with a
series victory.  Australia made 298 runs from 49.1 overs after captain
 Michael Clarke , who added 75, won the toss at the  Rose Bowl  in
Southampton yesterday. England was bowled out for 249 with two
of its 50 overs left chasing 299 for the victory.  The Australians, who arrived in the U.K. on May 27 and have
had three Prime Ministers during their tour, clinched the best-of-five one-day contest 2-1 after rain washed out two matches.  “I knew how important it was for us to win and come away
with a series win,” Watson said in a televised interview. “We
haven’t had much success on the tour so far so it was nice to
finish off the way we did.”  Australia failed to win a match in the defense of its
Champions Trophy one-day title in June and changed its coach
before being beaten 3-0 by England in the five-match Ashes Test
series. The teams split their two Twenty20 internationals.  The sport’s oldest rivals will meet for another best-of-five Ashes series starting Nov. 21 in Brisbane. England, which
also beat  New Zealand  in a Test series during its home summer,
is scheduled to arrive for its tour of Australia on Oct. 25.  Watson, who struck 12 fours and six sixes in his innings,
combined for a 163-run fourth-wicket partnership with Clarke to
help lift Australia’s total near 300. England paceman Ben Stokes
took five wickets for 61 runs, his best figures in a one-day
international, while Chris Jordan claimed 3-51 in his debut.  Run Outs  England’s pursuit of the target was undermined by two run-outs, including  Kevin Pietersen  without scoring, as it slipped
to 68-4. Ravi Bopara top scored for the home team with 62, while
seamer James Faulkner led Australia’s bowlers with 3-38 and
 Mitchell Johnson  took 2-21.  Before hosting England, Australia visits India next month
for a Twenty20 match and best-of-seven one-day series.  “It’s been an amazing tour and even though we haven’t had
the results we wanted, things have changed for the better in a
big way,” Watson added. “We’re playing the brand of cricket we
know is going to give us success. We just need to be more
consistent with it. Everybody’s really excited about what lies
ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  