-- U.S. Stocks Gain While Oil Retreats, Treasuries Advance
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-09-17T20:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/australian-futures-fall-after-stock-jump-as-dollar-steady.html
U.S. equities rose a third day as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s plan to buy back $40 billion in stock fueled
optimism that more companies will return cash to shareholders,
while Treasuries climbed before a  Federal Reserve  decision
tomorrow. European and Asian shares retreated and oil fell.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4  percent  to
1,704.76 at 4 p.m. in  New York , within five points of its Aug. 2
record. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 2.1 percent, the most
in two months, as foreign direct investment in  China  trailed
estimates. Ten-year Treasuries rose for a fifth straight day,
the longest rally in almost a year. The euro strengthened after
German investor confidence increased. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24
commodities declined 1.2 percent as oil lost more than 1 percent
and coffee sank to a four-year low.  Microsoft paced a rally that sent  technology shares  to the
biggest gain among 10 industries in the  S&P 500  after also
announcing plans to boost its dividend by 22 percent. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  meets today and tomorrow, when
members are forecast to cut monthly bond buying by $10 billion
to $75 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The U.S. cost of living rose less than forecast in August, a
sign it will take time for inflation to reach the Fed’s goal.  Large buybacks show “continued confidence by managers,”
Jerry Braakman, the chief investment officer of First American
Trust in  Santa Ana , California, said in a phone interview. His
firm oversees $1 billion. “With inflation being benign it
doesn’t require a more aggressive tightening than the market
would expect. This simulative environment will continue. If they
have to dial it back, they’ll do it moderately to continue
supporting the economy going forward.”  The S&P 500 Equal Weighted Index, which strips out biases
related to market value, jumped 0.5 percent to a record today.
The Russell 2000 Index, whose companies have a median market
value of about $648 million, also climbed to an all-time high.  Market Movers  The S&P 500 climbed 0.6 percent yesterday, pushing the
gauge of U.S. shares to a six-week high. Alcoa Inc., American
Express Co.,  Intel Corp . and General Electric Co. rallied at
least 1.3 percent to lead gains in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , with technology, consumer-discretionary and industrial
shares leading an advance among nine of the 10 main industries
in the S&P 500.  Safeway Inc. jumped 11 percent after the grocery chain
adopted a shareholder rights plan to thwart any unfriendly
takeovers, saying an investor accumulated a “significant
amount” of common stock.  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  slipped 1.2 percent today
after North America’s second-largest fertilizer producer cut its
quarterly forecast for potash and phosphate sales and prices.  Buybacks  Microsoft increased 0.4 percent after earlier rising as
much as 2 percent. After struggling to keep up with rivals in
the smartphone and tablet markets, Microsoft is retooling its
strategy and seeking a new chief executive officer.  Steve Ballmer , who has run the company since 2000, announced plans
last month to retire when a replacement is found. The company
also agreed to buy Nokia Oyj’s phone business for $7.2 billion,
aiming to bolster its position in mobile devices.  Authorized U.S. buybacks have reached a six-year high of
$556 billion this year, data from Birinyi Associates Inc. show.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.5 percent after yesterday
climbing to the highest level in more than five years. The U.K.
government sold a 3.2 billion-pound ($5.1 billion) stake in
Lloyds Banking Group Plc, while Schaeffler AG and its holding
company raised about 950 million euros ($1.3 billion) selling 4
percent in Continental AG. Lloyds lost 3.5 percent and
Continental, Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker, fell 3.1
percent.  ‘Good Time’  “After the big move we saw yesterday, it only makes sense
that we see a pull-back today and that investors see it as a
good time to sell,” said Dirk Thiels, who helps oversee the
equivalent of $87 billion as head of  investment management  at
KBC Asset Management NV in Brussels.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index was little changed near a
three-month high. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland companies listed in Hong Kong slid 0.5 percent.
Russia’s Micex increased 0.2 percent and South Korea’s Kospi
retreated 0.4 percent while Brazil’s Ibovespa added 0.5 percent.  Foreign-direct investment in China rose 0.6 percent last
month, compared with the median estimate of 12.5 percent growth
in a Bloomberg survey.  “We’ve gone past the sweet spot in equities and the easy
gains are behind us,” Nader Naeimi, the Sydney-based head of
dynamic  asset allocation  at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which
manages more than $130 billion, said by phone. “The task for
the Federal Reserve is still a hard one.”  ‘Key Event’  The yield on 10-year Treasuries declined two basis points
to 2.84 percent. The FOMC will probably cut monthly purchases of
Treasuries to $35 billion from $45 billion and keep mortgage-bond buying at $40 billion at the meeting starting today,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists earlier this
month.  “Nobody’s going to make a major commitment until we get
some color out of the Fed,”  Eric Green , director of research
and fund manager at Penn Capital Management, said by phone. The
Philadelphia-based firm oversees about $7 billion. “Today is a
throw-away day. Aside from company specific news, the overall
market is probably just sitting, waiting to get some direction.
This meeting will set the tone for the next few months most
likely.”  A report today showed the cost of living in the U.S. rose
less than forecast in August, with the consumer-price index
increasing 0.1 percent, the least in three months, Labor
Department figures showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists called for a 0.2 percent gain.  Summers Withdraws  Bonds rose yesterday after  Lawrence Summers  withdrew as a
candidate for the position of Fed chairman. The former Treasury
secretary would have tightened central bank policy more than Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , who was his main rival to replace
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll
conducted last week. Bernanke’s term ends on Jan. 31.  The euro rose 0.2 percent to 132.41 yen and was 0.2 percent
stronger at $1.3354.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to
49.6 in September from 42 in August. Economists predicted a
reading of 45, according to the median of 37 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The S&P GSCI fell for the third day, the longest streak
since Aug. 21, as West Texas Intermediate oil dropped 1.1
percent to $105.42 a barrel, a one-month low, as a U.S.
agreement with Russia to eliminate Syria’s chemical weapons
reduced supply risk.  Syria Negotiations  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  joined French and U.K.
diplomats in calling for a United Nations resolution to
eliminate Syria’s chemical arsenal, with the goal of forcing
President Bashar al-Assad from power. Libya restored about 25
percent of its crude output following talks between the
government and striking workers, while oil-export terminals in
Mexico reopened as Ingrid weakened from a hurricane to a
tropical depression.  Gold for December delivery slipped 0.6 percent to $1,309.40
an ounce, the fifth drop in six sessions.  Coffee sank to the lowest level in more than four years as
surging stockpiles signal ample supply in the U.S., the world’s
biggest consumer and importer. Arabica coffee for December
dropped 3.6 percent to settle at $1.1495 a pound.  Orange juice 
fell the most in 2013. Cocoa and sugar slid, while cotton rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in New York at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  