-- Automakers Confident in 2013 Even as Competition Looms
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   M a t t   W i n k l e r
-- 2013-09-17T04:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/automakers-confident-in-2013-even-as-competition-looms.html
U.S. automotive executives are
extremely confident this year about the state of the industry
even as some are becoming concerned that profits may be eroded
as competition intensifies, a new survey found.  Ninety-six percent of automaker executives who took part in
Booz & Co.’s annual confidence survey said they perceive the
industry as “much better” or “somewhat better” than a year
ago. Among auto-supplier executives, 88 percent said the
industry is better than a year earlier.  “The bullishness in the market continues,” Brian Collie,
a Booz vice president based in  Chicago , said in an interview
before the results were released. “The vast, vast majority are
seeing strong profitability continuing through to 2014.”  The optimism is driven by an onslaught of new models in
showrooms or coming soon along with lower operating costs,
according to the annual U.S. Automotive Industry Survey and
Confidence Index conducted online in July and August. At the
same time, those surveyed are beginning to fret that automakers
will offer profit-sapping discounts to keep sales rolling.  More than one in five surveyed said that pricing discipline
already is breaking down. The poll was conducted after  Nissan
Motor Co. (7201)  cut prices on seven of its top-selling models in May.
Full results will be published next month, said Booz, which
partnered with  Bloomberg News  for the survey.  Sales Return  U.S. sales of new cars and light trucks totaled 1.5 million
in August, the most in one month since May 2007, as the
seasonally adjusted annualized selling pace exceeded 16 million
for the first time since October 2007, signaling robust demand.
Light-vehicle sales will probably rise to 16.1 million next
year, the average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  While the pace of sales remains well off the peak of 17.4
million set in 2000, the industry is much healthier and capable
of profiting at lower volumes.  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, having restructured to take out
costs, combined to earn $13.5 billion last year, while industry
sales were 17 percent below record levels.  It’s a remarkable change from five years ago, when the  auto
industry  slid into peril after  Lehman Brothers  collapsed. GM and
Chrysler would ultimately file for U.S. government-backed
bankruptcy reorganizations in 2009 when industry sales plunged
to a 27-year low. Chrysler became majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F)  as
a result of its reorganization.  “In many ways, you’re getting back to a relatively solid,
robust level of demand,” Dan Ammann, GM’s chief financial
officer, said yesterday in a Bloomberg News auto industry panel
discussion in Southfield, Michigan.  Better Cars  The Detroit Three have taken advantage of improving demand
and now offer their most competitive vehicles in a generation
from top to bottom. When demand was last above 16 million, the
large U.S. automakers relied on big pickups and sport-utility
vehicles to provide their profits.  “The renaissance in this town is real. It’s exciting, and
I think it’s sustainable,”  Mike Jackson , chief executive
officer of  AutoNation Inc. (AN) , said during yesterday’s panel
discussion.  GM’s Chevrolet Spark minicar was a surprise hit while
Chrysler’s Jeep Grand Cherokee continues to turn heads. Ford is
expanding capacity at its Flat Rock, Michigan, factory because
it can’t make enough Fusion mid-size cars in  Mexico . Fiat relies
on Chrysler to sustain its profit amid  losses  in  Europe .  New Models  A total of 376 models will be introduced in the U.S. from
this year through 2015, according to researcher R.L. Polk & Co.,
compared with 88 in 2011 and 91 in 2010 as the industry dusted
itself off from the recession.  Even with increasing confidence, there’s growing concern
how automakers will deal with future increased competition. The
companies will probably lose their newfound pricing discipline
within the next six months, according to 67 percent of
executives surveyed.  “Demand is starting to flatten,” Collie said. “The
question is: Will that same discipline continue in a flattened
environment?”  Fifty percent of automaker executives said they view the
U.S. automotive manufacturing renaissance as sustainable within
the next three years while only 44 percent found it sustainable
beyond then.  “There is this question weighing on everybody’s mind in
terms of what’s next,” Collie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  