-- Axa Real Estate Hires Steve McCarthy for U.S. Property Push
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-09-16T21:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/axa-hires-mccarthy-for-u-s-post-at-62-billion-real-estate-unit.html
Axa Real Estate Investment Managers
hired Steve McCarthy as head of U.S. asset management and
transactions amid an expansion of North America property bets.  McCarthy joins in the newly created role from MXA Capital, a
real estate investment advisory firm that he co-founded,
according to a statement today from the unit of Paris-based  Axa
SA. (CS)  He’ll be based in New York and report to Olivier Thoral, Axa
real estate’s head in North America.  Insurers including  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU)  and  Principal
Financial Group Inc. (PFG)  have been bolstering teams managing real
estate as the companies seek to boost fee income. The Axa real
estate investment unit had more than 46 billion euros ($61.5
billion) in assets under management as of June, according to the
statement. The business will target investments in retail, office
and industrial properties, Thoral said in an interview.  “Global expansion is a strategic priority for AXA Real
Estate, and we are looking forward to working with Steve to grow
our business in the U.S, which is a key area of focus,” Thoral
said in the statement. McCarthy has experience in real estate
investment and management with institutional clients and his
arrival “strengthens our growing North American team.”  McCarthy also has worked at the Greenprint Foundation, a
coalition committed to reducing energy usage at properties, and
has had posts in a three-decade career with companies including
Buchanan Street Partners in the U.S. and Tishman Speyer
Properties LP in the U.K. He has an MBA from Columbia Business
School and a bachelor’s degree from Dartmouth College.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in New York at 
 Mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  