-- Mazda May Lower China Target After Slump, President Says
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a   J i e ,   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-09-16T17:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/mazda-may-lower-china-sales-target-after-slump-president-says.html
Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ,  Japan ’s most
export-dependent automaker, said the company may cut its midterm
 China  sales target after deliveries in the world’s biggest car
market fell for 17 straight months.  The company’s plan for China sales to reach 400,000 units
by the year ending March 2016 “may be revised,” Masamichi Kogai, who was promoted to president in June, said in an
interview last week. Hiroshima’s biggest company is forecasting
China sales to only reach 200,000 this fiscal year.  While no Japanese carmaker has seen a bigger turnaround --
in terms of profits or share price -- since the yen began
weakening almost a year ago, Mazda has yet to emerge from its
slump in China. After reshuffling its top management in the
country this year, Mazda is now betting that the locally
produced CX-5 SUV and Mazda 6 will help spur a recovery.  “Mazda is switching to local production of their top
models in China now, so once that kicks in, sales should pick
up,” said Koichi Sugimoto, an auto analyst at  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in
Tokyo. “Their products are improving, and the models they’ll be
introducing fall under the popular category in China too.”  Mazda’s sales in China have fallen 21 percent in the first
eight months of the year, making it among the worst performers.  Reversal of Fortune  Investors haven’t been too worried. Mazda has surged
fourfold in Tokyo trading since late October, when the
historically strong yen began crashing -- it fell 21 percent to
a 4½ year low against the dollar within six months. Before that,
Mazda’s heavy reliance on exports made the stock so unpopular
that it was headed to be the worst-performing Japanese car stock
for a second straight year.  Mazda’s not alone in struggling in China. Sales at Japanese
automakers from  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  to Honda Motor Co. have yet
to fully recover since a diplomatic row over a group of
uninhabited islands fueled a wave of anti-Japan protests a year
ago. Even so, Mazda’s slump predates the islands dispute.  Aversion toward Japanese brands has been a boon for
carmakers such as Ford Motor Co., which has seen China sales
surge 50 percent during the first eight months. According to
estimates by state-backed China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers, the country will see total vehicle sales reach 20
million units this year.  By contrast, Mazda’s sales in the U.S. are picking up.
Deliveries rose 26 percent in August, helped by surging demand
for the new Mazda 6 and the CX-5, which have been equipped with
a fuel-saving system the company calls SkyActiv technology. For
the first eight months, sales climbed 6.8 percent.  Alfa Romeo  U.S. demand, coupled with the falling yen, is helping
profits as the company forecasts  net income  will more than
double to 70 billion yen this fiscal year. Recent profits
haven’t been enough to offset accumulated losses that prevent
Japanese companies from paying dividends. Mazda aims to resume
payments by March 2016, Kogai said.  Separately, Kogai said Mazda’s joint effort with  Fiat SpA (F) ’s
 Alfa Romeo  to develop a roadster will be a one-time project and
that the Japanese company is continuing to do research on its
discontinued rotary engines.  Kogai joined Mazda in 1977, overseeing production and
purchasing. Takashi Yamanouchi, Kogai’s predecessor who is now
the carmaker’s chairman, was the president for five years.  Echoing comments from other automotive chieftains, the new
Mazda president said one of his longer-term tasks will be to
help revive interest in cars from younger consumers.  “Our global market share is 2 percent, but we’d definitely
want to expand that, especially young people,” Kogai said.
“It’s said that young people in Japan don’t need cars anymore,
but we want to explore and create new markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in  Tokyo  at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  