-- Baht, Bonds Gain on Inflows as Summers Withdraws From Fed Race
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-09-16T02:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/baht-bonds-gain-on-inflows-as-summers-withdraws-from-fed-race.html
Thailand’s baht gained toward a
three-week high after overseas funds added to holdings of the
nation’s assets and Lawrence Summers withdrew in the race for
the next Federal Reserve chairman, sending the dollar lower.  Foreign investors bought $342 million more Thai shares than
they sold last week, the biggest net purchases since November,
stock exchange data show. Summers was perceived as being less in
favor of quantitative easing than Janet Yellen, another
candidate to replace Ben S. Bernanke when his term ends in
January,  Mitul Kotecha , the global head of currency strategy in
Hong Kong at Credit Agricole SA, wrote in a research note.  “The news of Summers, who was believed to be more
aggressive in the reduction of easing, is leading to a sell-off
in the dollar across the board,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a Bangkok-based foreign-exchange trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.
“Fund inflows are also supporting the baht.”  The baht jumped 0.5 percent to 31.68 against the U.S.
currency as of 8:56 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It reached 31.58 on Sept. 13, the strongest level
since Aug. 20. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
declined one basis point to 7.99 percent.  Overseas investors poured a net $409 million into Thai debt
last week, the most since the period ended July 26, according to
the Thai Bond Market Association.  Summers’ exit from the Fed race will help boost demand for
riskier assets, Credit Agricole’s Kotecha wrote. There was
“strong evidence of a resumption of equity capital inflows” to
Asia, helping steady many regional currencies, the note said.
The Bloomberg Dollar Index, which tracks 10 of the world’s major
currencies, dropped 0.5 percent to a five-week low today, adding
to last week’s 0.7 percent decline.  The yield on  Thailand ’s 3.625 percent sovereign bonds due
June 2023 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to
4.36 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  