-- Bale Scores in Real Madrid Soccer Debut; Dortmund, Monaco Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-16T01:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/bale-scores-in-real-madrid-soccer-debut-dortmund-monaco-win.html
Gareth Bale scored in his Real
Madrid debut to help the Spanish soccer club draw 2-2 at
Villarreal on a weekend when  Borussia Dortmund  extended its 100
percent record in Germany’s Bundesliga.  Bale joined Real on Sept. 1 for a reported world-record fee
of about 85 million pounds ($135 million) from English club
Tottenham Hotspur. The Welshman, who had yet to play this
season, started in midfield before being replaced by Angel  Di Maria  in the 61st minute.  After Villarreal took the lead two days ago at its El
Madrigal stadium on Ruben Cani’s 20th-minute goal, Real
goalkeeper Diego Lopez made several saves. Bale then tied the
score six minutes before halftime when he beat a defender to
poke in Daniel Carvajal’s cross.  Cristiano Ronaldo , who yesterday signed a  new contract  with
the record nine-time European champion until 2018, put Real in
front midway through the second half and Villarreal pulled even
with 20 minutes remaining on a goal from Giovanni dos Santos,
another former Tottenham player.  The draw left both teams two points behind  Atletico Madrid 
and Barcelona, who remained perfect in the league with their
fourth straight wins. Atletico beat Almeria 4-2 and Barcelona
defeated Sevilla 3-2 on Alexis Sanchez’s goal in stoppage time.  In Germany, Dortmund routed Hamburg 6-2 for its fifth
straight victory and leads the league by two points over
defending champion  Bayern Munich , which beat Hannover 2-0.  Bayer
Leverkusen  defeated Wolfsburg 3-1 to stay in third place.  Monaco Leads  Monaco leads France’s Ligue 1 by a point over Saint-Etienne
after Radamel Falcao’s first-half penalty kick secured a 1-0 win
against Lorient yesterday. Saint-Etienne won 3-1 at Valenciennes
the previous day, while Paris Saint-Germain was a 2-0 winner at
Bordeaux on Sept. 13.  Napoli moved two points clear atop Italy’s Serie A after it
beat Atalanta 2-0 and nearest rivals Inter Milan and Juventus
drew 1-1 two days ago. Fiorentina yesterday missed the chance to
join Napoli on nine points by drawing 1-1 with Cagliari. Genoa
beat city rival Sampdoria 3-0.  PEC Zwolle retained top spot in the Netherlands even after
losing 2-1 at defending champion Ajax as second-place  PSV
Eindhoven  drew 2-2 with FC Twente.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  