-- Batista’s Colombia Coal Mines Sale Latest Deal as Empire Shrinks
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/batista-s-colombia-coal-mines-sale-latest-deal-as-empire-shrinks.html
Eike Batista , the former Brazilian
billionaire fighting to keep his commodities group afloat,
agreed to sell two coal mines in  Colombia  for about $75 million
in the latest asset divestment.  CCX Carvao da Colombia SA (CCXC3) , Batista’s  coal unit , will sell
its Canaverales and Papayal open-pit mines to Transwell
Enterprises Inc., the company said in a Sept. 13 regulatory
filing after the close of the market. Both deposits, located in
La Guajira province, have an estimated production capacity of
2.5 million metric tons per year. Transwell also has agreed to
use CCX’s port and railway infrastructure as part of the deal,
the company said.  Batista, who was Brazil’s richest person until November, is
selling assets and ceded control of some of his energy, mining
and logistics ventures to raise cash amid an investor confidence
crisis triggered by missed targets and ballooning debt. MMX
Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the entrepreneur’s iron-ore unit, last
week agreed to sell control of a port in  Rio de Janeiro  state to
Trafigura Beheer BV and Mubadala Development Co.  Canaverales holds 27.3 million metric tons of coal reserves
while Papayal’s reserves amount to 15.6 million tons, CCX said.
The company is keeping full ownership of its flagship San Juan
underground mine, which has 671.8 million tons in reserves, and
the associated logistics project, it said.  CCX didn’t reply to an e-mail from  Bloomberg News  yesterday
seeking comment.  San Juan Project  Batista, 56, created CCX in May 2012 through a spinoff from
his power generation unit MPX Energia SA, targeting 35 million
metric tons of thermal coal output by 2020 from its three mines.
The company estimated in an Aug. 2012  filing  that developing its
 San Juan  project would require $5.5 billion, including costs to
start production in 2017 and achieve full capacity five years
after that.  Rio-based CCX, which Batista said in 2011 may be worth as
much as $6 billion, has a market value of 304.5 million reais 
($133.5 million) after being the last of the six units listed by 
the tycoon in  Sao Paulo . Shares of the company gained 171 percent
since reaching a record low on July 3, on speculation CCX would
sell assets. On Sept. 13, the stock, which  rose  14 percent, was
the best performer on the Brazilian Ibovespa Small Cap  index .  Batista, once worth $34.5 billion, last month agreed to
relinquish control of his LLX Logistica SA logistics unit to
private-equity firm EIG Global Energy Partners LLC, following a
deal to share control of MPX with EON SE,  Germany ’s largest
utility. His OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA oil business is
likely to ask bondholders for more cash during debt-restructuring negotiations, to avoid filing for  bankruptcy
protection , Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carneiro said Sept. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  