-- Baucus Says Congress to See Political Gain in Tax Change
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-09-16T14:33:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/baucus-says-congress-to-see-political-gain-in-tax-change.html
The biggest changes to the tax code
since 1986 will prove to be politically popular and achievable
during an election year, said Senate Finance Committee Chairman
 Max Baucus .  “Suspend judgment a little bit,” Baucus said on Bloomberg
Television today. “Once the country starts to focus more on tax
reform, Congress is going to start to realize, ‘Hey, there’s a
political benefit to this, not a political liability.’”  Baucus spoke from Butte, Montana, where he is hosting an
economic-development summit with corporate executives such as
 Eric Schmidt , chairman of Google Inc., Jim McNerney, the chief
executive officer of the Boeing Co., and Alan Mulally, the
president and CEO of  Ford Motor Co. (F)  All those companies have
billions of dollars at stake in Baucus’s tax plan.  Baucus, a Montana Democrat, has said he plans to push a tax
plan through his committee this year that would lower rates for
individuals and corporations and broaden the tax base.  Among his biggest challenges is the resistance from
Democratic leaders, who want as much as $1 trillion in
additional revenue over 10 years, and Republican leaders, who
want none. Baucus, without being specific, has said he’ll seek a
middle ground.  “Frankly, it’s going to be politically popular,” he said.  Baucus -- who is working with Republican House Ways and
Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp  -- faces a deadline at the
end of 2014, when he will retire after six six-year terms.  Since the last tax code revamp in 1986, the code has become
full of “dead wood” and “barnacles,” Baucus said.  He said he was “quite confident” that President Barack Obama would make a good choice to replace  Ben S. Bernanke  as
chairman of the Federal Reserve. He wouldn’t comment on the
prospects for Janet Yellen or whether  Lawrence Summers , who
yesterday took his name out of the running, could have been
confirmed by the Senate.  “The main point is finding a very good person to replace
 Chairman Bernanke ,” Baucus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  