-- BBC Worldwide Sells Teletubbies Joint Venture to DHX Media
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-09-16T10:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/bbc-worldwide-sells-teletubbies-joint-venture-to-dhx-media.html
Teletubbies , the toddler-sized
creatures with antennas on their heads and names such as Dipsy
and Laa-Laa, have been sold to  DHX Media (DHX)  Ltd. as the Canadian
company seeks to cash in on a burgeoning children’s market.  BBC Worldwide , the commercial arm of the British
Broadcasting Corp., and  Ragdoll Productions  sold their joint
venture that owns the rights to the Teletubbies and pre-school
shows such as “In the Night Garden” and “The Adventures of
Abney & Teal” for 17.4 million pounds ($27.7 million), the
companies said in a statement today.  “These globally recognized brands will be highly
complementary to the DHX Media library, which is now one of the
largest independent libraries of children’s TV content in the
world,” said Michael Donovan, chief executive officer of
Halifax, Nova Scotia-based DHX Media.  Children’s characters such as  Thomas the Tank Engine  and
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles have been attracting buyers such as
 Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  which are seeking to tap demand for
globally known brands. Kids’ characters are attractive assets
because they generate a new audience every few years, can be
easily dubbed and provide lucrative ancillary sales from
licensing and merchandising.  Lunchboxes  Lunchboxes, sleeping bags and stuffed animals bearing the
characters’ images provide revenue to the owner for years.
 Mickey Mouse , the cartoon character created in 1928 by  Walt Disney , remains one of the most popular children’s characters.  The Teletubbies, four oddball characters known as  Tinky
Winky, Dipsy, Laa-Laa and Po , aired on the  BBC  in 1997.  DC Advisory Partners , which sold the rights to characters
including Peter Rabbit, Mr. Men and Paddington Bear in 2011 for
entertainment company Chorion Ltd., handled the sale for the
BBC. The BBC is one of largest platforms for kids’ content in
the U.K. with its television channel CBeebies targeting pre-school children and its CBBC channel focussing on older ones.  Mattel’s purchase of  Hit Entertainment Ltd.  in 2012
illustrates the power of a brand’s licensing and merchandising
potential, as the world largest toy company paid $680 million to
add characters including Thomas the Tank Engine, Bob the Builder
and Barney.  Viacom acquired a minority stake in Rainbow Group, the
creator of the popular “ Winx Club ” Italian TV franchise in
2011. Last year, DHX Media bought peer Cookie Jar Entertainment,
which owns rights including Care Bears, Strawberry Shortcake and
Inspector Gadget, for $111 million to create Canada’s largest
children’s entertainment company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 