-- Biden Uses Obama to Draw Contrast With Clinton in Iowa
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/biden-uses-obama-to-draw-contrast-with-clinton-in-iowa.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  subtly
contrasted himself with  Hillary Clinton , a prospective 2016
presidential rival, and offered a populist message about
boosting the middle class in an  Iowa  speech likely to spur
speculation that he is eying a third White House bid.  Biden drew a distinction with the former U.S. secretary of
state, without mentioning her name, in comments yesterday at an
annual Democratic event in the state that traditionally starts
the nomination voting. Biden said it was he and President  Barack Obama  who shared the same policy views during debates the three
participated in as they battled for their party’s 2008
presidential nomination.  “I have great respect for everyone with whom I ran”
against in that campaign, the vice president said at a steak fry
sponsored by Senator  Tom Harkin , a five-term Iowa Democrat.
“But if you go back and look at those 13 debates, the only two
people who never disagreed on a single solitary subject in those
debates were Barack Obama and Joe Biden.”  Biden, 70, also extolled the work of Secretary of State
 John Kerry  -- less than eight months into his current post --
while never taking note of the four years Clinton served in the
post under Obama.  “I think John Kerry has been one of the best secretaries
of state, so far, in the history of the  United States ,” Biden
said as he spoke in front of a red barn and an American flag.  Syrian Issue  He said Kerry -- like Biden and Clinton, a former U.S.
senator -- had shown his talents in talks that led over the
weekend to an agreement with Russia aimed at eliminating Syria’s
chemical weapons.  The accord, negotiated by Kerry and Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov , sets a framework for finding, securing
and destroying the Syrian government’s stocks of poison gas. It
quelled the prospect of a U.S. military strike on Syria in
response to an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack outside Damascus.  Asked by a reporter whether, if needed, he would be able to
help rally war-weary Democrats to back a military strike in
Syria, Biden said, “I think we are going to be OK.”  Harkin, who isn’t seeking a sixth term in 2014, has hosted
the  steak fry   for 36 years. While designed to build the state
party’s grassroots, the event has evolved into a popular stop
for aspiring Democratic presidential candidates. Maryland
Governor  Martin O’Malley , who has signaled interest in a 2016
presidential bid, attended last year.  Iowa Connections  Biden, elected to the Senate from  Delaware  in 1972, told
reporters he made his first political trip to Iowa in 1974. His
links to the state were obvious as he greeted friends and
supporters by first name at yesterday’s gathering, held on
fairgrounds in Indianola, southeast of Des Moines, and attended
by several hundred.  “This is old home week for Biden,” Harkin said, after the
two men flipped a few steaks on a grill for the benefit of the
news cameras.  Asked by a reporter whether he’s ready to start campaigning
for a 2016 presidential bid, Biden focused on the 2014 midterm
elections. “I’m ready for winning some House and Senate
seats,” he said.  In his speech, Biden depicted himself as a friend to
working Americans -- an image he cultivated as a senator and the
theme of his two previous presidential bids.  “The measure of the success of our administration will be
whether or not the middle class is growing,” Biden said.  Caution Advised  Those close to Biden cautioned against reading too much
into his appearance at an event sponsored by a longtime friend
and colleague.  “I don’t see anything where he has made that next step”
toward a White House bid, said former Senator Ted Kaufman, a
Democrat and longtime confidant who succeeded Biden after his
2008 election as vice president.  Biden has been mostly silent on possible presidential
aspirations -- with a few exceptions.  “I can die a happy man never having been president of the
 United States of America ,” Biden  told  GQ magazine in an
interview published in July. “But it doesn’t mean I won’t
run.”  Kendra Barkoff, a Biden spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
statement last week that her boss “is focusing on being vice
president, and making the president’s second term as productive
as possible. Any talk of other future plans is complete
speculation.”  Vice-Presidential Records  Sitting or former vice presidents who have sought their
party’s nomination for the top job over the last 53 years have
gotten it. Comprising that list are  Richard Nixon  in 1960,
Hubert Humphrey in 1968,  Walter Mondale  in 1984,  George H.W. Bush  in 1988 and  Al Gore  in 2000. Bush was the only one who went
on to win the presidency in those races. Nixon, after  John F.
Kennedy  beat him in 1960, won the White House in 1968.  Biden, should he make a 2016 president bid, likely would
start out as the underdog should Clinton decide to run. A July
 WMUR Granite State Poll  in New Hampshire -- typically the second
state to hold nomination voting -- showed Clinton, 65, with the
support of 62 percent of likely Democratic primary voters,
compared with 8 percent for Biden.  Eight other potential candidates were offered in the
survey, with Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick  placing third
at 5 percent backing. None of the others -- who included
O’Malley, New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and Virginia Senator
 Mark Warner  -- broke 2 percent support.  In another sign of how Clinton overshadows all other
prospective Democratic candidates, independent groups already
have organized nationally to promote her possible candidacy.  No Monopoly  Susie Schwieger, 61, a Waterloo, Iowa resident and a steak
fry attendee, had more things to say about Clinton than Biden.  “I like her and think she had really proven herself time
and time again,” she said. “It’s time. White men should not
have a monopoly on the White House.”  Biden last attended the Harkin steak fry in 2007, where he
was joined by several of the other contenders for the 2008
Democratic nomination, including then-Senators Obama, of
Illinois, and Clinton, of New York.  This January, during the festivities surrounding his and
Obama’s second-term inaugurations, he attended the Iowa ball and
invited influential Democrats from that state and others with
early primaries or caucuses to a reception at his official
residence. In May, he spoke at a Democratic dinner in South
Carolina, which typically holds the third nomination contest.  Biden’s previous presidential campaigns weren’t notable for
their duration.  He exited the 2008 campaign after receiving less than 1
percent of the vote in the Iowa caucuses. His race for the 1988
nomination ended even more quickly -- he withdrew in September
1987, before any vote had been cast, after a plagiarism scandal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Indianola, Iowa at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  