-- Binge Drinking Turns Extreme Among High School Seniors
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-09-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/binge-drinking-turns-extreme-among-high-school-seniors.html
Binge drinking is common among U.S.
high school seniors with some reporting extremes of 15 or more
alcoholic beverages in a row, a level of consumption that can
lead to poisoning and death, a U.S. study found.  About 11 percent of those surveyed said they consumed 10 or
more consecutive drinks in the past two weeks, while 5.6 percent
imbibed at least 15 at a time, according to research published
in  JAMA Pediatrics . The U.S. defines binge drinking as consuming
enough within two hours to reach a blood alcohol level of 0.08
percent, usually five drinks for a man and four for a woman.  The study is the first to look at how many teens engage in
extreme binge drinking, consuming 10 to 15 or more drinks at a
time, said the lead study author, Megan Patrick. About 5,000
people under the age of 21 die each year from alcohol-related
car crashes, homicides, poisonings and injuries such as falls
and drownings, according to the  National Institute on Alcohol
Abuse and Alcoholism , part of the  National Institutes of Health .  “We hope this study will bring awareness to this issue of
high-risk alcohol drinking among adolescents,” said  Patrick , a
research assistant professor at the Institute for Social
Research at the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , in a Sept.
13 telephone interview.  Researchers in the study included 16,332 high school
seniors in the U.S. A drink was 12 ounces (0.35 liter) of beer,
four ounces of wine, a shot of liquor, a mixed drink or a 12-ounce wine cooler.  About 20 percent of the students said they consumed five or
more drinks in the past two weeks, according to the paper.  White Males  Those who may be most prone to engage in extreme binge
drinking were male, white, lived in rural areas, used other
drugs, smoked cigarettes, missed school more often and had
parents with a lower level of education, according to the
research. More studies are needed to identify students at most
risk of extreme binge drinking, Patrick said.  “I was actually a bit surprised by the finding,” said
 Ralph Hingson , director of the Division of Epidemiology and
Prevention Research at the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse
and Alcoholism, in an interview yesterday. “At that level of
consumption, clearly people can get very dangerous blood alcohol
levels.” Hingson wrote an accompanying editorial along with
Aaron White, the program director for college and underage
drinking prevention research at the NIAAA.  While the number of teens who consumed five or more drinks
at a time has declined since the 1970s and 1980s, findings that
extreme binge drinking hasn’t fallen may help explain why
hospitalizations for alcohol and drug overdoses are on the rise,
Hingson said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Larger Phenomenon  Efforts have been made to curb heavy drinking around
specific events, like a 21st birthday, he said.  “By and large, this phenomenon is larger than that,”
Hingson said. “It’s not just a single day, it’s not just spring
break. People who are engaging in these behaviors tend to be
frequent heavy drinkers.”  Doctors should be asking patients, particularly younger
people, how much alcohol they are consuming and researchers
should be including questions about extreme binge drinking on
surveys, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  