-- Bipartisan Pettiness on Climate Change
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-16T14:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/bipartisan-pettiness-on-climate-change.html
House Republicans will hold their
first  hearing on climate change  in more than two years this
week. Sadly, its focus is unlikely to be sensible strategies
that are sorely needed to reduce the U.S.’s greenhouse-gas
emissions, such as setting a price on carbon, but rather how
existing efforts to protect the climate are too expensive.  Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and
chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s subcommittee on
energy and power,  has invited  representatives of 13 federal
agencies to appear, asking them to report on how much money
they’ve spent on  climate change ; how many employees or
contractors work on those files; the regulations they’ve issued
or are developing; and the grants they’ve awarded.  The administration, for its part, seems unwilling to play
ball. So far, only Environmental Protection Agency Administrator
Gina McCarthy and Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz have agreed to
appear. That’s not the right response.  Although the Republicans’ see-nothing, do-nothing strategy
on climate change is silly, they’re right to seek information
about what the administration is doing and what it costs.
President  Barack Obama  proposed a  climate plan  in June that
seeks to work around Congress, which may help explain
Republicans’ confrontational stance. Yet their posture doesn’t
excuse the administration’s pathetic response or mean that
congressional oversight is unimportant. If anything, the
president’s strategy makes congressional oversight more
important.  Oversight is more than just giving the executive branch a
hard time, of course. Noticeably absent from the subcommittee’s
otherwise detailed request for information are any questions
about what the administration’s efforts have accomplished: how
many kilowatt hours have been saved, tons of greenhouse-gas
emissions reduced, products created, asthma diagnoses prevented.
Those aren’t trivial questions; the answers are valuable to
supporters and opponents of climate-change policies alike, and
the failure to ask them is telling.  By not cooperating, however, the administration fails to
acknowledge Congress’s legitimate responsibility to keep tabs on
the executive branch. Worse, the agencies miss the chance to
explain their achievements on climate change, instead asking
Congress and the public to have blind faith in those efforts.  The agencies that have ignored the subcommittee’s
invitation have plenty of information to share. The Export-Import Bank has a renewable-energy portfolio. The Agency for
International Development has a global climate-change and
development strategy. The Pentagon is investing in alternative
fuels. The Department of Transportation has a climate-adaptation
plan. Congress is right to ask about those initiatives, and the
administration shouldn’t be surprised when lawmakers try to
score political points.  Rather than stiff the subcommittee, the remaining agencies
should use this opportunity to answer not only the questions
that  House Republicans  have asked, but also the ones they
haven’t: What’s worked, and what hasn’t? In the process,
administration officials may be able to improve public
understanding of the challenge and the response -- and, not
incidentally, score a few political points themselves.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 