-- Bombardier CSeries Jet Takes Off to Start First Flight
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-09-16T20:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/bombardier-cseries-jet-takes-off-to-start-first-flight.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries jet
completed its maiden flight, ending more than eight months of
delays for the $3.4 billion aircraft program intended to
challenge  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS.  Flight Test Vehicle 1 performed as expected, Rob Dewar, the
CSeries program’s general manager, told reporters after the
plane touched down at Mirabel airport near  Montreal  under sunny
skies following about 2 1/2 hours aloft. Cheers arose from a
crowd of about 3,000 as the jet settled onto the runway.  Bombardier has completed five test aircraft as it works to
finish certification to get the jet into service, said  Guy
Hachey , the company’s aerospace president. While Bombardier
predicts flight trials probably will last 2,400 hours, it’s
confident the jet will meet its efficiency goals, said Mike
Arcamone, president of the commercial aircraft business.  Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin is depending on the
jet, Bombardier’s largest plane ever, as a catalyst for almost
doubling annual revenue toward the end of the decade. The
world’s third-biggest planemaker stirred investor concern in
November by announcing a six-month delay to the test flight,
citing unspecified “issues” with unidentified suppliers, then
postponed the event twice more this year.  Development Costs  Development costs for the CSeries program will be about
$3.9 billion, Bombardier said today, revising a $3.4 billion
projection when the plane was announced five years ago. New
accounting standards mean that Bombardier has to include
interest and amortization expenses, said Marc Duchesne, a
spokesman.  Bombardier’s  Class B shares  fell 0.6 percent to C$4.96 at
the close in Toronto. That pared the stock’s year-to-date gain
to 32 percent.  The CSeries will cost about 15 percent less to operate,
burn about 20 percent less fuel and be about four times quieter
than existing rivals, according to Bombardier. The plane will
feature composite materials and the new geared turbofan engine
from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney .  The CSeries is intended to compete with the smallest Boeing
and Airbus narrow-body jets and will carry as many as 160
people, a step up from Bombardier’s signature regional jets with
fewer than 100 seats.  As Bombardier develops the CSeries, Airbus and Boeing are
developing reworked versions of their own narrow-body planes,
the A320neo and 737 Max respectively, which will be powered by
more fuel-efficient engines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  