-- Bond Risk Falls to 16-Week Low in Europe as Summers Ends Fed Bid
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-09-16T09:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/bond-risk-falls-to-16-week-low-in-europe-as-summers-ends-fed-bid.html
The cost of insuring corporate
bonds against losses fell to the lowest in 3 1/2 months in
Europe as Lawrence Summers withdrew from the race to become the
next Federal Reserve chairman, easing concern the central bank
will soon end its stimulus program.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on
125 companies with investment-grade ratings fell 3.8 basis
points to 94 basis points at 10:35 a.m. in  London , the lowest
since May 23. British mobile phone retailer  Phones4u Finance Plc 
is meeting investors for a planned sale of 200 million pounds
($319 million) of senior payment-in-kind toggle notes maturing
in 2019, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Summers withdrew from contention before the Fed begins a
two-day meeting tomorrow amid speculation it will begin paring
unprecedented bond purchases. The former Treasury secretary
would tighten policy more thanJanet Yellen, who was his main
rival to replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke at the central bank,
according to a Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and
traders last week.  “Yellen’s potential appointment would be viewed by market
participants as dovish since she would likely maintain the
existing policy stance, which is positive for global fixed
income and credit spreads,” analysts led by  Alberto Gallo , head
of European macro credit research at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in London, wrote in a note to clients.  The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50 companies with
mostly speculative-grade ratings dropped 11 basis points to 381
basis points, the lowest since May 22.  Sterling Sales  Phones4u’s PIK notes will give it the option of paying
coupons with cash or more debt and can be bought back by the
company after 1 1/2 years. The Newcastle-under-Lyme-based
retailer, which is owned by private-equity firm BC Partners
Ltd., will sell the debt through its Phosphorus Holdco Plc unit
to pay dividends to shareholders and other fees and expenses,
according to the person, who asked not to be identified because
the terms aren’t set.  Another borrower planning a potential high-yield bond sale
in the U.K. is mortgage loan provider Jerrold Finco Plc. The
company will begin meeting investors tomorrow to market 200
million pounds of five-year securities, another person said. The
notes will be used to refinance some of the company’s loans.  Australian toll road operator Transurban Group has hired
banks to arrange meetings with investors in Europe starting
Sept. 23 for a potential euro-denominated bond sale that would
be the company’s debut in the currency.  The average yield demanded to hold  investment-grade  bonds
in euros dropped to 2.07 percent on Sept. 13, the lowest in two
weeks, Bloomberg index data show. Borrowing costs for
 speculative-grade  companies are holding near the highest since
July 19 at 4.96 percent.  In the new issue market today, Apetra NV, a manager of
 Belgium ’s oil stocks, is raising 400 million euros ($534
million) from 10-year bonds in the Brussels-based company’s
first debt sale since December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  