-- BT Loses Battle Over EU Order to Repay U.K. Pensions Aid
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-16T13:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/bt-loses-battle-to-quash-eu-order-forcing-it-to-pay-pension-aid.html
BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the U.K.’s largest
fixed-line phone company, and its pension fund lost a court
fight against a European Union order forcing repayment of as
much as 16.6 million pounds ($26.5 million) of exemptions from
pension rules.  The  EU General Court  in Luxembourg today  rejected  the
appeals by BT and BT Pension Scheme Trustees against the
findings of a European probe that the company benefited from
unlawful government aid which had to be recovered.  The European Commission, the 28-nation EU’s antitrust
regulator,  concluded  in 2009 that an exemption for the BT
Pension Scheme to contribute to the country’s Pension Protection
Fund was unlawful state aid. The EU probe was started after one
of BT’s competitors complained to the Brussels-based regulator.  The U.K. Pension Protection Fund was created in 2004 to
guarantee pensions when sponsor companies go bankrupt and was
financed by their contributions. BT’s exemption was created
under a so-called crown guarantee at the time of its
privatization in 1984 to protect the staff’s pensions.  “We are disappointed with the decision, which is not in
the best interests of BT Pension Scheme members,” Dan Thomas, a
spokesman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
shall analyze the judgment in detail and decide upon next
steps.”  Annual Levies  “The commission’s adverse decision had already been
implemented through changes to U.K. pension legislation prior to
the General Court’s decision as required by EU law,” Thomas
said. “The court’s decision maintains this status quo.”  “Annual levies for Crown Guarantee protection will
continue to be paid by the Trustee to the” Pension Protection
Fund “from Scheme funds,” said Thomas.  The EU in its 2009  decision  said the recovery of the aid
would “restore the situation that existed prior to the granting
of the aid” and that this could be “achieved once the
incompatible aid is repaid by BT.”  “The amount to be recovered should be such as to eliminate
the economic advantage given to BT which,” the EU decision
said, “is the beneficiary of the measure.”  The commission said in 2009 that an amount of 16.6 million
pounds had already been blocked in an escrow account
corresponding to the levies payable until 2008.  The cases are: T-226/09, British Telecommunications v.
Commission, T-230/09, BT Pension Scheme Trustees v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  