-- Bundesbank Says ECB Bank Oversight May Need Primary-Law Change
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-09-16T10:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/bundesbank-says-ecb-bank-oversight-may-need-primary-law-change.html
European Union lawmakers will
probably have to amend the rules governing the  European Central
Bank  as it embarks on the complex task of regulating banks,
according to the Bundesbank.  “It will be necessary to base common supervision on a
solid legal basis and to make the governance structures
simpler,” said Sabine Lautenschlaeger, vice president of the
German central bank, in Frankfurt today. “I don’t think we’ll
get around a primary-law change to improve the governance
structure and separate monetary policy more clearly from banking
supervision.”  The ECB is set to oversee banks, starting next year, as
part of an effort to create a banking union that would break the
link between lenders and states, which spawned the sovereign
debt crisis. Critics say the move may create a conflict of
interest at the central bank as policy makers are charged with
guaranteeing the stability of  Europe ’s financial sector while
fighting inflation.  “EU primary law doesn’t allow for another body than the
ECB council to take final decisions,” Lautenschlaeger said. “I
doubt whether this type of decision-making structure of the
supervisory mechanism is optimal. I’ve been in banking
supervision for 18 years and I can tell you decisions sometimes
have to be taken very quickly.”  The Bundesbank vice president said her concerns don’t mean
she favors delaying plans for more concerted controls of
European lenders.  “If I want something quickly, it doesn’t mean I can’t
improve it in the medium term,” she said.  Lautenschlaeger also said that while joint supervision
“will help identify problems earlier,” banking union alone
won’t solve Europe’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  