-- Cable Demands Rethink of Plan to Boost U.K. Housing Market
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-09-16T18:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/cable-demands-treasury-rethink-plan-to-boost-u-k-housing-market.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
repeated criticisms of a Treasury plan to help people with
minimal savings buy houses, saying it needs more work before
it’s implemented.  The first phase of the Help to Buy program -- interest-free
loans for buyers of newly built homes -- began in April and has
already helped to stoke the strongest  housing market  since the
financial crisis. In the second phase, starting in January,
guarantees meant to spur 130 billion pounds ($206 billion) of
mortgage lending will be available for homes costing as much as
600,000 pounds, helping those with deposits of 5 percent to
access low-cost loans.  While Cable has repeatedly raised doubts about the second
phase, fellow senior members of his Liberal Democrat party
defended it yesterday. Both Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and
Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander denied it would
lead to a bubble.  “We must not now settle for a short-term spurt of growth
fueled by an old-fashioned property boom and bankers
rediscovering their mojo,” Cable told the party’s conference
today in Glasgow,  Scotland . “We’ve seen it all before and there
are already amber lights flashing, warning us of history
repeating itself.”  Speaking to BBC Radio 4 afterward, Cable said his
criticisms were confined to the mortgage-guarantee phase of Help
to Buy. “The preparatory work hasn’t yet been completed,” he
said, adding that the implementation would have to take account
of the state of the economy and the housing market.  Speaking Out  Later, in a question-and-answer session with Liberal
Democrat activists, Cable defended his comments, telling them
that “I said it because somebody in the government had to say
something.”  He argued that phase two of Help to Buy might have “a role
in places like Ulster, where the housing market is deeply
depressed. Cash from the Funding for Lending Scheme, which
provides money for banks at low  interest rates  to lend on,
should perhaps “be restricted to small-business lending,”
rather than used for mortgages, Cable said.  Alexander defended Help to Buy yesterday, telling a meeting
of activists at the conference that it’s a matter of social
justice to help people who couldn’t manage to save money to buy
houses.  “We’re a million miles away from a housing boom,” he
said. “It’s a good idea and we’re not going to back off from
it.”  Clegg Support  Clegg also supported the plan. He told the BBC yesterday
that “mortgage approvals are about half of what there were at
the peak.” While “there are parts of the housing market
particularly in  London  and central London that are booming,”
that isn’t the case in other parts of the country, he said.  Clegg said the  Bank of England  and the government have
tools to prevent a housing bubble.  Cable said in his question-and-answer session that “the
Bank of England is much better equipped than it was in the last
boom,” with Governor  Mark Carney  now enjoying powers his
predecessor,  Mervyn King , did not.  Recent property-market data have suggested prices are
increasing. A report by Acadametrics on Sept. 13 showed that
U.K. house prices rose to a record last month. In London, prices
have risen 40 percent from their trough in April 2009, compared
with 16 percent nationally, the report, compiled with  LSL
Property Services Plc (LSL)  showed, while eight of the 10 regions
tracked recorded price gains.  Property-website operator  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  increased its 2013
U.K. house-price growth forecast today, saying prices will
increase 6 percent instead of the 4 percent it previously
estimated.  Cable joked in his conference speech about his reputation
as a prophet of doom. “ David Cameron  has called me a
Jeremiah,” he said. “But you’ll recall from your reading of
the Old Testament that Jeremiah was right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in Glasgow, Scotland, at
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in Glasgow, Scotland, at
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  