-- Canadian Home Sales Extend Rally With 2.8% August Rise
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-16T15:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/canada-august-existing-home-sales-rise-2-8-from-previous-month.html
Canadian home sales rose 2.8
percent in August from the previous month, extending the
strongest string of monthly gains since 2011.  Sales have increased for sixth consecutive months at an
average pace of 2.3 percent, the most since January 2011,
Canadian Real Estate Association data show. From a year earlier,
sales rose 11.1 percent in August, the Ottawa-based  group  said
in a statement today on its website.  Recent  data  show  Canada ’s housing market is defying
warnings from economists and policy makers about a collapse,
easing concern that falling real estate prices will act as a
drag on the nation’s growth. The market’s rally suggests the
effect of tighter mortgage rules implemented last year are
petering out.  “Next to no one predicted a big mid-year bounce in home
sales at the start of 2013, when calls for Canadian housing
market calamity were all the rage,”  Doug Porter , chief
economist at BMO Capital Markets, said in a note to investors
today. Buyers entering the market before  mortgage rates  rose may
have “juiced” sales in recent months, Porter said.  Lenders such as  Royal Bank of Canada  and Toronto-Dominion,
the nation’s two largest, have raised mortgage rates in recent
weeks to reflect higher yields in the  bond market .  Tighter Rules  “Buyers who put off purchase decisions or who were
otherwise sidelined by tighter mortgage rules and lending
guidelines implemented last year were anticipated to return to
the housing market,” Gregory Klump, the realtor group’s chief
economist, said in the statement.  The six-month stretch of gains follows a contraction at the
end of last year after Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened
rules on government-insured mortgages, on concern that a condo
glut might lead to sharp price declines. The Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions, the nation’s federal
banking regulator, released tougher mortgage-lending standards
last year.  Average sales prices rose 0.6 percent to C$387,147
($375,415) in August from July, an 8.1 percent increase from a
year earlier, CREA said today. The group forecast total home
sales of 449,899 units in 2013, which represents a 1 percent
decrease from last year. Realtors have sold 325,180 homes this
year, down 2.9 percent from the same period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  