-- Canadian Stocks Climb on Summers as Banks, Commodity Shares Rise
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-09-16T20:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/canada-stocks-rise-most-in-2-weeks-as-gold-jumps-wi-lan-soars.html
Canadian  stocks  rose the most in
two weeks as financial firms and metals producers rallied after
Lawrence Summers withdrew his bid to be U.S. Federal Reserve
chairman and tensions over  Syria  eased.  Toronto-Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce added at least 0.7 percent to lead financial stocks to
the highest close in more than five years. Semafo Inc. and Rio
Alto Mining Ltd. jumped at least 6 percent as gold futures
gained for the first time in five days. Wi-Lan Inc. soared 6.8
percent after settling pending patent litigations with Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 93.48
points, or 0.7 percent, to 12,816.88 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, the
most since Aug. 29. The benchmark Canadian equity gauge has
risen 3.1 percent this year.  Summers, former U.S. Treasury secretary and economic
adviser to President  Barack Obama , was considered the top
candidate alongside Fed vice chairman Janet Yellen to succeed
Ben S. Bernanke as head of the central bank.  “Yellen is probably the one who will be put in, they might
wait until she gets appointed before they make any moves,” said
John Kinsey, fund manager with Caldwell Securities Ltd. in
Toronto. The firm manages about C$1 billion ($971 million).
“Gold is oversold, and it’s getting a little bit of relief
today. We’re in kind of a bull trend here and it’s not
surprising we’re up. New York’s having a good run here and we’re
tagging along.”  Fed Tapering  Investors are debating the speed at which the Fed will
taper its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, perhaps as soon
as this week’s meeting of policy makers beginning on Tuesday.  Rio Alto climbed 6 percent to C$2.29 and Semafo surged 8.8
percent to C$2.10. Gold for December delivery advanced 0.7
percent to $1,317.80 an ounce in New York, snapping four days of
declines.  Dream Unlimited Corp. jumped 7.7 percent to C$11.80 as
 financial stocks  gained 1 percent as a group for the highest
close since December 2007. All 10  industries  in the S&P/TSX
advanced.  Toronto-Dominion, the second-largest lender in  Canada ,
gained 1.2 percent to C$91.02 and CIBC rose 0.7 percent to
C$81.73 after the two lenders agreed to a deal to split up the
latter’s credit-card portfolio.  Card Portfolio  CIBC will receive about C$3 billion cash, along with an
upfront C$200 million, from Toronto-Dominion and  Aimia Inc. (AIM)  in
exchange for about half of its Aerogold Visa card balances.
Aimia, a loyalty-card operator, picked Toronto-Dominion last
month as its primary card partner after a two-decade long
relationship with CIBC.  Aimia surged 7.3 percent to C$17.85, for a five-year high.  Encana Corp. retreated 1.8 percent to C$18.29 and Athabasca
Oil Corp. slipped 2.3 percent to C$7.39 as crude declined to a
three-week low. The U.S. and  Russia  struck a deal on Sept. 14
demanding the destruction of Syria’s chemical weapons by
mid-2014, with the U.S. saying it maintained a military option
to ensure compliance.  Torex Gold Resources Inc. (TXG)  increased 0.7 percent to C$1.50
after the gold exploration company reported initial resources
from its Media Luna project in  Mexico .  “The resource came in at the upper end of expectations,”
said Daniel Earle, analyst with TD Securities, said in a note to
clients.  Wi-Lan soared 6.8 percent to C$3.62 after granting a multi-year license for some of its wireless products patents to
Alcatel-Lucent. Under a separate agreement, Wi-Lan will also
acquire a portfolio of patents from Alcatel-Lucent.  CGI Group Inc. (GIB/A) , Canada’s largest technology company, jumped
5.5 percent to C$35.37, the most in six weeks, after Standard &
Poor’s Dow Jones Canadian Index Services added the stock to the
 S&P/TSX 60 Index. (SPTSX60)   The addition, effective Sept. 20, is expected to trigger 8
million shares of buying interest in the Montreal-based
technology services company, said Thanos Moschopoulos, an
analyst with BMO Capital Markets, in an e-mail to Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  