-- Car Crashes in Brazil Boost Carlyle’s Axalta Paint Unit
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-09-16T17:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/car-crashes-in-brazil-boost-carlyle-s-axalta-paint-unit.html
On the streets where Brazilians are
seeing more car accidents,  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s Axalta Coating
Systems sees more business.  Paint demand for repairs is rising as autos crowd onto
 Brazil ’s roads and  collisions  soar, Axalta Chief Executive
Officer Charlie Shaver said. The maker of paints and coatings is
studying two acquisitions as part of a goal for a 100 percent
boost in revenue in the region to $1.5 billion by 2018.  “If you look at doubling your sales in Latin America in
the next five years, we can’t do all of that organically,”
Shaver said in an interview in Sao Paulo on Sept. 6. “We in the
next year will possibly do -- again, at the right price -- one
or two acquisitions in Latin America.”  Shaver’s Latin America target makes the region pivotal in
his push to raise global revenue for Wilmington, Delaware-based
Axalta to as much as $7 billion by 2018, 63 percent more than
2012’s $4.3 billion. The company, sold to Carlyle in February by
 DuPont Co. (DD)  and renamed Axalta, will benefit from fix-ups in
Brazil and  Mexico ’s  strongest auto sales  since 2008, he said.  Brazil’s registered vehicles jumped 31 percent to 64.8
million in 2010, the latest data available from a  World Health
Organization  study of accidents, from three years earlier. A
federal tax cut in late 2011 to stimulate the economy helped
spur a 4.7 percent gain in  2012 auto sales .  More Claims  Accidents are surging, too. State-owned insurer Seguro
DPVAT paid 300,000 auto claims in 2013’s first half, 38 percent
more than a year earlier.  “The more cars in circulation, the higher the number of
accidents,” said Dilson Ferreira, executive president of the
Brazilian Coatings Manufacturers Association, known as Abrafati.
“With insurance companies paying the bill, it’s a guarantee.
And looking at the cars on the roads, you rarely see beat-up
cars -- people are taking care of their cars.”  Axalta will depend on Latin America, and especially on
Brazil, in its bid to climb higher than its current  No. 5  spot
in a  global coatings  industry led by  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , Shaver said.
Axalta will put about a third of its $100 million annual
investment budget into Latin America, excluding acquisitions, he
said, which are likely to be focused on Brazil.  Brazil has about 75 large, fully professional paint
manufacturers among an industry of 400 to 500 companies, most of
them small and informal, said Ferreira, the trade-group
official.  Corporate Cutbacks  As Axalta relocates its headquarters to Philadelphia, it’s
cutting expenses significantly at the corporate level and
reducing employment in  Europe  by as much as 5 percent, Shaver
said, without elaborating on the size of that pullback.  Axalta’s paints and coatings are also used for industrial
applications such as electrical insulation. It’s now focusing on
the architectural segment for buildings and other infrastructure
uses such as bridges and light poles, Shaver said.  Companies serving those markets may make sense as
acquisitions, according to Shaver, who said Axalta’s targets in
 Latin America  would have annual sales of as much as $50 million.  Axalta is a prize that Carlyle sought two years ago, even
before Wilmington-based DuPont put it on the market, Shaver
said. Carlyle paid more than eight times 2012 earnings before
taxes in winning Axalta in a $4.9 billion sale, he said.  While a weak Brazilian economy may shrink paint sales in
the country this year by 0.4 percent from 2012’s $4.28 billion,
growth is poised to resume in 2014, according to Abrafati, the
trade group. A weekly central bank survey of 100 economists
released today shows that Brazil’s economy is estimated to grow
2.4 percent this year, compared to 0.9 percent in 2012.  Paint Leadership  “In the long-term, our perspective is that paints will
grow ahead of the economy by 1 percent to 1.5 percent,”
Ferreira said. Growth in Brazil’s gross domestic product this
year is projected to be 2.35 percent, based on a weekly central
bank survey of about 100 economists released on Sept. 9.  Brazil’s surge in vehicle ownership also comes at a cost:
An estimated 1.2 percent of GDP is lost each year because of
road-traffic crashes, according to data compiled by the  World
Health Organization .  Accidents totaled more than 400,000 in 2009, based on the
most-recent government statistics covering all types of crashes.
In 2011, the auto death toll was 44,553, 40 percent more than in
2000, Brazil’s health ministry reported.  The  auto industry  has been shielded from the recent
deceleration in Brazil’s economy, said Bernardo Carneiro, a
Deutsche Bank AG analyst in Sao Paulo.  Auto Boost  Carneiro cited the tax cuts, an estimated investment of 35
billion reais ($15.3 billion) from 2012 through 2016 in new and
expanded factories, and more cash-flush consumers seeking their
first cars than in mature markets.  Brazilian auto-repair centers are a fragmented industry,
according to Ferreira, the trade-group executive, with small
operators that have to pay higher prices for paints and other
materials. Profit margins in repairs range from percentages in
the mid-teens to the mid-twenties, beating mid-teens margins for
industrial paints and coatings, Axalta’s Shaver said.  Carlyle’s average cost of debt in the purchase of Axalta
was 5.3 percent, Shaver said, creating “ample liquidity” and
helping position the company for the purchases that he sees as
necessary to expand in Latin America and elsewhere.  “We sit on over $800 million in cash in unused liquidity
today, which is more than enough to do any kind of growth we
could even imagine,” Shaver said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  