-- Chagall’s Lovers Seduce; Iran’s Art Surprises: Review
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2013-09-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/chagall-s-lovers-seduce-iran-s-art-surprises-review.html
A man and a woman are entangled,
embedded within a sea of flowers, her nude round breasts like
grapefruit.  Marc Chagall ’s heady, dreamlike bouquet, “Lovers
Among the Lilacs,” (1930) is mystical, redolent, erotic.  This painting and other ecstatic works mixing figures and
flora, in which animals and angels watch over couples who glow
like full moons, greet you inside “Chagall: Love, War and Exile”
at The Jewish Museum.  It’s a difficult, Janus-faced show, its subjects
alternating between love and war, faith and sorrow. It’s also
tremendously uplifting.  Chagall’s long, tumultuous life and artistic mood swings
are the theme. Born in  Russia , he fled to Paris to escape the
hardships following the Revolution. Threatened by the Nazis, he
brought his family to  New York City , where his wife, Bella, died
unexpectedly.  Exhibitions like this can be sunk by weighty biographical
anchors. Not here. Chagall is too great an artist to have let
the specificity of his life overcome the universal demands of
art.  Countering his lovers are crucifixions. Chagall explored
the theme of the suffering Christ as a metaphor for war.  These paintings are dark and fractured. Light is cold and
harsh, suggesting blood and fire. Forms feel frozen, bludgeoned,
roughhewn -- burnished metals and charred stone.  Yet the sense of violence and scorched earth in these works
is freed by a quality as translucent as stained glass (a medium
in which he also excelled).  Chagall’s pictures revealng the horrors of war, no less
than those on the joys of love, are fully grounded in their
themes. Never fixed, they are hopeful windows on a mutable
world.  Iran Modern  Many shows featuring modern art made outside the U.S. argue
that since 1945 everyone everywhere has followed in the
influential footsteps of Post-War America.  Like confused and unappetizing cultural fusion, they
usually amount to provincial takes on Abstract Expressionism,  Pop
Art  and Conceptualism.  Surprise Contradictions  “ Iran  Modern,” at the Asia Society Museum, and the Grey Art
Gallery’s “Modern Iranian Art: Selections from the Abby Weed Grey
Collection at N.Y.U.” are surprising and scrappy contradictions.  Basically covering the reign of the Shah of Iran, from
1941-79, the combined exhibits present more than 125 works by
about 30 Iranian artists who, with varying success, integrated
Western influences without abandoning their own cultural
heritage.  Standouts include small, lissome bronze figures by Bahman
Mohassess. His wrestlers, mythical creatures and acrobats fuse
Calder’s “Circus” with ancient forms from the Fertile Crescent.  Equally engaging are works by Parviz Tanavoli, whose jewelry and
sculptures are surreal amalgamations of West and  Middle East .  Tanavoli shunned Warhol and Lichtenstein, choosing instead
to embrace his native culture. His bronze Persian telephones are
comically menacing. They merge animals, totems, masks and
phalluses. His works look back to African tribal art, Arp and
Giacometti.  Some pieces here are understandably derivative -- pastiches
of  Jackson Pollock , Social Realism and Alex Katz. Overall,
however, this show takes a healthy stand against the
misconception that Postmodernism is a universal guiding light.  “Chagall: Love, War and Exile” runs through Feb. 2 at the
Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Ave. Information: +1-212-423-3200;
 http://www.thejewishmuseum.org .  “Iran Modern” runs through Jan. 5 at Asia Society Museum,
725 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-288-6400;
 http://www.asiasociety.org/nyc .  “Modern Iranian Art: Selections from the Abby Weed Grey
Collection at N.Y.U.” runs through Dec. 7 at the Grey Art
Gallery,  New York  University, 100 Washington Square East. Information:
+1-212-998-6780;  http://www.nyu.edu/greyart .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on  wine  and  Greg Evans 
on  theater .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 