-- China Unicom Reservations for New IPhones Pass 100,000 Units
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-16T20:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/china-telecom-cuts-subsidy-on-apple-s-new-iphones-analysts-say.html
China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd. (762) , the
nation’s second-largest wireless carrier, said online
reservations for Apple Inc.’s new iPhone 5C and 5S have passed
100,000 units since the devices were unveiled last week.  China Unicom, which announced the volume of registrations
on its official account with Sina Corp.’s Weibo microblog,
hasn’t disclosed pricing plans for the handsets which are due to
go on sale Sept. 20.  Apple unveiled the 5S and 5C models for the networks of
China Unicom and  China Telecom Corp. (728)  last week as it tries to
stem a declining share in the world’s largest mobile-phone
market. That goal may be challenged by reduced support from
carriers looking to reign in costs with China Telecom announcing
subsidies on the iPhone 5C and 5S that analysts estimate are
about 15 percent less than offered for the earlier model.  “The plan is more conservative this time,” Eva Yip, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Sun Hung Kai Financial Ltd., said of
China Telecom’s announced iPhone subsidy. “The handset subsidy
as a percentage of upfront payment is less than that of the
iPhone 5 plan.”  A China Telecom monthly plan costing 289  yuan  ($47) for the
iPhone 5S carries a subsidy of 2,890 yuan, 15 percent less than
the 3,400 yuan for the iPhone 5 on the same plan, according to
Yip. Jacky Yung, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for China Telecom,
declined to comment on Yip’s estimates.  Less Aggressive  “Generally, the higher monthly iPhone 5S/5C tariff plan or
a longer contract period a subscriber chooses, the higher
handset subsidy the subscriber could enjoy,” Yung said in an e-mail yesterday.  China Telecom requires a downpayment of 4,488 yuan for any
plan with a 16-gigabyte iPhone 5C, and 5,288 yuan for the 5S,
the carrier  said  on its website. The handset is free for buyers
on a two-year contract with a minimum monthly plan of 329 yuan
for the 5C or 389 yuan for the 5S as the price is refunded
against monthly usage, according to the website.  China Unicom may follow its smaller rival in taking a less
aggressive approach to iPhone subsidies, Cynthia Meng, a Hong
Kong-based analyst with Jefferies Group LLC, wrote in a report
to clients yesterday.  “China Unicom and China Telecom are more rational on price
competition,” Meng wrote. Both are “balancing between quantity
and quality of new 3G subscriber development,” she wrote.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the nation’s largest phone company,
doesn’t have a distribution agreement with Apple for the iPhone.
Cupertino, California-based Apple is close to securing a deal
with China Mobile and is preparing to ship iPhones to the
carrier, a person with knowledge of the matter said earlier this
month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  