-- China’s Guangdong Studies Free-Trade Zone With Hong Kong, Macau
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-16T08:07:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/china-s-guangdong-studies-free-trade-zone-with-hong-kong-macau.html
China ’s southern Guangdong province
is studying a plan to set up a regional free trade zone with
neighboring Hong Kong and Macau to boost growth in the Pearl
River Delta area.  A committee has submitted the proposal to Beijing, where a
final plan will be decided by the central government, Zhu Xiaodan, governor of Guangdong province, said at a briefing
today. The Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macau zone will be regional,
compared with the international focus of Shanghai’s free-trade
zone, Zhu said.  “We are still studying the details of this plan,” Zhu
said. “It will involve trade services, ease of investment and
innovation in management to boost cooperation with Hong Kong
banks.”  The State Council approved the  Shanghai  zone in July,
billed as the nation’s first free-trade area on 29 square
kilometers (11 square miles) of land in China’s commercial hub.
The plan has raised concerns in Hong Kong that the special
administrative region’s status as a center for Chinese companies
to raise capital will be eroded.  “Competition is not just about how good you are or have
been, but more about whether you are better than your
competitors,” Norman Chan, chief executive of the Hong Kong
Monetary Authority, said at a Sept. 6 forum in Hong Kong.
“It’s no good for Hong Kong to sit on the laurels and just
hope or pray that other financial centers do not or cannot catch
up.”  Zhu said he exchanged views about the Guangdong free-trade
zone with Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying and the area
will take advantage of Hong Kong’s position as a financial hub
to bolster regional economic growth.  China Opening  “Hong Kong needs to meet the opportunities and challenges
brought by China opening up,” Leung said at today’s briefing.
“As China further liberalizes its markets to the international
market, to  Taiwan , we should actively participate.”  A draft plan seen by Bloomberg News says the Shanghai zone
will allow freer  yuan  convertibility, liberalize interest rates
and relax restrictions on foreign investment, as Premier Li Keqiang seeks sustained growth at the world’s second-largest
economy.  An opening ceremony for a Shanghai free-trade zone to test
economic reforms is planned for this month, with Li set to
officiate, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  