-- Chong Hing Bank Jumps on Report Sale May Close: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-09-16T08:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/chong-hing-bank-jumps-on-report-sale-may-close-hong-kong-mover.html
Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111) , Hong Kong’s
smallest family-run lender, jumped to the highest level since
its market debut 19 years ago after Oriental Daily reported that
the sale of a stake in the bank may be decided this week.  Shares of the lender, in which the founding Liu family
controls about 60 percent, jumped 10 percent to HK$31.70. The
benchmark Hang Seng Index rose 1.5 percent.  Yue Xiu Group, the frontrunner to buy the family’s stake,
is willing to increase its bid to 2.4 times the bank’s book
value, Oriental Daily reported today, without saying where it
got the information. The trading arm of  China ’s Guangzhou city
government is considering a bid, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last month.  Speculation that Chong Hing will be taken over has pushed
the shares up by more than 130 percent since November 28, when
Lau Wai-man was named the first chief executive officer from
outside the Liu family. An offer of 2.4 times book value would
price Chong Hing at about HK$17.7 billion, a premium of 28
percent to today’s  market capitalization .  Edith Chan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Chong Hing
Bank, declined to comment on the report when contacted by
Bloomberg News. The Yue Xiu office that handles foreign media
inquiries had no immediate comment.  ANZ Bank  In addition to Yue Xiu Group,  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and a lender with a Malaysian background are
among as many as five bidders interested in Chong Hing,
according to the Oriental Daily report.  ANZ in 2008 lost out to China Merchants Bank Co. in
acquiring Wing Lung Bank Ltd., a deal that valued the family-run
lender at 2.9 times book value, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
ANZ Chief Executive Officer Michael Smith called that ratio
“crazy,” suggesting that closer to 2 times book value would be
a fair price.  “A controlling stake in Asia at the right price will play
into ANZ’s regional strategy,” David Ellis, a Sydney-based
analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said by phone. “Smith has
experience in Hong Kong and would like to have a larger, more
established base for the bank’s Asian operations there. ANZ has
been disciplined in its acquisition strategy -- don’t expect the
bank to get into a bidding battle.”  Before joining ANZ in June 2007, Smith was head of Asia for
HSBC Holdings Plc, based in Hong Kong, where he also served as
chairman of the U.K. lender’s  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11)  unit.  ANZ doesn’t comment on strategic matters or market
speculation, Libby Armstrong, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at
the bank, said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News when asked about
the Oriental Daily report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  