-- Citigroup Capital Ratio to Top Minimum Under Bank-Run Test
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-09-16T15:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/citigroup-capital-ratios-to-surpass-minimums-under-bank-run-test.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank  by assets, could incur $21.2 billion of losses over
nine quarters through mid-2015 and stay above minimum regulatory
capital levels in a severe financial downturn.  The bank’s Tier 1 common capital ratio would fall to as low
as 9.1 percent under a severely adverse scenario, above the 5
percent minimum set by U.S. regulators, the New York-based
company said today in a  presentation  on its website. Citigroup’s
projections come from a stress test mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  The biggest U.S. banks, including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Bank of America Corp., must conduct so-called mid-cycle stress
tests using their own scenarios and disclose a summary of the
results.  Citigroup’s figures assume $43.1 billion in pre-provision
net revenue and an equal amount of loan losses in the nine
quarters from the end of March 2013 through June 2015. Credit
cards would account for $19.9 billion of the losses, according
to the presentation. Trading and counterparty losses, not
included in the loan-loss estimate, would total $10 billion.  Citigroup climbed 1.3 percent to $51.14 at 10:47 a.m. in
New York, the third-best performance among 24 U.S. lenders in
the KBW Bank Index, which gained 1 percent.  The adverse scenario assumes  interest rates  will drop and
remain low, severe declines in  home prices  and a disruption to
international trade for a “prolonged period,” Citigroup said.
Emerging-market economies most dependent on trade experienced
average declines in gross domestic product of 9 percentage
points, while those only moderately dependent on trade
contracted 5 percentage points, the firm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  