-- Clegg Economy Motion Backed by Liberal Democrats Including Cable
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-16T11:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/clegg-denies-feud-with-cable-over-party-vote-on-u-k-economy.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
backed Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  as the Liberal Democrat
leadership won a vote on economic policy at the party’s
conference to quell suggestions of a clash between the two.  Clegg was forced to deny that there was a “feud” among
the party’s senior members after Cable expressed sympathy for a
move by party activists to amend the motion to criticize the
government’s austerity program. Cable arrived in the hall in
Glasgow, Scotland, in the middle of the debate and voted with
the party leadership. Morning newspaper headlines had suggested
a rift between Clegg and Cable, the party’s senior economic
thinker.  “The only people who will welcome what we do today if we
adopt these amendments are  George Osborne  and  Ed Balls ,” Clegg
told delegates, referring to the chancellor of the exchequer
from the Liberal Democrat’s Tory coalition partners and the
opposition  Labour Party ’s economic spokesman. “We were brave
last year; be brave again.”  Clegg addressed the conference to oppose amendments to the
motion that effectively called on the party to oppose the
coalition’s plans to continue austerity measures to reduce the
deficit. Cable’s office last night said he supported some
elements of the amendments, without saying which parts. It
didn’t say whether or how he intended to vote.  “There isn’t some great feud going on,” Clegg told  BBC
Television ’s “Breakfast” program. “There’s a good healthy
democratic debate going on in this good healthy democratic
party, the Liberal Democrats, where we actually have these open
debates.”  Popular Candidate  Even though he’s a senior minister in Conservative Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition, Cable has frequently
questioned the government’s austerity and other economic
policies. A survey of Liberal Democrat local lawmakers for the
 BBC  by ComRes Ltd. suggested Cable was the most popular
candidate to take over the party leadership should Clegg step
down.  Delegates speaking during the debate demonstrated support
in the party for Cable’s position as they warned against the
party allying itself too closely with the Conservatives.  “We don’t want to go into the next election tied onto the
coat tails of George Osborne,” one delegate, Linda Jack, told
the conference. “If we’re not going to distinguish ourselves
from the Tories, the question ‘what are the Liberal Democrats
for?’ is a valid one.”  Workers’ Rights  David Grace, a delegate from Cambridge, questioned the
party leadership’s theme for the week, which has been to repeat
that it has acted as a brake on Tory policies including attempts
to erode workers’ rights and cut welfare benefits.  Instead of fighting the 2015 election on the grounds that
 Liberal Democrats  had reined in the Conservatives, “we need to
fight the election on the basis that they stopped us doing even
better things,” Grace said.  Cable suggested last week the government should abandon its
Help to Buy program, designed to let cash-strapped buyers
purchase a home with a deposit of as little as 5 percent,
arguing it risks creating a “bubble” in the housing market.
Clegg said yesterday the U.K. is “nowhere near” such a housing
bubble, and that the  Bank of England  and the government have the
tools to prevent one.  BOE Mandate  “What we’re saying today is there are certain bits of how
we approach the economy where we have to hold our nerve, we have
to just carry on with the painstaking job of filling the black
hole in the public finances,” Clegg said. “We must protect the
right of the Bank of England to continue to play its part
independently in keeping  interest rates  low.”  Activists rejected amendments calling for greater support
for measures to raise employment and growth and a rewriting of
the Bank of England’s mandate. That amendment called on the
central bank to set monetary policy “to aid growth, reduce the
 unemployment rate  to below 6 percent, creating at least a
million jobs, and to address weak income growth.”  Party President Tim Farron told delegates to press on with
the coalition’s economic policy or risk the Conservatives, who
he said want to add “mean-spirited parsimony to necessary
austerity” taking all the credit for its success.  The economic strategy “is good for the country, good for
the Liberal Democrats, so long as we don’t at the 11th hour
choose to disown it,” Farron said. “Be proud of what we’ve
done, dare to go further, stick to your guns.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in Glasgow,  Scotland , at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in Glasgow, Scotland, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  