-- Co-Op Bank Says Prepared to Engage Bondholders on Restructuring
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-09-16T16:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/co-op-bank-says-prepared-to-engage-bondholders-on-restructuring.html
Co-Operative Bank Plc said it’s
willing to engage with creditors proposing an alternative
recapitalization plan as it seeks to raise 1.5 billion pounds
($2.3 billion).  The U.K. lender, which is being pushed by regulators to
bolster capital after incurring losses following its 2009
acquisition of Britannia Building Society, was responding to
proposals from Moelis & Company UK LLP, which is advising a
group that owns 43 percent of Co-Op’s lower Tier 2 bonds.  Bondholders said they want all of the bank’s subordinated
bonds and preferred stock converted to common shares. Co-Op Bank
plans to raise 500 million pounds by exchanging subordinated
debt for equity and another 500 million pounds from the sale of
senior debt issued by the parent Co-Operative Group Ltd., which
is also offering to put in another 500 million pounds from the
sale of insurance interests.  “It’s good to see the Co-Op is willing to engage,” said
Mark Taber, who represents a group of holders of the Manchester-based lender’s preferred shares. “It’s very useful to have a
credible alternative to management’s plan on the table. It shows
an alternative exists.”  CLS Holdings, a U.K. property company which holds 4.3
million pounds of Co-Op Bank bonds said today it has written to
the lender expressing concerns about the restructuring,
according to a statement.  “CLS, along with other bondholders, believes that a
committee should be established to enable a dialogue amongst all
stakeholders before the bank finalizes its restructuring
proposal,” according to the statement from the London-based
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  