-- Coakley Runs for Massachusetts Governor After Senate Loss
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-09-16T11:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/coakley-runs-for-massachusetts-governor-after-senate-loss.html
Martha Coakley , a Democrat, is
seeking to become governor of Massachusetts, beginning a series
of campaign events three years after Republican Scott Brown beat
her in a U.S. Senate contest that she was favored to win.  Coakley, a 60-year-old two-term state attorney general,
posted a video with the announcement on her website. She was set
to start the morning with a breakfast in her hometown of
Medford, according to the Boston Globe.  Her campaign represents an attempt to overcome a nationally
scrutinized defeat in a special 2010 Senate campaign to succeed
the deceased  Edward Kennedy  that was beset with gaffes. She
offended local baseball fans by saying that  Curt Schilling , the
former star pitcher for the  Boston Red Sox , was a fan of the
arch-rival  New York Yankees  and took a week’s vacation between
the primary and general election.  In a debate, she suggested that the Senate position was
synonymous with Kennedy’s political legacy, as he had held it
for 47 years. That gave Brown the opening to take her to task,
calling it “the people’s seat.”  Coakley lost by five percentage points. Brown in turn was
defeated last year by  Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat.  Current Governor  Deval Patrick , a Democrat, isn’t seeking a
third term, leaving the governorship open.  Crowded Field  Though registered Democrats outnumber Republicans 3-to-1 in
Massachusetts, most voters aren’t affiliated with either party
and the state has elected four Republican governors since 1990,
including last year’s presidential nominee Mitt Romney. Brown
has said he won’t run.  Republican businessman Charlie Baker, who narrowly lost to
Patrick in 2010, announced he would seek the office again in
video released Sept. 4.  “Let’s aim high. Let’s be great Massachusetts,” he said
in the two-minute introduction.  Several other Democrats have announced they want the
nomination, including state Treasurer Steven Grossman and
Juliette Kayyem, a professor at Harvard University’s John F.
Kennedy School of Government. U.S. Representative Michael Capuano has said he might run.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  