-- Copper Rebounds From 5-Week Low as Summers Drops Out of F
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-09-16T17:45:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/copper-rebounds-from-5-week-low-as-summers-drops-out-of-f.html
Copper futures rose for the first
time in five sessions on speculation that policy makers will be
less inclined to curb stimulus after former Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  withdrew his bid to head the  Federal Reserve .  Summers would have tightened Fed policy more than  Janet
Yellen , who was his main rival to replace Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll last week.
Reports on Sept. 13 showed U.S. retail sales rose less than
forecast and consumer confidence fell, signaling weakness in the
economy before Fed policy makers start a two-day meeting
tomorrow where they will consider paring stimulus.  “Of the two leading candidates for the Fed chairmanship,
Summers was widely regarded as more willing to taper,”  Edward Meir , an analyst at INTL FCStone in New York, said in a report
today. “U.S. numbers that came out on Friday did not leave much
to cheer about and strengthen the case for a mild taper, or
arguably none at all.”  Copper futures for delivery in December advanced 0.6
percent to settle at $3.222 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in
 New York . The metal fell 1.8 percent last week.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest copper consumer after
China.  The dollar touched a two-week low against the euro.  “The dollar has weakened as the next Fed chairperson is
now likely to be Dr. Yellen, who is a proponent of current
policy, rather than a tighter one,” Michael Turek, a senior
director at Newedge Group SA in New York, said by e-mail. “So
gradual tapering seems to be the way forward.”  Copper  stockpiles  tracked by the London Metal Exchange fell
for an eighth session to 574,675 metric tons.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months advanced
0.6 percent to $7,085 a ton ($3.21 a pound). Tin also gained in
 London , while aluminum, lead and zinc were lower. Nickel slid
less than 0.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  