-- TD-CIBC Reach Agreement With Aimia on Aerogold Visa
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-09-16T20:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/td-cibc-reach-agreement-with-aimia-on-aerogold-visa-portfolio.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce 
agreed to sell about half its Aerogold Visa credit-card
portfolio to  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , which is planning to start
its own Aeroplan rewards card program in January.  Canadian Imperial will receive about C$3 billion ($2.9
billion) cash for the outstanding card balances, as well as an
upfront payment of C$200 million from Toronto-Dominion and
Aeroplan owner  Aimia (AIM)  Inc., Toronto-based CIBC said today in a
statement. Toronto-Dominion also agreed to pay CIBC C$37.5
million annually for three years, the bank said.  The companies had been in talks since last month, when
Toronto-Dominion was chosen as the primary card partner of
Montreal-based loyalty-program operator Aimia. Toronto-Dominion
will offer co-branded Aeroplan Visa cards that offer miles for
flights and other rewards starting in January under a 10-year
contract with Aimia, while CIBC keeps the right to offer
Aeroplan cards.  Toronto-Dominion said in a separate statement that it will
acquire 550,000 cardholder accounts, primarily those who don’t
have a banking relationship with Canadian Imperial. The
agreement, expected to be completed in December, will add about
10 cents a share to its adjusted earnings next year, and 15
cents in 2015, Toronto-Dominion said.  Aimia Contract  “We believe the negative in the agreement is that TD will
no longer be the sole Canadian bank issuing Aeroplan cards,”
 John Aiken , an analyst with Barclays Plc in Toronto, said in a
note to clients. “We do not believe this was the original
vision when TD initially pursued the contract with Aimia.”  Toronto-Dominion plans to introduce five Aeroplan Visa
cards in  Canada  and the U.S., the lender said in a conference
call. The three-way deal gives Toronto-Dominion Aeroplan
cardholders from the outset of its new offering, allowing the
lender to avoid starting from scratch and having to win over
each cardholder individually, Chief Executive Officer Ed Clark
said.  “It’s just dramatically lower risk, and so I’ll always say
a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush,” Clark said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “So we get an earnings base
and we can spend vigorously on marketing to grow this file.”  Renewal Option  Canadian Imperial will retain its Aerogold Visa cardholders
that have “deeper” banking relationships with the lender,
David Williamson, group head of retail and business banking,
said today in a conference call. The bank can continue to offer
Aeroplan cards for 10 years, and may have the option to renew
after that, he said.  Canadian Imperial  rose  0.8 percent to close at C$81.74 in
Toronto and Toronto-Dominion advanced 1.2 percent to C$91.02.
Aimia  surged  7.3 percent to C$17.85, the most since June 27.  “While CIBC does not receive much of a premium on the
cardholder balances, the accounts sold were the ones that were
the highest risk of flight and receiving any value should be
viewed as an incremental positive,” Aiken said. “With the
ability to continue to issue Aeroplan cards, CIBC should be able
to more adequately defend the customers that it retained.”  Canadian Imperial will release about C$65 million of loan-loss provisions tied to the sold portfolio and have about C$55
million in costs, the bank said. Net income of upfront payments,
the loan-loss release and closing costs is expected to be about
C$180 million. Annual earnings will be reduced by about 45 cents
a share, Canadian Imperial said.  Air Canada  Canadian Imperial’s two-decade partnership with Aimia made
the CIBC Aerogold Visa its most popular card. The bank buys
Aeroplan miles from Aimia to give to cardholders on purchases,
including flights with  Air Canada (AC/B) , the country’s biggest
carrier. Aimia, which owns and manages rewards programs
including Nectar in the U.K. and  Italy , counts CIBC as its
biggest partner.  Aimia said in a separate statement that Toronto-Dominion
becomes Aeroplan’s primary financial-services partner and
credit-card issuer, though CIBC will also continue to be an
issuer of Aeroplan cards through 10-year agreements. CIBC will
keep 630,000 Aeroplan accounts held by existing banking
customers under the agreement, Aimia said.  “CIBC has been an issuer of Aeroplan loyalty credit cards
for more than 20 years, and this deal ensures that our clients
will continue to have access to the program for the next 10
years,” Canadian Imperial CEO Gerald McCaughey said on the
conference call.  Aeroplan began in 1984 as a promotional tool for business
travelers on Air Canada. CIBC Aerogold Visa was started in 1991,
according to Aimia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  