-- Danone’s Baby-Food Brand Probes Report of China Doctor Payments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-16T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/danone-s-baby-food-brand-probes-report-of-china-doctor-payments.html
Danone’s (BN)  Dumex said it will
immediately start an investigation into a Chinese media report
that alleged the brand made payments to hospital doctors and
nurses to sell its baby formula products.  Dumex paid hundreds of thousands of yuan annually to
doctors and nurses at hospitals in the northern Chinese city of
Tianjin amid “fierce competition” among baby-formula makers,
the state-owned  China Central Television  reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified former sales manager from the brand.  “Dumex  China  pays great attention to and is extremely
shocked by the CCTV report” on the promotion of infant milk-formula products in hospitals in Tianjin, according to a Dumex
statement forwarded by Danone spokeswoman  Charlotte  Pasternak.
Dumex “will immediately launch the investigation on it.”  The allegations are the latest to claim doctors’
involvement in malfeasance amid China’s crackdown on corruption
in the country’s $350 billion health-care market. China extended
the probe to multiple drug companies and hospitals after saying
it was investigating  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  over claims employees
used cash and sexual favors to bribe doctors and health
officials to promote sales of its medicines.  Dumex made payments ranging from several hundred yuan to
about 10,000 yuan ($1,634) in the various forms of “sponsorship
fees” to hospital staff for product sales, according to the
CCTV report, which cited interviews and documents provided by an
unidentified former sales manager from the brand.  Danone rose 0.4 percent to 56.26 euros at the close of
trading in Paris, after earlier gaining as much as 1.1 percent.  Continuing Troubles  Dumex adheres to Chinese laws and regulations and it has
set up a “strict management system, including severe punitive
measures” for activities which violate Chinese laws and
regulations, Pasternak said.  The accusations are the latest in a string of troubles for
the French company in China. In August, Danone was fined 172
million  yuan  by the nation’s top economic planning body for
fixing prices of milk powder. That prompted it to cut prices for
its products in the Asian nation by as much as 20 percent.  The French maker of Activia Yogurt and Evian water also
issued a precautionary recall of its milk formula products last
month after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said the items might
have been affected by a contaminated whey protein ingredient.  ‘Significant’ Impact  Danone’s baby-nutrition sales will fall in the third
quarter because the recalls had a “significant” impact on
sales in  Asia , it said last month.  The company is the third-largest baby formula company in
China, with 9.2 percent market share last year, according to
industry researcher Euromonitor International.  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN)  ranked first with a 14 percent share and Hangzhou
Beingmate Group Co. was No. 2 with 10 percent, it said.  China is cracking down on possible misbehavior by
companies. In July, China accused four senior Glaxo executives
of crimes involving 3 billion yuan of spurious travel and
meeting expenses as well as trade in sexual favors.  Sanofi and Eli Lilly & Co. were among drugmakers that
subsequently said they had received visits from Chinese
regulators. Separately, two units of Johnson & Johnson, the
world’s biggest maker of health-care products, were fined by
Chinese authorities for monopolistic practices.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  