-- Danske Firing of CEO Follows Failure to Improve Ratings
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-09-17T12:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/danske-firing-of-ceo-follows-failure-to-improve-bank-s-ratings.html
Within months of becoming Danske
Bank A/S chief executive officer last year, Eivind Kolding was
telling investors they could look forward to higher credit
ratings to enhance their returns.  The upgrades never came. Instead, owners absorbed $1.3
billion in new shares in October to help  Denmark ’s biggest bank
meet stricter capital rules. Danske then became embroiled in a
battle with the Financial Supervisory Authority over an order to
add as much as $18 billion to risk-weighted assets as it awaits
national laws dictating extra  reserve requirements  for too-big-to-fail banks. ChairmanOle Andersen, who yesterday fired
Kolding, said Danske needs a ratings upgrade to help lower
funding costs.  “It is a very high priority to get our credit rating back
to where it should be,” Andersen said yesterday in an interview
from Copenhagen. “If we somehow can accelerate our strategy
implementation to secure a ratings upgrade happens sooner rather
than later, then that’s what we should do.”  Andersen said Danske now needs an executive more versed in
banking. Kolding, 53, who started as Danske CEO in February last
year after heading the container shipping unit of  A.P. Moeller
Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , will be replaced by 49-year-old Thomas F. Borgen.
Borgen has worked at Danske since 1997 and is a member of its
executive board with responsibility for corporate and
institutional banking. Danske didn’t make Kolding available for
comment.  ‘Slow Process’  “Kolding inherited a lot of the problems but it was a slow
process solving them,” Nick Davey, an analyst at UBS AG in
 London , said by phone. “You need someone well-connected with
the FSA and capable of managing that relationship effectively
while being able to manage equity holders’ interests; nothing
kills an equity story quicker than a CEO doing everything he can
to make the FSA happy.”  Danske is rated Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, A- at
Standard & Poor’s and A at  Fitch Ratings . The bank, together
with five others, was identified by a government committee in
March as systemically important to Denmark’s $340 billion
economy, adding as much as 5 percentage points to  capital
requirements .  Danske’s too-big-to-fail designation didn’t bring the
assurances of state backing Kolding told investors it would. The
government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt has publicly
rejected Kolding’s claim in a Nov. 8 interview that Danske’s
status as systemically important would make it exempt from
Denmark’s bail-in legislation.  Danske’s Risk  Credit derivative traders see Danske as a riskier
investment than its competitors in neighboring  Sweden . Investors
pay about 47 basis points more to insure against a default on
Danske’s senior unsecured debt, using five-year credit default
swaps, than they do on similar contracts on  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
Sweden’s biggest bank by market capitalization.  Nordea is rated Aa3 at Moody’s, four steps above Danske.
Its AA- rating at S&P is three steps higher than Danske’s.  “Danske Bank’s biggest problem is to raise their rating,”
 Andreas Hakansson , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in a
phone interview. “They need to improve it to be competitive
with their peers, and particularly so on corporate lending.”  Housing Bubbles  Danske has said it wants to compete with the  bond market  to
offer companies affordable financing, a proposition that’s only
feasible if the bank reduces its funding costs, Hakansson said.  Since being dragged through housing bubbles in Ireland and
Denmark, Danske has met rising capital requirements and record-low  interest rates  with cost cuts. A government-appointed
committee will present its findings tomorrow on the causes of
Denmark’s financial crisis, including the role of the country’s
banks and mortgage lenders.  Under Kolding, Danske introduced a pricing model to reward
customers with the most business there. The plan, and an
advertising campaign to promote it, was slammed by local media
and Danske in June fired its head of communications, Eva Hald.  A February survey showed Danske dropped one level to third
place in a Prospera customer satisfaction ranking on Danish
corporate banking, published by Borsen. The bank was beaten by
Swedish lenders SEB AB and Nordea.  “No one at Danske could live with a situation where the
bank ranked lower than SEB and Nordea,” Christian Hede, an
analyst at Jyske Bank A/S, said by phone. “The bank simply
isn’t where it’s supposed to be in any of its business areas,
and they need Borgen to take them there.”  Customer Volume  Danske’s customer base slipped over the past year with 27.5
percent of Danes identifying it as their main bank, compared
with 29.4 percent a year ago, according to a Voxmeter poll
commissioned by Jyllands-Posten and published today.  Danske spokesman Kenni Leth declined to comment on the poll
and referred instead to the bank’s own calculations in its
second-quarter report, published Aug. 1. Kolding said then the
bank had lost 40,000 customers since introducing its new pricing
program in January. The shift didn’t affect Danske’s market
share because “we were compensated by the existing customers
bringing in more volume,” he said.  Since Kolding took the helm at Danske 19 months ago, shares
in the bank have returned 27 percent, compared with 37 percent
for Nordea, Scandinavia’s biggest bank, and 53 percent at SEB.
The figures include reinvested dividends, which Danske last paid
in 2007.  Though Kolding served as vice chairman on Danske’s board
from 2005 until 2011, the year he became chairman, he lacked the
experience inside banking to make decisions on his own,
according to Andersen.  “If you’re on the bridge of a sailing yacht, we’re now
assuming it’s better you know yourself how to steer the boat
instead of having 10 people advising you on how to do it,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  