-- Danske Fires CEO Kolding After Seeking More Qualified Banker
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-09-16T12:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/danske-ceo-kolding-steps-down-as-board-targets-stronger-profile.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  fired Eivind Kolding as chief executive officer less than two years after he
started, as the lender said it wants to put a more experienced
banker at its helm.  Kolding, 53, who became CEO of  Denmark ’s biggest bank in
February last year, will be replaced by Thomas F. Borgen, who
has worked at the bank since 1997 and is a member of its
executive board, responsible for corporate and institutional
banking, Copenhagen-based Danske said.  “The board of directors has assessed that, notwithstanding
Eivind Kolding’s professional and personal qualities, it is in
this phase necessary to have a CEO with stronger qualifications
within banking,” Chairman Ole Andersen said in the statement.  Since being dragged through housing bubbles in Ireland and
Denmark, Danske has met rising  capital requirements  and record-low  interest rates  with cost cuts. Under Kolding, who led A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S’s container shipping unit before becoming CEO
at Danske, the bank introduced a pricing model to reward
customers with the most business there. The plan, and an
advertising campaign to promote it, was slammed by local media
and Danske in June fired its head of communications, Eva Hald.  Rankings Decline  A February survey showed Danske dropped one level to third
place in a Prospera customer satisfaction ranking on Danish
corporate banking, published by Borsen. The bank was beaten by
Swedish lenders SEB AB and Nordea Bank AB.  “Danske has a difficult task in the coming years in
catching up with the Swedish banks, so it’s important that they
have the right team,” Christian Hede, an analyst at Jyske Bank
A/S, said by phone.  Since Kolding took the helm at Danske 19 months ago, shares
in the bank have returned 26 percent, compared with 38 percent
for Nordea, Scandinavia’s biggest bank, and 56 percent at SEB.
The figures include reinvested dividends, which Danske last paid
in 2007.  Kolding was vice chairman of Danske’s board of directors
from 2005 until 2011, the year he became chairman.  “It’s not my impression that Eivind Kolding has done a bad
job,” Hede said. “He’s had a very specific task: developing
and implementing a new way of going about business. I’m not
going to change my estimates based on this.”  Customer Focus  Andersen said Borgen will help the bank improve its
 customer focus  as the lender seeks to improve its image at home.  Borgen, 49, “is an experienced and customer-oriented
banker, who knows how to run a modern bank,” Andersen said. He
has “a strong focus on goal-oriented execution in close
collaboration with the board of directors, the executive
management and the employees.”  Borgen, who was CEO of Danske’s Norwegian unit, Fokus Bank
ASA, from 2001 until 2009, was “quite successful” in that
role, Hede said. “He doesn’t have anything to do with the bad
loans in Ireland or Denmark, so to that extent, he’s clean.”  Danske shares rose 2.6 percent as of 2:38 p.m. in
Copenhagen to 119.40 kroner. The stock has gained 25 percent
this year, beating a 15 percent increase in the 44-member
Bloomberg index of European financial companies.  The change of CEO isn’t a signal that Danske wants to alter
its strategy, which will continue to focus on improving its
 credit rating  and profit level, Andersen said by phone. Danske
is rated Baa1 at Moody’s Investors Service, A- at Standard &
Poor’s and A at  Fitch Ratings .  Too Big  The bank, together with five others, was identified by a
government committee in March as systemically important to
Denmark’s economy, raising its capital requirements. The
Financial Supervisory Authority said in June Danske will need to
add about $18 billion to its risk-weighted assets, further
adding to its capital burden. At the same time, Danske’s too-big-to-fail designation didn’t bring the assurances of state
backing the bank had sought.  “We need to be focused on raising our credit rating,”
Andersen said by phone. “It’s been a target up until today and
will remain so.”  Danske said Aug. 1 second-quarter net income rose to 2.18
billion kroner ($390 million) after loan losses fell 45 percent
to 924 million kroner. Profit last quarter was the bank’s
highest in five years. Danske delivered a return on equity of
5.2 percent, compared with a goal of more than 12 percent.  The CEO switch “makes sense,” Jesper Christensen, an
analyst at Alm. Brand, said by phone. “The company has been
through a transition phase, it has a new strategy in place, and
now it just needs someone to implement it. You need someone with
deeper operational insight.” Christensen is advising clients to
buy Danske shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  