-- Draghi Says EU Needs ‘Strong’ Authority to Resolve Banks
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-09-16T09:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/draghi-says-eu-needs-strong-authority-to-resolve-banks.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the European Union needs a strong central
authority to handle failing lenders, after the region’s leaders
failed to agree on plans to overhaul bank resolution.  “Banking union should help speed up the repair of banks --
that is if, as I hope, we end up with a strong single resolution
mechanism,” Draghi said at an event in Berlin today. “We need
a mechanism that allows non-viable banks to be wound down
without financial stability risks, as we see in the U.S.”  Two days of talks between the region’s finance ministers in
Vilnius,  Lithuania , that ended Sept. 14 were unable to produce a
consensus on a European Commission plan for a Single Resolution
Mechanism. The centralized procedure would be part of a banking
union that aims to break the link between lenders and
governments. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the
proposal must be overhauled because it’s on shaky legal ground
and could endanger national control of budgets.  Draghi said a lack of transparency over the real worth of
assets on bank balance sheets is hampering lending, and having a
central resolution mechanism would help support a quicker
economic recovery. The ECB is due to begin a review of bank
assets soon, paving the way for it taking over bank supervision
by next year.  Fragile Economy  ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch said in Dubai today
that the banking union is the “most immediate concern.” The
ECB has started preparatory work on the planned review of bank
balance sheets and will provide a proposal for the assessment in
coming weeks, he said.  On  Europe ’s recovery, Mersch said the region is seeing
“tentative green shoots.” Draghi said that while the euro
area’s return to growth in the second quarter after six quarters
of contraction is “welcome,” the recovery is “only in its
infancy.”  “The economy remains fragile, and unemployment is still
far too high,” he said. “Given the overall subdued outlook for
inflation extending into the medium term, the ECB’s Governing
Council expects the key ECB interest rates to remain at present
or lower levels for an extended period of time.”  The 17-nation euro area has made progress in stabilizing
the economy, and the risk of “an extreme event” has fallen,
Draghi said. “Governments are addressing their fiscal policy
challenges. That has been crucial in reassuring markets about
debt sustainability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  