-- Draghi Boosts EU Banking Union Plans After German Dissent
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-16T12:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/draghi-boosts-eu-banking-union-plans-after-german-dissent.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  put his weight behind a European Union banking
union during a trip to Berlin, two days after  Germany  led an
attack on a proposal to centralize control of failing lenders.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  sought to keep
responsibility for failing banks in national hands during two
days of meetings last week in Vilnius,  Lithuania . He led a
chorus of dissent against the European Commission’s plan to give
itself final say over when to close banks and to create a 55
billion-euro ($73 billion) common fund for resolution costs.  If Germany derails momentum towards a year-end deal on a
Single Resolution Mechanism, it may imperil efforts to restore
confidence in the euro zone’s financial system. Draghi said the
EU needs to press ahead.  “Banking union should help speed up the repair of banks --
that is if, as I hope, we end up with a strong single resolution
mechanism,” Draghi said at an event in the German capital
today. “We need a mechanism that allows non-viable banks to be
wound down without financial stability risks, as we see in the
U.S.”  If the plan doesn’t move forward quickly, the ECB won’t be
able to count on cross-border backstops if it encounters
problems at euro-area banks. The ECB is scheduled to begin
supervising lenders in the currency zone as soon as October
2014, forcing the EU to grapple with who should decide when to
close a bank and who will pay for it.  ‘Immediate Concern’  ECB Executive Board member Yves Mersch said in Dubai today
that the banking union is the “most immediate concern.” The
ECB has started preparatory work on a review of banks’ balance
sheets and will provide a proposal for the assessment in coming
weeks, he said.  Schaeuble said the European Commission’s proposal must be
overhauled because it’s on shaky legal ground and could endanger
national control of budgets. In Vilnius, the German was joined
by critics from  Sweden  to  Slovakia .  At the same time, finance ministers renewed pledges to
strive for an agreement quickly so financial markets won’t lose
confidence that the currency zone is overcoming its crisis.  “There’s quite a lot to do,” Schaeuble told reporters on
Sept. 14 after two days of talks with his EU colleagues in
Vilnius, Lithuania. “The path that the commission has proposed
toward a resolution mechanism is a rocky one. There can be no
doubt about it: we need to be on a legally certain foundation.”  Balance-Sheet Review  The new resolution authority, along with ECB oversight,
form the core of an effort to create a euro-area banking union
that would sever the link between bank and sovereign debt.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs
meetings of euro-area finance chiefs, said he was confident that
the EU would be able to strike an effective agreement. “For now
I have no reason to assume that we end up with something weak
and strange,” he said in Vilnius.  Objections to the commission’s strategy, proposed by EU
financial-services chief  Michel Barnier , included resistance to
the planned common resolution fund and the scope of the system.
Nations also voiced skepticism about expanded powers for the
Brussels-based commission.  While defending the core of his Single Resolution
Mechanism, Barnier said he could see limiting the new authority
to lenders that have cross-border operations.  ‘Conflict of Interest’  He also said the commission isn’t wedded to being chief
decision-maker in the resolution system and would welcome a
discussion on alternatives. The commission put itself forward
for the role because of its reading of the bloc’s treaties,
Barnier said.  Sweden’s finance minister,  Anders Borg , echoed the concerns
of a number of his colleagues when he said handing the
commission the power to shut down banks alongside its existing
role as the bloc’s state-aid enforcer is a “conflict of
interest.” This is a problem for Sweden even though it won’t
join the banking union in “any foreseeable future,” he said.  Germany has spearheaded calls to drop the common fund and
centralized authority in favor of a network of national
resources, a stance Barnier said would leave the euro area
vulnerable in future crises. Borg said similar arguments were
made by the U.K., Sweden and the  Czech Republic .  Borg emphasized the necessity for euro countries to band
together to prevent a resurgence of the sovereign debt crisis,
now in its fourth year.  ‘Weaker Countries’  “It is necessary that the stronger countries are
supporting the weaker countries,” he said. “I strongly back
the idea that you need a fiscal backstop for a banking union
among the euro countries.”  EU lawmakers also will probably have to amend the rules
governing the ECB as it embarks on the complex task of
regulating banks, Bundesbank Vice President Sabine Lautenschlaeger said today in  Frankfurt . These concerns don’t
mean she favors delaying plans for more concerted controls of
European lenders, she said.  “It will be necessary to base common supervision on a
solid legal basis and to make the governance structures
simpler,” Lautenschlaeger said. Over time, “I don’t think
we’ll get around a primary-law change to improve the governance
structure and separate monetary policy more clearly from banking
supervision.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Vilnius at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Vilnius at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  