-- Drummond Miners in Colombia Return to Work, Ending 53-Day Strike
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-09-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/drummond-miners-in-colombia-return-to-work-ending-53-day-strike.html
Coal miners have returned to work
at Drummond Co.’s Colombia operations, ending a 53-day strike
and enabling coal exports to European power producers including
 Electricite de France SA  to restart.  Work resumed at Drummond’s port and Pribbenow and El
Descanso coal mines in northern Colombia late September 14,
after a government statement a day earlier said an arbitration
tribunal would resolve the long-running dispute over pay and
 work conditions .  “Workers have already returned,” Dorismel Caldera, an
official with the main Sintramienergetica union said in a phone
interview Sept. 15, adding that they may appeal the decision.
“They have gone over our heads and violated the right to
strike.”  Drummond Co. is Colombia’s No.2 coal miner, producing 26
million metric tons in 2012, about one third of the country’s
total. Coal is Colombia’s main export after oil, with the
government losing an estimated 1.6 billion pesos ($850,000) in
royalties for each day of the strike, according to the national
mining agency.  The dispute follows other disruptions in the Colombian coal
industry this year, including a roughly monthlong strike at the
country’s largest producer Cerrejon, joint-owned by  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ,  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Glencore Xstrata Plc. (GLEN)   The strike
reduced first quarter economic growth by half a percentage point,
according to Finance Ministry estimates.  A report by Bank of America Merrill Lynch this month said
Colombian supply losses could amount to nearly 8 million metric
tons this year, barring further disruptions. “Ample supplies
elsewhere made up for the losses from Colombia,” the report
said.  Union Demands  The Sintramienergetica union, which represents a majority
of Drummond’s permanent employees in Colombia, rejected the
company’s August offer of a 5 percent pay increase in the first
year of a new agreement. The union is demanding a fixed monthly
salary rather than the current system of hourly pay, plus the
relocation of port workers who stand to lose their jobs with the
introduction of direct loading next year.  Last week  Colombia ’s labor ministry said workers at
Drummond must return to the company’s port and mines after a
majority of workers voted to end the strike. Sintramienergetica
told members not participate in the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  