-- Telecom Italia’s Reorganization Plan Is Said to Be Delayed
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-09-16T16:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/telecom-italia-reorganization-plan-delayed-amid-ownership-talks.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s biggest
phone company, postponed a plan for its board to vote on a
reorganization as its biggest shareholders try to work out an
agreement over the carrier’s ownership, according to three
people familiar with the matter.  Directors including representatives from Telco SpA, the
holding company that owns almost 22.5 percent of the carrier,
still plan to gather informally Sept. 19 to review the new
business plan as well as a shareholder agreement that can be
dissolved this month, said the people, asking not to be
identified discussing internal deliberations. Any
recommendations from that meeting may be voted on at another
board meeting on Oct. 3, the person said.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Telecom Italia’s biggest stakeholder with a
10.5 percent indirect stake held through Telco, is seeking to
gradually boost its holding in Telco by purchasing shares of
partners  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and
 Mediobanca SpA (MB) , said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. The Telco shareholders haven’t
been able to agree on a price so far, another person familiar
with the matter said.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe is
racing against time to seek fresh capital to avert a cut to junk
of Telecom Italia’s debt rating. Talks in the past year to sell
a stake to Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing  and Egypt’s Naguib Sawiris have failed, and Sawiris said this month that while he’s
still interested in investing in the carrier, he is put off by
reports that Italy’s government prefers Telefonica as Telecom
Italia’s owner.  Representative for Milan-based Telecom Italia and Madrid-based Telefonica declined to comment.  Telecom Italia fell 0.8 percent to close at 60.2 euro cents
in Milan. Telefonica gained 1 percent to 11.31 euros on the
Madrid exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  