-- Emerging Stocks Rise to 3-Month High as Bonds Gain on Fed
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-09-16T11:22:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/emerging-stocks-gain-as-summers-drops-from-fed-chairman-race.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
three-month high while bonds and currencies gained on bets
 Lawrence Summers ’ withdrawal as a candidate to lead the  Federal
Reserve  eases the risk of an early halt to monetary policy.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.4 percent to
1,000.31 at 11:25 a.m. in London, set for the highest since June
4. The U.S. agreed on a plan with Russia to eliminate Syria’s
chemical weapons, boosting  Turkey ’s benchmark stock index by 3
percent. The lira led advances in developing-nation currencies
and Turkey’s  two-year note  rate slumped to a five-week low.
Gauges in Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia gained at least
2.8 percent. Russia’s  Micex (INDEXCF)  Index jumped 1.5 percent led by
Uralkali, the world’s biggest potash producer, amid bets a
conflict with Belarus will be resolved.  Summers, a former  Treasury secretary , would tighten Fed
policy more than  Janet Yellen , who was his main rival to replace
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll
last week. More than $47 billion left global funds investing in
emerging bonds and stocks from May through August on concern
that reduced Fed stimulus would erode demand for riskier assets.
Foreign investors added to Korean equity holdings for a 17th
day, while Taiwan inflows reached a two-month high.  The Summers announcement is boosting stocks as “it reduces
the chance of big changes in U.S. monetary policy in the coming
period,” Maarten-Jan Bakkum, a senior emerging-market
strategist in The Hague, said by e-mail. “Otherwise, the
improving global cycle and good global equity markets continue
to be positive for  emerging markets .”  QE Rally  The MSCI emerging markets  index  has advanced about 106
percent since the Fed’s first round of bond-buying, known as
quantitative easing, in 2008. The gauge is valued at 10.6 times
projected earnings for the next 12 months, versus 13.9 times for
the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Consumer discretionary and
information technology companies led gains among the  10 groups 
in the measure for developing-nation shares.  Turkey’s  Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index (XU100)  surged the most
in the world on a dollar basis, led by banks.  Turkish Airlines 
headed for the strongest level in three weeks with a rally of
4.4 percent after it said it plans to add flights to cities in
Russia, Algeria, Italy and to Hakkari in Turkey.  Syria Meetings  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  will meet with ministers
from Turkey and Saudi Arabia as well as French President
 Francois Hollande  and his counterparts from France and the U.K.,
as he tries to build support for the Syria plan. Both Turkey and
Saudi Arabia are backers of the rebel forces seeking to topple
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, while Russia has maintained
support for the regime.  Russia’s Micex headed for the highest since March 15 as
Uralkali surged 5.6 percent. Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan
is the leading bidder for the mine operator, seeking to buy out
its three main shareholders, people familiar with the situation
said. The talks began after Belarus arrested Uralkali Chief
Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner on Aug. 26, a month
after he pulled out of a trading venture, according to the
people. The ruble strengthened for a ninth day, appreciating 0.4
percent to 37.1637 against the dollar-euro basket.  Hungary’s forint gained 0.6 percent to 298.86 per euro as
the nation’s 10-year benchmark bond yield dropped 13 basis
points to 6.07 percent, the lowest since Aug. 12 on a closing
basis.The benchmark stock index rose 0.5 percent, led by OTP
Bank Nyrt., the nation’s biggest lender.  Rand Appreciates  The  PX Index (PX)  climbed 0.9 percent in  Prague , while the  WIG20
Index (WIG20)  added 0.6 percent in Warsaw. The rand strengthened 1.6
percent in Johannesburg, the second-biggest gainer among
emerging currencies tracked by Bloomberg, while the  FTSE/JSE
Africa All Shares Index (JALSH)  was little changed. The South African
Reserve Bank will probably keep its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5 percent on Sept. 19, according to median estimate
of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In  Asia ,  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the
world’s largest maker of custom chips, increased 2.9 percent,
contributing the most to today’s rally in the MSCI emerging
markets index.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the biggest smartphone
maker, was the second-largest contributor with a 1.4 percent
gain to the highest level since June 10.  ‘Short-term Boost’  Foreign investors bought a net $454 million of South Korean
stocks today and they purchased $450 million in Taiwan,
according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The stage is being set for emerging markets to do better
and the Summers thing in the short-term can provide some
boost,” Stefan Hofer, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank
Julius Baer & Co., which oversees $406 billion of client assets
globally, said in a phone interview. Asia offers the best
prospects as there is the added benefit of an improving Chinese
economy, he said.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index gained 2.8 percent
while Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  rallied 3.1 percent. The  Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  increased 1.6 percent to the highest
level since May. The yield on Indonesia’s 10-year debt tumbled
32 basis points to 8.03 percent while the South Korean won
strengthened to the highest since February.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex index increased 0.1 percent after
earlier rallying as much as 1.8 percent. The country’s inflation
unexpectedly accelerated to a six-month high in August as the
rupee’s slide stoked import costs, according to Commerce
Ministry data. The currency rallied 1.2 percent against the
dollar today, heading for the strongest level since Aug. 16 and
trimming a slump this year to 14 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  