-- Tencent Approaches Facebook Value Amid China Web Boom
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-18T09:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/tencent-market-value-tops-100-billion-on-china-internet-growth.html
(Corrects estimated size of China’s game market in third
paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s market
value surpassed $100 billion within a decade of going public as
Asia’s biggest Internet company capitalizes on China’s explosion
in online gaming and messaging.  Tencent’s 2.2 percent increase in Hong Kong this week
lifted its market value to HK$780.6 billion ($101 billion). The
company run by billionaire Pony Ma joins six other members of
Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index in the $100 billion club,
including  PetroChina Co. (857)  and  China Mobile Ltd. (941)   China’s online population surged almost sevenfold since
Tencent’s 2004 initial public offering, with  revenue  at the
Shenzhen-based company more than doubling in the past two years.
China’s online gaming sales are expected to reach 130 billion
yuan ($21.2 billion) by 2016, from 66.2 billion yuan last year,
according to Shanghai-based Internet consulting firm IResearch.  “Mobile Internet was the main driver, as this sector has
been posting very fast growth,” said Eric Qiu, an analyst at
CCB International Holding Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “There should be
no problem for Tencent’s momentum to last until the end of this
year and into the next.”  Tencent’s market capitalization is greater than that of
 SoftBank Corp. (9984) ,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  It trails a
handful of technology companies worldwide, including Apple Inc.,
Google Inc., Microsoft Corp., Samsung Electronics Co. and
 Facebook Inc. (FB) , which is valued at $103.5 billion.  Tencent Deal  Jerry Huang, a director of  investor relations  at Tencent,
didn’t respond to a text message and e-mail seeking comment.  Also yesterday, Tencent said it paid $448 million for part
of China’s third-largest search engine to help compete against
Baidu Inc. Tencent bought a 36.5 percent stake in  Sohu.com
Inc. (SOHU) ’s Sogou unit with an option to increase that investment to
40 percent, according to a joint statement after the Hong Kong
market closed.  Tencent shares fell 0.2 percent to HK$420.20 at 1:34 p.m.
in Hong Kong. Sohu rose 7.5 percent, the most since March 5, in
New York yesterday.  Tencent was  founded  in November 1998, and its early
services focused on e-mail, dating and online games. Tencent
raised more than HK$1.7 billion from an initial public offering
in 2004.  China had 591 million Internet subscribers at the end of
June, compared with 87 million at the end of June 2004,
according to  China Internet Network Information Center ’s
website.  QQ, WeChat  The number of people in China accessing the Internet via
mobile devices rose 10 percent to 464 million by the end of June
from six months earlier, according to the center. That’s greater
than the population of any other country except  India .  Tencent shares have risen 69 percent this year, compared
with a 2.3 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng  index.  The company’s rise has enriched others, including largest
shareholder  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , which owns about a third of the stock.
Shares of the Cape Town-based company surged 76 percent this
year, compared with an 11 percent gain on the FTSE/JSE Africa
All Shares Index.  Tencent’s QQ instant messaging service had 818 million
monthly active users at the end of June, and its WeChat service
had 236 million. That compares with about 1 million instant-messaging accounts in 1999, according to its  website .  “They were on the forefront of the whole mobile shift,”
said Billy Leung, an analyst at RHB Research Institute Sdn. in
Hong Kong.  Alibaba IPO  Ma, China’s  third-richest man , has a net worth of $10.8
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. Facebook
founder  Mark Zuckerberg  has a net worth of $20.8 billion.  Tencent is developing offerings for WeChat, known as Weixin
in China, to compete with Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., the
nation’s biggest e-commerce company. More than 84 percent of
China’s Internet users regularly access instant messaging,
making it the most popular online application in the country,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “WeChat is a new growth driver, and the government is
carrying out new policies to help boost technology growth,”
said Ricky Lai, an analyst at Guotai Junan International
Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong. “If Tencent can keep growing its
user base, its momentum will last.”  Alibaba may consider an initial share sale that could be
the largest since Facebook. The Hangzhou-based company has a
value of about $87 billion, according to the average of 11
analyst estimates released in July.  ‘Call of Duty’  Tencent’s net income will increase 25 percent to 16 billion
 yuan  this year, according to the average of 21  analysts’
estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. It’s investing the most since
2009 on research and development, building games and other
mobile applications to lure people spending more time on their
smartphones and tablets.  Online gaming accounted for 52 percent of Tencent’s 43.9
billion yuan in revenue last year, while sales from mobile
applications contributed about 9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Tencent is majority owner of U.S.-based Riot Games Inc.,
which developed “League of Legends,” and announced plans in
July to buy 15.4 percent of  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , owner of
the hit titles “Call of Duty” and “World of Warcraft.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  