-- Tencent Buys $448 Million Stake in Sohu Unit to Win Users
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-09-17T02:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/tencent-buys-448-million-stake-in-sohu-search-unit-to-win-users.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  Asia ’s
largest Internet company, paid $448 million for a stake in
 China ’s third-largest search engine to expand its Web offerings
in the world’s largest market.  Tencent bought a 36.5 percent stake in  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ’s
Sogou search unit with an option to increase the investment to
40 percent, according to a joint statement by the companies
yesterday. Sohu will remain the controlling shareholder.  Joining forces could help the companies compete against
Baidu Inc. in search and mobile Internet as users spend more
time on smartphones and tablet computers. China’s online
population surged almost sevenfold since Tencent’s 2004 initial
public offering, with revenue at billionaire Pony Ma’s company
more than doubling in the past two years.  “It’s the final piece of the puzzle that Tencent needs,
which is to take over all the platforms on the Internet,” said
Billy Leung, an analyst at RHB Research Institute Sdn. in Hong
Kong. “Sogou’s a good target, and it has a good search
system.”  Tencent fell 0.6 percent to HK$418.80 as of 10:26 a.m. in
Hong Kong. The deal seemed “defensive,” and the price seemed
high for certain assets of Sogou, Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst
Jin Yoon wrote in a note.  Sohu surged 7.5 percent, the most since March 5, to close
at $69.61 in  New York  yesterday. The deal can boost Sohu’s value
by $7 per share, 86Research Ltd. analysts estimated.  Qihoo Talks  Sogou accounted for 5.5 percent of search-engine queries in
China in the March quarter. Baidu had 82 percent and  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. (QIHU)  followed with 9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In July, Qihoo said it was in talks to buy Sogou. Charles Zhang, Sohu’s chairman and chief executive officer, said that
those talks have ended and the company won’t seek additional
investors for its search unit in the “near future.” Qihoo’s
American depositary receipts slumped 5.6 percent to $82.93
yesterday, the biggest decline since Aug. 15.  “Tencent’s investment means that it is betting its future
on mobile search with Sogou,” Zhang said in a phone interview
yesterday. “With Tencent’s support, Sogou’s search market share
can be secured and the search business will provide good user
access to our media and entertainment services.”  Zhang will remain chairman of Sogou and Wang Xiaochuan will
remain CEO. Tencent President Martin Lau will join the search
division’s board.  Tencent and Sogou will jointly develop and integrate their
services in areas including search and data sharing, according
to the statement. Tencent will merge its own search unit with
Sogou.  Sogou’s top products, including Sogou Pinyin and Sogou
Search, will have access to Tencent’s online and mobile user
base, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  