-- KKR to TPG Stakes Seen Cut Down in Energy Future Workout
-- B y   R i c h a r d   B r a v o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2013-09-17T15:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/energy-future-lenders-prepare-bankruptcy-plan-corporate-finance.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.’s
owners including KKR & Co., TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs
Capital Partners will get a reduced stake in the power provider
under a pre-negotiated bankruptcy proposal being hammered out
between two of its creditor groups.  Secured lenders plan to meet with  bondholders  later this
week to complete an offer that would give Energy Future’s
owners, which took the company private in a record $48 billion
leveraged buyout in 2007, 9 percent of the equity to share with
unsecured lenders in a reorganized corporation, according to
three people with knowledge of the negotiations.  The company formerly known as TXU Corp. is seeking a
reorganization that would pare its $43.6 billion of debt before
Nov. 1, when it has to make a $270 million coupon payment. The
Dallas-based company offered senior creditors a deal to
restructure $32 billion of debt at its deregulated Texas
Competitive Electric Holdings unit that would have given
sponsors 15 percent equity in the new company, according to an
April 15 regulatory filing, which said the proposal was
rejected.  “Given how far out of the money the sponsors are, they are
lucky to even have a seat at the table,”  Andy DeVries , an
analyst at New York-based debt researcher CreditSights Inc.,
said in an e-mail. “The only reason they are getting a say is
because the first-lien lenders want a quick trip through
 bankruptcy court  so they threw the sponsors a bone to prevent a
drawn-out court process.”  Record Restructuring  The restructuring would be the largest in the energy sector
and the seventh-biggest on record since 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Adam McGill, a spokesman at Energy Future, declined to
comment on the potential offer.  Energy Future has struggled to reduce borrowings since it
was taken private in a gamble that natural gas prices that help
set electricity rates would rise. Instead, wholesale electricity
rates have dropped as natural gas prices declined about 72
percent from a July 2008 high. Power prices in  Texas  averaged
$42 a megawatt hour for June through August 2013, compared with
a three-year average of $77, according to CreditSights.  The power provider’s  quarterly loss  narrowed to $71 million
for the period ended June 30, its 10th consecutive cash outflow,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding one-time
items, the operating loss was $450 million, compared with $233
million a year earlier, according to an Aug. 2 filing, as sales
fell at its competitive power business because of mild weather
and refueling of a nuclear plan.  New Plan  In the plan currently being negotiated, bank lenders to the
power generator’s most-indebted unit, Texas Competitive, would
receive 91 percent of the equity in the new company, up from the
85 percent offer that Energy Future disclosed in the April
filing, said the people, who asked not to be identified citing
lack of authorization to speak publicly. Those creditors are
developing the proposal with bondholders of the Energy Future
Intermediate Holding Co. unit, the indirect parent of the
regulated and profitable power-line utility Oncor Electric
Delivery Co.  In rejecting the power provider’s initial bankruptcy offer,
senior lenders demanded the company restructure the balance
sheet at Energy Future Intermediate to halt cash outflows and an
increased equity share, according to the filing.  Week’s End  If the creditor groups come to an agreement on the
proposal, they would probably present the plan to Energy Future
and its owners, one of the people said. The secured creditors,
who are represented by law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison LLP and financial adviser Millstein & Co., are expected
to meet at the end of this week with advisers for the unsecured
bondholders at Energy Future Intermediate, who are advised by
Centerview Partners LLC and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.  “This is the polar opposite of what second-lien holders
were hoping for, as they were expecting a drawn-out bankruptcy
that lasted until gas prices or heat rates improved in Texas,
both of which are one-to-two year timeframes,” CreditSights’
DeVries said.  The company’s $1.23 billion of 15 percent second-lien bonds
due April 2021 dropped 1 cent to 18 cents on the dollar at 10:14
a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s
the lowest level the security has reached since it was issued in
October 2010.  ‘Wiped Out’  Moody’s Investors Service said in a Sept. 9 report that
holders of the senior secured first-lien notes from Energy
Future Intermediate may recover 68 percent and owners of
similarly ranked debt at Texas Competitive Electric Holdings 63
percent, while senior-unsecured lenders at Texas Competitive and
the parent “would be pretty much wiped out,” recouping as
little as 4 percent in a bankruptcy.  The company’s $15.4 billion  term loan  that expires in
October 2017 traded at 68.5 cents today, up from 67.6 cents on
Sept. 3, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  KKR, TPG and Goldman Sachs contributed an $8.3 billion
equity stake in Energy Future, they disclosed in 2008. By March
2012, KKR had written down its equity in the company to 5 cents
on the dollar, according to a regulatory filing.  Senior lenders at Texas Competitive leading negotiations
include Apollo Global Management LLC, Oaktree Capital Group LLC
and Franklin Resources Inc.  Energy Future and its units have retained law firm Kirkland
& Ellis LLP and restructuring advisers Evercore Partners, while
senior creditors have retained law firm Paul, Weiss and
Millstein, according to the April 15 filing. Apollo hired Moelis
& Co., according to two people familiar with the discussions,
who asked not to be identified because the talks are private.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Bravo in  New York  at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  