-- Hering Gains Most in One Week as Brazil Growth Boosts Retailers
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-09-16T16:06:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/hering-gains-most-in-one-week-as-brazil-growth-boosts-retailers.html
Cia. Hering (HGTX3)  led gains by Brazilian
retailers after analysts boosted growth forecasts for  Latin
America ’s largest economy.  Hering,  Brazil ’s second-largest clothing retailer by market
value, rose 3.1 percent to 34.37 reais at 12:15 p.m. in Sao
Paulo, the most on a closing basis in one week. Bigger
competitor  Lojas Renner SA (LREN3)  advanced 2.8 percent to 68.31 reais.
The Ibovespa benchmark increased 0.6 percent.  Companies that sell in the local market advanced after a
central bank survey showed that economists covering Brazil
forecast that gross domestic product will expand 2.40 percent
this year, up from a 2.35 percent estimate a week earlier. A
report last week showing that the country’s retail sales
increased more than forecast in July also helped to spark demand
for the shares, said Joao Pedro Brugger, a portfolio manager at
Leme Investimentos.  “Retail sales have been growing faster than GDP, and that
will probably continue to be the case for a while,” Brugger
said in a phone interview from Florianopolis, Brazil. “Many
stocks in this sector are attractive. Renner is one of my
favorites.”  Hering trades at 15.1 times forecast earnings for the next
four quarters, which compares with a ratio of 17.8 times for
Renner, data compiled by Bloomberg show. They’re the cheapest
retailers on the Ibovespa, which trades at an average ratio of
21.2 times estimated earnings.  Retail sales in Brazil increased 3.7 percent in July from a
year earlier, the national statistics said Sept. 12. That
exceeded the median  estimate  of 3.1 percent among analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  