-- Merkel SPD Rivals Vow Transaction Tax Push in a Grand Coalition
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-09-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/merkel-spd-rivals-vow-transaction-tax-push-in-a-grand-coalition.html
Delayed plans for a financial
transaction tax in 11 European states would get a fresh push if
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  enters a coalition with the Social
Democrats after Sept. 22 German elections, top SPD members said.  The SPD will make the tax -- known as FTT -- a “high
priority” if a so-called grand coalition emerges, with the
intention of breaking a deadlock caused by squabbling over its
scope, said Joachim Poss, the party’s parliamentary finance
spokesman, in a Sept. 13 telephone interview. “It’s a project
of central importance.”  The EU Commission, architects of the levy, say it may
generate as much as 35 billion euros ($47 billion) annually.
Implementing the tax was delayed six months to mid-2014 after
its European Union proponents failed to agree on which products
to exclude from dues and due to legal concerns. EU legal experts
have said that applying tax to trades made outside non-participating states may be illegal.  Chances of a “far-reaching and damaging” FTT being
introduced are higher in a grand coalition, a prospect that’s
“insufficiently appreciated” by credit markets, Citigroup
analysts led by Alessandro Tentori wrote in a Sept. 13 note. The
SPD also champions a euro region debt redemption fund, a
proposition Merkel rejects.  Some 50 percent of German voters prefer a coalition of
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc with the SPD compared with 46
percent who reject it or are indifferent, showed a FGW poll for
ZDF television released on the same day. Merkel has governed in
an alliance with the pro-business Free Democrats since 2009 and
says she wants to continue such a coalition after elections. She
headed a grand coalition with the SPD from 2005 to 2009.  While Merkel’s bloc leads the SPD by 11-15 percentage
points, she needs a coalition partner to govern, and the FDP is
polling right at the 5 percent threshold needed to win seats.  11 Nations  Merkel last year joined 10 other EU states in a plan to
curb speculation in financial markets with a 0.1 percent levy on
share and bond trades and 0.01 percent due on derivatives.
Implementation is pledged in her party’s election manifesto.  “The CDU wants the financial transaction tax and the SPD
wants it”, SPD lawmaker Johannes Kahrs said in an interview on
Sept. 13, indicating that a grand coalition would move the
project forward. “So far, it has been the FDP which stood in
the way”, he said. Amid criticism from banks and insurers,
including  Deutsche Bank AG  and  Allianz SE , the coalition
government’s push for a financial transaction tax has been
tepid, SPD lawmakers say.  Merkel Listening  Merkel said in a June 14 interview that the German
government is listening to investor complaints about the
proposed financial transactions tax and will take their views
into account when designing the levy at a European level.  “Delaying tactics” employed by Merkel on the tax are a
“scandal,” SPD chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck  said in
an Aug. 15 interview in the Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper. The
SPD wants to channel revenue from the tax into what it dubs a
new Marshall Plan to prime Europe’s sluggish economy,
Steinbrueck told voters at a town hall meeting last week. The
plan has “apparently been put on ice” by EU negotiators, he
said.  Even if the assumptions of the EU Council’s legal service
are correct “it’s no death knell” for the tax, Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told reporters in Vilnius,
 Lithuania , on Sept. 13. “A solution can be found for that.”  “The German finance minister -- that’s me -- has always
said it won’t go that fast,” Schaeuble said. “If you look at
the budget draft for 2014 there’s not a cent there from the FTT
-- we’re working seriously and cautiously.”  In a grand coalition, the SPD would champion all of the
commission’s proposals, including taxation of pension fund
investments, Carsten Sieling, a SPD lawmaker and finance
spokesman, said in a Sept. 13 telephone interview. “We’d keep
pension transactions in the pool of taxable trades -- that
pensions will suffer is exaggerated.”  The 11 nations planning to apply a common FTT are: Belgium,
Germany,  Estonia, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Austria,
Portugal, Slovenia and Slovakia, according to the commission’s
 website . The U.K, Denmark and Luxemburg and  Sweden  reject the
plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Birgit Jennen in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  