-- Tesla Finance Plan Spurs Probe Request by Dealer Group
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-09-16T21:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/tesla-ad-probe-sought-by-california-new-car-dealers-association.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s promotion of a
lease-style finance program for Model S electric sedans spurred
the  California  New Car Dealers Association to seek a state
investigation of what it says are deceptive advertising claims.  Tesla told customers they “can take advantage of multiple
incentives, gas savings, and tax savings resulting in low
monthly vehicle payments, when it is unlikely that customers
will actually realize such savings,” the dealer group said in
an e-mail. The association made its request for an investigation
of “unsubstantiated and illegal savings claims” with the
California Department of Motor Vehicles.  The electric-car maker led by billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk debuted the finance program in April and revised it in May
after the company was criticized for its explanation of monthly
payments. When first introduced, Tesla said customers could
finance one of its cars for the equivalent of $500 per month,
based on factors including fuel and time savings.  While the company’s website shows a monthly cash payment of
$916 for a $71,070 version of Model S, financed for 72 months,
it also displays an “effective” monthly payment of just  $579 
that includes fuel and time savings and the impact of a
guaranteed resale price after three years.  Shanna Hendriks, a Tesla spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the matter.  Tesla, based in  Palo Alto , California, sells its electric
cars directly through its own stores while vehicles produced by
major automakers are sold through franchised dealers. That’s
spurred opposition from dealers across the country.  Dealers have filed lawsuits in New York and Massachusetts
to block direct sales, and the company also has been barred from
selling directly to customers within  Texas  and North Carolina.  Tesla gained 0.6 percent to $166.58 at the close in New
York. The shares have surged almost fivefold this year, compared
with a 20 percent increase for the Russell 1000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  