-- EU Delays Decision on UN Carbon Validity Pending More Data
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-09-16T16:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/eu-delays-decision-on-carbon-offset-validity-pending-more-data.html
European Union factories and power
stations will be able to exchange United Nations carbon offsets
for EU permits from February next year, even as the EU delayed a
decision on the eligibility of some offsets.  The European Commission put back a verdict on how and when
ineligible offsets from projects in developed countries will be
set apart from eligible ones, the bloc’s regulator said today.
It’s continuing to seek information on the validity of the
projects supplying the credits, according to its  website .  Today’s announcement means that holders of Emission
Reduction Units currently deemed ineligible will have until at
least Nov. 15 to prove that the credits are eligible, according
to Richard Chatterton, an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London. About 31% of the 424 million ERUs that
haven’t been surrendered for compliance in the EU’s emissions
trading system are marked down as pending/ineligible, or under
review by the commission, according to New Energy Finance.  The delay may boost prices for the December contract on ICE
Futures Europe “as it’s unlikely anyone would sell ERUs for
that month unless they’re certain of their eligibility,”
Chatterton said by phone. “Despite the delay, we maintain that
the vast majority of those Track 1 credits marked as
pending/ineligible are actually eligible.”  Under the bloc’s rules, ERUs and Certified Emission
Reductions from  developing countries  must be exchanged for EU
permits before they can be used to meet caps on discharges in
the 28-nation market, the world’s largest, from 2013 through
2020.  Separate Contract  ERUs for delivery in December were unchanged at 36 euro
cents ($0.48) a metric ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract for 2014 delivery had not traded as of 5
p.m. It closed at 35 cents on Sept. 13.  The difference between the December 2013 and December 2014
contracts, traded as a separate contract on ICE Futures, has
swung from contango, where near-dated contracts are cheaper than
those with longer maturities, to backwardation, where the near-term contract is more expensive. The spread contract changed
hands at parity on Sept. 11, the last time it was traded, and
was indicating a 1 cent premium for the 2013 contract since
then.  The shift in the spread reflects uncertainty about the
eligibility of ERUs that may be delivered into December futures
contracts, Chatterton said, helping boost this year’s price
relative to the 2014 contract.  “Anyone holding ERUs that are not yet confirmed as
eligible will be hesitant about selling the December contract in
case the commission doesn’t clarify the eligibility of their
credits in time,” Chatterton said. “Those ERU sellers then
must sell the 2014 contract.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 Avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  