-- European Stocks Gain as Summers Drops Fed Chairman Bid
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-09-16T16:05:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/europe-stock-index-futures-rise-as-summers-drops-fed-bid.html
European stocks gained, extending a
five-year high, as  Lawrence Summers  withdrew from consideration
as  Federal Reserve  chairman, paving the way for  Janet Yellen ,
who investors say will favor slower stimulus reduction.  EasyJet Plc and International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA climbed as  oil prices  fell after the U.S. and  Russia  agreed
on a plan to destroy Syrian chemical weapons.  Hennes & Mauritz
AB (HMB)  advanced to a three-year high after sales topped estimates.
 Remy Cointreau SA (RCO)  soared the most in almost four years as
Chinese cognac shipments increased.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index rallied 0.6 percent to 313.42 at
the close of trading, the highest level since June 2008. The
gauge has risen 5.4 percent this month as Chinese economic
reports beat forecasts and the U.S. backed away from military
action against Syria over a chemical-weapons attack that America
says killed more than 1,400 people.  “The markets are having a bounce on the back of the Larry
Summers news and the ongoing  Syria  talks,” Kevin Lilley, head
of European equities at Old Mutual Global Investors, which
manages about $17 billion, said by phone today. “The market
would prefer Yellen because it would be seen as more of the
same. She would be more Bernanke-like in her approach and take
longer to ease the current policy.”  National benchmark indexes gained in 16 of the 18 western
European markets today. Germany’s  DAX (DAX)  surged 1.2 percent, while
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 added 0.6 percent and France’s CAC 40 rose
0.9 percent. The volume of shares changing hands in Stoxx 600-listed companies was 8.8 percent lower than the 30-day average,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Summers Withdrawal  Former Treasury Secretary Summers withdrew his nomination
to lead the Fed before a two-day policy meeting starting
tomorrow at which the central bank is forecast to reduce its
stimulus. Summers would tighten Fed policy more than Yellen, who
was his main rival to replace Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
according to a Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and
traders last week.  “I have reluctantly concluded that any possible
confirmation process for me would be acrimonious and would not
serve the interests of the Federal Reserve, the Administration,
or ultimately, the interests of the nation’s ongoing recovery,”
Summers wrote in a letter to President  Barack Obama .  The Fed will decide to cut monthly purchases of Treasuries
to $35 billion from $45 billion and keep mortgage-bond buying at
$40 billion at this week’s meeting, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists. Fifty-seven percent of investors surveyed
in a Bloomberg Global Poll say they don’t expect a sudden change
in the markets if the Fed cuts its bond purchases, because they
already anticipate tapering action.  Syrian Weapons  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  reached an agreement over the weekend on
a framework for finding, securing and destroying Assad’s stock
of poison gas. The deal calls for early signs of progress,
giving Assad one week to submit an inventory of his toxic
weapons, with initial inspections in Syria by November.  The Stoxx 600 may climb to 345 by the end of 2014, an 11
percent gain from last week’s close,  Gareth Evans  and Thomas Pearce, strategists at Deutsche Bank AG in London, wrote in a
report dated Sept. 13. Earnings can increase by 10 percent next
year, they said.  “The PMIs are indicating that the global economy is
beginning to regain traction,” Evans and Pearce said, referring
to surveys of purchasing managers. “This should mean that
earnings-expectation cuts will soon come to an end.”  EasyJet, IAG  EasyJet added 2.4 percent to 1,331 pence, while IAG, the
owner of British Airways, climbed 3.3 percent to 325 pence. Air
France-KLM Group surged 5.5 percent to 7.15 euros and Ryanair
Holdings Plc rallied 4.2 percent to 6.44 euros.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell to a two-week low as the
threat of imminent military strikes against Syria eased.  H&M jumped 4 percent to 259.20 kronor, the highest since
September 2010.  Europe’s second-biggest  clothing retailer said
revenue at stores open at least a year rose 4 percent in August
compared with the same month last year. The average estimate in
a SME Direkt survey was for a 2.5 percent increase.  Remy Cointreau surged 7 percent to 84.10 euros for the
biggest gain in the Stoxx 600 and largest advance since October
2009. Chinese cognac shipments rose 20.5 percent in August,
increasing for the first time since January, according to UBS
AG, quoting data from BNIC, a trade association of cognac
makers.  Fresnillo Falls  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  and Polymetal International Plc sank at least
7 percent to lead declines in the Stoxx 600 after the precious-metals producers were not included in the NYSE Arca Gold Miners
Index. Fresnillo tumbled 13 percent to 1,045 pence. Polymetal
plunged 7.1 percent to 659.5 pence.  African Barrick Gold Plc (ABG) 
also fell, losing 12 percent to 143.9 pence.  NYSE Euronext announced which companies will be added and
deleted from the gauge of gold stocks after changing the
methodology to include non-U.S. listed companies. Centamin Plc,
the only U.K.-based company added to the index, advanced 2.3
percent to 45.5 pence. The changes will be effective Sept. 23.,
according to a  statement  by NYSE Euronext.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  London  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  