-- Euro-Area Inflation Slowed in August on Falling Energy Prices
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-09-16T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/euro-area-inflation-slowed-in-august-on-falling-energy-prices.html
Euro-area inflation  decelerated in
August, led by a drop in energy prices.  Annual consumer-price growth slowed to 1.3 percent from 1.6
percent in July, in line with an  initial estimate  on Aug. 30,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
In the month, prices rose 0.1 percent, while the annual core
inflation rate, which excludes volatile costs such as energy,
alcohol and tobacco, was 1.1 percent.  “The inflation outlook is very comfortable for
everybody,” said Jens Kramer, an economist at NordLB in
Hanover. “Our projection is that the inflation rate will
remain in the 1.5 percent region, and that is something that is
very important for the  European Central Bank , which in our
opinion will stick to the very expansive monetary policy.”  The euro-area economy emerged from a record-long recession
in the second quarter amid the first sustained period of
financial-market calm since the start of the debt crisis.  Europe 
continues to struggle with the effects of the turmoil, including
a jobless rate at a record 12.1 percent.  The ECB on Sept. 5 kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low 0.5 percent. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has said that
the Frankfurt-based central bank will keep  interest rates  at the
present level or lower for an “extended period” based on a
“subdued” inflation outlook.  Energy costs dropped 0.3 percent, compared with an increase
of 1.6 percent in July, according to today’s release. The cost
of food, alcohol and tobacco rose 3.2 percent, compared with 3.5
percent in July, while the cost of services increased 1.4
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  