-- Texas Man Suspect in Navy Yard Shootings Leaving 13 Dead
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y ,   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-09-17T02:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/texas-man-suspect-in-navy-yard-shootings-leaving-13-dead.html
A government computer contractor
from  Texas , who was discharged from the Navy Reserve for
misconduct including a firearms arrest, was identified by
authorities as the sole gunman in shootings that killed 12
people at the  Washington  Navy Yard today.  Aaron Alexis, 34, who authorities said had legal access to
the facility, was shot and killed by police at the scene. He’d
had at least two previous gun-related encounters with police. He
was accused in 2010 of firing a bullet through his ceiling into
another apartment in Fort Worth, Texas, and was arrested in
 Seattle  in 2004 for shooting out a car’s tires during what
Alexis described as an anger-fueled “blackout.”  Alexis told Seattle police he had been on the scene of the
Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in New York, which disturbed him. His
father said Alexis suffered from anger-management problems
believed to be tied to the experience, according to records
posted online today by the Seattle Police Department.  Alexis was removed from the Navy Reserve because of a
pattern of misconduct that included the Texas gun arrest,
according to a Navy official who asked not to be identified
because the personnel information hasn’t been released.  Authorities said tonight they were confident that Alexis
acted alone, after saying earlier that there were as many as two
additional suspects. “We now feel comfortable we have the
single and sole person responsible for the loss of the life
inside the base today,”  Cathy Lanier , chief of the Washington
Metropolitan Police Department, said during a press briefing.  Motive Unknown  Those killed in the shooting ranged in age from 46 to 73
years old, and their families were being notified, Washington
Mayor Vincent Gray told reporters tonight. None has been
identified as an active member of the military, Lanier said.
Police began releasing names of some victims tonight.  Eight people were injured in the incident, including three
who were shot, Gray said, and all are expected to recover.  Authorities haven’t said what prompted today’s shooting at
the U.S. Naval Sea Systems Command headquarters, on the
Washington Navy Yard grounds about a mile from the U.S. Capitol.  “We don’t know what the motive is,” Gray said earlier.
“We don’t have any reason at this stage to suspect terrorism,
but certainly it has not been ruled out.”  Alexis had legal access to the Navy Yard as result of his
work as a contractor and used a “valid pass” to gain entry,
according to Valerie Parlave, assistant FBI director in charge
of the Washington field office.  Access Card  Alexis worked for The Experts Inc., a subcontractor of
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  on a contract to refresh equipment on the
Navy Marine Corps Intranet network, according to a statement by
Michael Thacker, a Hewlett-Packard spokesman. He held a valid
military ID card, called a common-access card, permitting entry
into most facilities, the Washington Post reported, citing
Experts chief executive officer Thomas Hoshko.  The shooting, reported at around 8:15 a.m., shuttered
streets near the  Navy Yard  and prompted lockdowns through the
day of nearby schools and in the buildings of the U.S. Senate.
Police have lifted an order for residents and businesses in the
affected area to stay indoors, and street closings are expected
to be lifted by tomorrow, Lanier said.  The rampage was the nation’s deadliest mass shooting since
20 pupils and six adults were killed in Newtown,  Connecticut , in
December. Thirteen people were slain and more than 30 wounded in
a November 2009 spree at Fort Hood, Texas. Army Major Nidal Hasan was sentenced to death last month in that case.  ‘Worst Things’  The Federal Bureau of Investigation requested that anyone
with knowledge of Alexis’s actions before today’s shooting
contact them. Lanier said the scene inside the building “was
one of the worst things we’ve seen in Washington, D.C.”  “There’s no question” the suspected killer “would have
kept shooting” if he hadn’t been killed, Lanier said.  Alexis, who was born in New York City, enlisted in the Navy
in 2007 and served in recruit training and logistics in Illinois
and Texas, according to the Navy. He was last assigned to a
logistics support squadron in Fort Worth, according to the Navy,
and last held the rank of specialty aviation electrician’s mate
third class. He was discharged in 2011.  Nutpisit Suthamtewakul, 30, the owner of a Thai restaurant
in Fort Worth, said he had known Alexis for more than three
years and was once his roommate. He said he had never heard
Alexis complain about the Navy and was surprised to learn about
today’s events.  “I’ve never known him to be angry,” he said.  Cleaning Gun  Fort Worth police arrested Alexis on Sept. 4, 2010, after
an upstairs neighbor reported to police that a bullet came
through her floor from the apartment below, where Alexis lived.  The neighbor said Alexis had called the police several
times complaining she was being loud, and that several days
earlier, Alexis had confronted her in the parking lot for making
too much noise.  Alexis told police he was cleaning a gun when it went off,
according to police records. Prosecutors didn’t file a case
against Alexis after determining “that the elements
constituting recklessness under Texas law were not present,”
according to a  statement  on the website of the Tarrant County
Criminal District Attorney’s office.  “He said that he was trying to clean his gun while cooking
and that his hands were slippery,” the police report states.
“He told me that he began to take the gun apart when his hands
slipped and pulled the trigger discharging a round into the
ceiling.”  Shooting Tires  In 2004, Alexis was arrested by Seattle police on suspicion
of shooting out the tires of a construction worker’s vehicle,
according the Seattle Police Department. Alexis told police that
he had been mocked and disrespected by construction workers. The
police didn’t say how the case was resolved.  The shooting today rattled an otherwise heavily secured
miitary complex. Navy Commander Tim Jirus said he was in his
fourth-floor office when the fire alarm went off and he fled to
an alley outside. He stopped to speak with another man, whom he
didn’t know, when he heard what sounded like gun shots. He saw
the man shot in the head.  “To hear the gun shots and realize you were that close
makes me a little unnerved,” Jirus, who works for Naval Sea
Systems Command, told reporters outside the Navy Yard. “It
makes me like life a lot today. I’m going to hug my kids the
next time I see them.”  Lost Friend  Captain Mark Vandroff, who works in the Naval Sea Systems
Command facility, known as Building 197, said he was meeting
with his staff, preparing a presentation at the Pentagon next
month, when the shooting began. Two rounds passed through his
conference room on the third floor, though no one was injured.  Vandroff and his staff barricaded the door with furniture
until around 10 a.m., when police escorted them to another
building in the complex. He said a friend he declined to
identify was killed.  “I lost a friend today,” he said. “I lost someone who I
served with at the Pentagon years ago. I haven’t processed that
yet.”  The Washington Navy Yard, located along the Anacostia
River, was created in 1799 and is the oldest military
installation in the U.S., according to the Navy. It is home to
several Navy offices and commands, including the Navy Museum.
The Naval Sea Systems Command oversees the service’s $30 billion
annual budget for developing ships, submarines and combat
systems.  Streets around the yard in southeast Washington were closed
throughout the day while police cars, tactical vehicles and
emergency responders raced along M Street Southeast, with sirens
blaring, and helicopters buzzed overhead.  Game Postponed  Shortly after 3 p.m., the U.S. Senate initiated a lockdown
for the following two hours as a precaution, and President
 Barack Obama  canceled a planning Latin music event at the White
House in light of the shooting.  The Washington Nationals baseball team, whose stadium is
several blocks from the Navy Yard, postponed its scheduled game
tonight against the Atlanta Braves. The game will be played as
part of a day-night doubleheader tomorrow, Major League Baseball
said in a statement.  One police officer was among the wounded and was taken
MedStar Washington Hospital Center. Two women were also treated
at the hospital for wounds to the shoulder, head and hand, Janis
Orlowski, the hospital’s chief operating officer.  Obama was briefed several times this morning about the Navy
Yard shooting by his homeland security adviser,  Lisa Monaco ,
according to a White House statement.  “We will do everything in our power to make sure whoever
carried out this cowardly act is held responsible,” Obama said
before a speech on the fifth anniversary of Wall Street’s
financial crisis.  “We are going to be investigating thoroughly what happened
-- as we do so many of these shootings, sadly, that have
happened -- and do everything that we can to try to prevent
them,” Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  