-- Flybe Targets Lower Costs Amid Strategic Review as Managers Exit
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-16T06:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/flybe-targets-lower-costs-amid-strategic-review-as-managers-exit.html
  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB) ,  Europe ’s largest
independent regional airline, said new Chief Executive Officer
Saad Hammad will seek to reduce costs by unifying units after
managers overseeing the previous strategy departed.  “It has quickly become clear to me that Flybe’s prospects
will be significantly enhanced by disbanding the existing
divisional structure and integrating all operations into a
single, simpler and lower-cost operating unit,” Hammad, who
previously worked at discount carrier  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , said in a
statement today. The strategic review is to conclude in
November, Hammad said.  Flybe U.K. and Flybe Outsourcing Solutions will be
dissolved and integrated into one operation, the Exeter-based
airline said in the statement.  The review follows a management shake-up that saw Hammad
take over from outgoing CEO Jim French, who became non-executive
chairman, and Paul Simmons named new chief commercial officer
from Oct. 28. Management is targeting 40 million pounds ($63.8
million) of cost savings in fiscal year 2014.  Andrew Strong, managing director of Flybe U.K., and Mike Rutter, who oversaw the Outsourcing Solutions unit left their
jobs on Friday along with Director of Corporate Strategy Mark Chown, the airline said. Flybe is also seeking a new chief
financial officer after announcing the departure of Andrew Knuckey on Aug. 5.  Flybe said that  Matt Bennett , the current director of
Internal Audit and Risk will also act as director of special
projects. Director of Aircraft Maintenance John Palmer will
serve as interim operations chief until a replacement is found.  Britain’s biggest domestic airline is seeking to bolster
its balance sheet amid reduced demand and high fuel prices. The
company sold landing slots at London Gatwick airport to EasyJet
Plc for 20 million pounds, is renegotiating pilot pay, and has
delayed deliveries of regional jets from  Embraer SA. (ERJ)   Shares in Flybe have advanced 75 percent this year, giving
the airline a market value of 66.9 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  