-- Ford Says Gradual Interest-Rate Rise ‘Good News’
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-09-16T18:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/ford-says-gradual-interest-rate-rise-good-news-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , now  ranked  as
investment grade by all major credit-ratings companies, said a
gradual rise in interest rates would boost its balance sheet and
help offset the higher costs to finance car sales.  Rising interest rates are having a “hugely favorable
effect” on Ford’s pension obligations, Chief Financial Officer
Bob Shanks said today in an interview. Shoring up the pension
shortfall, which ratings companies treat as debt, would blunt
the impact of higher costs of funds for Ford Motor Credit, the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s lending unit.  “On the assumption that it’s sort of a progressive
increase to normalized rates, consistent with an improving
economy, I think we’ll be fine,” Shanks said in Bloomberg’s
Detroit bureau. “Overall, that’s good news for the company.”  Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services delivered an endorsement
of Detroit automakers’ rapid recoveries this month by raising
Ford to investment grade and revising  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
outlook to positive. As interest rates rise, the costs today of
automakers’ future pension obligations decline, which should
allow more spending on their auto operations.  For the last several years, GM and Ford could at least in
part blame Treasury yields, a benchmark in their pension
calculations, for widening pension shortfalls. Yields plunged
after the 2008 financial crisis as the Federal Reserve embarked
on unprecedented bond-purchase programs to lower borrowing costs
and encourage spending.  Interest rates have risen since Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank may reduce its asset
purchases this year and stop in the middle of 2014 if economic
growth meets policy makers’ projections.  ‘Normal’ Rates  “Our expectation is that we’ll see a return to more normal
interest rates progressively over time,” Shanks, 60, said in a
separate Bloomberg Television interview. “It’s a sign of a
growing, improving economy. There are parts of the business that
will be under some pressure because of that, but there are other
parts of the business that will benefit.”  Ford’s pension plans were underfunded by $18.7 billion at
the end of last year. Only Detroit-based GM, with a shortfall of
$27.8 billion, General Electric Co. and Boeing Co. had bigger
shortfalls, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The costs of funds for Ford Credit will be higher “at some
point” as interest rates rise, Shanks said, which eventually
would make it more expensive for vehicle buyers to finance their
purchases.  Fed’s Intent  “That would be something that would raise the cost of
vehicles if they’re financed by customers,” the Ford finance
chief said. Rising rates could also affect “what types of
vehicles they think they can afford or pay for and overall
volume,” he said.  The key will be how quickly rates rise, Shanks said. The
central bank has signaled such a move would be gradual, he said.  “They’ve tried to be very good in terms of being very
transparent around what’s going to happen,” Shanks said. The
central bank “does have to pull back and get its own balance
sheet in shape. It may not be perfectly smooth, but as long as
it’s somewhat smooth and progressive and they continue to do
such a good job of communicating what their thoughts are around
that and their plans, I think we’ll be fine.”  Janet Yellen, the current Federal Reserve vice chairman, is
“eminently qualified” to replace Bernanke as the next Fed
chairman, Shanks said. Yellen, 67, has been among the candidates
mentioned by President  Barack Obama  as possible replacements for
Bernanke, 59. Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers
yesterday withdrew from consideration to be next chairman.  Ford fell 0.2 percent to $17.32 at 2:30 p.m.  New York  time.
The shares surged 34 percent this year through Sept. 13,
compared with an 18 percent rise for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  