-- Forint Jumps as Hungary Yields Hit 8-Week Low: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-09-16T13:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/forint-jumps-as-hungary-yields-hit-8-week-low-budapest-mover.html
The forint gained the most in more
than a week and  Hungary ’s 10-year bond yields fell to a seven-week low as Lawrence Summers’ exit from the Federal Reserve
succession race boosted appetite for riskier assets.  Hungary’s forint appreciated 0.7 percent to 298.61 per euro
by 2:31 p.m. in Budapest, the fourth-biggest advance among 24
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the
government’s 10-year forint bonds slid 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 6.06 percent, the least since July 25.  Hungarian local-currency bonds returned 59 percent since
the Fed cut its main interest rate to as low as zero and shifted
its focus to debt purchases on Dec. 16, 2008, the most among 26
sovereign indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Summers, a former
Treasury secretary, would tighten Fed policy more than Janet
Yellen, who was his main rival to replace Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll last week.  “The forint is rallying because of the general positive
mood caused by Summers not running for Fed chairman,” Pal Saaghy, a Budapest-based currency trader at broker Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., said by phone today. “It’s given markets hope
that even if they phase out quantitative easing, they’ll do it
gradually.”  The forint’s rally this month has been tempered as the
government and commercial banks work on a plan to support
foreign-currency mortgage borrowers, Saaghy said.  “Until we find out the details of the mortgage rescue
plan, the currency will remain under pressure,” Saaghy said.  The forint has declined 2.3 percent since July 16, when the
cabinet said it wants to phase out foreign-currency mortgages.
The government will “eliminate” such home loans after Nov. 1
if commercial banks fail to modify loan contracts by that
deadline, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said in an interview with
public radio MR1-Kossuth on Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  