-- Fox Said to Oppose FIFA Plan to Shift 2022 Soccer World Cup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-09-17T06:58:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/fox-said-to-oppose-fifa-plan-to-reschedule-2022-soccer-world-cup.html
Fox Sports, which agreed to pay a
record fee for U.S. broadcast rights to soccer’s World Cup,
opposes plans by the sport’s governing body to reschedule the
2022 event in  Qatar , two people familiar with the matter said.  James Murdoch, the son of 21st Century Fox Inc. Chairman
Rupert Murdoch, and other network executives told FIFA that
moving the competition by several months from its usual June
start to the winter would clash with National Football League
games, according to one person familiar with the matter. The
people requested anonymity because the talks were private.  FIFA’s executive board is meeting next month to discuss a
proposal by the Zurich-based organization’s president,Sepp Blatter, to reschedule the tournament because of the high
temperatures in Qatar. Fox in 2011 agreed to pay $425 million
for the two-tournament, 2018-22 package, more than four times
what current rights holder ESPN paid for the 2010 World Cup in
South Africa and next year’s edition in  Brazil .  “FIFA has informed us that they are considering and voting
on moving the 2022 World Cup,” Fox said in an e-mailed
statement. “Fox Sports bought the World Cup rights with the
understanding they would be in the summer as they have been
since the 1930s.”  Since Qatar, a Gulf emirate smaller than  Connecticut , in
2010 became the surprise choice to host sport’s most-watched
event,  FIFA  has faced questions about the selection.  FIFA Decision  The governing body’s executive board chose Qatar ahead of
offers from the U.S., Australia and Korea and  Japan  even though
FIFA’s inspection team said the choice would be high risk. The
biggest danger is posed by temperatures that can reach 50
degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit) during the summer
months. FIFA declined to discuss its discussions with Fox.  “The matter of the timing of the 2022 FIFA World Cup will
be discussed in various ad hoc committees as well as the FIFA
Executive Committee and until these meetings have taken place
FIFA is in no position to make any further comments,” FIFA said
in a statement.  Fox’s concerns about the effect of a schedule change echo
those of  England ’s Premier League, soccer’s richest domestic
competition. Richard Scudamore, the chief executive officer of
the English championship, has opposed a switch. He’s argued that
moving the tournament to winter would force changes to European
soccer schedules for several seasons.  No Compensation  FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke , who is responsible
for the World Cup, told reporters in Buenos Aires last week that
stakeholders shouldn’t expect compensation.  “No, no, no, compensation is a word you should never
use,” he said when asked about whether FIFA would make
financial settlements to those affected by date changes.  FIFA officials will meet Oct. 3 and Oct. 4 to make a
decision on the proposal, and then a detailed investigation into
the implications will take place, Valcke said.  “I am sure that we will all come to an agreement that
playing in summer presents some challenges and that winter is a
better period to have the World Cup and that all the parties
will agree on the date and the change of the calendar,” he
said.  Europe’s biggest clubs and leagues last week urged FIFA not
to commit to a move before assessing the effects of the change.
Their stance was today backed up by Football Federation
 Australia  Chairman Frank Lowy, who said the global governing
body should take time to consult its member associations.  FIFA also needs to consider paying “just and fair
compensation” to those nations that invested “many millions
and national prestige” in bidding for a 2022 tournament held in
the northern hemisphere summer, Lowy said in a statement.  “FIFA has an opportunity now to make the best of a bad
situation by embarking on a transparent and orderly approach,
unlike the process that led to the original flawed decision in
December 2010,” Lowy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  