-- Gap Returns to Television Advertising After Four Years
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-09-16T20:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/gap-returns-to-television-advertising-after-four-years.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S.
specialty-apparel retailer, is running television ads for its
namesake brand for the first time in four years as it seeks to
build on the chain’s recent turnaround.  The two videos debuting today feature musicians performing
modern renditions of songs their fathers made famous. In one ad,
Alexa Ray Joel, sings  Billy Joel ’s “Just The Way You Are”
accompanying herself on the piano. In the other, Dhani Harrison,
son of The Beatles’s  George Harrison , sings and plays “For You
Blue” on guitar. The spots promote Gap’s “Back to Blue”
campaign for the brand’s fall denim selection.  Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  is bringing Gap back
to television after recent successes in drawing customers in
with new denim and fitness apparel. Sales at Gap stores open at
least a year have gained for six straight quarters, helping
propel the shares to the  best performance  for an apparel company
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index this year.  “Now that they’re seeing strength in the Gap brand itself,
it’s probably time to invest in  television advertising ,” Jason Asaeda, a New York-based analyst at Standard & Poor’s, said in a
telephone interview before the release. Asaeda has a hold rating
on the shares. “With television advertising, if people haven’t
been in a store in a while, if they like what they see they
might go in and check it out.”  The ads were shot in single takes in the studio and feature
minimal editing, a contrast to the highly edited, high-energy
performances that characterized previous Gap campaigns, such as
its iconic 1998 khakis campaign set to swing music.  Introducing Audiences  Other Gap commercials have featured celebrities from  Audrey Hepburn  to Madonna. While viewers may not recognize the
performers in the new ads, they probably have heard of The
Beatles, said Seth Farbman, chief marketing officer for the Gap
brand. The ads are meant to introduce audiences to something
new, whether its millennials learning about the musicians’
fathers or older generations experiencing new versions of a
familiar song, he said.  “Discovery is a big part of it for everyone, but
especially millennials -- that is like social capital and
value,” Farbman said in a phone interview. “It’s very simple
to borrow this person’s equity and put it on your ad, but that’s
different than sharing something you think people are going to
like.”  The ads will run until Oct. 13, Tricia Nichols, the senior
director for global consumer engagement and partnerships, wrote
in an e-mail. The spots will run around events, such as NFL
football games, the American Music Awards and premieres of
popular shows such as Modern Family, she wrote.  More Affordable  With Gap’s sales improving, the company can more easily
afford the investment in television ads, and the brand may see
them as a way to draw shoppers’ interest in the absence of a
strong apparel trend like last year’s colored denim, Stephanie Wissink, a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., said
in a phone interview before the release. She has the equivalent
of a hold rating on the shares  “They have the brand presence, whether you like the
product or not,” Simeon Siegel, a New York-based analyst for
Nomura Securities, said in a phone interview before the release.
Siegel has the equivalent of a hold rating on the shares.
“Maybe they’re spending now so when the product comes back,
then they can really push it.”  Gap hasn’t decided whether to run more television ads for
the brand during the holiday season, Murphy said on the
company’s earnings call Aug. 22.  Gap rose 0.4 percent to $41.81 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have gained 35 percent this year, compared with a 19
percent increase for the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  