-- Gas Retains Climate Edge Over Coal in Study of Well Leaks
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-16T20:38:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/gas-retains-climate-edge-over-coal-in-study-of-well-leaks.html
Natural gas leaks from production
wells are lower than previous estimates and below the level that
would erase the fuel’s climate benefit over coal, according to a
 University of Texas  study backed by both industry and
environmentalists.  The study being released today, the first to use actual
measurements of emissions, found that 0.42 percent of natural
gas produced in the U.S. is released into the atmosphere. A 2010
Cornell University study using data provided by drillers
estimated leakage at 0.6 to 3.2 percent.  “The question was, as we bring more natural gas on board,
what are the methane emissions, and are they so high that we’re
creating a problem for the climate,” Steven Hamburg, chief
scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund, said in an
interview. “No process is going to be 100 percent tight, and so
the question is how low can we get it.”  When it’s burned to produce electricity, natural gas emits
about half the carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, as coal.
If too much methane escapes, the environmental benefit is lost.  Methane, the main component of natural gas, is 21 times
more potent at trapping heat in the atmosphere than carbon
dioxide, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. A
boom in U.S. natural gas supplies brought on by hydraulic
fracturing has opened a debate over whether expanding the use of
gas sets back efforts to fight  climate change .  Environmental Backing  The University of Texas worked with the Environmental
Defense Fund and nine gas producers including Houston-based
 Southwestern Energy Co. (SWN) , on the report. Over the course of a
year, researchers took direct measurements at 190 well sites in
the  Gulf Coast , Great Plains, Rocky Mountain and Appalachian
regions.  Wenonah Hauter, executive director of Food & Water Watch, a
Washington-based environmental group, said too fews wells were
part of the study to “draw meaningful conclusions about
national emissions.” Companies that allowed methane
measurements at their wells were likely to have removed any
sources of leaks before researchers arrived.  “This industry-sponsored ‘study’ is more spin than
science,” Hauter said in a statement. “The Environmental
Defense Fund is running interference for the industry, and the
result will be more drilling and fracking around the world.”  Not Counted  Measurements were taken at the well so emissions lost in
processing and delivering gas to customers weren’t counted. The
University of  Texas  is conducting studies to measure leakage at
other points in the production and delivery process.  Using data from companies, the Environmental Protection
Agency in April said that gas leaked from wells in 2011 at a
rate of 0.47 percent, compared with 0.42 percent in today’s
study.  The University of Texas found leakage at the initial stage
of tapping a well when drilling fluids and sand used in
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, returns to the surface was
less than found by the EPA. Leakage from equipment at the well
pad such a pumps and valves was higher in the University of
Texas study.  There are no emissions-control regulations for valves or
connectors commonly found at oil or gas wells, according to the
Environmental Defense Fund.  “There are emissions that could be reduced from production
operations in terms of the equipment and the valves and we need
to make sure that happens,” Hamburg said.  First Rules  The EPA in 2012 issued the first rules to fight air
pollution from gas drilling. The regulations require operators
to use a technology known as green completions in which escaping
gas is captured. The rules, which go into force in 2015, will
primarily affect the estimated 13,000 wells a year drilled by
fracking to free gas trapped in shale formations.  “It’s very important because it is the one segment of the
supply chain that we knew the least about,” Mark Boling,
president of Southwestern’s V+ Development Division, said in an
interview. “It shows pretty clearly that if you have green
completion technology in place, you can reduce potential
emissions 99 percent-plus below what they otherwise would be.”  The EPA found that leakage across the entire gas supply
chain fell to 1.6 percent in 2011 from 2.4 percent in 2010,
Hamburg said. For gas to deliver climate benefits over coal,
overall leakage must remain below 3.2 percent.  Climate Benefit  Lowering that number to 1 percent would have the same
climate benefit over the next 20 years as retiring 10 percent of
U.S. coal-fired power plants, according to the Environmental
Defense Fund.  “The industry has led efforts to reduce emissions of
methane by developing new technologies and equipment, and these
efforts are paying off,” Howard Feldman, director of regulatory
and scientific affairs for the  American Petroleum Institute ,
said in a statement. “Capturing methane is helping operators
deliver more natural gas to consumers, creating a built-in
incentive to continue reducing these emissions.”  Other companies in the study included  Anadarko Petroleum
Corporation (APC) ,  BG Group Plc (BG/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Encana Corp. (ECA) ,  Pioneer
Natural Resources Co. (PXD) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM) , and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  The companies were responsible for
half of the wells drilled in the U.S. in 2011, and the wells
sampled represented 1 percent of gas production.  The companies were not involved in processing data captured
at the well sites. The study was peer reviewed and accepted for
publication in the Proceedings of  National Academy of Sciences ,
a scientific journal.  Funding for the $2 million study was provided by the
Environmental Defense Fund and the 10 companies that
participated, Hamburg said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  