-- Genesee County Begins Biggest Michigan Deal Since Detroit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-16T15:34:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/genesee-county-offering-biggest-michigan-muni-deal-since-detroit.html
Michigan ’s Genesee County began
offering $35 million of revenue bonds in the biggest long-term
debt sale in the state since  Detroit  filed its record U.S.
municipal bankruptcy on July 18.  The issue included a portion maturing in November 2038 that
was offered at a preliminary 5.61 percent yield, according to
three people with knowledge of the sale who requested anonymity
because the pricing wasn’t final. That’s 1.11 percentage points
more than the interest rate on benchmark munis, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The county, about 70 miles (113 kilometers) north of
Detroit, may issue as much as $53 million today, Bloomberg data
show. It postponed a $54.2 million deal on Aug. 1 as investors
demanded increased  interest rates  to lend to Michigan issuers.  The water-revenue securities are also backed by a general-obligation pledge, which has been scrutinized by investors in
the $3.7 trillion municipal market after state-appointed Detroit
Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr offered to repay such bondholders
less than 20 cents on the dollar. The move fueled concern that
distressed issuers in the eighth-most-populous state might
follow suit.  Penalty Drop  Genesee’s return follows last week’s deal from  Battle
Creek , which also put off issuance in August, helping slow bond
sales in the state by the most in a decade. The municipalities
are borrowing as the yield penalty on Michigan general
obligations has dropped 28 percent from its August peak, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own 10-year Michigan
general-obligation debt instead of benchmark munis is about 0.54
percentage point, down from a 2013 high of 0.75 percentage point
on Aug. 20, Bloomberg data show. The spread is still the second-highest among the 17 states tracked by Bloomberg. Only  Illinois 
has a larger penalty.  Genesee County’s seat is Flint, a city of about 101,000
that is the birthplace of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and is also under a
state-appointed emergency manager. Proceeds from the sale will
help finance land and facilities to add water supplies from Lake
Huron, according to documents released before the August
offering.  The county currently buys water from Flint, which gets it
from the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department. Standard &
Poor’s rates Genesee County’s debt A+, fifth-highest.  The securities have insurance from Build America Mutual
Assurance Co., which carries S&P’s third-highest grade, at AA.
Battle Creek also used New York-based BAM in its sale.  A message left at the office of Jeff Wright, the county’s
drain commissioner, wasn’t returned. Keith Francis, controller
for Genesee County, didn’t return a voice-mail seeking comment.  The tax-exempt debt is being issued via negotiated sale,
with a unit of JPMorgan Chase & Co. serving as lead underwriter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  