-- George Mason Gets Funding in Virginia Schools Offer: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-09-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/george-mason-gets-funding-in-virginia-schools-offer-muni-deals.html
George Mason University  and 22
other schools in  Virginia  will boost their research departments
from the sale of $333 million in tax-exempt bonds this week.  Tomorrow’s competitive offer from the Virginia College
Building Authority is among $3.7 billion of long-term municipal
issues scheduled for this week, the slowest non-holiday period
since December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This is the commonwealth stepping up and helping the
higher-education institutions in the state,” Evelyn Whitley,
director of debt management, said by telephone from Richmond.
The funding “doesn’t come off the tuition and fees.”  Virginia’s 21st Century College and Equipment Programs,
established by lawmakers in 1996, provides funds for capital
projects and research at universities and colleges, said Whitley
and deal documents.  The revenue bonds, which have a final maturity of 2034, are
backed by appropriations from the legislature. Debt from the
program is ranked Aa1 by Moody’s Investors Service and AA+ by
 Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch, second-highest, according to the
commonwealth’s  Treasury Department .  Proceeds will pay for work such as erecting an engineering
facility at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
and renovating a building at the College of William and Mary,
Whitley said.  Underdog Funding  Fairfax-based  George Mason , which in 2006 tied a record for
the lowest-seeded team to make the National Collegiate Athletic
Association basketball tournament’s Final Four, is among 23
facilities receiving about $62 million for research equipment.  Securities from Virginia issuers are losing 4.8 percent
this year through Sept. 12, in line with the rest of the $3.7
trillion municipal market, Standard & Poor’s data show. The
state’s debt trailed the market from 2009 through 2012.  Governments are borrowing with benchmark yields near the
highest level since April 2011 after individuals pulled about
$26 billion from muni-focused mutual funds in the 16 weeks
through Sept. 11, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Pending deals this week include bonds from the state of
 Washington  and Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  