-- German Stocks Advance After Summers Withdraws Fed Bid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-16T15:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/german-stocks-advance-after-summers-withdraws-fed-bid.html
German stocks  rose to a record
after  Lawrence Summers  withdrew from the race to succeed  Ben S.
Bernanke  as Federal Reserve chairman, clearing the way for  Janet
Yellen , who investors say will favor slower paring of stimulus.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  gained after the Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung reported that the carmaker is in talks to raise
its stake in its Chinese joint venture to 50 percent from 40
percent. Fresenius SE climbed 2.7 percent after MainFirst Bank
AG upgraded its recommendation on the shares.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  added 1.2 percent to 8,613 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The gauge rose 2.8 percent last week amid
better-than-expected Chinese economic data and as U.S. President
 Barack Obama  delayed a decision on military action against
Syria. The broader HDAX Index also rose 1.2 percent today.  “The key story is that former  Treasury Secretary  Summers,
known for his hawkish course, has withdrawn from the Fed race,”
Christoph Hock, an equity sales trader at Alpha
Wertpapierhandels GmbH in Frankfurt, wrote in a note. “Yellen,
a policy dove, is now the frontrunner. Markets across all asset
classes are cheering this move.”  Summers withdrew his nomination to lead the Fed before a
two-day policy meeting starting tomorrow at which the central
bank is forecast to reduce its stimulus measures. The former
treasury secretary would tighten Fed policy more than Yellen,
his main rival to replace Bernanke, according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders last week.  “News of Summers departing from the race has made risk
assets move in a herd in the same direction,” Chris Beauchamp,
a market analyst at IG in London, said in a telephone interview.
“We’ve seen a tiny bit of profit taking this afternoon and this
could move turn into a broader move in advance of the German
elections.”  Syria Weapons  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Russian Foreign
Minister  Sergei Lavrov  reached an agreement over the weekend on
a framework for finding, securing and destroying Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s stock of poison gas. The deal calls
for early signs of progress, giving Assad one week to submit an
inventory of his toxic weapons, and calls for initial
inspections in Syria by November.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s bid to win a third term
got a boost over the weekend as her Bavarian ally won a state
ballot, seven days before the national vote.  The Christian Social Union, the sister party to Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , took an absolute majority in
yesterday’s election, allowing the party to govern without a
coalition partner in the state assembly in Munich.  Volkswagen China  Volkswagen gained 0.7 percent to 183.05 euros. Europe’s
biggest automaker is in talks to increase its stake in Chinese
venture FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co., according to the report,
which cited an interview with Chief Executive Officer  Martin
Winterkorn . Eric Felber, a spokesman for Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW, confirmed Winterkorn’s comments.  Fresenius rose 2.7 percent to 93.56 euros after Mainfirst
upgraded the health-care company to outperform, similar to a buy
rating, from underperform. Fresenius last week agreed to pay
Rhoen-Klinikum AG 3.07 billion euros ($4.1 billion) for 43
hospitals, sidestepping competitors who had tried to block a
deal to create Europe’s biggest chain of private hospitals.  Allianz SE advanced 2.5 percent to 115.60 euros. Europe’s
largest insurer raised its 2016 target for car insurance and
related-product premiums to 3.5 billion euros from 2.8 billion
euros.  K+S AG, a potash producer, climbed 2.5 percent to 23.15
euros. A gauge of chemical makers posted the biggest gain on the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index on bets the leading bidder for  OAO
Uralkali (URKA) , the biggest maker of the fertilizer, will stabilize
the market.  Uralkali Bidder  Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan, a longtime ally of
President  Vladimir Putin , is the leading contender for the
Berezniki, Russia-based producer, according to people familiar
with the situation. Uralkali’s split in July from a potash
marketing venture with Belarus roiled the $20 billion market.  BASF SE (BAS)  rose 3.7 percent to 72.34 euros, its biggest gain
since April 26. Analysts from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Kepler
Cheuvreux said the world’s largest chemical company is
interested in merger and acquisition activity and it reiterated
its production forecasts at an oil and gas roundtable meeting.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the German steelmaker seeking to divest
its Americas unit, fell 0.6 percent to 16.77 euros after two
people briefed on its plans said it may hold on to its plant in
Brazil and sell only the U.S. operation.  Bids for the Brazilian mill were too low and the company
has accepted the Americas unit won’t fetch its 3.4 billion-euro
book value and faces a writedown, one person said late last
week, asking not to be named as the talks are private. A deal to
sell the U.S. mill would require some of the Brazilian plant’s
output be processed at the Alabama site, the other said.  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 3.1 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  