-- Italian Bonds Rise With European Peers as Summers Quits Fed Race
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-09-16T15:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/german-government-bonds-advance-before-euro-area-inflation-data.html
Italian  bonds  rose with other
European  government securities  after  Lawrence Summers ’
withdrawal from the race to be the next Federal Reserve chairman
spurred bets the U.S. will be slower to reduce debt purchases.  Italy’s 10-year yields fell the most in more than two
months as investors bet the preferred candidate is now Fed vice
chairman Janet Yellen, who is seen as favoring a slower
reduction of stimulus. German, Dutch and French securities also
rallied. Investors should bet the extra yield on longer-maturity
 government bonds  over shorter ones will widen, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “After Summers withdrew, the market thinks that Yellen
will be the next Fed President and she has a dovish bias,” said
Piet Lammens, head of research at KBC Bank NV in Brussels. “The
market is thinking that Yellen will continue the current
stimulus policies and that’s why you see bonds rising. It’s not
at all clear for the bond markets because Yellen will still have
to react to the economic conditions.”  Italy’s  10-year yield  fell 12 basis points, or 0.12 percent
point, to 4.46 percent at 4:54 p.m.  London  time, the biggest
drop since July 1. The 4.5 percent bond due May 2023 rose 0.92,
or 9.20 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,335) face amount, to 100.70.  Similar-maturity Spanish yields declined seven basis points
to 4.42 percent, while Portugal’s slipped 16 basis points to
7.26 percent.  Summers, Yellen  Summers would tighten Fed policy more than Yellen if he
replaced Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll last week. The Fed will taper its monthly bond
buying program by $10 billion to $75 billion when it meets on
Sept. 17-18, a separate survey of economists showed.  “When Summers was the frontrunner there was greater
uncertainty about the outlook,”  Andrew Balls , head of European
 portfolio management  at Pimco in London, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with  Francine Lacqua . “We would see
 Janet Yellen  as continuation of what we’ve seen with  Ben
Bernanke . She’s been a key architect, a key supporter of Mr.
Bernanke so you get less uncertainty, therefore potentially less
volatility, and an expectation that Janet Yellen will, at the
margin, be slower at tapering.”  Germany’s 10-year yield fell four basis points to 1.94
percent after dropping to 1.92 percent, the lowest level since
Sept. 3. Dutch 10-year  yields  declined five basis points to 2.30
percent, while similar-maturity French rates dropped six basis
points to 2.48 percent.  Curve Steepening  Curve-steepening positions “make sense” Balls said,
referring to bets that the yield difference between longer- and
shorter-maturity debt will increase. Newport Beach, California-based Pimco is a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  and
runs the world’s biggest bond fund.  The  spread  between German two- and 10-year yields narrowed
three basis points to 1.73 percentage points after expanding to
1.82 percentage points on Sept. 11, the widest level since
December 2011.  Volatility on French bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Germany and Belgium,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  “It’s a general move in rates” driving European yields
lower,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “All of it will
be on what we get over the next few days, certainly Wednesday
with the Fed and tapering.”  ‘Its Infancy’  Euro-region government bonds also advanced as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the euro area’s
recovery was “only in its infancy.”  “The economy remains fragile, and unemployment is still
far too high,” Draghi said in Berlin. “Given the overall
subdued outlook for inflation extending into the medium term,
the ECB’s Governing Council expects the key ECB interest rates
to remain at present or lower levels for an extended period.”  Annual inflation in the euro area slowed to 1.3 percent
from 1.6 percent in July, in line with an initial estimate on
Aug. 30, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. In the month, prices rose 0.1 percent.  German bonds lost 2.5 percent this year through last week,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Italian securities
returned 2.8 percent, while Spain’s earned 7.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  