-- Globalstar Spectrum Seen Turning Into Deal Gold: Real M&A
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-09-16T13:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/globalstar-spectrum-seen-turning-into-deal-gold-real-m-a.html
Globalstar Inc. (GSAT) , the provider of
satellite-phone services that’s  traded  below $1 since 2011, now
offers investors the chance for returns of at least 30 percent
in a takeover thanks to its coveted airwaves.  Globalstar surged by the most in more than four years after
the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission  last week moved a
step closer to deciding whether the company can use some of its
satellite airwaves to run land-based wireless networks. A ruling
in Globalstar’s favor would increase the value of the spectrum
and could spur cable operators or phone carriers to try to
acquire the whole company, said Falcon Point Capital LLC.  While the unprofitable company has struggled under its  debt 
load, Globalstar could join  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)  and
MetroPCS Communications Inc. on the list of companies acquired
in the last year for their spectrum. Wireless carriers are
seeking to bolster their networks to meet demand for mobile
data, which could help the $475 million company fetch a premium
of at least 30 percent, according to IPOPlaybook.com.  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN) , which used Globalstar’s airwaves to test a new wireless
network, also may be a buyer, Stifel Financial Corp. said.  “If they are looking to convert to terrestrial wireless
spectrum, that would probably boost the value a lot,” said  Tom Taulli , who analyzes acquisitions for Los Angeles-based
IPOPlaybook.com. “All the carriers are looking to get
spectrum.”  Debt Struggles  Globalstar, based in Covington,  Louisiana , offers
satellite-phone and global positioning system locator  services 
in more than 120 countries, including rural and remote areas.
The company serves consumers as well as businesses involved in
industries such as mining, oil and gas, forestry and commercial
fishing.  Since completing its initial public offering at $17 a share
in November 2006, the company has slumped to a penny stock after
posting  net losses  and borrowing to upgrade its satellite
system. As of June, its total  debt  of $713 million exceeded its
market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After delays in deploying new equipment, Globalstar this
year finished the launch of its new fleet of satellites,
improving its ability to compete for subscribers with rivals
such as Iridium Communications Inc. Globalstar, whose
predecessor company filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2002,
also took steps to restructure its debt this year, easing
investor concerns about repayment.  FCC Request  “The company has been hurting for the last six years, and
now they seem to be rebounding,” Claude Rousseau, a senior
analyst at Northern Sky Research LLC, said in a phone interview.
“They seem to have turned the corner in terms of technical
issues.”  Along with its efforts to improve its core business,
Globalstar is seeking  regulatory approval  to convert some of its
satellite spectrum for terrestrial use, in Wi-Fi and cellular
networks. The move would make the spectrum more valuable, as it
could be deployed with networking equipment that’s cheaper than
satellites, and work with most mobile devices.  Initially, the company has said it wants to use the
spectrum for a Wi-Fi service that could potentially help
carriers offload traffic from their mobile networks to ease
congestion. Globalstar also eventually wants to use the airwaves
to run a type of network technology known as long-term
evolution, or LTE.  The  stock  surged 28 percent on Sept. 9 after Globalstar
said the FCC circulated the company’s proposal among its
commissioners -- a step toward a review by the commission, which
 meets again  on Sept. 26. While the company requested approval to
use its spectrum for both Wi-Fi and LTE networks, it’s up to the
U.S. agency to allow both land-based uses.  Early Talks  “We are confident that we will receive FCC authority to
utilize our spectrum for terrestrial mobile broadband services”
including the opportunity for Wi-Fi, Barbee Ponder, Globalstar’s
general counsel and vice president regulatory affairs, said in
an e-mail response to questions. Globalstar is in preliminary
discussions with companies interested in using its spectrum for
Wi-Fi and believes “those discussions will move to the next
level once the FCC issues its proposed rule.”  Ponder declined to comment regarding the potential for
Globalstar to be acquired.  The approval process could extend into next year,
 Christopher King  and  David Kaut , analysts at Stifel, wrote in a
Sept. 9 note.  FCC approval would “certainly improve the valuation
significantly,” King said in a phone interview.  Today, Globalstar shares rose 7 percent to 94 cents at 9:51
a.m.  New York  time.  Spectrum Suitors  While some analysts said Globalstar could court buyers for
just the spectrum or lease the airwaves to wireless providers,
King said suitors could seek a full takeover.  “You could have a buyer come in and buy the entire company
for the spectrum,” he said.  Globalstar could attract buyers such as cable and phone
companies, which are always searching for additional airwaves to
meet surging demand for their networks, said  Michael Mahoney ,
senior managing director at Falcon Point in  San Francisco . U.S.
mobile data traffic is  forecast  to rise ninefold from 2012
through 2017, according to Cisco Systems Inc.  “A repurposing toward Wi-Fi is probably value-enhancing,”
Mahoney said in a phone interview. “The world is moving to
greater mobility, and Wi-Fi is how we get there.”  With approval to also run LTE networks over the spectrum,
“that’s hugely valuable,” Mahoney said.  Wireless Consolidation  Much of the recent consolidation among U.S. wireless
companies has involved spectrum assets. In May, Deutsche Telekom
AG completed the deal to combine MetroPCS with its T-Mobile
division. In July, AT&T Inc. agreed to buy Leap and acquire
customers and airwaves to improve its network, while Sprint
Nextel Corp. bought the rest of Clearwire Corp. for its valuable
spectrum.  “All of the major wireless service providers are
interested in additional spectrum,” Dave Heger, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co., said in a phone interview.  Amazon, the world’s largest e-commerce company, also could
pursue Globalstar, Stifel’s King said. The Seattle-based company
has tested a new wireless network using Globalstar’s spectrum in
Cupertino,  California , people with knowledge of the matter told
Bloomberg in August.  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman at Amazon, said the $136 billion
company doesn’t comment on speculation.  Depressed Valuation  While an FCC ruling against Globalstar would make the
spectrum less attractive and damp interest in the company from
wireless providers, its low valuation could attract buyers even
without the approval, Marco Rodriguez, a Dallas-based analyst at
Stonegate, said in a phone interview. Rodriguez values the
company at a minimum of $1.08 a share based on the sum of its
parts, compared with its closing level last week of 88 cents.  If the FCC does rule in favor of Globalstar’s spectrum
request, the company could command a takeover premium of 30
percent to 40 percent, IPOPlaybook.com’s Taulli said in an e-mail. That would equate to as much as $1.23 a share. Falcon
Point’s Mahoney said the price to acquire the airwaves could be
even higher.  “If a company that’s spectrum-poor wants to offer a robust
Wi-Fi service, it’s not inconceivable they’d pay a 100 percent
premium,” Mahoney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  