-- Gonorrhea Among Drug-Resisting Germs Sickening Millions
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-09-17T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/gonorrhea-among-drug-resisting-germs-sickening-millions.html
More than 2 million people in the
U.S. are sickened by  antibiotic-resistant germs  each year, and
at least 23,000 die, according to the first report from the
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  to rank the threats.  Three bacteria, including drug-resistant gonorrhea, are
classified as urgent threats with the potential to become
widespread. Another 11 bacteria and a fungus are referred to as
serious perils by the CDC report.  Bacterial resistance was identified shortly after
antibiotics were first used in the 1940s, said Steve Solomon,
acting director for the epidemiology and analysis program office
at the Atlanta-based CDC. In the past, there were always more
antibiotics in development. Now, the antibiotic pipeline has
largely dried up, leaving doctors without new weapons against
the illnesses -- a “nightmare,” Solomon said.  “The cushion of new antibiotics is gone,” Solomon, a
report author, said by telephone. “We’re right at the edge of
this cliff where we’re approaching the post-antibiotic era.”  The three most serious threats are C. difficile, which
causes life-threatening diarrhea, carbapenem-resistant
Enterobacteriaceae, which includes E.coli and affects mostly
people in health-care settings, and gonorrhea, a sexually
transmitted infection, according to the report  These three bacteria have the biggest clinical and economic
impact, and the greatest current and projected incidence,
according to the report. They are also among the easiest to
transmit and have few treatment options. C. difficile alone
causes 250,000 infections and 14,000 deaths at a cost of $1
billion each year, according to the report.  Antibiotic Overuse  “The use of antibiotics is the single most important
factor leading to antibiotic resistance around the world,” the
researchers wrote in the report. That includes use by humans,
for whom about 50 percent of prescribed drugs aren’t needed or
aren’t effective, as well as use by animals.  In the past, “there was a sense that resistance wasn’t a
huge problem because there would always be another antibiotic
coming down the pipe, and for 50 to 60 years, that was kind of
true,” the CDC’s Solomon said. No more.  Some of the best ways to protect against antibiotic-resistant bugs are preventive, said Daniel McQuillen, a member
of the Infectious Disease Society of America and a senior staff
physician in infectious diseases at Lahey Hospital & Medical
Center in Burlington,  Massachusetts .  MRSA Decline  That includes encouraging hand-washing and in-hospital
programs to evaluate whether the antibiotics being prescribed
are appropriate, he said.  These kinds of interventions were probably what caused a
decline in the incidence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus
aureus, or MRSA infections, according to separate study,
published in  JAMA Internal Medicine .  Cases of invasive MRSA from health-care settings dropped by
a third in 2011, compared with 2005. Hospital infections dropped
by 50 percent, the report found.  The decrease in community-acquired infections was only 5
percent, according to the authors, led by Raymund Dantes, a
researcher at the CDC. MRSA is one of the organisms deemed to be
a “serious” risk, according to the larger CDC report.  Animal Antibiotics  Many farmers routinely use antibiotics for healthy
livestock, in order to promote growth and prevent illness. That
practice means germs are given widespread exposure to
antibiotics, making it more likely that the microbes will mutate
in the animals, spreading into meat.  When the meat is eaten, the resistant bacteria may sicken
humans, or swap DNA with the flora in the human gut, a recipe
for transferring resistance. It’s difficult to compare human and
animal use, though “ there is evidence that more antibiotics
are used in food production,” the report said.  The CDC report says that the use of antibiotics in animals
for promoting growth isn’t necessary and the practice should be
“phased out.”  There have been previous reports of antibiotic resistance
in specific species, though this is the first that unites them
all, Solomon said.  “We’re reporting the results of infections and deaths as a
group because we’re trying to make a case that there’s a big-picture problem,” he said.  Development Incentives  Large pharmaceutical companies don’t make enough return on
investment by making antibiotics to support developing more,
McQuillen said. A proposal called  Generating Antibiotic
Incentives Now  that created incentives for drug companies and
researchers to develop antibiotics was included in the FDA
reauthorization legislation passed last year by Congress.  “That’s probably not enough,” McQuillen said in a
telephone interview. The  Infectious Disease Society of America ,
an advocacy group of infectious disease specialists based in
Arlington,  Virginia , is also supporting other measures to expand
the antibiotic pipeline, McQuillen said.  The group is pushing for a research and development tax
credit for companies working on antibiotics, as well as the
 Strategies to Address Antimicrobial Resistance Act . That would
boost resources to development of antibiotics, intensify efforts
to track resistant germs, and encourage more-appropriate use of
antibiotics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  