-- Gunvor Gets $675 Million for Ust Luga Oil Terminal
-- B y   A n d y   H o f f m a n
-- 2013-09-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/gunvor-gets-675-million-for-ust-luga-oil-terminal.html
Gunvor Group Ltd., the fifth-largest independent oil trader, secured $675 million in
financing for its flagship Ust Luga oil products terminal,
adding Russian banks to its lending partners and freeing up
capital for other investments.  The facility was oversubscribed, attracting more than $1.3
billion in commitments, Gunvor Chief Investment Officer Jerome Schurink said in a Sept. 13 interview at the company’s offices
in Geneva. The proceeds of the long-term facility will be used
to fund the Russian terminal’s operations and to complete an
expansion of the $1 billion project that began shipping  fuel oil 
in 2011.  “The project was completely under-leveraged,” Schurink
said. “It is better for a company like us, having the trading
operations but also the assets, to match the maturities with the
underlying business.”  The deal caps $1.88 billion in project-specific financing
secured since July 29 by closely held Gunvor, which is based in
Cyprus with major trading operations headquartered in Geneva.
The company has acquired more assets, including refineries, oil
terminals, pipelines and coal mines, and moved to secure
specific financing for individual projects. These lending deals
can provide more favorable terms than the company receives for
the shorter-term facilities used to finance its trading.  Ust Luga is the world’s largest terminal transporting oil
products from rail cars to ships, according to Gunvor. It has a
projected capacity of more than 30 million metric tons a year.
Gunvor purchased the terminal, located on the Gulf of Finland
near the Russian border with  Estonia , in 2008. It began
transporting fuel oil in 2011 and light crude products in May.  Russian Financing  Schurink wouldn’t disclose the specific terms of the
financing, beyond saying it was longer than five years and less
than 10 years and had better provisions than the company’s
previous lending arrangements related to the terminal.  Credit Suisse AG acted as coordinator and mandated lead
arranger for the lending syndicate, which also included  Russia ’s
 Gazprombank OJSC (GZPR)  and ZAO Raiffeisenbank, the Russian subsidiary
of  Austria ’s  Raiffeisen Bank International AG. (RBI)  Russian banks
accounted for approximately one-third of the lending syndicate,
Gia Mai, Gunvor’s corporate finance director, said in the
interview.  The lending facility is non-recourse to Gunvor, Schurink
said, meaning the banks will be repaid using  cash flow  from the
project and wouldn’t be able to access funds from other company
assets in the event of default.  The Ust Luga deal continues the oil trader’s strategy of
diversifying funding sources and tying financing to lenders in
local markets where assets are located. Before the new lending
facility was secured, less than 1 percent of Gunvor’s financing
came from Russian banks.  Gunvor was founded in 2000 by billionaire  Gennady Timchenko 
and the company’s chairman and chief executive officer, Torbjorn Tornqvist, to trade Russian oil. Tornqvist said in January that
Gunvor planned to build more refineries and was seeking
investments outside of Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Hoffman in Geneva at 
 ahoffman31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Timothy Coulter at 
 tcoulter@bloomberg.net  