-- Most Brazilian Stocks Decline as Stronger Currency Sinks Gerdau
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-09-16T20:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/ibovespa-advances-on-brazil-growth-estimates-u-s-stimulus-bets.html
Most Brazilian stocks dropped as a
stronger real dimmed the outlook for exports, pushing
commodities producers including steelmaker Gerdau SA lower.  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais, the steelmaker known
as Usiminas, and Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA each fell at least
1.2 percent. Clothing maker and retailer  Cia. Hering (HGTX3)  led gains
by companies that sell in the domestic market after a central
bank survey showed economists raised growth forecasts.  The Ibovespa was little changed at 53,821.63 at the close
of trading in Sao Paulo, with 38 stocks lower and 35 higher. The
real fell less than 0.1 percent to 2.2823 per dollar at 5:24
p.m. local time after earlier climbing 1.4 percent to 2.2486.  “Some companies, such as steelmakers, have gained a lot on
the back of the weakening of the currency, and now we’re seeing
some profit taking,” Joao Pedro Brugger, a portfolio manager at
Leme Investimentos, said by phone from Florianopolis, Brazil.  The real rose earlier on speculation the next U.S. Federal
Reserve chairman will maintain stimulus for a longer period,
supporting efforts by  Brazil ’s policy makers to bolster the
currency. The South American country’s central bank sold $497
million of foreign-exchange swaps and rolled over $1.96 billion
worth of contracts under its $60 billion intervention program.  Brazil GDP  Usiminas lost 1.5 percent to 10.44 reais, paring a two-month rally to 43 percent. Gerdau dropped 0.9 percent to 16.85
reais, while CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica is known, declined 1.2
percent to 9.29 reais.  The Ibovespa earlier climbed as much as 1.2 percent as
economists increased their projections for Brazil’s growth this
year. Gross domestic product will expand 2.4 percent, up from
the previous week’s median estimate of 2.35 percent, according
to a central bank  survey  of about 100 analysts released today.
Expansion estimates have increased for three consecutive weeks.  “Investors seem a little more optimistic about the
country’s growth this year and the outlook for local companies’
results,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at the brokerage firm Omar Camargo, said by phone from Curitiba, Brazil.  Hering added 3.8 percent to 34.70 reais.  Global stocks rose as investors speculated on a slower
tapering to Federal Reserve stimulus after the announcement
yesterday that Lawrence Summers would withdraw from
consideration to become the next chairman of the U.S. central
bank, according to Eduardo Velho, the chief economist at INVX
Global Partners in Sao Paulo. Summers was seen as more likely
than other candidates to push for an end to the Fed’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchases, he said.  Fed Outlook  “Uncertainties about how and when the Fed will trim the
stimulus have caused volatility on the markets lately,” Velho
said.  Summers’ withdrawal as a candidate paves the way for Janet Yellen, the central bank’s vice chairman, to take the job. She
would favor a slower reduction of stimulus, according to a
Bloomberg Global Poll last week.  The Ibovespa entered a bull market on Sept. 9 after rising
20 percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is still down 21 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a decline of 5.1 percent for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo was 6.02 billion
reais today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.74 billion reais this year
through Sept. 13, according to data  compiled  by the exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  