-- Milk Rally Reversing as New Zealand Drought Recedes: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-17T18:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/milk-rally-reversing-as-new-zealand-drought-recedes-commodities.html
Milk production in New Zealand is
rebounding to a record as pastures recover from drought,
accelerating shipments from the largest exporter just as U.S.
supply expands to an all-time high.  New Zealand’s output will expand 4.5 percent in the year
ending May 31 after the most widespread drought in three
decades, as U.S. farmers produce 1.2 percent more in 2014,
estimates from the two countries’ governments show. Futures will
drop 11 percent to $15.75 per 100 pounds in  Chicago  by March 31,
the lowest level since June 2012, according to the median of 12
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  World dairy prices  tracked by the United Nations rose to
the highest in more than five years in April, the fastest gain
in its 55-item food index. Estimates for record grain supply
drove the gauge lower in eight of the past 11 months while
cutting costs for U.S. dairy farmers. Cheaper milk reduces
expenses for everyone from Cheesecake Factory Inc.’s 165
restaurants to  Dean Foods Co. (DF) , the largest U.S. processor.  “Pastures are very good at the moment heading into the
peak of the milking season,” said Con Williams, an economist at
ANZ Bank New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, which anticipates a 6
percent expansion in domestic production. “We think every spare
cow will be being milked.”  Class III milk, used to make cheese, fell 5.1 percent this
year to $17.66 on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, while the
 Standard & Poor’s GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of 24 commodities lost 1.6 percent.
The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities rallied 13 percent,
and the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury  Bond Index (BUSY)  lost 3.6 percent.  Top Shipper  New Zealand’s milk-solid production will rise to 1.74
million tons from 1.665 million tons, after falling for the
first time in five years, the government estimates. The entire
North Island, which produces 61 percent of the nation’s total,
had a drought last season. Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
country’s top shipper, said Sept. 6 it expects output to gain 5
percent this season. Powder is made from solids that account for
about 13 percent of liquid milk.  Global production will gain 1.1 percent to a record 469.1
million tons in 2013, the U.S. Department of Agriculture says.
Output in the 28-nation European Union will expand 1.3 percent
to 154.4 million tons in 2014, the European Commission says.  Contamination Scares  Strengthening demand from  China ’s 1.3 billion people may
limit price declines as growth lifts incomes in the $8.2
trillion economy. Imports of whole-milk powder will jump 26
percent to a record 510,000 tons in 2013, the USDA estimates.
Shipments expanded more than 10-fold since 2008 as contamination
scares linked to local milk boosted demand for overseas supply.  China’s imports of New Zealand dairy products rose 34
percent in the first half, customs data show. Should the
government relax its one-child policy, a proposal reported by
Xinhua News Agency last month, annual powder demand may increase
18 billion  yuan  ($2.9 billion), UBS AG said in a note on Aug. 6.  “Demand is kind of the sleeping giant that most people
aren’t paying attention to,” said Jon Spainhour, a broker and
partner at Rice Dairy LLC in Chicago whose clients range from
farmers to restaurants and grocery stores. “Demand, especially
out of China right now, is huge.”  Shipments into China were disrupted last month after
Auckland-based Fonterra said that a dirty pipe at a plant may
have contaminated a whey protein used in baby formula with
botulism-causing bacteria. Government testing determined that
the contamination didn’t pose a health risk.  Hedge Funds  Futures anticipate a decline, with the March contract
trading at $16.40, or 7.1 percent less than milk for next month,
bourse data show.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators turned
bearish in June and at the end of August held a net-short
position of 1,555 futures and options, the biggest wager in more
than three years, according to data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  Whole-milk-powder prices  surged 61 percent this year at
Fonterra’s twice-monthly GlobalDairyTrade auction. The average
winning price was $5,058 a ton on Sept. 3, from a record $5,245
on April 16. Prices will average $4,241 in the fourth quarter
and $3,817 in the following three months, according to Rabobank
International.  There is an 80 percent chance of near- or above-average
rain from this month to November in the north of North Island,
according to the Auckland-based National Institute of Water and
Atmospheric Research. Most of the nation had normal soil-moisture levels on Sept. 1 compared with significant to extreme
shortfalls across the majority of North Island on March 1.  Dairy Producers  U.S. dairy producers may benefit from a corn glut as the
crop recovers from the worst Midwest drought since the 1930s. An
average cow consumes about 20 pounds of grain a day, 90 percent
of which is typically corn, according to Paul Rovey, a dairy
farmer and chairman of Dairy Management Inc., a research and
marketing organization in Rosemont,  Illinois . A Holstein
produces about 70 pounds of milk daily, he said.  Retail milk prices in the U.S. are expected to be stable to
lower this year as supply increases, said Dairy Management Chief
Executive Officer Tom Gallagher. Consumers paid $3.449 a gallon
on average in July, 3.7 percent less than at the end of last
year, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data show.  U.S. restaurants will have flat to lower commodity costs in
2014, including dairy, even as the economy accelerates, a
combination that hasn’t happened since 2006, said David Maloni,
president of the American Restaurant Association Inc., a
Sarasota, Florida-based commodity research company. The economy
will expand 2.7 percent in 2014 for a fifth year of growth,
economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg show.  Feed Costs  Dean Foods, based in  Dallas , expects feed costs to drop if
the corn crop comes in as projected, CEO Gregg Tanner said on an
Aug. 8 conference call with analysts. Cheesecake Factory, based
in Calabasas Hills,  California , cut its food-cost outlook for
the year mostly on “favorable dairy prices,” Chief Financial
Officer Douglas Benn said on a conference call July 24.  World food costs tracked by the Rome-based Food &
Agriculture Organization dropped 1.9 percent last month and are
15 percent below  the record  set in February 2011. Corn, wheat
and soybeans are in bear markets as supply expands. The gauge of
global dairy prices dropped 7.6 percent since April.  Shipments of dairy and associated products from New Zealand
were valued at about $9.2 billion last year, accounting for 25
percent of total goods exports, according to the International
Trade Centre, a UN and World Trade Organization agency. The U.S.
industry is valued at $300 billion and employs about 1.4 million
people, according to Dairy Management.  “As corn gets cheaper, then people might feed a little
more and we might increase our production,” said Rovey, who
milks about 2,000 Jersey cows on the Glendale,  Arizona  farm that
his family has owned since 1943. “We’ll probably see some
softening of our prices because of additional production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  