-- Tim Hortons CEO Says ‘Must Win’ Battle for U.S. Consumers
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-09-16T20:22:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/tim-hortons-ceo-says-must-win-battle-for-u-s-consumers.html
Tim Hortons  Inc. Chief Executive
Officer Marc Caira said  Canada ’s largest coffee and doughnuts
chain must succeed in the U.S. as competition brings slower
growth at home.  “The U.S. for me is what I call a must-win battle,”
Caira, 59, said in an interview today at a Tim Hortons coffee
shop near the company’s Oakville, Ontario headquarters. Caira
took over as CEO in July.  In Canada, “my view is this battle is in a new reality,
and that this new reality is lower growth, more consumers being
value conscious, more competitive intensity,” Caira said.  Tim Hortons’ U.S. growth strategy has been criticized by
Highfields Capital Management LP of  Boston  and New York-based
Scout Capital Management LLC. which have said there hasn’t been
sufficient return on the $664 million the company invested in
the past decade. The investors  own  2.6 percent and 5.7 percent
of Tim Horton’s shares respectively,  according  to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Caira said his “capital light” growth strategy in the
U.S. will rely on franchisees being able to hold multiple
restaurants in a small area and buy advertising in local media
as he tries to revive growth in a chain approaching saturation
at home.  Tim Hortons had 3,468  restaurants  in Canada at the end of
June, nearing the 4,000 restaurants past management flagged as
the maximum the country can handle.  Dinner Coming  Caira said he will reevaluate the 4,000 number to see if
it’s still appropriate. The current focus is boosting
profitability at existing restaurants facing more competition as
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  expand in the country, he
said.  Tim Hortons shares rose 0.8 percent to C$59.08 at 4:00 p.m.
in Toronto. The  shares  have gained 21 percent this year compared
with a 3.1 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Composite Index.  Tim Hortons, which claims to sell eight out of 10 cups of
coffee in Canada, is already a leader among quick-service
restaurants for breakfast and is catching up to the leader in
lunch, Caira said, declining to name the competition.  “We’ll get to dinner,” Caira said. He did not say when or
what the menu could look like.  Tim Hortons, named after a Toronto Maple Leafs  defenseman 
who scored 115 goals in 22 years in the  National Hockey League ,
has seen revenue growth slow from the double digit pace in much
of the last decade. Sales grew 9.4 percent last year compared
with 12.5 percent in 2011 and 14.2 percent in 2004, according to
data compiled by  Bloomberg News .  Tims Vending  Caira, who came out of retirement to take up the top job at
Tim Hortons after his previous post as an executive at  Nestle
SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food maker, said he saw other revenue
opportunities attaching the Tim Hortons’ brand to consumer
products for sale in stores, like it does with single-serve
coffee.  “If you work in an office, why should you not have some
Tim Hortons’ products in your office?” he said. “I come from
an industry where from a technology standpoint, vending machines
have come a long way. Why can’t you have Tim Hortons in vending
machines?” Such moves would add incremental sales and value, he
said.  The company said sales at stores open at least 12 months
would end the year below target when it announced Aug. 8 second
quarter-earnings rose 14 percent to 81 cents a share from a year
earlier, above analysts’s  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Younger Customers  New beverages to appeal to younger customers, like milk-based and juice-based drinks, along with marketing focused on
health and wellness are other ways Caira says he can boost
revenue. The U.S., however, is still the company’s best hope for
growth, he said.  “The U.S. will grow faster than Canada,” the CEO said.  Caira introduced the “capital light” U.S. growth plan in
August, along with a buy back of C$900 million shares, after
Highfields and Scout led a campaign to boost  shareholder value .  Scout called the moves then a “good first step.’”  With 807 locations, Tim Hortons’ U.S business made up about
18.8 percent of its total store network in the second quarter
and accounted for 32.6 percent of  capital expenditures , while
bringing in only 6.1 percent of revenue according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Good Discussion’  “We are going to invest capital in the U.S. but we’re
going to do it in a different way,” he said. “We’ll be looking
for partners that not only have the capital, but more
importantly understand the market, and have access to things we
don’t have access to, ie. real estate, ie. media.”  Caira said U.S. expansion may mean entering master-franchise agreements whereby the franchisee has the rights to
sell franchises within a certain geographical area.  Caira said “he had a good discussion” with Scout after he
took over. He said there currently are no plans for more
buybacks.  “In this new reality we have to grow faster than we did in
the past,” he said.  “We’re going to look at everything and
we’re going to see where we need to invest and how we need to
invest. And out of that will be a financial strategy that will
show how we disburse the cash that’s remaining.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  