-- IMF Says Nations Need Dedicated Tools to Avoid Financial Crises
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-16T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/imf-says-nations-need-dedicated-tools-to-avoid-financial-crises.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
defined new policy guidelines for countries seeking to protect
their financial systems and avoid a repeat of the global crisis,
recommending that central banks be involved in the decision.  “The crisis has fostered a recognition that systemic risks
can grow under the surface of apparent economic tranquility,”
according to the report. “Financial stability need not
therefore emerge as a natural by-product of an appropriate
macroeconomic policy mix” and requires “dedicated
macroprudential policies.”  While more and more countries use policies to lower the
chances of financial bubbles or limit their impact when they
burst, many are still figuring out what tools to choose and who
has the mandate to do so, according to an IMF staff report
released today, which the fund will use as a basis for its
advice to countries.  The IMF has tried to update recommendations to its 188
member countries after it failed to see the signs of fragility
that led to the 2008 financial crisis. In a shift last year, the
Washington-based fund endorsed nations’ use of  capital controls 
in certain circumstances.  The policies defined as macroprudential cover a broad range
of measures, such as imposing a minimum down payment on home
buyers or asking high rates when lending to a targeted sector.  The IMF recommended that the goal and scope of such
measures be defined clearly and be complemented by monetary and
fiscal measures. Countries should clearly define who has the
power to decide these measures and who is accountable for them,
according to the report.  “The central bank needs to play an important role, even if
the precise arrangements are driven by the political economy and
traditions,” the staff wrote in the paper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  