-- India’s Rupee Jumps to 1-Month High as Summers Quits; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-16T12:26:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/india-s-rupee-bonds-rally-as-summers-withdraws-from-fed-race.html
India’s rupee strengthened beyond
63 per dollar after former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence
Summers  withdrew from the list of people being considered for
the Federal Reserve chairman’s post.  Government bonds  advanced.  A Bloomberg Global Poll last week showed Summers would cut
stimulus more than current Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen , who
is among the front runners to replace Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
when his term ends in January. The Fed will probably trim its
monthly bond-buying program by $10 billion to $75 billion this
week, a survey of economists showed this month. The rupee and
10-year notes pared gains intraday after data showed India’s
inflation unexpectedly quickened to a six-month high in August.  The currency climbed 1 percent to 62.8450 per dollar in
Mumbai, the strongest level since Aug. 16, according to prices
from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied
volatility in the rupee, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, slumped 45 basis points to
17.51 percent.  “High odds of Yellen’s election reduce somewhat the risk”
of outflows of capital which India relies on to plug its
current-account gap, Credit Agricole CIB analysts led by Paris-based head of  emerging markets  research and strategy Sebastien Barbe wrote in a report today. “The rupee is likely to lead
gains in regional currencies.”  The yield on India’s 7.16 percent sovereign bonds due May
2023 dropped six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 8.43
percent, the lowest since Sept. 5. The rate climbed as high as
8.54 percent after government data showed India’s  wholesale-price index  jumped 6.1 percent in August from a year earlier,
compared with 5.79 percent in July.  Debt Limits  Bonds rose also as the Securities & Exchange Board of
 India , the capital markets regulator, allowed global funds to
buy sovereign notes without purchasing debt limits till the
overall investment reaches 90 percent of the cap, according to a
Sept. 13 statement. The move is likely to reduce volatility in
yields, HDFC Securities Ltd. wrote in a note.  The rupee completed its biggest weekly gain since October
2009 on Sept. 13 on optimism steps announced by the new  Reserve
Bank  of India governor will boost the supply of dollars. In his
first speech upon taking office on Sept. 4,  Raghuram Rajan 
offered to sell concessional swaps for lenders’ foreign-currency
deposits and vowed to curb inflation. The steps will boost
India’s reserves by $10 billion, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
estimates.  The yield on the 10-year bonds slid 14 basis points last
week as investors speculated the rupee’s rebound may prompt the
central bank to reverse liquidity-tightening measures taken to
support the currency.  Dollar Supply  The recent RBI policies “are near-term positives for the
rupee,” Barclays Plc analysts, including London-based  Christian Keller , wrote in a report last week. “However, it remains to be
seen whether these measures will translate into better sentiment
and a pick-up in portfolio inflows in the context of Fed
tapering later this month.”  Overseas funds have cut  holdings  of Indian debt by about
$10.5 billion since May 22, when Bernanke first flagged a
potential cut in asset purchases that had fueled demand for
emerging-market assets. U.S. policy makers will meet Sept. 17-18
and the Indian central bank will review policy Sept. 20.  Rajan took charge as the rupee sank to a record 68.845 per
dollar on Aug. 28 even after a series of measures by
policymakers to stem its slide. The RBI raised two  interest
rates  in July to increase shorter term borrowing costs and
capped cash injections into the banking system, seeking to curb
the supply of rupees.  Policy Stance  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s economic advisory body last
week said the nation’s monetary stance must continue until the
rupee stabilizes. Policy easing is possible subsequently if
wholesale inflation moderates, it said. Every 10 percent drop in
the rupee adds as much as 80 basis points to WPI inflation,
Nomura Holdings Inc. estimates. Rajan will keep the benchmark
 repurchase rate  at 7.25 percent, Standard Chartered Plc and
Morgan Stanley said.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards jumped 1 percent to
64.43 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts advanced 0.9 percent to 64.67. Forwards
are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.
Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  