-- Indonesia Lawmakers Pick Adityaswara for Central Bank Deputy Job
-- B y   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2013-09-16T11:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/indonesia-lawmakers-pick-adityaswara-for-central-bank-deputy-job.html
Indonesia lawmakers picked Mirza Adityaswara for Bank Indonesia’s number two job, approving an
outsider as the central bank grapples with accelerating
inflation and a sliding currency.  The parliament’s Commission XI, which oversees financial
affairs, chose Adityaswara with 32 votes out of 47, Chairman
Olly Dondokambey said in Jakarta today after the vote.
Adityaswara, chairman of the agency that guarantees bank
deposits in Indonesia, beat  Anton Gunawan , PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia’s chief economist, to the role.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  nominated the two
outside candidates after moving his finance minister  Agus Martowardojo  to head the central bank in May. The monetary
authority has since raised its benchmark interest rate by a
total 1.50 percentage points as it fights inflation at a four-year high and a rupiah at the weakest since April 2009.  Adityaswara, 48, headed capital markets and was the chief
economist at  PT Bank Mandiri (BMRI) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, before joining the deposit guarantee agency nearly three
years ago. He previously was head of equity research at Credit
Suisse Securities Indonesia and has a masters in applied finance
from Sydney’s Macquarie University.  Bringing in people from outside the central bank will help
strengthen Bank Indonesia’s board, said Edimon Ginting, a deputy
country director at the  Asian Development Bank  in Jakarta.  “The composition of the board of governors would be even
better if they had more people from the market,” Ginting said
before the decision. “BI’s challenge is to get us out from this
turbulence.”  The rupiah gained 0.3 percent to 11,378 per  U.S. dollar  by
5:34 p.m. in Jakarta, prices from local banks show. The currency
has fallen about 13 percent this quarter, the worst performer
among the 11 most-traded Asian currencies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  