-- IPhone Still Tops Android in Shopping, Thrillist CEO Says
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n
-- 2013-09-16T15:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/iphone-still-tops-android-in-shopping-thrillist-ceo-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone continues to
dominate mobile shopping even as it cedes market share to  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, said  Ben Lerer , chief executive officer of
online publisher Thrillist Media Group.  The iPhone generates about 90 percent of mobile revenue at
Thrillist, which provides daily recommendations and offers
focused on men’s interests, Lerer said today at the  Bloomberg
Next Big Thing Summit  in New York. With about half his total
sales from smartphones, the iPhone accounts for 40 percent of
his business, while Android-based phones are less than 10
percent, he said.  While devices built on Android software share many of the
same features as iPhones, the differences in customer behavior
show Google hasn’t caught up to Apple’s ability to turn users
into consumers. Android accounted for 79 percent of smartphone
shipments last quarter, compared with 13 percent for iPhones,
according to research firm IDC.  The disparity in mobile shopping has led New York-based
Thrillist to develop a higher-quality application for the
iPhone, Lerer said.  “Higher cost, higher conversion rates, higher page views -
- whatever it is, people shop differently on an iPhone,” Lerer
said. “We see totally different performance.”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , introduced its
latest iPhones last week, disappointing investors by not
unveiling a low-cost model that would better compete with
Android makers like  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   The lucrative customer behavior on an iPhone may be a sign
that app developers will keep their focus on the Apple
ecosystem, even as the company loses market share. IPhone users
simply spend more time on their phones, said Jeremy Levine, a
partner at Bessemer Venture Partners.  “I see it across Yelp, Pinterest, LinkedIn,” Levine said
in an interview after Lerer’s comments. “It’s more likely that
Android users just went into the store and bought whatever a
salesperson told them to. They have this phone but they don’t
understand what the capabilities are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Deirdre Bolton in  New York  at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  