-- Lira Jumps Most in Two Years on Syria Plan as Summers Withdraws
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-09-16T09:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/lira-jumps-most-in-two-years-on-syria-plan-as-summers-withdraws.html
The lira gained the most in almost
two years as the U.S. and Russia agreed on a plan for Turkey’s
neighbor Syria to eliminate chemical weapons and  Lawrence Summers  dropped his bid to become the Federal Reserve chairman.  The lira appreciated as much as 1.9 percent against the
dollar and traded up 1.5 percent to 1.9978 by 12:02 p.m. in
Istanbul, the most since October 2011 on a closing basis. Yields
on benchmark two-year  notes  slid 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, to 8.91 percent, set for the lowest level in
more than a month.  The agreement establishes a framework for finding, securing
and destroying Syria’s stock of poison gas. Summers would
tighten Fed policy more than  Janet Yellen , who was his main
rival to replace Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to a
Bloomberg Global Poll last week. The dollar weakened against
almost all its major peers after Summers pulled out of the race.  The “withdrawal is positive for all  emerging markets  and
an agreement on Syria is extra positive for Turkey,” Burcin Metin, the Istanbul-based head of  currency trading  at ING Bank
AS, wrote in e-mailed comments yesterday.  The lira pared its losses in the past three months to 6.9
percent, the steepest depreciation among the European, the
Middle Eastern and African currrencies monitored by Bloomberg.  Turkey’s central bank said it would sell at least $180
million for liras in an auction today. It refrained from holding
a one-week repurchase agreements auction today as part of the
additional tightening measures outlined by the regulator to
support the Turkish currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  