-- Lithuania Regulates Shale-Gas Work, Chevron Tender Advances
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-09-16T12:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/lithuania-regulates-shale-gas-works-as-chevron-tender-advances.html
Lithuania strengthened
environmental restrictions for using shale-gas and shale-oil
technologies as a state body recommended the Baltic country
issue a first license for such work to  Chevron Corp. (CVX)   New regulations, among other things, require an
environmental impact study and public consultations before
exploration can start, the  Environment Ministry  in Vilnius said
on its website. It said a tender commission today suggested the
government grant rights to the U.S. energy company’s local unit
because “legally no other decision is possible.”  Chevron submitted the only bid in a January tender for
shale-hydrocarbon exploration and production rights in the
western Lithuanian region of Silute-Taurage. The country wants
to develop shale resources as an alternative to energy imports
from  Russia . Some local communities oppose the technology as
environmentally unsafe.  “Chevron hopes that its work helping Lithuania find and
utilize hydrocarbon resources will facilitate the country’s goal
of energy security,” Chevron Exploration & Production Lietuva
UAB said of the tender commission’s decision in a statement on
ELTA news service.  Once the government names Chevron the winner of the tender,
the company will have 30 days to pay the price it offered for
the license and confirm it’s still interested, Environment
Minister Valentinas Mazuronis said in an interview on Sept. 5.  Lithuania plans to revise a law that currently taxes
proceeds from shale-gas production at a rate of 25 percent, news
portal Vz.lt cited Mazuronis as saying today. The minister said
a 40 percent tariff proposed to parliament was too high and the
government would seek a compromise somewhere between that and
the current rate, Vz.lt reported.  Chevron last year bought half of the Lithuanian oil and gas
recovery company LL Investicijos, which holds a license to
explore in Rietavas, an area contiguous to the Silute-Taurage
block, according to the company’s  Lithuanian website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  