-- Liverpool Ties Swansea as Shelvey Plays Role in All Four Goals
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-17T00:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/liverpool-draws-with-swansea-to-return-to-premier-league-summit.html
Jonjo Shelvey played a part in all
four goals as his former club Liverpool returned to the top of
English soccer’s Premier League with a 2-2 draw at Swansea.  Shelvey, who joined Swansea in July after three seasons
with the Reds, opened the scoring at the Liberty Stadium last
night before misplacing two passes to set up goals for
Liverpool’s Daniel Sturridge and Victor Moses. Shelvey headed
the ball on for Michu to tie the game in the 64th minute.  “It’s a bit of a relief but I feel I’ve given Liverpool a
draw really,” Shelvey said in a televised interview. “I just
want to say sorry to the Swansea fans for two bad mistakes.”  The draw ended Liverpool’s 100 percent start in the league,
though it regained the top spot in the standings with 10 points,
one more than London rivals Arsenal and Tottenham through four
games. Swansea has four points in 13th place.  The Welsh club took a second-minute lead when midfielder
Shelvey curled a left-foot shot into the corner. Two minutes
later, Sturridge cut off Shelvey’s pass back to his goalkeeper
and fired into the net to become the first player to score in
each of Liverpool’s first four games of a Premier League season.  In the 36th minute, Shelvey’s misplaced pass went to on-loan forward Moses, who ran from near the halfway line to the
edge of the penalty box before drilling a low shot past Swansea
goalie Michel Vorm to put the visitor 2-1 up.  Shelvey’s flicked header set up Michu to sweep a first-time
shot past Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet with 26 minutes
left. Mignolet then saved a free kick from Shelvey and Swansea
substitute Jonathan De Guzman twice went close.  “I was disappointed with their second goal and then the
momentum changed for the last 25 minutes and we had to show
character and resilience,” said Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers. “But we showed our game is getting better and we have
the character to get a lot of results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  