-- Jones Day, Gibson Dunn, Wilson Sonsini: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/jones-day-gibson-dunn-wilson-sonsini-business-of-law.html
Maria Luisa Canovas, formerly of
Hogan Lovells LLP, joined the  New York  office of Jones Day as a
partner in the mergers and acquisitions practice.  Canovas’s practice focuses on mergers and acquisitions,
joint ventures and energy transactions, and her clients include
major multinational companies and individual investors, as well
as private investment funds, venture capital groups and their
portfolio companies. She has experience advising U.S. clients on
their investments in Latin America. She also advises clients on
financing alternatives and exit strategies as well as on
corporate workouts and restructurings.  “She will work closely with the partners and clients of
our Mexico City and Sao Paulo offices, as well as of our Madrid
office and our recently opened Miami office,” Wesley Johnson,
partner-in-charge of Jones Day New York, said in a statement.
“Her experience and recognition in the Latin American market
makes her a great asset to the strong team we already have in
place advising clients on transactions in the region.”  Jones Day has 40 offices in business and finance centers
throughout the world.  Former California U.S. Attorney Stevens Joins Gibson Dunn  Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP said Charles J. Stevens
rejoined the firm in the San Francisco office as a partner.  Stevens, a former U.S. attorney, was the founding partner
of Stevens, O’Connell & Jacobs, a litigation boutique focused on
government investigations, which combined with DLA Piper LLP in
2011. Most recently, Stevens has been a mediator with JAMS,
focusing on matters involving government claims, such as the
False Claims Act and teaching a mediation course at University
of  California , Davis Law School.  At Gibson Dunn, Stevens will practice in the areas of
government and internal investigations, white collar defense and
related complex civil litigation.  “He is an outstanding lawyer with a stellar reputation
both in Northern California and nationally,” Ken Doran,
chairman and managing partner of Gibson Dunn, said in a
statement. “Expanding the firm’s white collar practice is a
priority for the firm, and the addition of a partner with
Chuck’s strong background and stature both in private practice
and as a U.S. attorney is a tremendous step toward expanding our
white collar and litigation capability.”  Stevens became a partner at the firm in 1990, after working
as an assistant U.S. attorney in the public corruption and
government contract fraud unit in the Central District of
California in Los Angeles.  In 1993, he was appointed U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of California by President Clinton. Among other
matters, he coordinated the indictment of the Unabomber.  After leaving the U.S. Attorney’s Office, Stevens and
another former U.S. attorney founded the boutique litigation
firm, Stevens, O’Connell & Jacobs, which focused on government
and internal investigations.  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers and 18 offices in
the Americas, Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Natural Gas Lawyer Natalie Regoli Joins Baker & McKenzie  Natalie Regoli joined Baker & McKenzie LLP’s North America
banking, finance and major projects practice as a partner in
Houston.  Regoli, who will be a part of the energy, mining and
infrastructure practice, was previously at  Angola  Marketing
Ltd., which is part of the Angola LNG Project group of
companies. She has experience advising on the lifecycle of
liquefied natural gas projects, including recently working as
the lead lawyer managing a $15 billion LNG facility in Angola.  As an in-house lawyer, Regoli was responsible for legal
matters related to the Angola LNG facility. She also has
experience in the negotiation and drafting of engineering,
procurement and construction contracts and with sale and
purchase agreements.  “The emergence of shale gas in North America in recent
years has caused a significant shift in the global energy market
and spawned considerable investments in LNG export facilities in
the U.S.” David Hackett, chairman of Baker’s North America
banking, finance and major projects practice, said in a
statement. “Natalie has very unique experience in the U.S. and
global LNG area.”  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,100 lawyers in 74 offices
in 46 countries.  Proskauer Adds to Private Investment Funds Practice in Asia  Proskauer Rose LLP said Yong Ren joined the firm’s global
private investment funds group as a partner in the Beijing
office.  He comes from Mayer Brown LLP, where his practice focused
on representing private equity, hedge funds, funds of funds,
venture capital, distressed opportunities, mezzanine and real
estate firms in the U.S., Asia and Europe.  Ren represents clients in private investment funds from
formation to management and compliance. He also advises China-based general partners on establishing funds and related
regulatory matters.  Proskauer has offices in the Americas, Asia and Europe.  Squire Sanders Hires Financial Services Team in Sydney  Squire Sanders LLP expanded its financial services practice
group with the hiring of partner Tom Lennox, who joins the
firm’s Sydney office with two additional lawyers from
DibbsBarker.  A structured finance specialist, Lennox has experience
within the aviation and real estate sectors. The two other
attorneys have experience in structured finance, particularly in
the areas of asset finance and project finance.  “With the recent hire of Josh Clarke in Perth and the
Lennox team in Sydney, we now have finance capabilities spanning
 Australia ,” John Poulsen, Australian managing partner of Squire
Sanders, said in a statement. “We are looking to expand our
services in a number of key areas where we are experiencing
client demand.”  Lennox spent 19 years at Mallesons, where he was partner in
charge of the firm’s Sydney and Hong Kong offices. He was
general counsel for Allco Finance Group before joining
DibbsBarker in 2009.  Squire Sanders has more than 1,300 lawyers in 39 offices in
19 countries.  Deals  Twitter Sets Market Debut in Motion With SEC Filing for IPO  Twitter Inc., the microblogging service with more than 200
million members worldwide, filed to go public Sept. 12, moving
closer to the most highly anticipated offering since Facebook
Inc.  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC was San Francisco-based
Twitter’s lead law firm, according to the Wall Street Journal,
which sited people familiar with the matter. A call and an e-mail to Wilson Sonsini for comment weren’t immediately returned.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will be the lead underwriter for
the initial public offering, according to people with knowledge
of the matter who asked not to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Twitter -- which disclosed it had
filed to go public in one of its 140-character messages known as
a tweet -- didn’t say when it may complete its market debut, or
how much it plans to raise.  A public listing marks a watershed moment in Twitter’s
journey from its 2006 beginning as a way for Web users to
publish short messages, to a megaphone for hundreds of millions
of members worldwide to join conversations on global affairs,
sports and entertainment. Chief Executive Officer Dick Costolo
will need to convince investors that the offering will fare
better than Internet IPOs from Facebook, Groupon Inc. and Zynga
Inc., which all lost more than half their value within six
months of their listings.  Twitter didn’t give insight into its financials because the
company filed confidentially with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups,
or JOBS, Act. Under the rule, companies with less than $1
billion in annual revenue can submit IPO filings without making
their S-1 prospectus public until shortly before the sale.  Vijaya Gadde, a former lawyer for Wilson Sonsini was
promoted to general counsel on Aug. 30.  For more, click here.  Milbank Advises Underwriters in Verizon $49 Billion Bond Sale  Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP said it represented the
underwriters for  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s $49 billion bond
sale, the largest corporate debt offering on record.  Milbank’s deal team was led by global securities partners
Robert W. Mullen Jr. and Paul Denaro. Milbank has been
underwriter counsel on other major debt transactions for
Verizon. Also working on the transaction were London-based
global securities partner Timothy Peterson and New York-based
tax partner Andrew Walker.  Demand for Verizon bonds is being bolstered by investors
seeking to align their holdings with debt indexes after the
phone carrier doubled its notes outstanding with the record $49
billion offering.  Prices on Verizon debt have soared with the issuer poised
to climb to the fourth-largest borrower from 12th on the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index. The $45 billion of
fixed-coupon securities in the sale may increase the New York-based company’s weighting on the Barclays U.S. Corporate
Investment-Grade Index to 2.25 percent from 1 percent.  Verizon’s sale was managed by Barclays Plc, Bank of
America, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley, the company
said in regulatory  filings . The underwriters were paid $265.3
million in fees.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Bradley Arant Names Managing Partner of Charlotte Office  Bradley Arant Boult Cummings LLP named Dana C. Lumsden
managing partner of the firm’s  Charlotte , North Carolina,
office. Lumsden is a member of the firm’s litigation department
and financial services and intellectual property practice
groups.  Dana “has served Bradley Arant Boult Cummings in many
leadership capacities and is well suited to this new
responsibility overseeing our work in Charlotte,” firm Chairman
Beau Grenier said in a statement.  Lumsden focuses his practice on business litigation,
including intellectual property disputes, securities and
commodities litigation, investigations and enforcement
proceedings, and the resolution of regulatory controversies
concerning consumer financial services.  Bradley Arant has more than 440 attorneys in seven the
southeastern U.S. offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  