-- JPMorgan Says Stress Test Shows Lender Can Survive Shock
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-09-16T22:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/jpmorgan-says-stress-test-shows-lender-can-survive-severe-shock.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
 U.S. bank , said internal stress tests show the company would
come through an economic crisis with more than enough capital to
stay in business.  JPMorgan’s Tier 1 common  ratio  would be at least 8.5
percent in a scenario designed to measure how the firm would
perform during a severe crunch, the New York-based bank said
today in a presentation on its website.  The bank would show a net loss before taxes of $0.3 billion
from the second quarter of 2013 through the middle of 2015, with
$32.1 billion in loan losses and $17.5 billion in trading and
counterparty losses.  The biggest U.S. banks must run their own tests on how they
would fare during a crisis to supplement those conducted by the
 Federal Reserve  six months earlier. The central bank reports
results each March based on different economic assumptions. The
most recent round showed 17 of the 18 largest firms surviving a
deep recession.  JPMorgan said it would have been more conservative in its
assumptions if it had been able to incorporate feedback from the
Federal Reserve before running the results in late March.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Bank of America Corp.,  Wells
Fargo & Co . and Citigroup Inc. also concluded their firms would
ride out a shock.  Goldman Sachs said it could handle a crisis that sends
stocks down 40 percent and produces $20 billion in trading
losses for the firm. Bank of America, ranked second by assets
among U.S. lenders, foresaw a $26.1 billion cumulative deficit.
Citigroup, ranked third by assets, found it would exceed capital
minimums even after sustaining about $43 billion in loan losses
and $10 billion in trading and counterparty losses.  Goldman Sachs and Citigroup are based in  New York . Bank of
America has its headquarters in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  JPMorgan’s stock advanced 1.1 percent today to $53.14,
bringing the gain for this year to 21 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  