-- JSE May End Travel-Cost Fee for Biggest S. Africa Wheat Area
-- B y   T s h e p i s o   M o k h e m a
-- 2013-09-16T11:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/jse-may-end-travel-cost-fee-for-biggest-s-africa-wheat-area-1-.html
JSE Ltd. (JSE) , which manages South
Africa’s agricultural futures exchange, said it may stop
deducting transport costs from every metric ton of wheat sold by
farmers in the nation’s biggest region for the grain.  The location differential is applied to contracts to show
the cost of moving stock from any one of 198 registered silos to
Randfontein in the Gauteng province, the point from which the
amount to be subtracted is calculated. This will rise 33 percent
to 560 rand ($57) a ton from Oct. 1, when the new season starts,
for farmers in the Western Cape, where 46 percent of wheat is
grown. Grain South Africa, the biggest farmers’ body, said the
increase would curb profit and output.  “Grain  South Africa  are busy working on a proposal and we
are also consulting various players, leading up to something we
want to put out to our advisory committee which meets on Oct.
17,” Chris Sturgess, commodities derivatives director at the
JSE, said on Sept. 13 in Johannesburg. “The key question is: Do
we do away with differentials for the Western Cape or not? Or,
what are the other alternatives? At the moment there are lots of
consultations ongoing.”  South Africa is a net importer of wheat and sub-Saharan
Africa’s largest producer of the grain after  Ethiopia , as well
as the region’s biggest importer after Nigeria and  Sudan ,
according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.  In April last year, Grain South  Africa , which represents
about 7,000 farmers, said the JSE should stop using the
differential and allow the market to find its own transport-pricing levels.  South African wheat for delivery in December, the most
active contract, declined for a fourth day, losing 0.4 percent
to 3,345 rand a ton, the lowest since Aug. 19, by the midday
close in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tshepiso Mokhema in Johannesburg at 
 tmokhema@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  