-- Julius Baer to Pictet Say Summers Exit Spurs Emerging Assets
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-16T21:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/julius-baer-to-pictet-see-summers-exit-boosting-emerging-assets.html
Investors from Bank Julius Baer &
Co. to Pictet Asset Management predict emerging-market assets
will extend gains after  Lawrence Summers  pulled out of
contention to be the next Federal Reserve chairman.  The former  Treasury Secretary  would have reined in Fed
stimulus faster than  Janet Yellen , his main rival to replace  Ben S. Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll last week. The
central bank’s monthly bond-buying program, which fueled demand
for higher-yielding assets worldwide, will probably be cut to
$75 billion from $85 billion at a review this week, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed Sept. 6 by Bloomberg.  “The stage is being set for emerging markets to do better
and the Summers thing in the short-term can provide some
boost,” Stefan Hofer, an economist at Bank Julius Baer, which
oversees $406 billion of client assets globally, said in a phone
interview.  Asia  offers the best prospects as there is the added
benefit of an improving Chinese economy, he said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said he accepted Summers’
decision. Summers was one of three candidates mentioned by Obama
as possible replacements for Bernanke, whose term as Fed
chairman ends on Jan. 31. Yellen, the current Fed vice chairman,
was also on the list along with  Donald Kohn , a former Fed vice
chairman.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.5 percent to the
highest level in three months, as stock gauges in  Indonesia , the
Philippines, Thailand and Turkey advanced more than 2.7 percent.
Nineteen out of 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg advanced.  Hawk, Dove  “In the perception of the market, Summers was a hawk and
Yellen a dove,” Jan Dehn, London-based head of research at
Ashmore Investment Management, which has $77.4 billion under
management in  emerging markets , said by e-mail. “In reality, it
is pretty irrelevant who becomes Fed chair, but having swung one
way too far, the market must now swing back the other way.”  Net outflows from emerging-market equity funds peaked at
$20.26 billion in June after Bernanke told Congress on May 22
the central bank could scale back the pace of its mortgage bond
and Treasuries purchases if the  U.S. economy  showed sustained
improvement, according to data of EPFR Global. Some $2.44
billion left developing-nation equities in July and another
$9.15 billion in August, the data show.  The market was prepared “for Summers to come in as the new
chairman, and a lot of those positions are now unwinding,”
according to Pang Cheng Duan, head of fixed income at Manulife
Asset Management ( Singapore ) Pte, whose parent company manages
$247 billion globally.  FOMC Meeting  The Fed’s Federal Open Market Committee will hold a two-day
meeting that will start tomorrow to review monetary policy.  With market expectations adjusting to less-aggressive
reduction in the Fed’s stimulus, it should lower the immediate
risk of capital outflows from Asia, according to a research note
written by  Rob Subbaraman , a Singapore-based economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. It will provide “significant relief” for nations
with current-account deficits such as India and Indonesia and to
a lesser extent Malaysia and Thailand, he wrote.  “Today, it is mainly the current-account deficit countries
that benefit from the Summers news,” Maarten-Jan Bakkum, a
senior emerging-market strategist at ING Investment Management
in The Hague, said by e-mail. ING Investment Management oversees
about $13.4 billion in emerging markets.  India, Turkey  India’s S&P BSE Sensex gained 0.1 percent, its first
advance in three days, while the benchmark  stock index  in
Turkey, which posted a larger-than-estimated current account
deficit in July, surged 3.7 percent.  “For emerging markets, you can see the re-emergence of
some of the higher quality carry trades on the back of a
prospect for lower rates for longer,” after Summers’ withdrawal
as a candidate to lead the Fed, Masha Gordon, who oversees $2
billion in assets as the London-based head of emerging-market
equities at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in phone
interview from  London  today.  The JPMorgan Emerging Markets Currency Index was 5.4
percent lower at the end of last week than on May 22 and a
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Bond Index dropped 8.5 percent for the
period. The gauges rallied at least 1.2 percent each last week.  “The tapering would probably be at a gradual pace,” Wee-Ming Ting, the Singapore-based head of Asian fixed income at
Pictet Asset Management, which oversees $24.3 billion in
emerging-market bonds globally, said by phone. “People are
worried about Summers’s hawkish stance. With his withdrawal, the
market is expecting a higher probability that Yellen will be the
next Fed chairman.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  