-- Julius Baer Integration Chief Says Merrill Transfer on Track
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-09-16T16:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/julius-baer-integration-chief-says-merrill-transfer-on-track.html
Julius Baer  Group Ltd., the Swiss
bank founded in 1890, said it’s on track to absorb as much as 72
billion francs ($78 billion) of client assets after acquiring
 Bank of America Corp. ’s non-U.S. wealth units last year.  “We’re in that range that has been communicated, I think
between 57 and 72” billion francs of managed assets, Nic
Dreckmann, global head of integration at Julius Baer, said in an
interview at the  Euroforum Private Banking Summit  in Zurich.  Dreckmann declined to comment on whether the total assets
brought over from Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch international
wealth units would be near the top or the bottom of that range.  Julius Baer is making acquisitions to compete with larger
UBS AG and  Credit Suisse AG. (CSGN)  While Zurich-based Julius Baer has
already reported 47 billion francs of funds under management
from Merrill Lynch clients as of July 22, the Merrill business
was unprofitable in 2011 and may increase pressure on its margin
in the second half, the firm has said.  Julius Baer reiterated in July it plans to eliminate more
than 1,000 jobs at the combined businesses as it seeks to boost
earnings from the Merrill transaction by 2015. The amount of
assets accepted from Merrill Lynch clients affects the firm’s
cost-cutting plans, Dreckmann said today.  “At one point in time, if we’re only coming in at 50
billion and we all expected 70, of course, we would need to put
some cost measures in place,” he said. “As of today, we’re
focusing on getting all the assets in.”  Julius Baer previously said it expected to pay about 860
million francs for the units. Expenses related to the deal may
be about 455 million francs, up from an estimated 400 million
francs because of higher costs related to transferring clients
to the Swiss bank’s systems, it said in July.  Julius Baer is unlikely to recoup its investment in the
business known as IWM before 2022, Alevizos Alevizakos, an
analyst with Mediobanca SpA in  London , said in a Sept. 5 report.  “While we appreciate the importance of the IWM acquisition
for the long-term future of Julius Baer, we question the short-term benefits for the shareholders,” Alevizakos wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  