-- K+S Rises as Analysts Say Potash Price War May Be Averted
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-09-16T09:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/k-s-rises-as-analysts-say-potash-price-war-may-be-averted.html
K+S AG (SDF)  rose to a seven-week high in
Frankfurt trading in a third consecutive day of gains after
analysts at Sberbank CIB predicted that a potash price war may
be averted.  K+S gained as much as 4.9 percent to 23.70 euros and was
trading up 2.5 percent at 23.15 euros at 11:33 a.m., the highest
based on closing prices since July 29. Volume was 58 percent of
the three-month daily average after two hours of trading. A 45
percent jump from a five-year low on Aug. 6 means that short-sellers of the stock are being squeezed to close their
positions.  New owners of  Russia ’s  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the world’s biggest
producer of the crop nutrient, will probably restore a
relationship with Belarus’s Belaruskali and return to a previous
strategy that propped up prices, Irina Lapshina and Alexander
Levinskiy, analysts at Sberbank CIB, said today in a report to
investors.  Shares of potash producers around the world fell on July 29
after Uralkali’s Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner
said he would exit a joint marketing venture with Belaruskali
and predicted that potash prices may tumble 25 percent. Kassel,
Germany-based K+S’s stock lost 40 percent in the six days
following the Russian competitor’s comment, reaching 15.92 euros
on Aug. 6, the lowest since October 2006.  Uralkali Leadership  Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan, a longtime ally of
President Vladimir Putin, is the leading bidder for Berezniki-based Uralkali, seeking to buy out its three main shareholders,
people familiar with the situation said earlier this month. Such
a transaction would give him a stake that’s enough to maintain
operational control.  Talks on a change of ownership at Uralkali began after
Belarus arrested CEO Baumgertner on Aug. 26, saying he abused
his office as president of the Belarusian Potash Co. joint
trading venture, the people said.  Investors have been betting on K+S’s decline since
Uralkali’s announcement at the end of July. The biggest and most
recent short position is held by hedge fund Viking Global
Investors LP, which has a down bet on 4.1 percent of the German
potash producer’s shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Viking increased its bet that K+S’s shares will fall, in a
Sept. 13 filing, the data shows. In contrast ZBI Equities LLC
and VTB Capital have been purchasing stock, reducing their short
positions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  