-- Kerimov Sellout From Uralkali Seen Failing to Boost Potash Price
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-09-16T12:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/kerimov-sellout-from-uralkali-seen-failing-to-boost-potash-price.html
Approaches to buy out  OAO
Uralkali (URKA) ’s billionaire owners prompted speculation that the
world’s biggest potash producer may resume a marketing venture
that controlled over more than 40 percent of global exports.  A reunion would come too late to boost prices in the $20
billion market for the crop nutrient in the next year, according
to analysts at VTB Capital and BCS Financial Group in Moscow.  Uralkali pulled out of its joint trader with Belaruskali in
late July, accusing Belarus of selling potash outside the
partnership. Belarus responded by arresting Uralkali Chief
Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner and seeking the arrest
of shareholder billionaire Suleiman Kerimov. Reports of a
potential sale by Kerimov have boosted potash producers’ stock.  “There is no reason for this optimism,” VTB Capital’s
Elena Sakhnova said by phone today. “Even if Kerimov sells, it
will take time for a new owner to agree on terms of cooperation
with Belarus. Even assuming the cartel will be back, it won’t
help the market to recover quickly.” Sakhnova is Institutional
Investor magazine’s top-ranked Russian industrial analyst.  Kerimov, who leads the group of Uralkali’s controlling
owners, entered discussions with several potential bidders for
Uralkali after Belarus arrested Baumgertner on Aug. 26. The CEO
was accused by authorities in Minsk of abuse of office as the
chairman of Belarusian Potash Co., the joint trading venture.  KGB Prison  Baumgertner, who is being held in a KGB prison, said the
end of the venture may erode prices. Uralkali said it would dump
its strategy of pursuing price over volume as the BPC venture
had done and instead increase production to capture a larger
market share. The spot price for potash in China, the largest
user, has since dropped to $325 a ton from $350 in July,
according to data from Uralkali.  Belaruskali won’t renew cooperation with Uralkali unless
the Russian producer changes its strategy or owner, Belaruskali
CEO Valery Kirienko said on Aug. 19. Belarus President  Aleksandr
Lukashenko  said last week he expects  Russia  to approach Belarus
in an effort to restore cooperation in marketing potash. Belarus
is seeking the arrest of four other Uralkali employees as well
as Kerimov.  Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan, a longtime ally of
President  Vladimir Putin , is seen as the leading bidder for
Uralkali, three people familiar with situation said on Sept. 13.
OAO Rosneft, Russia’s largest  oil company , may outbid Kogan, RIA
Novosti reported yesterday, citing a person familiar with
situation. Vedomosti newspaper said today the buyer may be
state-owned Rosneftegaz, which holds Russia’s stake in Rosneft.  ‘For Now’  Rosneft is lead by CEO  Igor Sechin , another longstanding
associate of Putin, who was a deputy prime minister before his
appointment at the oil company. Sechin said Rosneft doesn’t have
an interest in the potash business “for now,” Interfax
reported late yesterday.  A spokesman for Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva investment holding
company, Anton Averin, declined to comment when contacted by
 Bloomberg News .  Simply changing the ownership at Uralkali may fail to
return the balance of power in the potash market to where it was
before Baumgertner ended the alliance with Belarus, said Robert Chapman, the founder of Chapman Capital LLC in  Manhattan Beach ,
 California .  ‘BPC’s Dead’  “BPC is dead no matter who buys Kerimov’s stake,” Chapman
said in e-mailed comments. “It wasn’t working well before, as
evidenced by Uralkali’s 40 percent first-half Ebitda decline.”  Uralkali’s market share fell to 17 percent in the first
half from 22 percent a year earlier as a result of pursuing a
“price over volume strategy,” a Sept. 10 presentation by the
company shows.  Potash spot prices may remain at about $320 a ton in  China 
and average $370 globally at least until the end of the first
half of 2014, according to VTB’s Sakhnova. Should the two former
Soviet Union producers restore their marketing venture, they
will need to idle some capacity and also sell at prices below
the levels achieved before the BPC break up, she said.  “Kerimov deformed the market and it won’t get back to
where it was quickly,” said Kirill Chuyko, head of equity
research at BCS Financial Group in Moscow. “Key people from BPC
have left Minsk because of the fear they would be arrested for
no reason. It will be hard to persuade them to return.”  The partners would need to negotiate a new venture, rather
than restore BPC, and reaching an agreement would take time,
Chuyko said today by phone.  Risking Money  Any new Uralkali owner will be taking a risk with his
money, given the unpredictable outlook for potash prices, Boris Krasnojenov, a mining analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow,
said last week.  Uralkali’s withdrawal from the BPC venture sent global
potash companies shares down by more than 20 percent.
Speculation that Kerimov will sell out has helped stocks
recover. The stock jumped as much as 7.3 percent in Moscow today
and traded up 5.2 percent by 4:40 p.m., while  K+S AG (SDF)  stock
advanced 2.5 percent in  Frankfurt .  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan
Inc. gained 2.2 percent in  New York  on Sept. 13 as Mosaic Co.
added 3.6 percent.  Billionaires including OAO Russneft owner  Mikhail Gutseriev , Vladimir Evtushenkov and Arkady Rotenberg have been
linked with bids for Kerimov’s 22 percent Uralkali holding,
Forbes Russia and Kommersant reported earlier this month.
Evtushenkov told the Interfax news service he wasn’t in talks to
buy Kerimov’s stake, and declined to comment when called by
Bloomberg. Gutseriev didn’t respond to requests for comment.
Andrey Baturin, Rotenberg’s spokesman, declined to comment on
the reports, saying they were “just a rumor.”  New shareholders may calm the dispute with Belarus,
according to Irina Lapshina, a Sberbank CIB analyst in Moscow.  “We believe that the new owners will likely restore the
relationship with Belaruskali fairly quickly and get Uralkali
back on its previous strategy of price over volumes, ending the
potential price war on the potash market,” Lapshina said in a
report today.  Uralkali’s press service declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  