-- Kerry Says U.S. Isn’t Wavering on Seeking Assad’s Ouster
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s ,   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-09-16T22:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/kerry-says-u-s-isn-t-wavering-on-seeking-assad-s-ouster.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said
the U.S. isn’t softening its opposition to Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad by making a deal that envisions his cooperation
in securing and eliminating Syrian chemical weapons over the
next nine months.  Speaking to reporters in Paris shortly before a  United
Nations  report confirmed the use in  Syria  of the nerve agent
sarin, Kerry said yesterday that there’s no conflict between
sending international chemical-weapons experts to work with
Assad’s regime and the “strategic goal” of ending his rule.  The deal, which calls for Syria to eliminate its chemical
arsenal by mid-2014, has been criticized by Republican Senator
 John McCain  as raising the possibility that Assad “is now our
negotiating partner, and that he can go on slaughtering innocent
civilians.” The  Arizona  Republican favors U.S. military
strikes.  “Nothing in what we have done is meant to offer any notion
to Assad that there’s some legitimacy to his process, that he
has some extended period as a leader, so-called,” Kerry said.
“We remain committed to the opposition and committed to the
Geneva process, which calls for a transition government. That’s
our end strategic goal.”  The U.S.-Russian deal reached in Geneva Sept. 14, which
lifted the threat of imminent U.S. military strikes, doesn’t
constrain Assad’s use of conventional weapons, including
artillery and aircraft, which are responsible for most of the
more than 100,000 deaths in the 2 1/2-year-old civil war.  Russia’s Agenda  Russia , Syria’s longtime ally and arms supplier, may
benefit from an agreement giving Assad time to strengthen his
position with the help of Russian arms and fighters from  Iran 
and the Lebanese Hezbollah militia.  “It’s not that the Russians will be duplicitous,” Robert Lieber, a professor of government and international affairs at
 Georgetown University , said in an interview. “If they make a
commitment, more often than not they will keep it. The intent of
their commitments is the issue.”  Kerry discussed the U.S.-Russia deal with his counterparts
from  France  and the U.K. hours before UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon made public yesterday the report of a UN inspection
team. It found “clear and convincing evidence” that sarin was
used in an Aug. 21 attack near Syria’s capital of Damascus. At
least 29 of 34 blood samples and 14 of 15 urine samples tested
positive for sarin exposure, the report said.  “The results are overwhelming and indisputable,” Ban told
the  Security Council , according to a  statement  from his office.
“The facts speak for themselves.”  Independent Evidence  While the inspectors provided detailed independent evidence
of sarin use, their UN mandate didn’t extend to placing
responsibility for the war crime, one of the worst atrocities of
the civil war.  Even so, the scientists’ documentation of the delivery by
surface-to-surface rockets points to the government rather than
its lesser-armed opposition, U.S., U.K. and French envoys to the
UN told reporters after the council was briefed by Ban and Ake
Sellstrom, the head of the inspection team that went to Syria.  Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador, said the report’s
technical details make “clear only the regime could have
carried out” the attack, which the U.S. says killed at least
1,400 people, including 400 children. The trajectory of the
rockets and their penetration into buildings showed they were
shot with “great precision” by Assad’s forces, said Alexis
Lamek, the French deputy envoy to the UN.  Oil Declines  Their Russian counterpart, Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin , said
his council colleagues were jumping to conclusions and more
experts need to take time to review the evidence.  The waning likelihood of U.S. military action has led to
lower  oil prices . West Texas Intermediate crude fell to a three-week low yesterday. WTI crude for October delivery decreased
$1.62 to $106.59 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest settlement since Aug. 26.  “The last few weeks, the market has been in a Syria-headline-driven bubble,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “Now that the talk has gone from hawkish to
dovish, the Syria premium is getting excised from the market.”  All Options  The U.S., France and the U.K. are pushing for a tough UN
resolution requiring compliance, with Kerry and his counterparts
insisting that the Security Council maintain the threat of an
armed response if Syria backslides on the accord. Syria will
conduct itself with “honesty and transparency,” Deputy Foreign
Minister Faisal al-Mekdad said, according to the state-run Sana
news agency.  France insists that “all options must remain on the table
if declarations are not followed up with acts on the ground,”
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said yesterday following
his meeting with Kerry and U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague .  The Security Council won’t vote on a resolution before the
Geneva accord is reviewed by the executive council of the
Organization for Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the world body
that administers the Chemical Weapons Convention banning such
arms, Mark Lyall Grant, the U.K. envoy to the UN, told reporters
in  New York . The organization may do that this week, he said.  Rebels fighting for regime change criticized the accord as
conceding too much to Assad, who inherited control of Syria in
2000 when his father died after 29 years in power. One question
is whether the deal leads Assad to believe he can remain in
power at least until elections due next year, when he could try
to show a mandate in elections he would control or try to set up
a successor to protect the regime.  ‘Negotiating Partner’  McCain said in a Sept. 14 statement joined by  Senator
Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican, that treating Assad
as “our negotiating partner” would be “morally and
strategically indefensible.”  In Paris, Fabius said there “is no contradiction at all”
between the two goals asserted by Kerry. Losing chemical weapons
will weaken Assad and encourage his government to participate in
negotiations for a political transition, Fabius said.  “We understand that removing the chemical weapons still
leaves him with artillery and airplanes and he uses them
indiscriminately against his people,” Kerry said. “We are
going to do everything in our power to continue to push towards
the political resolution that is so critical to ending that
violence.”  Saudi Views  While expressing support for the opposition, Kerry, Fabius
and Hague didn’t commit to stepping up arms deliveries.
President  Barack Obama  issued a directive yesterday clearing the
way for vetted rebel groups and international aid organizations
to get equipment and training to defend against chemical
weapons.  In  Saudi Arabia , which has taken the lead in sending arms
to the rebels, the government called for increased
“international support for the Syrian opposition,” according
to a cabinet statement issued though the official Saudi Press
Agency. The Saudis blamed Syrian “intransigence” for
strengthening “extremist movements” in the country that
threaten regional and international security.  Diplomats will try at the UN General Assembly later this
month to set a date for an intra-Syrian peace congress. Efforts
to get Assad and the opposition talking have failed since world
powers met in Geneva in June 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Paris at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in United Nations at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  