-- Keystone XL Pipeline Pollution Is Manageable, Harper Says
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-09-16T18:44:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/keystone-xl-pipeline-pollution-is-manageable-harper-says.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said the U.S. should approve the Keystone XL pipeline
because it does little environmental damage and will benefit the
economies of the world’s largest trading partners.  “We continue to be open to working with our American
partners,” Harper told reporters today near Vancouver. The
project’s “environmental impacts are manageable and not
significant,” Harper said, adding “the project will enhance
 energy security  for North America.”  Harper wrote to U.S. President  Barack Obama  last month to
ease environmental concerns about Keystone, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Obama said in a June speech
Keystone shouldn’t be approved if it were found to
“significantly exacerbate” greenhouse-gas emissions.  The pipeline linking Alberta’s oil sands to U.S. Gulf Coast
refineries was proposed by Calgary-based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  five
years ago and must be approved by Obama after a State Department
review.  Harper also said his country remains open to foreign
investment after setting some restrictions on how state-owned
corporations can bid on oil sands assets.  “We favor a diverse and competitive business
environment,” Harper said. He also said state-owned
corporations will remain a part of government’s foreign
investment strategy.  Harper restricted foreign takeovers by state-owned
corporations in Alberta’s oil sands to “exceptional
circumstances” in December when he approved  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1
billion takeover of Nexen Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  