-- Kirkland Opens in Beijing After Tripling China Lawyers
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2013-09-16T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/kirkland-opens-in-beijing-after-tripling-china-lawyers.html
Kirkland & Ellis LLP, the Chicago-based  law firm  that has more than tripled its lawyers in China
since 2011, opened a Beijing office saying it expects more work
with initial share sale and private equity clients.  “We’re committed to China long term and this complements
our  Hong Kong  and Shanghai offices,” said partner Chuan Li, who
heads Kirkland’s Shanghai office and will now spend at least
half the week in Beijing.  Kirkland hired eight partners in Hong Kong including David Zhang from Latham & Watkins LLP two years ago, when the city was
in the midst of a capital markets boom. Initial share sales,
which tumbled from a record $58 billion in 2010 to $8 billion
last year and $6.1 billion year-to-date according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, should pick up by year-end, Zhang said.  “Next year will definitely be better than this year,” he
said, citing improving valuations as concerns about investing in
Chinese companies are overcome and the economy’s growth picks
up. Zhang and Li also saw continued activity in mergers and
acquisitions and private equity deals.  “Cross-border transactional activity between greater  China 
and the rest of the world continues to grow,” Jeffrey C. Hammes, chairman of the firm’s global management executive
committee, said in a statement.  Tudou, Sinopec      Spokeswoman Kate Slaasted declined to comment on the
financial performance of the Hong Kong office since its 2011
expansion. Kirkland won’t initially hire new lawyers for
Beijing, and will move three of four lawyers there from its
other China offices, Li said.  Kirkland now has 10 lawyers in Shanghai and 55 in Hong
Kong, up from a total of 18 in both cities in 2011 when it hired
Zhang and other partners including Nick Norris and Dominic Tsun
from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and  Ashley Young 
from Allen and Overy LLP.  Kirkland’s clients since have included the independent
committee of Focus Media Holding Ltd. in the Shanghai-based
company’s $3.7 billion buyout by the  Carlyle Group LP. (CG) , and
Tudou Holdings Ltd. in the online video company’s acquisition by
Youku Inc. The law firm also represented the underwriters in the
$1.8 billion IPO of  Sinopec Engineering Group Co. (2386)  in Hong Kong
this year.  Beijing is Kirkland’s third office in Asia. The 1,600-lawyer firm has 11 offices including two in  Europe  in  London  and
Munich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  