-- KPN Agrees to $4.9 Billion Tax-Book Loss on German Sale
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-09-16T16:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/kpn-agrees-to-3-7-billion-euro-tax-book-loss-on-german-unit-sale.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch carrier
that’s attracted a takeover bid from America Movil SAB, said a
planned sale of its German wireless business will allow it to
pay less in taxes on future earnings.  Dutch authorities agreed to let KPN record a tax-book loss
of 3.7 billion euros ($4.9 billion) for the German sale,
according to a statement today. That will offset its taxable
income starting in 2014, The Hague-based KPN said.  Lower taxes may make KPN more valuable to America Movil,
the Mexican phone company controlled by  Carlos Slim  that has
said it plans to bid 7.2 billion euros for the part of KPN it
doesn’t own. America Movil plans to formally file its offer as
early as this week, when it also expects to get regulatory
approval, an investor briefed by the company said last week.  “America Movil could now potentially increase its proposed
offer,” analysts at Espirito Santo Investment Bank said in a
note to clients today.  KPN rose 1.1 percent to close at 2.35 euros in Amsterdam.
America Movil’s planned offer is 2.40 euros a share. America
Movil was little changed at $20.21 at 12:45 p.m. in New York.  “It’s a positive formal step,” Jos Versteeg, an analyst
at Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers NV in Amsterdam, said by phone.
Still, America Movil may have already taken a tax benefit into
account when calculating its original planned offer, he said.  Claire Verhagen, a spokeswoman for America Movil, declined
to comment.  Talks Continue  KPN agreed to sell its German wireless business to
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s local unit in July. The Spanish phone company
sweetened its bid last month to 8.55 billion euros from 8.1
billion euros, helping it to win the backing of America Movil.
Shareholders are set to vote on the German sale at an Oct. 2
meeting in The Hague.  America Movil’s bid for the rest of KPN is part of the
Mexican carrier’s plan to expand beyond Latin America. To gain
control of the former Dutch monopoly, it will have to persuade
the independent foundation that protects KPN’s interests not to
block the deal.  Last month, KPN’s foundation surprised America Movil by
moving to impede the Mexican company’s takeover. The group
exercised an option that creates new shares in KPN, giving it
control of just under 50 percent of the company and diluting
America Movil’s stake to 15 percent. The foundation said the
move was necessary because America Movil hadn’t pursued the
transaction in the customary Dutch manner, making its offer
public before arriving at an agreement with KPN privately.  Both companies said last week they remain in talks. In a
statement, America Movil said it “continues to be committed”
to its plans for a 2.40 euro-a-share offer. KPN said in a
separate statement that the carriers are in “continuous
constructive discussions” on matters including price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  