-- NetDimensions Drops After First-Half Loss Widens: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-09-16T15:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/netdimensions-drops-after-first-half-loss-widens-london-mover.html
NetDimensions Holdings Ltd. (NETD)  fell
the most since July as the publisher of educational software
posted a wider loss, even as Panmure Gordon & Co. said momentum
in revenue growth means investors should buy the shares.  The adjusted first-half loss before tax widened to $2.7
million from $100,000 a year earlier, the company said today in
a statement. The  shares  fell 5.7 percent to 58.50 pence in
 London  trading, the biggest drop since July 4. The volume traded
was more than eight times the three-month daily average.  NetDimensions, based in Wan Chai,  Hong Kong , plans to
become the leading provider of software for talent management
solutions and related compliance within highly regulated
industries. In May, the company outlined investment plans to
grow the business that included a target to generate $50 million
in annual revenue in five years.  “The results illustrate early success with the ‘$50
million in five years’ plan,”  George O’Connor , an analyst at
Panmure Gordon in London, wrote in a note to clients. “We
expect the momentum to continue.”  O’Connor maintained a  buy rating  on the stock and raised
his 12-month price target to 132 pence from 125 pence. “This is
a high-growth global market,” he said.  The adjusted loss before tax of $2.7 million beat Panmure
Gordon’s estimate of a $4.5 million loss. O’Connor raised his
estimate for earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization by $500,000 for this year and lowered it by the
same amount in 2014.  Revenue of $6.5 million was the company’s best first-half
performance, Chairman Roger Durn said today in a statement.  Earlier this month NetDimensions agreed a $5 million
finance facility with Silicon Valley Bank to fund acquisitions,
Durn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh  at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  