-- New Zealand Expects NZ$5 Billion From Sale of State Assets
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-09-16T05:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/new-zealand-expects-nz-5-billion-from-sale-of-state-assets.html
New Zealand Prime Minister John Key
said he still expects to get NZ$5 billion ($4.1 billion) from
selling shares in state companies as he completes a program of
asset sales before next year’s general election.  The forecast proceeds are at the low end of Key’s original
NZ$5 billion to NZ$7 billion target after Solid Energy New
Zealand Ltd. required a restructure and Meridian Energy Ltd. had
to write down the value of its assets.  “Not having Solid Energy and being able to take that to
the market makes life a little bit trickier for us, so it’s more
likely to be at the lower end,” Key said at a news conference
in Wellington today, adding he is “reasonably confident” of
hitting the NZ$5 billion target.  Key has pledged to sell stakes in the companies to pay for
new infrastructure spending and reduce debt. In May, the
government raised NZ$1.7 billion from the sale of 48 percent of
Mighty River Power Ltd., and it said today that offer documents
documents for the sale of as much as 49 percent of Meridian
Energy Ltd., the nation’s biggest power company, will be lodged
on Sept. 20.  An offer of shares in Genesis Energy Ltd. will be made in
the first half of next year, and the sale of shares in Air New
Zealand Ltd. will occur before the election, which is expected
in the fourth quarter of 2014, Key said, adding he couldn’t rule
out a sale this year.  Meridian’s share offer will be open from Sept. 30 after
regulators review the offer document, State-owned Enterprises
Minister Tony Ryall said. The shares will start trading on the
New Zealand and Australian stock exchanges on Oct. 29 after
final pricing is agreed, he said.  The government will offer Meridian shares as installment
receipts, allowing investors to pay about 60 percent of the cost
up front and the remainder in 2015. An indicative  price range 
will be included in the offer documents, as will a share price
cap for New Zealand individual investors. The cap may be less
than the IPO price set by institutions.  The offer closes Oct. 18 and will be followed by an
institutional book build.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  