-- Nine Egyptian Police Wounded as Blast Hits Bus in Northern Sinai
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-09-16T10:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/nine-egyptian-police-wounded-as-blast-hits-bus-in-northern-sinai.html
A blast struck a bus carrying
police in northern Sinai, wounding nine, as suspected Islamist
militants defied an expanded military crackdown meant to restore
order to the largely lawless peninsula.  Security forces exchanged fire with gunmen following the
attack near a checkpoint outside Al-Arish, the state-run Middle
East News Agency reported, citing an unidentified security
official. There were conflicting reports of what caused the
blast, with MENA saying it was a land mine and state-run Ahram
Gate website saying rocket-propelled grenades hit the bus.  Security forces in two armored personnel carriers were
guarding the vehicle at the time of the attack, Ahram Gate said,
citing an unidentified security official. The casualty figure
was reported by an Egyptian security official who spoke on
condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to brief
the media.  The Sinai operation is part of a broader push to curb
unrest in the country that has grown since the military ousted
Islamist President Mohamed Mursi on July 3. More than 1,000
Mursi supporters have been killed in clashes with security
forces, and the military-backed government has arrested the top
leaders and hundreds of members of the Muslim Brotherhood, the
group from which he hails.  The violence in the desert peninsula is just one of the
many challenges facing the government headed by President Adly Mansour, which is to oversee the drafting of an amended
constitution and new elections by early next year.  Expanded Operations  Yesterday, the military said it had expanded its operations
in Sinai and would continue pursuing militants until the area
was secured. The military’s spokesman, Colonel Ahmed Mohamed
Ali, told reporters that attacks started escalating during the
protests leading up to Mursi’s ouster.  Ali also said security forces had found and neutralized
bombs planted under watch towers whose wires stretched through
underground tunnels to the nearby Gaza Strip, where they could
be detonated.  He also said the Palestinian territory’s Islamist Hamas
rulers were not doing enough to secure the border, reflecting
growing impatience with the Gaza government since Mursi’s
ouster. Hamas is an offshoot of the Muslim Brotherhood.  The government crackdown has also focused on southern
 Egypt , a traditional stronghold of hardline Islamists.  Security forces took control of all entrances to Dalga
village in Minya province, imposed a curfew and closed roads to
neighboring villages in pursuit of Mursi supporters who had
attacked churches and burned a police station, MENA said.  The violence in Sinai has raised concerns of an Islamist
insurgency akin to the one  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime battled in the
late 1980s and 1990s.  The presidency cited the security situation last week when
it extended a state of emergency, in place since mid-August, for
two months. The measures include a curfew that has gradually
been eased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  