-- Northern Trust Makes Biggest Equities Bet Since 2008 on Economy
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-09-16T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/northern-trust-makes-biggest-equities-bet-since-2008-on-economy.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the asset
manager that oversees $803 billion, is making its biggest bet on
equities since 2008 on signs of economic revivals across the
world’s largest developed markets.  The money manager’s stock positions outweigh the benchmarks
it tracks by 11 percentage points, the highest level in five
years, while its bond investments trail by 9 points, according
to chief investment strategist  Jim McDonald . He’s buying
European and Japanese shares as those economies strengthen,
while predicting that the U.S.  Federal Reserve  will reduce its
monthly bond-buying more slowly than most investors expect.  “Developed economies have got better economic momentum and
easier monetary policy,” McDonald said by phone from  Melbourne 
on Sept. 11. “The U.S. recovery continues to look pretty solid.
The market is overestimating how quickly the Federal Reserve is
going to tighten policy.”  European stock markets from Greece to Spain and Finland led
developed-world gains this quarter through Sept. 13, climbing as
much as 20 percent, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index closed
last week within 1.3 percent of its record high. Northern Trust
has 28 percent of its portfolio in U.S. equities, betting on a
strengthening economic recovery driven by the  property market ,
according to McDonald.  Foreclosure filings fell 34 percent in the U.S. last month
as first-time defaults dropped to the lowest level in almost
eight years. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities rose 12.1 percent in June from a year earlier.  “The next new leg up for growth in the  U.S. economy  is a
secular upturn in the housing market,” McDonald said.  Japan, Europe  The Fed will end bond-buying in June, after reducing its
$85 billion in monthly purchases by $10 billion at its two-day
meeting starting today, according to the median estimate of 34
economists surveyed on Sept. 7 by  Bloomberg News .  Northern Trust, based in  Chicago , favors  Japanese (TPX)  shares as
improving business sentiment bolsters profits, and European
equities because the region’s economic outlook and valuations
are attractive, McDonald said.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index surged 13 percent from a June 24
low through Sept. 13 as reports showed euro-area consumer
sentiment rose to the highest level in two years in August and
and output at European factories improved. In the U.K., gross
domestic product will rise 2 percent in 2014, the fastest pace
since 2007, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “We’re seeing clear evidence that the economic momentum in
Europe and in the U.K. is increasing,” said McDonald. “If you
take improving economic momentum with stock-market valuations,
that sets the stage for good return potential.”  European Momentum  The Stoxx 600  traded  at 14.2 times estimated earnings on
Sept. 13, compared with 15.3 for the S&P 500 and 14.7 for
 Japan ’s Topix index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI World Index of shares gained 4.1 percent this
month through last week, while a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index of global debt sunk 0.4 percent as yields touched the
highest since December 2011. The Topix climbed 7.2 percent.  Japan’s small business confidence has been rising since
July, climbing to 50.5 in September, according to a monthly
survey of 1000 companies from the Shoko Chukin Bank, conducted
during the first 10 days of every month. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and the  Bank of Japan  are seeking to guide the country out
of deflation with economic stimulus and reforms.  “What’s happening with business confidence is sufficient
to keep earnings growth going,” McDonald said. “The market is
giving, and will continue to give them the benefit of the doubt
ahead of further structural reforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  