-- Obama Says Republican Agenda Will Worsen Economic Inequality
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/obama-says-republican-agenda-will-worsen-economic-inequality.html
Congressional Republicans will
worsen the economic inequality that persists five years after
the financial crisis if they refuse to compromise on budget
issues and threaten to shut down the government, President
 Barack Obama  and his aides said in interviews yesterday.  The remarks marked the beginning of an effort to pivot to
budget negotiations with Congress after weeks of focus on  Syria 
and its alleged use of chemical weapons.  The president has scheduled a speech in the White House
 Rose Garden  today to mark the fifth anniversary of the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and talk about the economic
gains made since then.  He’s also planning a series of speeches
and interviews with economic themes throughout the week.  “There’s no serious economist out there that would suggest
that if you took the Republican agenda of slashing education
further, slashing research and development further, slashing
investments in infrastructure further, that that would reverse
some of these trends of inequality,” Obama said in an
appearance on ABC’s “This Week” that was taped Friday and
aired yesterday.  Lawmakers must meet multiple deadlines to avoid a
government shutdown on Oct. 1, the start of a new fiscal year,
or risk a default on government debt as early as mid-October.  Some Republicans are pressing to rescind money for
implementing Obama’s health-care law, a step the administration
has said the president would veto. Lawmakers are also $91
billion apart in approving bills to fund the government after
Oct. 1, with no compromise in sight.  Brewing Standoff  Representative  Tom Price , the Georgia Republican who is
vice chairman of the House Budget Committee, blamed Obama for
the brewing standoff in an interview on “Fox News Sunday.”  “The president is the individual who’s talking about
shutting down the government,” Price said. “The Democrats in
the House and the Senate are the individuals that are talking
about shutting down the government. We want to fund the
government and protect the American people from a destructive
law as it relates to health care.”  The anniversary of the Sept. 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers
bankruptcy filing is a reminder that a budget stalemate could
threaten the economy,  Gene Sperling , director of the National
Economic Council, said yesterday on a conference call with
reporters. Sperling released a report largely crediting Obama
for the financial recovery since the crisis.  “The worst thing would be to go backwards due to a self-inflicted wound due to an unnecessary threatening of default,”
he said.  Debt Limit  Obama said he is unwilling to negotiate on the debt limit.  “If we continue to set a precedent in which a president is
in a situation in which each time the  United States  is called
upon to pay its bills, the other party can simply sit there and
say, ‘Well, we’re not going to pay the bills unless you give us
what we want,’ that changes the constitutional structure of this
government entirely,” Obama said on “This Week.”  The Lehman Brothers bankruptcy helped trigger a global
financial crisis and deepened an economic recession that became
the worst since the Great Depression. It was followed by a
plunge in the U.S. stock market and a $182 billion government
bailout of the insurer  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Government Intervention  The government intervened in the banking, insurance and
auto industries as it revamped financial regulations. Obama
proposed and Congress passed an $831 billion economic stimulus
package.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  plunged  46 percent from the
last trading day before the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy to a
closing low of 676.53 on March 9, 2009.  Unemployment (USURTOT)  rates surged to 10 percent as the economy lost
8.7 million jobs between January 2008 and February 2010. Five
years after the crash, the country hasn’t recovered all the jobs
it lost and the  unemployment rate  stood at 7.3 percent in
August.  Since then, the economy has made gains, including the
creation of 7.5 million private-sector jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  