-- Modi Attacks India Leaders Over China, Pakistan Border Disputes
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-09-16T06:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/modi-attacks-india-leaders-over-china-pakistan-border-disputes.html
Narendra Modi  slammed the
government for failing to protect India’s borders with  Pakistan 
and  China  in his first major speech since the main opposition
party picked him as its candidate for prime minister.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s weak response to recent
clashes has encouraged neighboring armies to encroach on Indian
territory, Modi told an audience of former soldiers yesterday.
The chief minister of western Gujarat state since 2001 will lead
the country of 1.2 billion people if the  Bharatiya Janata Party 
and its coalition partners form a government after polls that
must be held by May, the party announced on Sept. 13.  “The problem is not at the border; the problem is in New
Delhi,” Modi said in a speech in the state of Haryana, close to
the nation’s capital. “Unless there is a capable government,
patriotic government, there cannot be any guarantee of
security.”  The opposition will push Modi’s record of delivering
higher-than-average growth rates in Gujarat in a bid to unseat
Singh after  India ’s $1.8 trillion economy expanded at the
slowest pace in a decade and the rupee slumped to a record. The
ruling Congress party is likely to attack Modi over 2002 riots
in his state that killed about 1,000 Muslims.  Five Indian soldiers were killed on the disputed border
with Pakistan last month in a flare-up of violence at the
frontier separating the nuclear-armed neighbors. India also had
a military standoff with China high in the Himalayas in April,
triggering a three-week escalation in tensions.  ‘Lost Hope’  “We are not hearing good news,” Modi said. “It has been
a decade of despair, wrongdoing and negativity. We have lost
hope.”  Opinion polls suggest a hung parliament once votes are
counted. Singh’s Congress party appointed  Rahul Gandhi , scion of
the country’s foremost political dynasty, to lead its poll
charge as it seeks to recover from three years of policy drift,
coalition infighting and corruption allegations.  Singh’s ruling coalition may win 136 seats of the total 545
in the lower house of parliament, with Congress getting 119, a
drop of 87 seats from the previous poll in 2009, a July survey
by the Times Now television channel and C-Voter polling agency 
found . The opposition alliance could get 156 seats, with the BJP
securing 131 of those or 15 more than the last ballot, the
survey showed.  Modi has raised his national profile since winning a third
term in Gujarat in December. The BJP appointed him to lead its
election campaign, and he routinely addresses gatherings of
business leaders and students.  Modi Appeal  To Modi’s followers, he’s a cult figure who dragged Gujarat
from the ashes of the 2002 rioting, wooing  businesses  and
cutting red tape and corruption. To opponents, he’s an autocrat
who failed to control the attacks on Muslims by Hindu mobs or
show enough remorse over the killings.  “Even if Modi has strong appeal among the corporate sector
and middle class, he doesn’t enjoy that charm among large
sections of the population,” said Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, an
independent analyst who has covered politics for more than three
decades. “His economic reforms in one state are not going to
influence the bulk of the electorate.”  The 2002 carnage, which left Modi barred from entering some
European nations, followed the killing of Hindu activists in a
train fire, a blaze for which Muslims were later found guilty.
Human rights groups  accuse  Modi of not doing enough to control
the subsequent riots and exploiting religious divisions for
political gain.  Modi denies any wrongdoing and a Supreme Court-appointed
panel found no evidence that he took decisions to prevent
assistance from reaching those being attacked.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  