-- Loeb Reinsurer Faced SEC Push to Improve Discclosure
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-09-16T16:52:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/loeb-reinsurer-faced-sec-push-to-improve-discclosure.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission pushed a reinsurer co-founded by billionaire hedge
fund manager Dan Loeb to provide more information about
investments ahead of last month’s initial public offering.  “Please consider including a tabular disclosure” of
holdings that generated net investment income of $136.4 million
in 2012, the SEC asked Bermuda-based Third Point Reinsurance Ltd.
in a letter dated June 12 and made public today. The regulator
made more than 60 other requests to make the company’s financial
statements more useful for investors.  Third Point Re specified in a subsequent filing that its
investment results included $61.5 million in gains from long and
short equity strategies, $28.2 million from corporate credit,
$18.9 million from asset-backed securities and the rest from
macroeconomic and other positions.  The back-and-forth shows the scope of SEC concerns about
disclosure. Loeb’s hedge fund invests Third Point Re’s assets and
the reinsurer highlighted his track record in the filings. The
firm was able to keep some amendments temporarily confidential
because it filed as an emerging growth company under the
Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act. Revisions were reflected in
the reinsurer’s first public filing in July.  The IPO on Aug. 14 raised about $276 million. Shares have
climbed  8.8 percent  since then, giving the company a market value
of about $1.4 billion.  Other points raised by the SEC included the need to define
some industry terms and detail some of the costs of becoming
publicly traded. The regulator also questioned Third Point Re’s
description of Chief Executive Officer John Berger as “one of
the leading reinsurance executives of his generation.”  “Please eliminate this type of subjective statement,” the
SEC said. “Instead consider providing factual information
relating to his accomplishments in prior positions.”  Subsequent filings described Berger as an “insurance
industry veteran with over thirty years of experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  