-- Hong Kong Stocks Advance Most in 2 Weeks; Casinos Surge
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-16T09:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/hong-kong-stocks-gain-most-in-2-weeks-as-summers-withdraw.html
Hong Kong  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark index jumping the most in two weeks, after former
Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers withdrew his name from
consideration as chairman of the Federal Reserve.  Man Wah Holdings Ltd. (1999) , a sofa maker that gets half its
sales from the U.S., climbed 1.8 percent. Cosco Pacific Ltd.,
the container-terminal arm of the largest mainland shipping
group, increased 2.1 percent after people with knowledge of the
matter said China’s  Shanghai  trade zone will open this month.
Macau-related companies jumped after the city’s legislative
assembly election yesterday.  The Hang Seng Index gained 1.5 percent to 23,252.41 at the
close in Hong Kong, its biggest advance since Sept. 2 and the
highest close since May. All but three stocks climbed on the 50-member gauge. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also known
as the H-share index, increased 1.6 percent to 10,706.63.  Summers, a former Treasury secretary, would have tightened
Fed policy more than Janet Yellen, who was his main rival to
replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, according to a Bloomberg
Global Poll last week. Bernanke’s term ends Jan. 31.  “It clears up the leadership race for the Fed
chairmanship,” said Tim Leung, who helps manage about $1.5
billion at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Vice Chairman
Yellen is now most likely the lead runner to succeed Bernanke.
That probably means continuing current policy, and the market
generally favors continuity than uncertainty.”  Bull Market  The H-share index entered a bull market last week after
rebounding more than 20 percent from a June low, while the  Hang
Seng Index (HSI)  erased its 2013 loss. Stocks climbed as China’s data
including exports, factory output and retail sales showed the
world’s second-biggest economy is strengthening. Hong Kong’s
equity benchmark traded at 11.1 times estimated earnings today,
compared with a multiple of 15.3 for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index on Sept. 13.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch last week joined Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG in
raising predictions for expansion in China. The government has
defended its target of 7.5 percent annual growth.  Futures on the S&P 500 jumped 1.2 percent today after
Summers withdrew his name from consideration to be the Fed
chairman, saying it would hurt the nation for him to go forward
with what would be a contentious confirmation before the U.S.
Senate. His announcement came before a two-day policy meeting
starting tomorrow at which the central bank is forecast to
reduce monthly bond purchases.  Man Wah  Man Wah rose 1.8 percent to HK$11.64, while  Techtronic
Industries Co. (669) , a maker of power tools that gets 73 percent of
sales from North America, jumped 3.3 percent to HK$20.  An opening ceremony for a Shanghai free-trade zone to test
economic reforms is planned for this month, with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang set to officiate, two people with knowledge of the
matter said. The event may be on a day from Sept. 27 to Sept.
29, depending on Li’s schedule, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because they weren’t authorized to speak
publicly about the matter.  Cosco Pacific rose 2.1 percent to HK$11.80, while port
operator  China Merchants Holdings International Co. (144)  advanced 3
percent to HK$27.90. China’s plan for a free trade zone in
Shanghai is “very positive” and will help improve the
country’s competitiveness, World Bank President Jim Yong Kim
said at a briefing in Shanghai yesterday.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the casino operator
controlled by billionaire Lui Che-woo, jumped 5.7 percent to a
record high, while  Sands China Ltd. (1928) , a unit of billionaire
 Sheldon Adelson ’s Las Vegas company, climbed 3.2 percent to
HK$47.75,  leading  the Hang Seng Index higher.  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (6883) , the Macau venture between Australian
billionaire James Packer and a son of casino mogul Stanley Ho,
increased 4.8 percent to HK$83.55.  Macau Election  Macau’s  Electoral Affairs Committee  for the legislative
assembly election today announced its preliminary results of the
election yesterday. There were 151,881 ballots recording a
voting rate of 55 percent for the direct election for 14 of 33
lawmakers, it said.  “The Legislative council election in Macau was done
yesterday and Macau stocks are responding very well to that,”
said Jackson Wong, vice president of Hong Kong-based brokerage
Tanrich Securities Co. “Since the legislative body was elected
investors perceive it as more stable atmosphere in Macau.”  Brilliance China Automotive Holdings Ltd. (1114) , a partner of
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, climbed 5.5 percent to HK$11.96,
while  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) , a Chinese maker of sport utility
vehicles and pickup trucks, gained 3.7 percent to HK$43.25. Data
from the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers showed
the country’s sales of sports utility vehicles climbed 46
percent from a year earlier while production advanced 43
percent.  Futures, Volatility  Futures on the Hong Kong gauge rose 1.7 percent to 23,326.
The HSI Volatility Index rose 0.5 percent to 16.80, indicating
traders expect the benchmark equity index to swing 4.8 percent
in the next 30 days.  “I do think Hong Kong and China are definitely benefiting
from Summers’ withdrawal because now investors are expecting the
Fed won’t taper as aggressively,” said Wong. “Some of the
funds would flow back to Hong Kong and  China  because of improved
economic data from China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  