-- Ontario Teachers’ Fund Seeks to Boost Asia Strategic Investments
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-09-16T09:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/ontario-teachers-fund-seeks-to-boost-asia-strategic-investments.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan  is
looking for more deals involving taking a significant minority
stake in Asian companies, said Wayne Kozun, head of public
equities at Canada’s third-largest retirement-fund manager.  Ontario Teachers’ plans to buy “meaningful stakes” in a
handful of medium to large companies in the region, Kozun told
reporters in  Hong Kong  today. The focus of its public equities
staff in the city will be on such investments, he added.  The manager of C$129.5 billion ($126 billion) seeks to
raise its emerging-markets investments to as much as 20 percent
of assets from 15 percent, Chief Investment Officer Neil Petroff
said in May after the Toronto-based fund opened its Asian office
in Hong Kong.  “We are looking at really ramping up the exposure in  Asia 
now that we have a team on the ground,” Kozun said. “It should
be much easier for us to do these deals by having staff based in
Hong Kong.”  One part of Ontario Teachers’ public-equity investment
strategies involves buying 5 percent to 10 percent stakes in
companies, said  Deborah Allan , its Toronto-based spokeswoman. It
then works with the management and board, instead of taking a
confrontational activist role, Kozun said.  Past deals through the strategy in the region include those
in  Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) , the world’s largest
listed jewelry chain, and 360buy Jingdong Inc., a Chinese
business-to-consumer e-commerce company, Kozun said.  Asia Investments  Asia-related investments account for C$11.5 billion of the
fund’s assets, according to Jane Rowe, head of private capital
and infrastructure, the pension’s private-equities department.  Ontario Teachers’ has deployed C$1.5 billion to Asian
private equity, including both direct investments in companies
and through outside managers, Rowe said. It has committed
another C$1 billion to private-equity firms for Asian
investments, which has yet to be drawn down, she added.  The retirement fund relocated three investment
professionals to Hong Kong from  Canada , focusing on public and
private equities. It plans to increase the size of its
investment staff in the city to at least eight through local
recruitment in the next six to nine months, Rowe said.  Ontario Teachers’ is responsible for investing and managing
pensions for about 303,000 active and retired teachers in
Canada’s most-populous province.  The fund returned 13 percent on investments in 2012, led by
real estate, private equity and stocks, beating the 9.4 percent
median gain of Canadian pension funds last year, the pension
said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  