-- Ontario Teachers Helps Refinance A$1.65 Billion Water-Plant Loan
-- B y   P a u l i n a   D u r a n
-- 2013-09-16T10:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/ontario-teachers-helps-refinance-a-1-65-billion-water-plant-loan.html
Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan and
Hastings Funds Management Pty have refinanced A$1.646 billion
($1.54 billion) of loans used to purchase the lease on a Sydney
desalination plant, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  SDP Finco Pty, the borrowing vehicle jointly owned by
Ontario Teachers and Hastings, split the refinancing into four
tranches with maturities of two, three and five years, the data
show. The money was used last year to buy a 50-year lease over
the installation, which has been shut since July 2012. Ten banks
were involved in the refinancing, the data show.  AquaSure Pty, builder of  Australia ’s largest desalination
plant, is also in talks to refinance A$3.7 billion of loan
facilities backing its project, the company said in July.
Australia’s central bank has cut the benchmark interest rate to
a record low 2.5 percent as it seeks to shore up the domestic
economy amid a waning mining-investment boom.  Ontario Teachers owns 50 percent of Sydney Desalination
Plant Ltd., while the remainder is controlled by two funds
managed by  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ’s Hastings, according to the
plant’s website. The companies bought the installation last year
for A$2.3 billion. RBC Capital Markets advised on the
refinancing, a person familiar with the matter said on Aug. 14.  Located at Kurnell, on the edge of Botany Bay in south
Sydney, the plant sources water from the Tasman sea and can
produce 15 percent of greater Sydney’s annual requirement. It’s
been  shut  since July 2012, according to its website.  Lenders on the refinancing were  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , Export Development Canada, HSBC
Holdings Plc, Morgan Stanley, National Australia Bank Ltd.,
Royal Bank of Canada, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. and Westpac
Banking Corp., the data show.  AquaSure’s borrowing costs for its plant which converts
seawater to drinking water in Wonthaggi, near  Melbourne , are
expected to fall materially from the original greenfield
financing signed in 2009, people familiar with that matter said
last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paulina Duran in Sydney at 
 pduran10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  