-- Top Gear Star Clarkson Ponders Parliament Run Against Miliband
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-16T10:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/top-gear-star-clarkson-ponders-parliament-run-against-miliband.html
Jeremy Clarkson, star of the BBC’s
“Top Gear” show and a friend and neighbor of Prime Minister
 David Cameron , said he was thinking about running for Parliament
against Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband .  “I’m thinking I might stand in the next election as an
independent for Doncaster North, which is where I’m from,”
Clarkson said in a Sept. 14 comment on his Twitter feed.
“Thoughts?”  The star, best known for his sarcastic reviews of cars,
also has a newspaper column and has written a series of best-selling books. His politics are hostile to the Labour Party and
the European Union.  Controversial comments include a 2011 suggestion that
striking public-sector workers should be shot and a 2009
description of then Labour Prime Minister  Gordon Brown  as a
“one-eyed Scottish idiot.”  Miliband has represented the Doncaster North seat in
northern England since 2005. In the 2010  general election , he
got 47.3 percent of the vote. The Conservative candidate, in
second place, took 21 percent.  In his column in the Daily Telegraph today, London Mayor
 Boris Johnson , a Conservative, urged Clarkson to stand instead
against Liberal Democrat Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  in the
nearby constituency of  Sheffield Hallam .  “Anyone is welcome to come and try,” Clegg told LBC Radio
in response. “Boris Johnson is welcome to come and try and
we’ll give him a good Sheffield thumping and send him straight
back to London.” Clegg increased his share of the vote to 53.4
percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in Glasgow, Scotland, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in Glasgow, Scotland, at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  