-- More Misleading Attacks by Elizabeth Warren
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2013-09-16T18:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/more-misleading-attacks-by-elizabeth-warren.html
Elizabeth Warren ,  Occupy Wall
Street ’s favorite senator, is getting another round of praise
from liberals for  a speech  she gave at the AFL-CIO convention on
Sept. 8. It’s one more reason the  Massachusetts  Democrat, just
elected in November, is being  mentioned  as a future presidential
contender.  Like a lot of politicians working friendly crowds, Warren
was hyperbolic.  Wisconsin ’s Republican Governor  Scott Walker ,
she said, had “declared war on working families by ripping the
guts out of collective-bargaining agreements.” In fact,
Walker’s law gives Wisconsin public-sector workers  more 
collective-bargaining privileges than federal employees have.  The comment that has drawn the most approbation was an
attack on “the increasing corporate capture of the federal
courts.” Citing “a recent study” (almost certainly  this one ),
she said: “The five conservative justices currently sitting on
the  Supreme Court  are in the top 10 most pro-corporate justices
in a half-century -- and Justices Alito and Roberts are numbers
one and two -- the most anti-consumer in this entire time. The
Chamber of Commerce is now a major player in the Supreme Court,
and its win rate has risen to 70 percent of all cases it
supports. Follow this pro-corporate trend to its logical
conclusion, and sooner or later you’ll end up with a Supreme
Court that functions as a wholly owned subsidiary of big
business.”  Flawed Thinking  The study doesn’t tell us what Warren thinks it does, or
anything we should care about. It gives equal weight to every
vote by a justice, even though decisions plainly vary in
importance for businesses, and for everyone else. It ignores
decisions that matter a great deal for businesses but don’t have
business litigants.  Jonathan Adler, a law professor at Case Western University,
 notes  that the study excludes Massachusetts v. Environmental
Protection Agency, one of the two or three most important
Supreme Court cases for business of the past decade. The court
ruled that the  Clean Air Act  authorizes the EPA to fight global
warming. Because neither named party in the case was a business,
the study excludes it.  Adler highlights another problem with the study. Let’s say
a court spent years opening many new lines of legal attack on
businesses: letting new types of class-action suits go forward,
ruling against some business defenses and so on. Then it slowed
down, saying no to some new lines of litigation and yes to only
a few, but not shutting down any of the existing lines.  The study’s methodology would find that the justices had
become much more pro-business -- but the actual legal landscape
businesses faced would be worse, not better. It would just be
getting worse at a slower rate than before.  Adler believes that something like this story explains a
good portion of the results. Evaluating his theory -- and
evaluating the court’s record on business -- requires paying
attention to the substance and logic (or lack of logic) of the
court’s rulings. It can’t be reduced to numbers.  One of the study’s authors responded to Adler’s criticisms
by saying that they had used the best quantitative methods
available. It’s as convincing a defense as when drunks explain
why they’re looking under a lamppost for their keys.  As for the Chamber of Commerce statistic, it could be
telling us about the organization’s litigation strategy as much
as about the court’s orientation. It’s an empty number. What
percentage does Warren think would be the “right” win rate for
the chamber? Anyone who thinks there is a right percentage isn’t
thinking properly about law.  Dubious Views  This isn’t the first time Warren has cited a dubious study
to advance her views about the courts. In June, she  complained 
that more and more judges come from corporate backgrounds. The
“ study ” she cited -- which, to its credit, didn’t claim to be
any such thing -- treated all lawyers in private practice as
working for corporations, even if they were actually doing pro
bono work or representing civil-rights plaintiffs or something
else contrary to her claims. And anyway, there has been a
decades-long  decline  in the percentage of federal judges who
come from private practice.  There is an important sense in which the Supreme Court
should be pro-business. Justices shouldn’t strain to read laws
so that business litigants win their cases. But the protection
of commerce, especially from state politicians, was one of the
reasons we adopted the Constitution in the first place.
Providing that protection has historically been a large part of
the court’s work.  It hasn’t been in recent decades. The idea has gone so out
of fashion that saying that the court is pro-business is
nowadays an accusation. But that accusation, especially as
voiced by Senator Warren, is unfounded.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist, a visiting
fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and a senior editor
at the National Review.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 