-- Mortgage Bonds Imperiled by $17 Billion of Sales: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-09-16T14:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/mortgage-bonds-imperiled-by-17-billion-of-sales-credit-markets.html
Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  are set
to auction as much as $17 billion of mortgage bonds they
acquired before the real estate  collapse  to meet a regulatory
directive, potentially straining demand at the same time the
 Federal Reserve  considers a stimulus pullback.  The offerings by year-end of  residential  and commercial
securities without government backing will follow sales of about
$22 billion the past four months from the government-controlled
companies, according to Deutsche Bank AG. The auctions are
adding to the $7 billion of new commercial-mortgage bond deals
that  Wall Street  is planning this month, the biggest pipeline
since Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac began the sales in May.  Investors are bracing for a pullback by the Fed from its
unprecedented support for the economy as soon as this week.
While the previous sales haven’t roiled markets, the future
offerings may weigh on prices if Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
start to jettison riskier types of the debt, according to Brean
Capital LLC’s  Scott Buchta .  “That could certainly have a bigger impact,” said Buchta,
the New York-based brokerage’s head of fixed-income strategy.
Dealers and investors readily absorbed the initial auctions
because the “bonds have been higher quality in nature,” he
said.  Cutting Risk  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were seized by the U.S.
five years ago this month, have persisted with the sales even as
concern the Fed will slow $85 billion of monthly  bond purchases 
interrupted a rally in the debt. The auctions are part of
actions meant to shrink the firms and reduce their risks,
putting new burdens on private investors as the government also
cuts federal spending.  Residential mortgage securities not backed by the
government lost about 3.7 percent on average in June and July,
before advancing 0.55 percent last month to bring gains this
year to 5.7 percent, according to Citigroup Inc. While bonds
tied to commercial properties have lost 1.3 percent since May
and 1.1 percent this year, the debt has outperformed Treasuries
by 0.4 percentage point in 2013, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show.  Fidelity, BlackRock  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have primarily sold bonds linked
to apartment buildings, totaling about $14 billion of
securities, because that debt fetches the highest prices among
the holdings they were asked to reduce, according to Deutsche
Bank analyst Harris Trifon. One bond issued in 2006 by Wachovia
Corp. and sold in a July 18 auction would trade at almost 109
cents on the dollar, according to Bloomberg Valuation estimates.  Fidelity Investments  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  have been
purchasing such debt, according to fund disclosures and auction
lists compiled by data provider Empirasign Strategies LLC. James Aber, a Fidelity spokesman, declined to comment. Lauren Post, a
BlackRock spokeswoman, didn’t return e-mail messages.  “We do expect some pushback” if “some of the key buyers
of these bonds in recent months slow their purchases,”
 Stamford , Connecticut-based Jefferies Group LLC analysts led by
Lisa Pendergast wrote in a Sept. 4 report.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have sold almost $7.5 billion of
non-agency securities backed by home loans, many of which are
considered relatively safe because they were issued before the
most reckless lending in 2006 and 2007, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. The firms also own riskier bonds from those years
backed by subprime and  Alt-A loans , soured investments that
contributed to the need for their taxpayer-funded bailouts.  Sales Goals  The two companies hold $163 billion of privately issued
mortgage bonds, guarantee another $4.3 trillion of mortgage debt
and own almost $370 billion of those securities or Ginnie Mae-backed notes. They’ve been paring the investments after the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency  gave executives  a goal  in March
of selling at least 5 percent of illiquid holdings this year.  The FHFA “is pleased with the progress  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
Freddie Mac have made,” Denise Dunckel, a spokeswoman for the
agency, said in an e-mail. “As noted in the 2013 scorecard,
FHFA will consider market conditions in evaluating performance
under this target.”  Thomas Fitzgerald, a spokesman for McLean, Virginia-based
Freddie Mac, declined to comment except to say that any sales
need to be “economically sensible and well-controlled,” as
stipulated by the FHFA.  Sharing Risk  The firms would probably slow sales if relative yields
widened “sharply,” Barclays Plc analysts led by Keerthi
Raghavan wrote in an Aug. 9 report. Top-ranked bonds linked to
commercial mortgages are yielding 129 basis points more than
Treasuries, down from a 2013 peak of 153 basis points on July 8,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. Spreads were as
narrow as 88 on Jan. 14.  “We are working with FHFA to meet the goals of the
conservatorship scorecard for 2013,” Callie Dosberg, a
spokeswoman for Washington-based Fannie Mae, said in an e-mail.  The two companies, which have returned to  profitability 
after almost $190 billion of taxpayer-funded capital injections,
are also being ordered to increase what they charge to insure
new bonds, reduce their total portfolios and issue notes that
share the risk of homeowner defaults.  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  sold $500
million of those new securities in June, and Fannie Mae began
this month discussing a potential transaction with investors.  ‘Tepid Response’  While the firms also hold a combined $536 billion of  loans 
that aren’t packaged into securities, they aren’t likely to sell
those to meet asset-reduction goals because bonds are easier to
sell in bulk and have a larger pool of buyers, Jefferies’s
Pendergast said. Fannie Mae had $336 billion of such loans as of
July, mainly delinquent or modified debt, while Freddie Mac
owned $200 billion, monthly disclosures show.  In their latest auction on Sept. 10, the $1.4 billion of
home-loan bonds “traded in line with expectations,” Citigroup
analysts Roger Ashworth and Raja Narayanan wrote in a Sept. 12
report. An offering last month was met with a “rather tepid
response,” JPMorgan analyst  John Sim  said in a Sept. 6 report.
He predicted investors returning from summer vacations in the
U.S. would see value in the notes, many of which still carry
investment grades.  Some of the non-agency sales may have required Wall Street
banks to boost holdings to offset weak investor demand, Brean
Capital’s Buchta said. Primary dealer inventories climbed to
$15.7 billion as of Sept. 4, from $11.9 billion on June 5,  Fed
data  show. Holdings of commercial-mortgage bonds fell to $12.5
billion from $14.5 billion.  Timing ‘Crucial’  Issuance in non-agency securities tied to new home loans
totals about $12 billion this year, up from $3.5 billion in all
of 2012, while commercial-bond sales exceed $52 billion,
compared with about $40 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Investors have been drawn to the commercial-mortgage bonds
being sold by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac because of their
relatively short duration and “cashflow stability,” Pendergast
said. The bonds have so-called credit enhancement that protects
buyers from the first 70 percent of losses if borrowers default.  The timing of future sales will be “crucial” as credit
markets gyrate amid the Fed’s decision on whether to taper, U.S.
budget negotiations in Congress and the conflict with  Syria ,
Deutsche Bank analysts said in a Sept. 4 report.  Volatility “will increase the concessions investors and
dealers require to provide liquidity,” the New York-based
analysts said.  Credit Benchmarks  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect against
losses on U.S. corporate bonds fell to the lowest in almost six
weeks.  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE) , the pipeline owner that has
promised to sell U.S. assets to a partnership it controls, is
selling benchmark bonds in three parts to help fund the
transfer.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 2.9
basis points to a mid-price of 74.2 basis points as of 10:51
a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index fell to as low as 73.9, the lowest intraday level since
Aug. 6.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 3.5 to 94.5. The indexes
typically fall as investor confidence improves and rise as it
deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap
protecting $10 million of debt.  Verizon Bonds  Bonds of New York-based Verizon are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
accounting for 22.2 percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1
million or more, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The company’s $15 billion of 6.55 percent, 30-year
securities, the biggest portion of its record $49 billion bond
sale last week, rose 2.3 cents to 110.6 cents on the dollar to
yield 5.8 percent at 10:48 a.m. in New York, Trace data show.  Spectra may sell five-, 10.5- and 30-year debt as soon as
today, according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.
Proceeds will be used by unit  Spectra Energy Partners LP (SEP)  to
purchase the gas distributor’s remaining U.S. transmission and
storage holdings.  The new bonds may be rated Baa3, the lowest level of
investment grade, by Moody’s Investors Service, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because terms aren’t set. Bank of
America Corp., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Royal
Bank of Canada are managing the offering for the Houston-based
company. Benchmark sales are typically at least $500 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net  or
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  