-- Tots Meet Boffins for Romps as Author Unravels Headlines
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-09-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/tots-meet-boffins-for-romps-as-author-unravels-headlines.html
The world of newspaper journalism
has a language all its own.  That’s especially true in Britain, where “troubled stars
lash out in foul-mouthed tirades” and “late-night revelers”
are forever on “booze-fueled rampages.”  Bloomberg News ’s U.K. political correspondent  Robert Hutton 
speaks about his new lexicon, “Romps, Tots and Boffins: The
Strange Language of News.”  Beech: You say that  David Cameron  is to blame for the work?  Hutton: Yes. If the prime minister’s office had been able
to find a big enough plane for the traveling press when he
visited Jordan last year, I’d never have been sitting on my
suitcase in an airport lounge at 4 a.m. waiting for a flight
home. Because I was, I sent a single tweet musing about words
only used by newspapers -- “boffin,” “tots,” “frogman” and
“lags” were the first four. The response was crazy.  Beech: So you were “left reeling” by a “Twitter storm”?  Hutton: When I turned my phone back on in  London , I’d been
sent dozens of words. I had 50 words by 10 a.m., and every time
I tweeted one, people sent in six more. There were 225 by the
following evening. I still get them sent in every day.  Beech: I like “boffin,” described as anyone with a
university job, who did elementary science at school or who has
a lab coat. Which is your favorite?  Hutton: I love “romp,” because it’s very suggestive, but
actually means all manner of things. In British papers, it
generally means some kind of sexual activity, but it’s nicely
vague. Soccer teams that win easily are described as having
“romped home.” Every so often, a player will celebrate by
“romping” with a “vice girl.”  Beech: The archetypal headline given to journalism students
used to be “Red Vicar in Mercy Dash to Palace Disaster Scene.”
Can you beat that?  Hutton: The one I came up with for the book was “Tecs Quiz
Tug-of-Love Gymslip Mum on Murder Bid.” If you speak
Journalese, you can work out what that means, but it’s baffling
to anyone else.  Beech: Any reaction from politicians to the project?  Hutton: Politicians all devour news, so they’ve been very
keen. I had a trip around Scandinavia with (U.K. opposition
leader)  Ed Miliband  at the start of the year, by the end of
which he told me he’d become obsessed with my “Journalese
game.” Several of his suggestions are in the book.  But everyone’s doing it. I get these  text messages  from
people inside Downing Street saying things like: “Have you got
‘embroiled in scandal?’” and I’ll know which newspaper story
they’ve just read.  “Romps, Tots and Boffins” is published by Elliott &
Thompson (136 pages, 9.99 pounds).  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include:  Frederik Balfour  on film,  Jeremy
Gerard  on U.S. theater and  Greg Evans  on U.S. television.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 