-- Packaging Corp. to Buy Boise for $1.27 Billion
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-09-16T20:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/packaging-corp-to-buy-boise-for-2-billion-to-boost-capacity.html
Packaging Corp. of America , the
fourth-largest U.S. producer of corrugated shipping boxes,
agreed to buy  Boise (BZ)  Inc. for about $1.27 billion in cash to add
capacity in the Pacific Northwest and Europe.  Packaging Corp. will pay $12.55 a share, the companies said
today in a statement, 26 percent more than Boise’s Sept. 13
closing price. The deal also includes $714 million of Boise’s
debt and will close in the fourth quarter, they said.  “This acquisition is an excellent fit both operationally
and strategically, with unique and substantial synergies,”
Packaging Corp. Chairman Paul Stecko said today on a conference
call. “It also provides the container board that PCA needs to
support our long-term corrugated products growth.”  The takeover will increase Lake Forest, Illinois-based
Packaging Corp.’s container board production capacity 42 percent
to 3.7 million tons a year, the companies said. Packaging Corp.
forecast pretax savings of $105 million within three years of
the deal’s completion from cutting transportation costs and
other efficiencies.  “It solves Packaging Corp.’s need for more container board
capacity in a cost-effective manner,” Joshua Zaret, a New York-based analyst at Longbow Research LLC, said today by telephone.  Boise, based in the eponymous Idaho city, also makes
newsprint and office paper and owns mills, production facilities
and  distribution centers  in North America and Europe. The shares
surged 26 percent to a record $12.56 in New York. Packaging
Corp. advanced 11 percent to $60.43, the highest since the
shares were first sold in January 2000.  Combined Sales  The combined companies generated $5.5 billion in sales and
$879 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization last year, according to the statement.  The deal values Boise at 7.5 times trailing 12-month
Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with a median Ebitda multiple of 8.7 in four comparable
takeovers valued at $500 million or more that were announced in
the past five years, the data show.  Packaging Corp. said in a  presentation  posted on its
website that it will refinance Boise’s debt with a $2 billion
debt offering, raising the combined company’s total borrowings
to $2.5 billion. Packaging Corp. will cut its debt by $1 billion
in the next three to four years, according to the presentation.  Packaging Corp.’s financial adviser on the takeover is Bank
of America Corp., which is also providing bridge financing for
the deal, and Mayer Brown LLP is legal counsel. Boise’s
financial adviser is JPMorgan Chase & Co. and its legal adviser
is Skadden Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.  The value of the deal was calculated based on the 100.9
million shares of Boise that were outstanding as of July 24,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gerrit de Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in New York at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  