-- Palm Oil Reserves in Indonesia Decline to 14-Month Low
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i
-- 2013-09-17T09:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/palm-oil-reserves-in-indonesia-decline-to-14-month-low-in-august.html
Palm oil  stockpiles in  Indonesia ,
the top producer, probably fell in August to the lowest in 14
months as output had the second-biggest slump this year because
of holidays, more than compensating for a drop in sales.  Reserves declined 6.4 percent to 2.2 million metric tons,
the lowest level since June 2012, from 2.35 million tons in July,
according to the median of estimates from four plantations
executives and a refiner compiled by Bloomberg. Exports dropped
for a third month by 0.6 percent to 1.58 million tons, while
production fell 12.5 percent, the biggest drop since January, to
2.1 million tons, the survey showed.  Prices of palm, used in everything from candy to biofuel,
are heading for a third year of decline as slowing growth in
 China  and the European Union hurt demand. World  stockpiles  will
reach a record by the end of 2013-2014 as production climbs to
an all-time high and consumption expands the least in 12 years,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  says. Domestic output, which
accelerates in the second half because of growing cycles, fell
last month because of a week-long holiday for the Eid festival.  “While daily production picked up last month, the Eid
holiday kept monthly output lower,” said Hariyanto Wijaya, an
analyst at PT Mandiri Sekuritas, a unit of the country’s biggest
bank by assets. “Output will increase in September as that’s
the cycle,” he said, without giving an estimate.  The  Indonesian Palm Oil Association , which doesn’t publish
production and inventory figures, may release export data this
week. The forecast changes in reserves and output were derived
by Bloomberg by comparison with earlier surveys. Eid marks the
end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.  Record Supplies  Trees are in a more productive cycle which will last at
least until April,  Dorab Mistry , director at Godrej
International Ltd., said in remarks prepared for a conference in
 Singapore  on Sept. 12.  Global production will reach 58.1 million tons, boosting
stockpiles to 9.2 million tons, while consumption expands 4.5
percent to 56.2 million tons, the USDA estimates.  Futures traded at 2,336 ringgit ($718) per ton on Bursa
Malaysia Derivatives at 4:56 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  today, down 41
percent from an almost three-year high of 3,967 ringgit in
February 2011. Prices rose the most since December 2010 in
August as crude oil rallied to a two-year high, boosting demand
for biodiesel. Palm oil resumed the decline last week amid
concern weakening emerging market currencies will cut purchases.  Imports by  India , the biggest palm oil buyer, declined for
a second month in August as a slump in the rupee increased costs
for refiners. The rupee dropped 8.1 percent against the dollar
in August, the biggest monthly loss since 1992.  Currency Depreciation  Depreciation of the Indonesian rupiah, which fell 13
percent this year, may boost incentives for exporters to
increase shipments elsewhere, said Teguh Patriawan, president
director of PT Nusantara Sawit Persada, a Jakarta-based
plantation company. The Chinese  yuan , currency of the biggest
vegetable oil  consumer , has appreciated 1.8 percent this year.  Palm oil prices may extend their decline as supply of the
most-used cooking oil advance and biodiesel demand peaks, said
Mistry who has traded vegetable oils for more than three decades.  “Biodiesel production possibilities until the end of
calendar year 2013 are maxed out,” said Mistry. “It remains to
be seen if new biodiesel capacity will be built in South East
Asia at this juncture.”  Indonesia increased the blending rate for biodiesel in
subsidized-diesel oil to 10 percent, or B10, this month from 7.5
percent, according to a regulation signed by Energy and Mineral
Resources Minister Jero Wacik Aug. 28. The B10 mandate will be
imposed for industrial users and B20, or 20 percent blending
rate, for  power plants  starting January.  Higher biodiesel blending requirements will help boost
domestic consumption, said Joelianto, trading director at PT
Sinar Mas Agro Resources and Technology in Jakarta. Global use
of palm oil for fuel may advance 11 percent to 6.34 million tons
in 2013, according to Hamburg-based research company Oil World.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  