-- Palmer Seeks to Block Election Count After Vote Mix-Up
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-09-16T06:59:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/palmer-seeks-to-block-election-count-after-vote-mix-up.html
Mining magnate  Clive Palmer , who is
vying for a seat in  Australia ’s lower house of parliament, sued
the  Australian Electoral Commission  over a vote count in the
district he is contesting.  Palmer today sought an injunction in Brisbane federal court
to stop the AEC from changing results from two polling booths
and to preserve existing records. While Justice John Dowsett
rejected the application, the AEC promised it would keep the
booth results as they are.  A sorting error occurred on election night in Fairfax, with
about 750 votes published for the Buderim pre-poll voting
center, which should have been recorded against the Coolum Beach
pre-poll center, the AEC said in an e-mailed statement. The AEC
said counting in Fairfax, where Palmer is leading by 209 votes,
will continue after he had sought to stop it.  “It goes to the integrity of the election,” Palmer said
today in a phone interview. “The AEC wanted to alter the
evidence.”  The Palmer United Party, which the owner of Mineralogy Pty
set up earlier this year, won 5.5 percent of the primary vote
nationally and preliminary results indicate his party will  gain 
one Senate seat as well. Since the election on Sept. 7, Palmer
has criticized the counting process.  Palmer, who put the number of mixed-up votes at 768, said
they all went to his opponent, which indicates someone attempted
to tamper with the results. The AEC said the “anomaly” didn’t
affect the relative position of the candidates.  “There is a proper, transparent and evidence based process
for dealing with allegations of illegal practice,” the AEC said
today in an e-mailed statement. Candidates or parties can
challenge results at the  High Court  of Australia, the country’s
top court, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  