-- Pandora Climbs to Highest Level Since First Trading Day
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-09-17T19:33:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/pandora-to-raise-231-million-with-sale-of-10-million-shares.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , owner of the
biggest Web radio service, surged to the highest price since its
first day of trading, after announcing plans to raise about $231
million in a stock sale.  Pandora gained 4.4 percent to $25.05 at 3 p.m. in New York,
the highest intraday value since reaching $26 on June 15, 2011,
the day after its initial public offering. Stock in the Oakland,
California-based  company  has more than doubled this year through
yesterday.  The company is selling 10 million shares in the new
offering as it seeks to open local sales offices to better
compete with radio stations for advertisers. Last week, Pandora
named digital ad veteran Brian McAndrews as chairman and chief
executive officer. Some proceeds of the sale, estimated based on
the Sept. 13 closing price of $23.99, will be used for purchases
and developing new technology.  “We may use a portion of the net proceeds for potential
acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, although
we have no current agreements or understandings with respect to
any such transactions,” Pandora said in a regulatory filing
yesterday.  Songza  and  Raditaz , both closely held music applications,
are possible acquisition targets, Rich Tullo, an analyst at
Albert Fried & Co., wrote today in a report. Pandora could also
purchase businesses to build its ad-selling platform and expand
into films and books, he said.  “Pandora’s Music Genome is really a very advanced search
engine with analytics which can be applied to other media such
as words in a book or dialogue in a movie,” wrote Tullo, who
has a market perform or hold rating on the shares.  Crosslink Capital Inc., Pandora’s biggest stockholder, will
sell an additional 4 million shares, according to the filing.
Underwriters including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  have a 30-day option to purchase an additional
2.1 million shares, potentially increasing Pandora’s proceeds to
almost $280 million.  Crosslink Capital will remain Pandora’s biggest
shareholder. The company will hold 25 million shares, or about
13 percent of the outstanding stock, after the sale, according
to the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  