-- Perion With Conduit Seen Besting AOL in U.S. Searches
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 2013-09-17T07:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/perion-seen-surpassing-aol-u-s-market-israel-overnight.html
Perion Network Ltd. (PERI) , the Israeli
maker of Internet tools set for the longest stretch of quarterly
gains on record, will surpass  AOL Inc. (AOL)  in the U.S. search market
after a reverse merger with a unit of Conduit Ltd., Chief
Executive Officer Josef Mandelbaum said.  “We’re going to have 2 percent of U.S. searches and be
bigger than AOL,” Mandelbaum said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Tel Aviv yesterday. It’s “certainly
possible” that Perion achieves $1 billion in sales in the next
three to five years.  Shares of Perion in Tel Aviv gained 1 percent to 41.23
shekels at 10:37 a.m. local time. The stock in  New York  tumbled
11 percent yesterday on concern that the transaction will dilute
minority shareholders, according to Chardan Capital Markets LLC.
Even after the drop, the stock still trades at a 0.7 percent
premium to the  Tel Aviv  shares.  Perion, based in Tel Aviv, is pursuing partnerships to
diversify its revenue sources after Google Inc. halted automatic
software downloads on Feb. 1. The Israeli company said yesterday
it agreed to merge with Conduit’s Client Connect business in an
all-stock deal. The combined company would be the fifth-largest
in the U.S. search market and overtake New York-based AOL, which
had a 1.3 percent stake in August, according to digital-media
data tracker  ComScore Inc.   Spin Off  Conduit will spin off its Client Connect business, which
will be combined with Perion, and the deal is subject to
approval by Perion’s shareholders in a November vote and
customary regulatory and tax rulings, the companies said. A
reverse merger is a deal that involves a private firm purchasing
a public company to gain a listing.  Perion will issue to Conduit shareholders as many as 60
million shares and the deal is scheduled to close in January,
the companies said. After the transaction is closed, Perion will
be  owned  81 percent by the existing Conduit shareholders and
option holders and 19 percent by existing Perion shareholders
and option holders, they said.  “The merger is dilutive to existing shareholders, driving
the stock down,”  Jay Srivatsa , analyst at Chardan Capital
Markets LLC said by phone yesterday. “Once the dust settles, it
could be a positive.”  Mandelbaum, who will be the CEO of the combined
organization, said the company will look for future acquisitions
and didn’t rule out fundraising.  Perion sank to $11.74 in New York yesterday, after the
shares dropped 15 percent to 40.83 shekels, or $11.55,
in Tel Aviv.  “You really judge us on the next year, not today,”
Mandelbaum said, referring to the drop on the stock price
yesterday. “In a year from now, let’s see what happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net ;
Elliott Gotkine in Tel Aviv at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  