-- Perion Plunges on Deal Valuation Disappointment: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-09-16T14:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/perion-drops-on-deal-valuation-disappointment-tel-aviv-mover.html
Perion Network Ltd. (PERI)  dropped the
most in more than three years as investors were disappointed by
the lack of premium in the merger with toolbar-developer  Conduit
Ltd. ’s Client Connect business.  The  shares  of Tel Aviv-based Perion, which makes desktop
programs for e-mail, photo-sharing and web security, plunged 15
percent, the biggest drop since March 2010, to 40.83 shekels at
the close in Tel Aviv. More than 11 times the three-month
average of shares changed hands.  The combination will be an all-share transaction which is
subject to approval by Perion’s shareholders in a November vote
and customary regulatory and tax rulings, according to an e-mailed statement today from the two companies. Conduit was
reported in July to be in advanced talks to acquire Perion for
$200 million in a deal that would value Perion at a 46 percent
premium at the time, according to business daily TheMarker.  “Perion investors were building up momentum for a premium
here so when that didn’t come, they were disappointed,” Beni Dekel, an analyst at  Union Bank of Israel (UNON)  Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said
by phone today. “This deal is still obviously very good for
Perion shareholders as they’ll get great synergy opportunities
with the Conduit partnership.”  Conduit  shareholders will get 81 percent of the newly
merged company while Perion shareholders will hold 19 percent.
Perion’s market capitalization was $159 million in the U.S. as
of the close on Sept. 13, giving the new company a value of
about $837 million, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The deal will make Perion “a significant force” in search
distribution with sales of $367 million, according to the
statement. Perion’s current Chief Executive Officer Josef Mandelbaum will continue in the position.  Investors in Conduit, a Ness Ziona, Israel-maker of
community toolbars and mobile applications, include  Benchmark
Capital , which invested $8 million in 2008,  according to
Conduit’s  website. An investment fund advised by JPMorgan &
Chase Asset Management acquired a 7 percent stake in the company
for $100 million, valuing it at $1.3 billion, Conduit said in
April. The company was founded in 2005 and also has offices in
 California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  