-- Phone-Record Spying Gives Congress Road Map to Alter NSA
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/phone-record-spying-gives-congress-road-map-to-alter-nsa.html
Even amid international criticisms
over some National Security Agency intelligence gathering
activities, there are few signs Congress this year will alter
the programs’ guts: what’s collected and how it’s used.  As U.S. intelligence leaders meet this week with lawmakers
to discuss possible legislative changes, they may debate how a
secret court authorizes the spying, the legal standard for
surveillance targets or where to store the records.  Beyond that, congressional leaders probably have little
appetite for restricting the NSA’s activities, wary of being
blamed if there’s a future terrorist attack, said Michael Mandelbaum, a professor of foreign policy at The  Johns Hopkins
University  in Baltimore.  “Nobody wants to be seen as weakening defenses against
terrorism,” Mandelbaum said in an interview.  The legislative push follows a series of disclosures from
former NSA contractor Edward Snowden since June that have raised
questions about whether intelligence gathering violated the
privacy of Americans -- and some U.S. allies.  “It’s very clear that, to the extent that we keep these
tools at all, they’re going to be legislatively amended,”
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said during a
speech in Washington Sept. 12. “We can do with more oversight
and give people more confidence in what we do.”  Robert Litt, general counsel for intelligence agencies, is
scheduled to testify to lawmakers in closed session this week to
discuss legislative proposals.  Rebuilding Confidence  Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who leads
the House intelligence committee, predicted Congress will agree
to some changes this year. House and Senate intelligence panels
have been exchanging proposals, said Rogers, declining to
discuss details.  “We have a very healthy list of issues that we believe,
both bicameral and bipartisan, will help rebuild confidence in
these programs,” Rogers said in an interview.  Rogers and Clapper said changes are needed to rebuild
public confidence in the spy programs following Snowden’s
disclosures to news media outlets.  Since then, Clapper has ordered some documents declassified
in response to lawsuits from privacy groups including the
 American Civil Liberties Union  and San Francisco-based
Electronic Frontier Foundation.  Innocent Americans  The intelligence apparatus created after the Sept. 11,
2001, terrorist attacks grew so large that nobody fully
understood how it worked, letting the NSA illegally intercept
some phone calls and e-mails of innocent Americans, declassified
documents show. The NSA violated surveillance rules on telephone
records for almost three years and misled the secret Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Court overseeing the programs, the
documents said.  The documents were made public after revelations about U.S.
phone and Internet surveillance by Snowden, who fled to  Hong
Kong  and then on to  Russia , where he has temporary asylum.  President  Barack Obama  canceled a planned summit with
Russia and relations between the two nations remain strained.
The leaders of Mexico and  Brazil  also have demanded explanations
about spying on their governments.  Obama said in August he was willing to consider changes to
spy programs.  Rogers said he’ll oppose proposals that damage the NSA’s
ability to prevent terrorist attacks.  “This agency is too critical to providing for the defense
and security of the  United States of America  to allow cheap
political amendments to tear it down,” he said.  Phone Records  Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland ,
the top Democrat on the House intelligence committee, and
Representative  Jan Schakowsky , an Illinois Democrat on the
panel, are considering a proposal that would require phone
companies, rather than the NSA, to retain call records for
surveillance programs.  Snowden exposed a secret court order compelling  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  to turn over to the NSA phone records, such
as numbers and call durations, on millions of Americans. The
Obama administration has said the metadata collection involves
more phone carriers, without naming them.  “We are looking to see whether or not we can have the
providers keep the metadata,” Ruppersberger said.  Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a California Democrat and
chairman of the Senate intelligence committee, opposed the idea
after reviewing an intelligence analysis on how costly and
complicated it would be. The telecommunications industry has
lobbied Congress and the administration to defeat the idea.  Legal Restrictions  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Representative Justin Amash,
a Michigan Republican, have introduced bills to raise the legal
standard for U.S. spies to get phone records.  The legislation would prohibit intelligence agencies from
collecting phone records unless they pertain to an individual
under investigation. That would prevent bulk collection.  The House in July rejected Amash’s proposal by seven votes.
Some lawmakers like Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican who leads the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, now want a do-over after the disclosure of NSA
abuses.  Issa voted against the Amash proposal and since has
reversed his position, Justin LoFranco, the committee’s digital
director, said in an e-mail. Issa wrote a letter Sept. 10 to
House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, asking
for the proposal to be revived for a vote.  Court Changes  Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Connecticut Democrat on the
Judiciary Committee, has introduced bills to make changes in the
secret court, including creating the role of privacy advocate.  “These revelations are shocking and provide very powerful
evidence that the FISA court has depended on the agency to
disclose its own misconduct, which simply is inadequate,”
Blumenthal said in an interview. “We need the court to have
tools, including an adversarial process for ferreting out
potential abuses.”  Blumenthal said he’s convinced any changes should be part
of a comprehensive plan that includes Leahy’s measure and
proposals by Senators Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, and  Jeff Merkley , an Oregon Democrat, to require more disclosure of NSA
operations.  Not much may move through Congress this year, especially as
lawmakers focus on other matters such as securing and removing
chemical weapons in  Syria , said Joseph Nye, a Harvard University
professor and former dean of the John F. Kennedy School of
Government in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Congress may be able to agree on having a public advocate
on the FISA court or perhaps third-party custody of the phone
metadata, Nye said.  Blumenthal agrees that debate over some proposals will slip
into 2014, and said the broadest areas of consensus today
revolve around FISA-court oversight. He said the metadata
proposals may have to wait.  “The president has said we need to have a national debate,
but I’m not sure enough of debate has occurred for anything to
emerge soon with any consensus on it,” Nye said in an
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  