-- Police Charge Six Men in Australian Soccer Match-Fixing Probe
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-16T04:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/police-charge-six-men-in-australian-soccer-match-fixing-probe.html
Six men in  Australia  were charged
by police in connection with alleged fixing of state soccer
matches that yielded an international ring more than A$2 million
($1.8 million) in winnings from bets.  The match-fixing ring allegedly manipulated scores of the
Melbourne-based Southern Stars, who play in the second-tier
Victorian Premier League. Victoria Police  yesterday said  they
arrested 10 people, who were later identified by Football
Federation Australia as the coach and nine players of the team.  Police said they began investigating last month following a
tipoff from the  FFA , which passed on information from sports and
betting-related data supplier Sportradar. The Stars are last in
the standings having played 21 games this season and their only
win came against the 12-team league’s top club.  The Stars brought in five players from the U.K. at no cost
this season at the instigation of an unnamed man who also
offered to organize sponsorship, the Australian Associated Press
reported, citing Stars president Ercan Cicek.  Following yesterday’s arrests, Gerry Gsubramaniam, 45, was
charged with five counts of conduct that corrupts a betting
outcome or event, and a further five counts of facilitating
conduct that corrupts or would corrupt a betting outcome or
event, police said in a  statement .  Five other men were each charged with four counts of
engaging in conduct that corrupts a betting outcome or event and
four counts of facilitating conduct that corrupts or would 
corrupt a betting outcome or event.  The four other men arrested yesterday were released pending
further inquiries, police said. Match-fixing charges can attract
a 10-year maximum jail sentence in Australia and soccer bans.  FFA Chief Executive Officer David Gallop said yesterday
that police had indicated that they were looking at an
“isolated issue” in Victoria.  “From the FFA’s point of view we’ll initiate proceedings
under our own codes of conduct,” Gallop said at a news
conference yesterday. “You can be sure that we will throw the
book at them. That means life bans on a worldwide basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  