-- Pound Climbs to 8-Month High on Summers Withdrawal; Gilts Rise
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-09-16T15:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/pound-climbs-to-8-month-high-on-summers-withdrawal-gilts-rise.html
The pound rose to an eight-month
high versus the dollar as  Lawrence Summers  withdrew from the
race to lead the  Federal Reserve , ending bets he would undo the
central bank’s policies aimed at holding down borrowing costs.  U.K. government bonds advanced with  U.S. Treasuries ,
pushing 10-year gilt yields to the lowest level in more than a
week. Summers, a former Treasury secretary, would tighten Fed
policy more than  Janet Yellen , who was his main rival to replace
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll
last week. Sterling was about 0.3 percent from its strongest
level versus the euro since January as Rightmove Plc increased
its forecast for growth in U.K.  house prices  this year.  “There’s been a selloff in the dollar,” said Michael Sneyd, a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
London. “Of the two main candidates, Yellen was seen as being a
continuation of Bernanke and it was thought Summers would have
been a change. The pound is approaching the key psychological
level of $1.60.”  The pound climbed 0.4 percent to $1.5935 at 4:16 p.m.
London time after rising to $1.5963, the highest since Jan. 18.
Sterling was little changed at 83.83 pence per euro after
appreciating to 83.57 pence on Sept. 13, also the strongest
level since Jan. 18.  Summers was one of three names President  Barack Obama  had
mentioned as possible replacements for Bernanke, whose term as
chairman ends on Jan. 31. Yellen, the current Fed vice chairman,
was also on Obama’s list of candidates along with  Donald Kohn , a
former Fed vice chairman, the president said earlier.  Fed Tapering  The Fed is buying $85 billion a month of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities to put downward pressure on long-term
borrowing costs. Policy makers will decide to slow purchases to
$75 billion at a two-day meeting starting tomorrow, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of economists on Sept. 6.  “We see little value in holding a duration view around the
Fed decision,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategists including Fabio Bassi in London wrote in a note today, referring to 10-year
gilts. The bank has removed its “bearish” bias on the
securities and turned neutral before the meeting, according to
the note.  The pound also climbed against the dollar after the U.S.
and  Russia  agreed on a plan to eliminate Syria’s chemical
weapons, damping demand for the safety of the U.S. currency.  Forecast Raised  U.K. home prices will increase 6 percent this year versus
the 4 percent previously estimated, Rightmove said in a report.
 House prices  sought fell 1.5 percent nationally and in  London  in
September, the property-website operator said.  The pound has risen 6.9 percent in the past six months, the
best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 0.8
percent and the euro advanced 3.2 percent.  The U.K. currency has strengthened at least 1 percent
against all 31 of its most-traded peers in the past six months,
setting a four-year high against the yen and touching records
against the Turkish lira and Indian rupee.  The benchmark  10-year gilt  yield fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.87 percent after touching 2.85
percent, the lowest since Sept. 4. The 2.25 percent security due
in September 2023 rose 0.365, or 3.65 pounds per 1,000-pound
face amount, to 94.66. The rate on similar-maturity U.S. notes
fell nine basis points to 2.80 percent.  Gilts lost 4.5 percent this year through Sept. 13,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes, underperforming
German securities, which dropped 2.5 percent, and a 3.7 percent
decline in Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  