-- Protests Surge as IRS Sets Jackson Image at $430 Million: Taxes
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R i p p s
-- 2013-09-16T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/protests-surge-as-irs-sets-jackson-image-at-430-million-taxes.html
The IRS may be treating celebrities
like they’re worth more dead than alive.  The  Internal Revenue Service  has started using “image and
likeness” as a factor in determining the value of estates of
deceased celebrities, raising concern among trust and estate
lawyers, Bloomberg BNA reported.  Documents recently released in litigation between the
estate of pop star  Michael Jackson  and the IRS showed that a
large part of the dispute revolves around the value of Jackson’s
image and likeness. While the estate assessed the value of his
image at $2,105, the IRS’s valuation was more than $430 million.  The IRS is seeking more than $700 million in tax penalties
from the estate, and the government has released valuations on
everything from the car to his business interests and property
after a U.S. Tax Court challenge in July from the estate.  The IRS valued his estate at more than $1.1 billion and
said executors significantly undervalued his property, resulting
in a tax deficiency of more than $505 million and additions to
tax of more than $196 million, Bloomberg BNA reported.  The mere inclusion of Jackson’s image and likeness as a
factor in his estate’s value is raising questions among some
trust and estate lawyers. Attorney Matt Kadish of Kadish, Hinkel
& Weibel in  Cleveland  said he’s “unaware of any cases to date
that have addressed whether the value of a person’s image rights
are subject to estate tax, and if so, how to value them.”  Several Tax Court decisions have addressed the value of a
celebrity’s image and likeness for income tax purposes, such as
when his firm represented professional golfer Retief Goosen in a
dispute over sponsorship payments, Kadish said.  Value Test  “Those cases focused on allocations of income, and apart
from some dicta, didn’t directly rule on whether image rights
are a separate asset for tax purposes,” Kadish said.  The IRS didn’t respond to a request for comment.  The issue in a case such as Jackson’s is what the assets
were worth when the person died, not what the IRS says they are
worth after death, said Adam Streisand, head of Loeb & Loeb
LLP’s trusts and estate litigation department in  Los Angeles .  For Jackson specifically, Streisand said death positively
impacted the value of his image and likeness.  While the IRS does test the value based upon subsequent
events, the executor is entitled to value the property based on
what was known on the valuation date, not on circumstances that
one might speculate might exist in the future, Streisand said.  Kadish said he has “major concerns” about the IRS’s
“sudden decision” to include image and likeness as part of a
taxable estate “without having provided any prior guidance or
opportunity for public comment.”  Kadish also raised the question of how celebrities are
going to pay for this new tax liability.  “Are athletes, entertainers, and other celebrities going
to have to buy  life insurance , or engage in other new planning
to avoid a ruinous ‘cash crunch’ shortly after their death?”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  