-- anbaxy Plunges on FDA Alert That May Spur Novartis Diovan
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n   a n d   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2013-09-16T16:36:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/ranbaxy-plummets-by-record-after-u-s-fda-issues-import-alert.html
Ranbaxy (RBXY)  Laboratories Ltd., the
Indian drugmaker that agreed to pay $500 million to settle fraud
allegations, plunged the most on record after U.S. regulators
restricted imports from one of its production facilities.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  issued an import
alert against a Ranbaxy plant in Mohali, Punjab state, according
to a Sept. 13 notice. The plant was set to make generic versions
of  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s blood-pressure pill Diovan, said Girish Bakhru,
an analyst with HSBC Securities India Holdings.  “Hopes for approvals for new products from Mohali have
been dashed,” Bakhru said in a note to clients today. “While
there is no financial impact, the delay in new product approvals
will hit Ranbaxy’s long-term road to recovery.”  The delay may mean an additional year of Diovan sales, or
about $1 billion in revenue for Novartis, according to Fabian Wenner, an analyst with Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.
Novartis in July raised its profit and sales forecasts as
generic competition for Diovan, a drug to treat high  blood
pressure , failed to materialize in the U.S.  Ranbaxy, India’s largest drugmaker,  dropped  30 percent to
318.50 rupees, the biggest loss since January 1991. Novartis
fell 1.5 percent to 69.90 Swiss francs.  FDA Communication  The import alert isn’t expected to cause a supply
disruption or shortage of drugs in the U.S., the FDA said in a
 statement  today.  “We want American consumers to be confident that the drugs
they are taking are of the highest quality, and the FDA will
continue to work to prevent potentially unsafe products from
entering the country,” Howard Sklamberg, director of the Office
of Compliance in the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, said in the statement.  Ranbaxy has received information from the FDA on the import
alert and the expansion of a 2012 consent decree for
manufacturing standards to include the Mohali facility, Erica Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Ranbaxy said in an e-mail earlier today that it was
“seeking information from the U.S. FDA in this regard.”  Ranbaxy’s forecast for 120 billion rupees in  sales  this
year is in jeopardy because of the potential for the import
alert to derail the timely release of other products, said
Balaji Prasad, a health-care analyst with Barclays Securities
 India  Pvt. Prasad, who has an underweight  rating  on the shares,
expects revenue of 110 billion rupees, he wrote in a note to
clients today.  Long Process  Ranbaxy, which had the exclusive right to sell a generic
version of Diovan in the U.S. beginning Sept. 21, 2012, failed
to win regulatory approval to begin marketing the product.
Novartis said in July it expects the delay in U.S. competition
for Diovan to continue in the third quarter and that the benefit
from that effect will reverse in 2014.  “This doesn’t look like it’s getting better quickly,”
Wenner said in a telephone interview today. “This is surely
going to take a lot longer than three months.”  A Novartis spokesman,  Eric Althoff , wasn’t available for
comment today.  Ranbaxy facilities in Dewas and Paonta Sahib, India, have
both been on the FDA’s import alert list  since  2009. Products
from companies on the FDA’s import alert list may be subject to
detention without physical examination.  ‘On Their Toes’  The latest FDA notice “is a surprise,” said Prakash Agarwal, a health-care analyst with CIMB Securities India Pvt.
Ltd. “The understanding was that, given the past experience
with the two other facilities, the management would be on their
toes to resolve these issues.”  Ranbaxy, based in Gurgaon on the outskirts of  New Delhi ,
agreed in May to pay $500 million to resolve fraud allegations
made in a whistle-blower’s lawsuit and federal criminal charges
that it sold batches of drugs that were improperly manufactured,
stored and tested. It also admitted to lying to the FDA about
how it tested drugs at the two Indian plants.  “It doesn’t seem that things have changed,” said Rohit Bhat, a health-care analyst at B&K Securities India Pvt Ltd.
“Everyone knows that the company has been facing FDA compliance
issues for their other units, but it was expected that they
would have learned from earlier experiences and hoped that they
would be able to clear the FDA for this unit.”  Strides Probed  Separately,  Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR)  said a facility in
Bangalore received a warning letter after an inspection found
reasons for concern. Strides responded to the FDA’s observations
made during an inspection of a sterile manufacturing facility in
Bangalore in June by implementing corrective actions, it said in
a statement today.  Strides fell as much as 6.8 percent to 839 rupees, headed
for the biggest decline since Aug. 14.  “The company is committed to work collaboratively and
expeditiously with the U.S. FDA to resolve concerns cited in the
warning letter in the shortest possible time,” Strides said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net ;
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  