-- Ranbaxy Ratings Cut After FDA Restricts Imports to U.S.
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-09-17T12:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/ranbaxy-ratings-cut-after-fda-restricts-imports-to-u-s-.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  had its
rating cut by at least seven brokerages after plans to sell
generic versions of two blockbuster pills were frustrated by
import restrictions placed on a third Indian production plant.  Recommendations on the stock were lowered by brokerages
including Jefferies LLC, HSBC Holdings Plc, and Edelweiss
Securities Ltd. after the  Food and Drug Administration  issued an
import alert against a Ranbaxy facility in Mohali, Punjab state,
causing the shares to plunge  30 percent  yesterday.  The plant was being prepared to make copies of  Novartis
AG (NOVN) ’s blood-pressure pill Diovan and AstraZeneca Plc’s stomach
ulcer medicine Nexium, which had combined annual sales of more
than $5 billion. Products from Ranbaxy’s Dewas and Paonta Sahib
factories are already prohibited in the U.S. because of quality
control issues that were part of fraud allegations, which
Ranbaxy agreed to settle in May for $500 million.  “It is very unlikely to get approval for Diovan and Nexium
in the coming one and a half years,” Bhagwan Singh Chaudhary, a
research analyst with IndiaNivesh Securities Pvt. in Mumbai,
wrote in a note to clients yesterday. The news is “likely to be
a huge negative for the stock,” which may drop as low as 250
rupees, he said.  Shares Slump  The  30 percent drop  yesterday in the shares of Ranbaxy
factors in the business slowdown caused by the import alert and
the “significant discount to peers is not justified,” Saion Mukherjee and Aditya Khemka, Mumbai-based analysts for Nomura
Holdings Inc., wrote in a note to clients today.  The stock gained 3.6 percent to 330.10 rupees at the close
in Mumbai trading, rebounding from its worst one-day slide since
at least January 1991.  Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568) , which owns 64 percent of Ranbaxy,
slumped 6.8 percent, the most since March 2011, to 1,772 yen at
the close in Tokyo trading.  A  company forecast  for 120 billion rupees ($1.9 billion) in
sales this year is in jeopardy because of the potential for the
import alert to derail the timely release of other products,
said Balaji Prasad, a health-care analyst with Barclays
Securities India Pvt. Prasad, who has an underweight rating on
the shares, expects revenue of 110 billion rupees, he wrote in a
note to clients yesterday.  Ranbaxy has received information from the FDA on the import
alert and the expansion of a 2012 consent decree for
manufacturing standards to include the Mohali facility, Erica
Jefferson, an FDA spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Improvements Made  The company will review the details and will continue to
fully cooperate with the FDA and “take all necessary steps to
resolve the concerns at the earliest,” Ranbaxy said in a
statement today. The FDA inspections of Mohali were made last
year and the company has made improvements since then, it said.  “Ranbaxy is hopeful of an early resolution of these
concerns,” the company said in the statement.  The drugmaker has had about 18 filings since 2009 with the
FDA for approval to sell generic medicines from the Mohali
facility, Rahul Sharma, a pharmaceuticals analyst with Karvy
Stock Broking Ltd. wrote in a note yesterday.  Sharma now expects Ranbaxy to get two FDA approvals this
year, instead of 10, and five next year, compared with the 15 he
anticipated before the import alert, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  