-- REC Pares Gains After Scotching China Tariff Report: Oslo Mover
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-09-16T11:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/rec-pares-gains-after-scotching-china-tariff-report-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp ASA (REC)  pared
gains in Oslo after the Norwegian polysilicon maker said anti-dumping duties in  China  haven’t been removed, scotching earlier
reports that had sent its shares up to a two-month high.  Shares in REC, based in Sandvika near Oslo, traded  4.5
percent higher  as of 1 p.m. in the Norwegian capital. The stock
earlier climbed as much as 8.1 percent to  3.50 kroner , the
highest intraday level since July 18, after speculation that
China had temporarily removed tariffs on imports of solar-grade
polysilicon, used to make solar panels.  The anti-dumping tariffs “have not been removed,” REC
spokesman Mikkel Toerud said by mobile phone today. A  statement 
from the Chinese Ministry of Commerce relates to a separate
probe into subsidies and doesn’t affect the anti-dumping duties
imposed on its products in July, he said.  “Chinese authorities have also investigated alleged
illegal subsidies,” Toerud said. “That’s what’s called anti-subsidy or counter-veiling duties, and that’s what they’ve come
out and said, at least for us, that they won’t impose additional
duties on.”  The impact “is entirely neutral for us, because it doesn’t
alter our situation as long as no so-called countervailing
duties or anti-subsidy duties are introduced,” he said.  REC, which is separating its solar and silicon units to
improve profits, has been battling falling prices amid industry
overcapacity, forcing it to close all its operations in  Norway .
It’s also been facing rising costs with China, the biggest
solar-module maker, imposing tariffs of as much as 57 percent on
polysilicon shipped from the U.S. and  South Korea  as it seeks to
stop the product being sold below cost.  “There were probably no expectations in the share price
that something would come on anti-subsidies,” Arctic Securities
ASA analyst Markus Bjerke said by phone from Oslo today. “So
it’s entirely neutral that they would get 0 percent” in anti-subsidy duties, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo on  at
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  