-- Red Sox Sweep Yanks as Indians Gain Ground in MLB Wild-Card Race
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-16T04:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/red-sox-sweep-yanks-as-indians-gain-ground-in-mlb-wild-card-race.html
The  Boston Red Sox  completed a
three-game series sweep of the  New York Yankees  with a 9-2 win
that dropped their division rivals three games back in the race
for an American League wild-card playoff berth.  Mike Napoli  hit a two-run home run in Boston’s three-run
first inning and  Red Sox  starting pitcher  Clay Buchholz  allowed
one unearned run over six innings last night at Fenway Park to
improve his record to 11-0 on the season.  The Red Sox have Major League Baseball’s best record at
92-59 and a 9 1/2-game lead atop the AL Eastern Division. The
Yankees, who are 6-13 against Boston this season, slipped to
79-71 and again failed to pick up ground in the race for one of
the AL’s two wild-card spots.  “We’re not the only team that’s ran into hard times in the
month of September,” said Yankees manager  Joe Girardi , whose
team is 8-8 this month. “We still have a great opportunity.
Yeah, we have to win a lot of games, but the opportunity is in
front of us.”  Ivan Nova allowed five runs -- four earned -- over four
innings in taking the loss for New York. The Yankees, who have
12 regular-season games remaining, have gotten only one win from
a starting pitcher this month.  “We were hoping he could give us a little more and it
didn’t happen,” Girardi told reporters.  The Tampa Bay Rays and Texas Rangers are tied at 81-67 and
in position for the wild-card berths, which go to the two non-division winners in each league with the best records. The Rays
lost 6-4 to the Minnesota Twins yesterday, while the Rangers
dropped their sixth in a row, a 5-1 defeat against the AL West-leading Oakland Athletics. The Rays and Rangers open a four-game
series today in  St. Petersburg , Florida.  Indians Surge  The Cleveland Indians (81-68) pulled within a half-game of
a wild-card spot with a 7-1 victory over the Chicago White Sox.  The Baltimore Orioles (79-70) are 2 1/2 games out after a
3-1 win over the Toronto Blue Jays, while the Kansas City Royals
(78-71) remain 3 1/2 games back after a 3-2 loss to the AL
Central-leading Detroit Tigers.  The Indians and Royals open a three-game series today in
Kansas City, while the Orioles next play three games in Boston
starting tomorrow. The Yankees are in Toronto next and start a
three-game series tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  