-- Springboks’ Du Plessis Has Red Card Removed After Referee Error
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-16T11:21:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/referee-erred-with-first-yellow-card-for-du-plessis-irb-says.html
South Africa ’s Bismarck du Plessis
had a red card struck off his disciplinary record after rugby’s
governing body said the referee improperly penalized him for a
tackle on Dan Carter of  New Zealand  two days ago.  Du Plessis was shown a yellow card for the tackle, judged
illegal by referee Romain Poite, in the 17th minute of South
Africa’s 29-15 Rugby Championship loss to New Zealand in
Auckland. A subsequent yellow card early in the second half led
to the hooker’s ejection from the game.  The International Rugby Board said in a statement it had
been “incorrect” for Poite to issue the yellow card for the
hit on Carter, who suffered a tournament-ending shoulder injury.
A South African, New Zealand and Australian Rugby judicial
officer agreed following an expedited disciplinary hearing
today, ruling the tackle was “within the laws of the game” and
removing du Plessis’s red card.  “Submissions were made on behalf of the player and the
video footage was reviewed,” SANZAR said in a  statement . “The
judicial officer found that the decision made by referee Romain
Poite to issue a yellow card as a result of the tackle by du
Plessis on  Dan Carter  was wrong.”  The IRB said in its earlier statement that the decision had
been “an unfortunate case of human error by the match
officials,” who had accepted that they made a mistake.  Du Plessis’s 42nd-minute sending off after his second
offense -- an elbow to the throat of All Blacks flanker Liam
Messam during a tackle -- came with his team trailing 17-10.
SANZAR said although no further sanction was imposed on the
player at the disciplinary hearing, the second yellow will
remain on his record for the rest of the tournament.  Championship Lead  New Zealand’s victory put it four points clear of the
Springboks in the southern hemisphere championship standings
with two rounds remaining.  Carter, the IRB’s World Player of the Year in 2012, is out
for as many as six weeks after injuring the acromioclavicular
joint in his right shoulder and will miss games in South Africa
and  Argentina  on Sept. 28 and Oct. 5, the All Blacks said.  Carter posted on his  Twitter feed  that there was “nothing
wrong” with the tackle and All Blacks coach  Steve Hansen  said
du Plessis had been “unlucky” with the initial yellow card.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  