-- Refinancings Plummet After Worst Losses in 14 Years: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/refinancings-plummet-after-worst-losses-in-14-years-muni-credit.html
U.S. localities are scaling back
refinancing by the most since 2006 as the worst municipal bond
losses in 14 years push up borrowing costs.  With  yields  near a 29-month high, refinancings shriveled to
just $81 billion this year through Sept. 11, out of $229 billion
of total sales, Citigroup Inc. data show. That’s down 29 percent
from last year’s pace, when localities refunded the most since
at least 2003.  From Massachusetts to California, issuers have canceled
such deals, which provide a way to save money other than firing
workers or cutting services. The refinancing drought is also
feeding into the bond sell-off by giving fund managers less cash
with which to meet the largest wave of withdrawals since 2011,
according to research firm Municipal Market Advisors.  “It would have been great to refinance more,” said Colin MacNaught, assistant treasurer of  Massachusetts , which reduced a
June general-obligation sale to $669 million from a planned $1.1
billion because some refunding debt didn’t save enough money.  “It’s a missed opportunity,” MacNaught said in a phone
interview. The state had planned to re-offer the debt, “but
rates have not declined since then,” he said. “Refunding has
gone away.”  Deal Limbo  Benchmark yields have almost doubled over the past nine
months as Detroit’s record bankruptcy and speculation that the
Federal Reserve will curb its bond buying have led munis to
outpace declines in Treasuries and corporate debt. Local debt
lost 1.6 percent in August, the most for the month in 14 years,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Across the country, at least $420 million of bonds for
refunding are considered day-to-day as localities wait for
interest rates to steady.  About 2,000 miles (3,218 kilometers) from the U.S. auto-industry capital, the Government Development Bank for Puerto
Rico last week blamed  Detroit  for raising borrowing costs across
the market and contributing to the GDB’s decision to scale back
its financing plans.  Municipalities took advantage of refinancing deals after
the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009 as yields fell to
the lowest in a generation. They favored such issuance to repair
their budgets rather than borrowing for projects. Lower-rated
localities in particular benefited from investors’ search for
yield.  Savings Chance  “The fact that a slightly weaker muni credit could go and
refund its bonds and make interest savings was a plus, and now
that goes away,” said Vikram Rai, a fixed-income strategist at
Citigroup in New York.  Much of the refinancing spurt had been current refunding,
in which older bonds are retired within 90 days after new
securities are sold to replace them. That puts cash in
investors’ hands while keeping total debt unchanged.  Last year, when investors poured $27.8 billion into muni
mutual funds, the refunding wave depressed net supply and pushed
 yields  to the lowest since the 1960s as money managers searched
for bonds to buy with the cash wave. In 2013 the trend has
reversed, with individuals pulling $22.8 billion from local debt
funds through Sept. 11, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  Tradition Thwarted  While less supply traditionally pushes yields lower, “this
may not be the case in 2013,” according to a Sept. 9 report
from Concord, Massachusetts-based MMA. “Because current
refundings have little impact on net supply, a drop-off in sales
does not mean fewer bonds available per investor.”  States and localities have issued about 12 percent less
debt this year than at this time in 2012, when they sold about
$244 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Municipalities
have scheduled about $5.3 billion in sales over the next 30
days, the lowest  visible supply  since June.  One refunding deal that was considered day-to-day last week
was from the  California  Infrastructure and Economic Development
Bank, which is planning to offer about $196 million in debt on
behalf of the California Independent System Operator, which
provides access to much of the state’s power grid.  “Things have dropped off over the last few months,” Ruben
Rojas, the Sacramento-based development bank’s deputy executive
director, said in an interview. He said the borrower made the
decision to price on a day-to-day basis and didn’t say when the
debt may be offered.  Georgia Canceled  Even top-rated borrowers are getting squeezed. Georgia
canceled a $157 million general-obligation sale in June that
would have refinanced debt, and hasn’t come back to market,
Bloomberg data show.  Lee McElhannon, director of bond finance at the Georgia
State Financing & Investment Commission, said at the time the
increase in interest rates “moved it well out of our
commission-approved policy for savings.” He added that “we
don’t see it coming back to us in the near future.”  As municipalities have mended their finances, they’ve
started hiring again.  Local-government employment  rose to 14.08
million last month after falling to 14.03 million in October
2012, the lowest since June 2005, Labor Department data show.
The workforce has shrunk from 14.61 million in 2008.  The higher yields may jeopardize a rebound in investment by
communities. Financing for infrastructure is growing 6 percent
from last year’s pace, after falling the previous two years,
according to Citigroup.  Infrastructure Risk  “The biggest drop has been in refunding, though generally
new money supply will slow down as well” as issuers adjust to
higher yields, said Jamie Pagliocco, director of bond managers
in Merrimack, New Hampshire, at Fidelity Investments, which
oversees $28 billion in munis.  “If you’re in an environment where quite a lot of time
passes by with very low issuance, then you start running the
risk of infrastructure issues.”  Localities from North Carolina to  Washington  are set to
sell $3.7 billion in long-term debt this week, the least in a
non-holiday week since December.  Benchmark 10-year munis yield  3.03 percent , after their
biggest weekly rally since April, Bloomberg data show. The
interest rate compares with  2.89 percent  for similar-maturity
Treasuries.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 105 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Washington plans to sell about $295 million of federal
highway grant-anticipation revenue bonds this week to help
finance a $4.1 billion bridge across Lake Washington, between
Seattle and Redmond. Moody’s Investors Service rates the debt
Aa3, fourth-highest. Known as Garvees, for grant-anticipation
revenue vehicles, the bonds are backed by federal aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  