-- Ronaldo’s New Deal Pays $24 Million a Year, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-16T07:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/ronaldo-s-new-deal-pays-24-million-a-year-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Ronaldo’s New Deal  Cristiano Ronaldo’s new contract at Real Madrid will pay
the Portuguese forward 15 million pounds ($24 million) a year
after tax and before bonuses, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Ronaldo’s extension through 2018, which was signed
yesterday, is said to be worth 850,000 pounds more annually than
Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s deal with Paris Saint-Germain and makes him
the world’s highest paid soccer player, the newspaper added.  Leaving Barcelona  Arsenal and  Manchester City  may try to sign Barcelona
goalkeeper Victor Valdes after he re-stated his desire to leave
the Spanish champion after this season, the  Daily Star  reported.  “I have spoken with the club without problems but my
choice has not changed,” the Star cited Valdes as saying after
Barca’s 3-2 win against Sevilla two days ago. “I am happy for
this season and after, I leave.”  Adebayor Loan Option  Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas is willing to
let striker Emmanuel Adebayor go on loan to keep him sharp and
visible to potential buyers, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Queens Park Rangers are said to be the most likely
destination for the Togo striker, while Wigan Athletic is keen
if Adebayor is prepared to move from  London , the Mirror added.  Referees Warned  Premier League referees have been warned against
communicating with managers following comments by former
official Mark Halsey that he was on texting terms with ex-Manchester United boss  Alex Ferguson , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Halsey, who like Ferguson retired at the end of last
season, wrote in his book “Added Time” that he contacted the
Scot to ask him to speak out over allegations that fellow
referee Mark Clattenburg made a racist remark to Chelsea’s John Obi Mikel in a match last year, the Mirror added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  