-- Rupee Aids Auto Parts Export Push as Sales Dip: Corporate India
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2013-09-17T04:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/rupee-aids-auto-parts-export-push-as-sales-dip-corporate-india.html
Indian auto parts makers are
looking at the rupee’s 13 percent slide against the dollar this
year to help boost exports and counter a nine-month slump in car
sales at home.  Rane Holdings Ltd. (RHL) , a vendor to the local factories of Ford
Motor Co. and Hyundai Motor Co., plans to raise the share of
exports to 25 percent of its revenue from 18 percent, Director
Harish Lakshman said in an interview.  Asahi India Glass Ltd. (AISG) ,
which supplies to the Indian unit of  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) , is
targeting a threefold increase in the share of its overseas
shipments, Managing Director Sanjay Labroo said.  “A priority would be to increase exports,” said Lakshman,
who also heads the  Automotive Component Manufacturers
Association of India . “The industry is a net importer so the
rupee depreciation affects the industry, especially at a time
when there is flat to negative growth.”  The plunge in the rupee, the second-worst performing
currency in Asia this year, may be a silver lining for component
manufacturers as carmakers brace for the second straight annual
sales decline in Asia’s third-biggest market. Discounts offered
by companies including  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  and  General Motors Co. 
are failing to lure customers to showrooms as the slowest pace
of growth in a decade in the $1.8 trillion economy and rising
prices of  gasoline  and diesel crimp demand.  More Engaged  In contrast, auto sales in the U.S., the world’s No. 2
market, are poised for a fifth straight year of growth to 16.1
million cars and light trucks in 2014, according to a survey by
Bloomberg News.  “There’s a wonderful opportunity at the moment for Indian
makers to be more fully engaged in the global supply chain of
components,” Jonathan Schiessl, head of Asia Pacific at
Ashburton Ltd., which manages $5 billion of assets, said in a
phone interview. “Obviously, the depreciation of the rupee
makes that more attractive. In the short term, the outlook is
cloudy, but in the medium to long term, it is rosy.”  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  this month
forecast local deliveries of passenger vehicles, including cars,
SUVs and vans, may decline this year for the first time since
the 12 months through March 2002, after sales of passenger cars
fell in the year ended March 31, 2013.  Slowing Growth  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ,  India ’s biggest carmaker, doesn’t
expect demand to pick up because of the economic slowdown,
Chairman R.C. Bhargava said Sept. 3.  General Motors (GM)  expects the
slump to continue until after a new government is in place post
elections due by May, P. Balendran, GM’s vice president for
corporate affairs at its local unit, said the next day.  India’s economy expanded 5 percent last fiscal year, the
slowest pace since 2003, as investment fell and consumer
spending in the nation of 1.2 billion people moderated. Gross
domestic product rose 4.4 percent last quarter.  Rane Holdings, the  holding company  for a group that makes
brake linings, hydraulic power steering systems and engine
valves, reported its first  quarterly loss  since 2009 in three
months through June, while Asahi India Glass posted its eighth
consecutive quarterly loss. Profit at  Bharat Forge Ltd. (BHFC) , India’s
biggest forging company, has  declined  for four straight
quarters.  “Companies need to reduce costs and bring down their
breakevens,” said Babasaheb Kalyani, managing director of
Bharat Forge. “With a devaluation of the rupee, imports get
expensive and for Indian manufacturers this creates a huge
opportunity.”  Best Monsoon  Bharat Forge shares have gained 2.8 percent this year in
Mumbai, compared with a 1.7 percent increase in the benchmark
 S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Asahi India Glass has slumped 16 percent this year, while Rane
Holdings has slid 27 percent.  Some manufacturers expect the best monsoon rainfall in two
decades to boost farm output, helping increase demand for
vehicles in India’s rural areas.  “The rural markets in India are doing well,” said Sunjay Kapur, managing director of  Sona Koyo Steering Systems Ltd. (SONA) , in
an interview in New Delhi. “We are quite bullish on the monsoon
and expect demand for tractors and two wheelers to increase.”  Motherson Sumi Systems Ltd. (MSS) , which supplies wiring
harnesses and rear view mirrors to automakers including
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, says it expects exports to increase
from India, even as the company expands its operations in North
America and  China , the world’s largest auto market. The
partmaker’s shares have risen 9 percent this year.  “If the rupee remains at these levels, an increase in
exports will naturally happen,” Chief Operating Officer Pankaj Mital said in an interview. “Three years ago, everyone was
worried about rupee appreciation and how it would erode
advantages. Today, it’s gone the other way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  