-- Russia Stocks Rise as Uralkali Surges Amid Bidding Speculation
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-09-16T08:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/russia-stocks-rise-as-uralkali-surges-amid-bidding-speculation.html
Russian stocks climbed as OAO
Uralkali, the world’s biggest potash producer, increased amid
speculation a conflict with Belarus will be resolved.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rallied 1.3 percent to 1,459.93 by 11:13
a.m. in Moscow, extending last week’s 1.2 percent gain. Uralkali
surged 5.8 percent to 188.14 rubles. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) ,  Russia ’s
largest producer of coal for steelmakers, jumped 1.7 percent to
111.90 rubles, while OAO Sberbank, the country’s biggest lender,
added 1.9 percent to 97.59 rubles.  Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan, a longtime ally of
President  Vladimir Putin , is the leading bidder for Uralkali,
seeking to buy out its three main shareholders, according to
people familiar with the situation. The talks began after
Belarus arrested Uralkali Chief Executive Officer Vladislav Baumgertner on Aug. 26, a month after he pulled out of a trading
venture with Belarus, according to the people.  “The market is hoping that the development in the stake
bidding process will soon lead to a resolution of the
conflict,” Alexander Kostyukov, an analyst at Veles Capital,
said by phone from Moscow. “Baumgertner is expected to be
released soon and he’ll probably remain the CEO.”  Uralkali advanced 7.1 percent to $29.29 in London. OAO
Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil producer, may outbid Kogan for
billionaire Suleiman Kerimov’s stake in Uralkali, RIA Novosti
reported yesterday. Rosneft has no interest in potash “for
now,” Interfax reported the same day, citing Rosneft CEO  Igor Sechin .  Taper Expectations  Emerging-market stocks climbed to a 15-week high after
 Lawrence Summers  withdrew from the race to be the next Federal
Reserve chairman. Summers, a former  Treasury secretary , would
tighten Fed policy more than  Janet Yellen , who was his main
rival to replace Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , according to a
Bloomberg Global Poll last week.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  will slow its monthly
asset purchases to $75 billion from $85 billion at a two-day
meeting that starts tomorrow, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of economists on Sept. 6. Fifty-seven percent of
investors surveyed in a Bloomberg Global Poll say they don’t
expect a sudden change in the markets if the Fed cuts its bond
purchases because they already anticipate tapering action.  Crude oil retreated 0.6 percent to $107.53 in  New York , the
second day of declines, on speculation the threat of imminent
military strikes against  Syria  has eased. Russia receives about
half of its budget revenue from oil and natural gas sales.  Norilsk Dividend  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel  added 1.2 percent to 4,679 rubles.
The world’s biggest producer of the metal will keep a high
dividend yield, Vedomosti reported, citing CEO  Vladimir Potanin .  The Micex fell 0.7 percent on Sept. 13 as Russia’s central
bank kept the  refinancing rate  unchanged at 8.25 percent at a
meeting on Sept. 13, matching the forecast of 14 out of 22
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Bank Rossii said it will
introduce a new one-week key policy rate by unifying its rates
on providing and absorbing liquidity.  Russian equities have the cheapest  valuations  among 21
emerging economies tracked by Bloomberg, with shares trading at
4.3 times 12-month estimated earnings, compared with a multiple
of 10.6 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Russia’s economy expanded 1.2 percent in the second
quarter, the Federal Statistics Service reported on Aug. 9,
missing the median forecast for 2 percent.  The volume of shares traded on the Micex was 47 percent
above the 30-day average, while 10-day price swings rose to
20.779.  The dollar-denominated RTS Index advanced 2.2 percent to
1,427.76. The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded Russian stocks in New York rose 0.3 percent on Sept. 13,
while  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated Russian
exchange-traded fund, added 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  