-- Ryanair to Boost Stansted Traffic 50% After Owner MAG Pares Fees
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   J a s p e r   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-16T14:08:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/ryanair-to-boost-stansted-traffic-50-after-owner-mag-pares-fees.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  said it will
boost passenger numbers at  London ’s Stansted airport by 50
percent to more than 20 million over 10 years after agreeing on
terms for growth with new owner Manchester Airports Group.  Europe’s biggest discount carrier, which attracted 13.2
million customers at Stansted in 2012, is counting on the
airport north of London for 25 percent of its expansion by 2019,
Chief Executive Officer Michael O’Leary said today at a press
briefing in London.  Ryanair is expanding at its biggest base after MAG agreed
to trim a 6 percent increase in landing charges inherited with
the 1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) takeover from BAA Ltd. on
Feb. 28. The Dublin-based carrier, which accounts for more than
two-thirds of the airport’s passengers, had said when the MAG
deal was completed that it would cut traffic 9 percent.  “This sort of growth can only be delivered on lower
costs,” O’Leary said, calling the deal his airline’s “most
transformational” for years. “It’s indicative of the new
regime at Stansted and MAG that within a period of six months of
taking over they are signing an aggressive and dramatic growth
deal.”  MAG earlier this year signed an accord with Luton, England-based  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest discount carrier,
aimed at doubling the airline’s annual passenger count to 6
million in five years at Stansted. EasyJet’s biggest base is
London Gatwick.  Growing Numbers  Combined growth from the two low-cost operators could help
return Stansted’s passenger levels to their 2007 peak of 23.8
million from the current 17.5 million, Donal O’Neill, an analyst
at Goodbody Stockbrokers in Dublin, has said.  Ryanair passenger totals at Stansted will reach 14.5
million next year, which will be home to many new  Boeing Co. (BA) 
737s the carrier agreed to buy this year. Ryanair currently
bases 37 Boeing jets at Stansted, which will grow to 43 next
year as the carrier expands its network from there to Lisbon,
Bordeaux in  France , Dortmund,  Germany , and Rabat,  Morocco .  With a terminal designed by U.K. architect Norman Foster,
Stansted ranks third behind Heathrow and Gatwick among London
hubs and fourth in the U.K. including Manchester. MAG made its
purchase after  Ferrovial SA (FER) ’s BAA, now known as Heathrow Airport
Ltd., was forced to cede assets following an antitrust probe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  