-- SABMiller CEO Clark Sees More Brewing M&A After Recent Slowdown
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-09-16T15:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/sabmiller-ceo-clark-sees-more-brewing-m-a-after-recent-slowdown.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-biggest brewer, expects further consolidation among beer makers
after a slowdown in industry takeover activity this year,
according to Chief Executive Officer Alan Clark.  “I’m not sure there is a blockage” in the pipeline of
acquisitions following “quite a spate” of purchases in the
last few years, Clark said at a conference in  London  today.  SABMiller, which bought Melbourne-based Foster’s Group Ltd.
in 2011 for A$10.5 billion ($9.8 billion), will continue to look
for targets, though mergers and acquisitions are “less
important on our agenda” than organic growth, Clark said.  Thirty brewing takeovers have been announced globally this
year for a total of $6.4 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with the 68 that were announced in 2012
in deals worth $48.1 billion, the data shows.  SABMiller may look at assets in  Asia , including  China ,
where the company’s local joint venture with China Resources
Enterprise Ltd. is buying Kingway Brewery Holdings Ltd.’s beer-making assets. The Kingway purchase will take their combined
Chinese market share to about 24 percent, Clark said.  London-based SABMiller is among brewers who are expanding
through  acquisitions  to tap booming economic growth in markets
outside the U.S. and Europe. Last year, bigger competitor
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV splashed out $20 billion to secure full
control of  Mexico ’s Grupo Modelo SAB, while Heineken NV bought
out its joint venture partner to consolidate ownership of Asia
Pacific Breweries Ltd. for S$5.6 billion ($4.4 billion).  Individual Brands  SABMiller may consider buying individual brands as well as
companies, Clark said, adding that purchases shouldn’t weigh on
earnings per share in the first two to three years.  The multiple that buyers are paying for brewery assets is
increasing, and has been for a while, said Clark, who was named
CEO in April after Graham Mackay underwent treatment for a brain
tumor.  SABMiller still expects Ebita margin, a measure of
profitability, to increase 20 to 50 basis points this year,
excluding acquisitions and currency fluctuations, Clark said.  He declined to comment on the company’s recent trading.
First-quarter organic lager volume slid 1 percent from a year
earlier, SABMiller said in July, as cold and rainy weather hit
business across northern  Europe  and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  