-- Salt, More or Less, a Matter of Dispute Among Doctors
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/salt-more-or-less-a-matter-of-dispute-among-doctors.html
Salt  is at the center of a battle
among government agencies and health advisers who can’t agree on
what is too much or too little for a healthy diet.  Four months after an Institute of Medicine report said
reducing salt to the lowest recommended level doesn’t improve
health and may harm it, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention said they disagree. In an article published today in
the American Journal of Hypertension, the CDC and  New York  City
health officials said getting Americans to eat less salt remains
a key objective with the potential to save thousands of lives.  The IOM  report  stirred controversy after doctors and news
organizations suggested the findings meant national efforts to
cut salt consumption were unnecessary and potentially dangerous.
The CDC, which commissioned the IOM report, the New York City
Department of Health and others are now writing in to reiterate
their commitment to lowering sodium consumption.  “We strongly believe that given the current high levels of
sodium consumption and the preponderance of scientific evidence
supporting lower consumption, sodium reduction strategies must
remain at the top of the public health agenda,” said New York
City Health Commissioner Thomas Farley and his colleagues. “It
is the shared responsibility of public health leaders,
journalists, and government officials to get the message right:
reducing sodium intake saves lives.”  The IOM review analyzed studies from the past decade to see
if sodium reduction prevented  heart disease  and death.
While more sodium does increase heart disease risk, reducing it
too much can also cause harm for some people, the report found.  How Low  At issue is the question of how low consumers should go
when it comes to salt. The  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services recommends no more than 2,300 milligrams a day in
general, and 1,500 milligrams a day for anyone with hypertension
and everyone who is black or older than 51. The high-risk
subgroup accounts for roughly half of the  U.S. population .  The CDC is committed to trying to get the U.S. population
to those levels, down from the current average consumption of
3,400 milligrams, wrote CDC Director  Thomas Frieden  and his
colleagues.  That goal may be dangerous, said Michael H. Alderman, the
editor-in-chief of the  American Journal of Hypertension , who
pulled together eight reports and commentary that explored all
angles of the debate. The relationship between heart disease and
sodium “has a ‘J’ shape,” with both low and high levels
creating risk, he said in a telephone interview.  Original Assumptions  The original assumptions made sense, he said. Reducing
sodium intake by 30 percent to 50 percent lowers blood pressure
by a modest amount. Lowering blood pressure has been proven in
numerous studies to protect the heart. Therefore, people assumed
reducing sodium would protect the heart. The problem was the
data didn’t support the conclusion, he said.  “Lowering sodium to the extent required to lower  blood
pressure  has a variety of other effects,” including some that
boost heart attacks, strokes and death, he said. “It’s just not
that simple. The message from the evidence is we don’t know.”  It looks like there is a broad range of sodium intake
that’s compatible with excellent health, he said. Getting too
much or too little is a problem. More research is needed to
clearly identify those levels, he said.  “Thirty years of looking hard to find evidence that people
eating less than the recommended levels of sodium are better
off, and not having found it, may give people pause to think
maybe it isn’t there,” he said. “It’s not that there is
conflicting data. There is no data that suggests people eating
less than 2,300 milligrams a day are better off.”  Alderman said it’s “incumbent on the CDC and others who
support these recommendations to come up with evidence” that
shows what levels of sodium are safe and beneficial for
patients.  “Hypertension is my game,” he said. “I’m interested in
lowering blood pressure, of course. But what I’m really
interested in is saving lives and preventing heart attacks and
strokes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  