-- Santos Says PDVSA Bonds Could Fund Venezuela-Colombia Trade
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-09-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/santos-says-pdvsa-bonds-could-fund-venezuela-colombia-trade.html
Colombia  is studying a plan to
export about $600 million of goods to  Venezuela  in exchange for
bonds of state oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA .  President  Juan Manuel Santos  told a conference of Colombian
exporters Sept. 13 that he discussed the idea with Venezuelan
President  Nicolas Maduro .  “There’s an initial demand for specific products with a
value of about $600 million,” Santos said. “We’re discussing
the means of payment. The method we found, and that we are
discussing at the moment, is payment with bonds of PDVSA, bonds
that have secondary markets.”  Shortages of goods in Venezuela ranging from sugar to beef
are stoking the world’s highest inflation after  Iran  as
importers struggle to obtain foreign currency. The annual
inflation rate accelerated 45.4 percent last month from 42.6
percent in July, the central bank said on Sept. 10, while the
country’s scarcity index, which measures the amount of goods not
in stock on store shelves, reached 20 percent.  Maduro on Sept. 12 said that products should begin arriving
from Colombia this week.  “The exporter who receives these bonds can sell them in
the secondary market,” Santos said. The Colombian  Finance
Ministry  didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail sent outside
normal business hours asking for more details on how the plan
would work.  Foreign Currency  Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  flew to Caracas Sept. 3
to discuss bilateral trade with Venezuelan officials. Cardenas
said in May that Colombian industry and agriculture can help
supply Venezuela’s need for “essential and basic goods,”
including powdered milk and paper, provided the two countries
can agree on a means of payment.  Venezuela is expected to use government and PDVSA bonds to
supply a new currency distribution system being designed to
supplement the Cadivi currency system that sells bolivars at the
official rate of 6.3 per dollar and the Sicad system that
auctions dollars at an undisclosed rate. The bolivar currently
trades at almost 45 per dollar on the black market, according to
dolartoday.com, a website that tracks the exchange rate on the
border with Colombia.  “The almost 600 percent gap between the official and
unofficial exchange rates is producing a slow-motion balance of
payments crisis, increasing the demand for cheap dollars, while
creating high incentives for corruption to divert FX away from
productive sectors, increasing scarcity to alarming levels,”
Barclays Plc said in a note to clients on Sept. 13.  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark sovereign bonds due in
2027 fell 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage point, to 11.5
percent on Sept. 13. On average, Venezuelan dollar debt yields
11.74 percent, almost double the average in  emerging markets ,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  