-- Santos Says Colombia Central Bank Should Stop Buying Dollars
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-09-16T21:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/santos-says-colombian-central-bank-should-stop-buying-dollars.html
Colombia’s central bank should stop
its program of daily dollar purchases at the end of this month
as the peso weakens toward a level the Andean nation “can live
with,” President Juan Manuel Santos said.  “I don’t think they need to continue buying at the
moment,” Santos said today in an interview from his office in
Bogota. “If I were a member of the central bank I wouldn’t
renew” the daily program of dollar purchases that ends this
month.  The central bank in May extended its daily program of
dollar purchases until the end of September in an effort to
weaken the exchange rate that the government said was damaging
 exporters . Finance Minister Mauricio Cardenas has repeatedly
said that the peso’s “equilibrium” level is 1,900 to 1,950 per
U.S. dollar.  The peso erased earlier losses to strengthen 0.2 percent to
1919.86 per U.S. dollar today after Santos’ comments. The
currency has weakened 8 percent this year.  “Between what we have right now and 2,000 or something,
it’s something we can live with,” Santos said. “There’s no
reason to continue buying, but that’s a decision the central
bank has to take.”  Banco de la Republica has bought $5.8 billion in the spot
market this year.  September Meeting  Santos’ comments mean that Cardenas, who as finance
minister chairs the central bank’s policy committee, will argue
against extending dollar purchases at the bank’s Sept. 27 policy
meeting, said  Andres Pardo , head analyst at Corporacion
Financiera Colombiana, or Corficolombiana.  “The position of at least the minister will be to vote not
to extend the dollar purchase program,” Pardo said in a phone
interview from Bogota. “This raises the chance that they won’t
extend it.”  An end to dollar purchases could cut yields on shorter
maturity bonds since the central bank would need to issue fewer
peso bonds, or TES, to absorb liquidity created by buying
foreign reserves, Pardo said.  The yield on government peso bonds maturing in 2014 fell
0.2 percentage point this month to 3.71 percent.  Lower Rates  The Colombian economy will grow 4 percent or more in the
second quarter from a year earlier, Santos said. The growth was
led by 7 percent to 10 percent growth in agricultural
production, a “very important” increase in public works
spending, Santos said.  The second quarter also showed the country’s service sector
“in good shape,” said Santos, who saw preliminary data on the
second-quarter gross domestic product. The  report  is scheduled
to be published by the national statistics agency on Sept. 19.  The president said the central bank has room to cut the
benchmark interest rate this year to help fuel economic growth.  The central bank held its  key rate  at 3.25 percent for
fifth straight month on Aug. 30, with a minority of policy
makers arguing for a cut. Colombia cut its policy rate by two
percentage points between July 2012 and March.  “I respect very much the independence of the central bank
but, personally, I would not be unhappy with a cut in the
interest rate,” he said. “In the near future, I think there’s
room to cut interest rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  