-- Sarin Used in Syria Attack, UN Inspection Team Reports
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-09-17T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/sarin-used-in-syria-attack-un-inspection-team-reports.html
United Nations inspectors found
“clear and convincing evidence” that poison sarin gas was used
in an attack near  Syria ’s capital of Damascus, where the U.S.
says President Bashar al-Assad’s troops on Aug. 21 fired
chemical weapons that killed more than 1,400 people.  “Surface-to-surface rockets containing the nerve agent
sarin” were used in Moadamiyah in West Ghouta and Ein Tarma and
Zamalka in East Ghouta against “civilians including children,
on a relatively large scale,” according to the report issued
yesterday, citing collected “chemical and medical samples.”  While the UN team’s mandate was solely to determine whether
chemical weapons were used, not who used them, the scientists’
documentation of surface-to-surface rockets points to the
government rather than its lesser-armed opposition, U.S., U.K.
and French envoys to the UN told reporters after the  Security
Council  was briefed by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Ake
Sellstrom, the head of the inspection team that went to Syria.  “This was no cottage industry use of chemical weapons,”
said Mark Lyall Grant, the British envoy. Samantha Power, the
U.S. ambassador, said the UN report’s “technical details” make
“clear only the regime could have carried out” an attack of
this scale.  The trajectory of the rockets and their penetration into
buildings showed the rockets were shot with “great precision”
by Assad’s regime, said Alexis Lamek, the French deputy envoy to
the UN.  Jumping to Conclusions  Their Russian counterpart, Ambassador  Vitaly Churkin , said
his Security Council colleagues were jumping to conclusions in
blaming the regime. More experts need to take time to verify the
evidence and conclusions reached, Churkin told reporters. He
said the lack of rebel deaths in the attack was suspicious.  The UN inspectors said sarin was found in rockets recovered
at the site of the attack, and in at least 85 percent of blood
samples and at least 91 percent of urine samples tested.  Ban said the report’s conclusion was “overwhelming and
indisputable.”  “The United Nations Mission has now confirmed,
unequivocally and objectively, that chemical weapons have been
used in Syria,” the secretary-general told the Security
Council, according to an e-mail. “This is a war crime and a
grave violation of the 1925 Protocol and other rules of
customary international law. I trust all can join me in
condemning this despicable crime.”  French, British Support  The UN report’s release came two days after the U.S. and
 Russia  agreed on a plan in Geneva calling on Syria to turn over
its chemical weapons to international control for safekeeping
and eventual destruction.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  secured French and
British support yesterday in pursuing a UN Security Council
resolution implementing the chemical weapons plan, with the
ultimate goal of forcing Assad out of power.  Kerry, British Foreign Secretary  William Hague  and French
Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, who met in Paris, insisted the
Security Council keep alive the threat of an armed response in
case Syria backslides on the chemical-disarmament accord.
Russian Foreign Secretary  Sergei Lavrov  told reporters in Moscow
that any punitive measures for noncompliance by Syria must be
authorized through a second Security Council resolution.  Ban said yesterday that he will support the U.S.-Russian
framework “in any way” possible and that he will meet with
Kerry and Lavrov in  New York  on Sept. 28.  Lacking ‘Know-How’  The French government has said Assad’s regime has two
models of artillery rockets with a range of about 50 kilometers
(31 miles) that are “aimed at delivering gases,” including
sarin, according to a declassified intelligence report released
Sept. 3.  The Syrian opposition has “neither the experience, nor the
know-how” to carry out the use of chemical weapons
“particularly through vectors as those that were used during
the Aug. 21 attack,” the French intelligence concluded.  Sellstrom, the chief UN inspector, told the Security
Council yesterday that the “quality of the sarin was higher
than that of the sarin used” by  Saddam Hussein  in 1988 during
the  Iran-Iraq war , according to Power. The U.S. ambassador said
Sellstrom told the council that the weapons found were
“professionally made,” bearing “none of the characteristics
of improvised weapons.”  Assad’s regime has denied using chemical weapons, and
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  continued to blame the Aug. 21
attack on opposition groups in an opinion column last week in
the New York Times.  “No one doubts that poison gas was used in Syria,” Putin
wrote. “But there is every reason to believe it was used not by
the Syrian Army, but by opposition forces, to provoke
intervention by their powerful foreign patrons, who would be
siding with the fundamentalists.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  United Nations  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  