-- Sectarian Clashes Spur Return of Former U.S. Diplomat to Belfast
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-09-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/sectarian-clashes-spur-return-of-former-u-s-diplomat-to-belfast.html
Former U.S. diplomat Richard Haass
is  returning  to Northern Ireland for talks aimed at preventing a
repeat of the worst sectarian violence since the 1990s. He will
find not much has changed since he left a decade ago.  Haass arrives in Belfast today to starts all-party talks
after confrontations and riots reminiscent of the worst scenes
of the  Troubles  paralyzed the city in July and August.  “A lot of people reacted saying they thought the situation
in Northern Ireland was resolved,” Haass, 62, told reporters on
a conference call on Sept. 13. “The news of the violence over
the past six to nine months came as a surprise to many
Americans, an unwelcome surprise.”  A decision by  Belfast  city hall to stop flying the British
flag fuelled unrest that was then compounded by the annual
marches of Protestant groups and counter demonstrations. The
violence is hampering efforts to rebuild an economy crushed
between the recessions in the U.K. and Ireland.  The  Police Federation  is now calling for a six-month ban 
on parades in time for next summer’s marching season, which 
culminates in the July 12 gathering to mark the 1690 victory 
of Protestant King William of Orange’s army in Ireland.  “It can’t go on like this,” said Terry Spence, head of
the Police Federation, which says nearly 700 of its members have
been injured in the riots. “My members are fatigued. Many of
the injured officers have broken limbs. Society has to make up
its mind, do they want to continue with the number of parades
and the violence that it can bring?”  Parades, Flags  Against that background, Northern Ireland’s politicians
appointed Haass to chair talks on issues ranging from parades to
protests and flags to emblems. Haass, now the president of the
Council on Foreign Relations, led the U.S.’s peace efforts in
the region between 2001 and 2003.  Unemployment is among the highest of anywhere in the U.K.,
while foreclosure demands are rising at the fastest rate in the
country as the economy in the region still struggles to move
past sectarian conflict and the end of heavy industry.  The scale of his task is underscored by the Orange Order’s
response to the Police Federation’s proposal.  “There’s no way we’ll do it,” said George Chittick,
leader of the  Orange Order , a Protestant group that celebrates a
17th century victory over Catholics by staging thousands of
parades across Northern Ireland each year. “I’d rather go to
jail than see my civil liberties taken from me.”  Loyalist Attacks  In July, a month after the Group of Eight summit was held
in the province, dozens of police were injured in a week of
violence in Belfast as the Orange Order, which has about 34,000
members, tried to overturn a ban on the group marching past a
Catholic area of north Belfast.  Petrol bombs, bricks and bottles were thrown at riot
police, who responded with plastic bullets and water cannon.  As Belfast hosted the  World Police and Fire Games  for the
first time in August, the closing ceremony was marred when
hundreds of loyalists -- groups who want to keep Northern
Ireland as part of the U.K. -- attacked police with metal poles,
petrol bombs and bricks. Cars were hijacked and set alight.  The Orange Order itself has also come under attack, with
more than a dozen assaults on the organization’s halls over the
summer marching season, it said.  “At different points, there’s been a frustration with the
peace process,” said  Pete Shirlow , a politics professor at
Queen’s University in Belfast. “Now you are seeing that
frustration being brought onto the streets.”  Makeshift Camp  In north Belfast, loyalists have set up a makeshift camp
just yards away from Ardoyne, the Catholic area they were banned
from marching in July. Dozens of British flags fly from the
camp, which is manned around-the-clock.  Some residents from Ardoyne, where Irish tricolors fly and
murals commemorate the area’s dead members of the Irish
Republican Army, look on. Between the two sides are dozens of
bomb-proof police jeeps and officers clad in visors and
protective clothing, reminiscent of the days before the  Good
Friday Peace Agreement  in 1998.  “It’s pathetic,” said Toni-Marie Mailey, a 21-year-old
mother-of-one from Ardoyne. “You can’t even walk up to the
shops at night time in case you get hit by them.”  Under Haass, who is the President of the Council on Foreign
Relations, the all-party group of politicians will seek to
deliver a set of recommendations by the end of the year.  “We are under no illusion how complex some of the issues
are,” Haass said. “It’s not simple, it’s not easy and that is
why this political process was created.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net . 