-- Shorts on Telus, BCE Jump Before Spectrum Sale: Corporate Canada
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/shorts-on-telus-bce-jump-before-spectrum-sale-corporate-canada.html
Bets (RCI/B)  against  Canada ’s three biggest
wireless carriers have surged ahead of a deadline for the
country’s spectrum auction that may include interest from
foreign carriers such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Telenor ASA. (TEL)   Short positions in  BCE Inc. (BCE)  last week jumped to the highest
since February, and in  Telus Corp. (T)  the most since April,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg and financial-services
firm Markit. Bets against Rogers Communications Inc. increased
two weeks ago by a third before declining. Short-sellers aim to
profit by borrowing shares, expecting the price to fall, then
rebuying them at a lower price and pocketing the difference.  “These stocks are not expensive, so that’s not why they’re
shorting them,” said  Paul Harris , a partner at Avenue
Investment Management in Toronto, which manages about C$300
million ($290 million), including shares of Telus and BCE.
“People feel uncomfortable that somebody may just come in.”  The Canadian government has spent years trying to foster
greater competition in the country’s mobile-phone industry and
is preparing to take its next step by limiting how much spectrum
BCE, Telus and Rogers can bid on starting in a Jan. 14  auction .
The auction may yield as much as C$8 billion, and the country’s
biggest carriers will probably pay more than they did in a 2008
airwave sale, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Growth Opportunities  AT&T, Telenor and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  have all looked at
bidding for spectrum in the auction, BNN reported Sept. 12,
citing people close to the situation, sending the stocks of BCE,
Telus and Rogers lower.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  said Sept. 3
it wouldn’t enter Canada after saying it was exploring the idea
earlier in the summer. Companies that want to bid must submit
deposits by tomorrow, and the list of participants will be
released Sept. 23.  The number of shares shorted on BCE climbed to 38.74
million on Sept. 11, or 5 percent of the shares outstanding.
Telus shorts stood at 16.77 million, or 2.6 percent of the
total. Bets against Rogers were at 30.5 million, or 7.6 percent
of the total Rogers shares outstanding.  “We wouldn’t be surprised if AT&T is evaluating
participating in the spectrum auction as the company looks for
international growth opportunities in an environment of
potentially slowing growth in the U.S.,” Barclays Capital Inc.
analyst Amir Rozwadowski said in a research note Sept. 13.  There’s a reasonable chance a foreign carrier will put down
the C$8 million refundable deposit for a license covering the
entire country, even if they don’t aggressively bid for airwaves
when the auction begins, said Greg MacDonald, an analyst at
Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto.  Surprise Applicant  “You could get a surprise foreign applicant showing up,”
said MacDonald. “The stocks are reasonably attractive on
valuation right now, but I would still be hesitant to be buying
them,” he said of Canadian wireless providers.  AT&T and  Vodafone Group  are both plausible bidders, said
 Dvai Ghose , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. in Toronto.  Ben Padovan , a spokesman for Vodafone, Meera Bhatia, a
spokeswoman for Telenor, and AT&T’s  Brad Burns  all declined to
comment on whether the companies had any interest in airwaves in
Canada. Executives from Rogers, BCE and Telus have all said they
intend to bid.  Verizon’s interest in Canada triggered a national lobbying
campaign by BCE, Rogers and Telus to change the auction rules.
The incumbents are restricted to bidding for just one of four
prime blocks in each region of the country while smaller players
and foreign companies are able to bid for up to two.  Prize Spectrum  BCE, Rogers and Telus say they need the 700-megahertz
airwaves for their ability to transmit signals in densely-packed
cities. Industry Minister  James Moore   has rejected the calls
from the carriers, saying the government wants to promote
competition and lower prices.  It’s unlikely such carriers will make serious bids, after
watching Verizon put its expansion ambitions on hold, said
Ghose. “You have to persuade your CEO and your board why, now
that Verizon has passed, you shouldn’t pass,” he said.  Avenue Investment’s Harris said he doesn’t think a foreign
carrier will bid as it doesn’t make good business sense given
carriers would have to compete with the incumbent’s bundled
offerings of phone, Internet and digital television.  Wind Mobile  “If they looked at the numbers, they’d see it’s pretty
hard to compete with Bell, Telus and Rogers,” said Harris. The
three together control about 90 percent of the market, according
to research firm the Seaboard Group in Toronto. For Newbury,
England-based Vodafone, pushing deeper into  Europe  where they
have a strong presence already or expanding into high growth
Asian and African markets “is more logical than coming into a
big country like Canada with a small population,” he said.  Accelero Capital Holdings, the Paris-based investment firm
co-founded by Egyptian telecommunications billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , won’t bid in the auction, the company said in an e-mail
on Sept. 13. Sawiris was the original backer of Wind Mobile, the
largest of the three Ontario-based new entrants, and had earlier
this year expressed interest in buying Wind outright, a person
with direct knowledge of the plan said in May. Accelero agreed
to buy  Manitoba Telecom Services Inc. (MBT) ’s Allstream business-services unit for C$520 million.  “Accelero is not currently participating in a bidding
process to acquire Wind or Mobilicity and is totally focused on
closing the Allstream deal,” the company said.  Alexandra Maxwell, a spokeswoman for Toronto-based Wind,
declined to comment.  Bid Dynamics  The spectrum being auctioned aligns with frequencies used
in the U.S. by AT&T and Verizon, which would allow Canadian
carriers to purchase equipment and offer products compatible
with the systems of the U.S. companies.  Two of the four prime blocks are aligned with AT&T’s
spectrum, while the other two are aligned with Verizon’s U.S.
holdings. Rogers is probably targeting the blocks aligned with
AT&T, while BCE and Telus likely have their sights on the
Verizon spectrum, MacDonald said.  “If a foreign carrier is in, it changes all the bidding
strategy dynamics,” he said by phone. “The incumbents have to
bid more aggressively.”  Verizon had said June 17 it was interested in buying Wind
to gain a foothold in Canada. Now that Verizon is no longer
interested in expanding north, it’s unclear who might buy Wind
or Mobilicity, another small Toronto-based carrier, said Tim Casey, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets.  Sheryl Steinberg, a spokeswoman for Mobilicity, declined to
comment.  Spectrum Transfer  The government in June blocked Telus’s purchase of cash-strapped Mobilicity until a moratorium on the sale of airwaves
auctioned in 2008 expires next year.  “I don’t know who’s going to roll up Mobilicity and Wind
in time to bid for further spectrum or who’s going to take a
flyer on bidding for spectrum, then roll up Mobilicity and
Wind,” said Casey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  