-- Singapore Home Sales Rebounded in August on Projects
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-09-17T07:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/singapore-home-sales-rebounded-in-august-as-new-projects-sold.html
(Corrects home sales figure from August 2012 in second
paragraph in a story published Sept. 16.)  Singapore ’s home sales rose in
August as developers marketed more projects, rebounding from
July when they slumped to the lowest since December 2009.  Home sales increased 54 percent to 742 units last month,
compared with 482 in July, according to  data  from the Urban
Redevelopment Authority released today. Sales in August last
year were 1,427 units.  Sales are recovering after the government in June unveiled
new rules governing how financial institutions grant property
loans to individuals. Record home  prices  amid low interest rates
raised concerns of a housing bubble and prompted the government
to widen a more than four-year campaign to curb speculation in
Asia’s second-most expensive housing market, according to Knight
Frank LLP and Citi Private Bank report.  “We are seeing a gradual recovery after the July sales,
which were a knee-jerk reaction to the loan measures,” said
Nicholas Mak, executive director at SLP International Property
Consultants in Singapore. “Now the market is adjusting to the
new loan rules and banks are speeding up the loan process.”  The market will stabilize with sales in the range of 700 to
1,400 units a month over the next few months, Mak said.  Among the developers that began sales of their projects was
 Wing Tai Holdings Ltd. (WINGT) , which marketed its condominium in the
Tampines area, an eastern suburb of Singapore. It sold 218 units
of 337 marketed last month, the data showed. RV Residences,
offered by Allgreen Properties Ltd., in the central district
sold 39 of 83 units sold, the data showed.  Loan Framework  The new loan framework requires that lenders take a
borrower’s debt into consideration when granting property loans,
the Monetary Authority of Singapore said June 28. Home loans
should not exceed a total debt-servicing ratio of 60 percent and
those that do will be considered imprudent, it said.  The government tightened loan-to-value limits for buyers
seeking a second mortgage, referring to the amount they are
allowed to borrow relative to the value of their properties. The
cash down-payment will rise to 25 percent from 10 percent
starting from the second loan, it said.  The island-state’s private residential property price  index 
rose 1 percent to 215.4 points in the three months ended June
30, extending a 0.6 percent increase in the first quarter,
according to data from the Urban Redevelopment Authority on July
26. Suburban home prices climbed 3.8 percent in the June
quarter, compared with the 1.4 percent increase in the previous
quarter, according to government data.  Singapore revised development charge rates for commercial,
residential and industrial plots from Sept. 1 through Feb. 28,
the Ministry of National Development said on Aug. 30. Rates for
residential landed properties were raised by an average 7
percent while those for non-landed properties rose 5 percent.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  