-- Singapore’s Home Sales Rebound to Be Short-Lived: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-09-17T09:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/singapore-s-home-sales-rebound-to-be-short-lived-southeast-asia.html
Singapore ’s jump in private home
sales last month was only a temporary reprieve for developers as
the government’s cooling measures take root and mortgage rates
begin to rise.  The city’s housing sales climbed 54 percent to 742 in
August from July, when they fell to 482, the lowest in almost
four years, according to government  data . With nine rounds of
cooling measures since mid-2009, the increase will be short-lived, according to Mizuho Bank Ltd. and UOB Kay Hian Pte.
Monthly sales averaged about 1,700 units in the first six months
of the year.  “There have been successive rounds of measures coming
through and with mortgage rates also beginning to move up, you
will find that buyers are becoming more circumspect and
wondering if these are the right entry levels,” said  Vishnu Varathan , a Singapore-based economist at Mizuho, who forecast
 home prices  to fall 10 percent to 15 percent by 2016.  Singapore unveiled new rules in June governing how
financial institutions grant property loans to individuals.
Record home  prices  amid low interest rates raised concerns of a
housing bubble and prompted the government to widen a more than
four-year campaign to curb speculation in  Asia ’s second-most
expensive housing market, according to a Knight Frank LLP and
Citi Private Bank report.  The new loan framework requires that lenders take a
borrower’s debt into consideration when granting property loans,
the Monetary Authority of Singapore said June 28. Home loans
should not exceed a total debt-servicing ratio of 60 percent and
those that do will be considered imprudent, it said.  “Normalizing  interest rates ” will pose significant
financial risks to individual borrowers and the economy, the
Ministry of National Development said on its  website  in response
to questions in parliament yesterday. The property curbs are
needed to avoid a “major price correction,” it said.  Higher Rates  Singapore’s home lending rates have risen about 0.5
percentage points in the past year, according to Keff Hui, a
director at Mortgage Supermart Singapore, a mortgage broker.  Executive condominiums made up almost half of the homes
sold in August, an unprecedented level, according to SLP
International Property Consultants. Including these apartments,
offered with some  restrictions  such as a monthly household
income cap of S$12,000 ($9,523), August sales were 1,468,
according to the government data.  “The bulk of the sales in August was on the executive
condo side, not on private sales, which shows demand for private
home sales is still low,” said Vikrant Pandey, a Singapore-based analyst at UOB Kay Hian, who expects the number of
residential properties sold to drop 30 percent in the next 12
months and as much as a 10 percent decline in prices. “The
measures are having their impact.”  Record Prices  Among the developers that began sales of projects in August
was  Wing Tai Holdings Ltd. (WINGT) , which marketed its condominium in
the Tampines area, an eastern suburb of Singapore. It sold 218
units of 337 marketed last month, according to the data. RV
Residences, offered by Allgreen Properties Ltd., in the central
district sold 39 of 83 units marketed, the data showed.  Earlier measures haven’t damped housing values. The private
residential price  index  rose 1 percent to a record 215.4 points
in the second quarter, extending a 0.6 percent increase in the
first three months, according to data from the  Urban
Redevelopment Authority  on July 26. Suburban prices climbed 3.8
percent in the June quarter, accelerating from a 1.4 percent
gain in the previous three months, the data showed.  ‘Gradual Pace’  “Developers’ sales are expected to improve in the coming
months, but at a more gradual pace,” said Nicholas Mak, an
 executive director  at SLP in Singapore. “For the whole of 2013,
developers’ private home sales volume is projected to be at a
more sustainable level ranging between 14,000 and 16,000.”  To curb speculation, the government also tightened loan-to-value limits for buyers seeking a second mortgage, referring to
the amount they are allowed to borrow relative to the value of
their properties. The cash down-payment will rise to 25 percent
from 10 percent starting from the second loan, it said.  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL)  and  City Developments Ltd. (CIT) , Singapore’s two
biggest publicly traded developers, said in the past two months
they expect “headwinds” in the city’s property market because
of the government curbs.  CapitaLand shares were unchanged at S$3.14 at the close of
trading in Singapore, while City Developments declined 1 percent
to S$10.44.  CapitaLand said July 25 it expects prices and sales of
residential properties to moderate. It started preliminary
marketing for its Sky Vue project in the central Singapore
suburb of Bishan over the weekend.  Changing Needs  “In response to market demands, Sky Vue offers slightly
more compact units,” it said in an e-mailed response to queries
yesterday. “Moving forward, we will continue to adjust our
products to cater to changing market needs.”  Regulations on land ownership are also deterring City
Developments. Buying land in Singapore at current high prices
would be “suicidal” given the government’s requirement that
new homes must be sold within two years of completion, Chairman
Kwek Leng Beng said on Aug. 6.  Developers of land for high-end residential projects are
subject to conditions of a so-called qualifying certificate,
which includes the two-year deadline, according to the city’s
rules. Developers can apply for an extension for a fee.  “Developers have been trying to offer discounts, but with
high land prices, and additional buyers’ stamp duty and higher
 mortgage rates , they will not be able to absorb it beyond a
point,” Mizhuho’s Varathan said. “Supply is a very real thing,
so seeing spanking new buildings coming up with no real demand
will see some price correction and some pain for developers as
well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  