-- Sirius Minerals Drops on Potash Mine Planning Submission Delay
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-09-16T09:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/sirius-minerals-drops-on-potash-mine-planning-submission-delay.html
Sirius Minerals Plc (SXX) , seeking to
build a $1.9 billion potash project in the U.K., dropped to the
lowest in almost two years in London trading after announcing it
won’t submit planning documents until July next year.  Sirius slid as much as 20 percent to 9.79 pence, the lowest
intra-day price since Oct. 5, 2011. The stock was down 16
percent at 10.25 pence at 10:08 a.m. Sirius will submit a
combined environmental study covering the project’s mine,
pipeline, plant and port instead of first seeking approval for
the mine and pipeline, it said today.  The company had previously sought to start building the
mine, pipeline and port operation this year pending agreement
from the North York Moors National Park Authority. It requested
and won a delay to the key planning decision from the authority
in July, the same week the regulator was due to make its ruling.  “The revised approach better reflects the wishes of a
number of the decision making authorities and key statutory
consultees,” London-based Sirius said today.  The U.K.’s only potash mine, Boulby, is north of York.
Potash is a form of potassium used to strengthen plant roots and
protect against drought.  Sirius’s mine is opposed by some environmental groups and
in May the company said it had received objections from the
Environment Agency and Natural England. The decision to file a
combined environmental study next year followed talk with
advisers, the park authority and other regulators, Sirius said.
Among issues cited today by Sirius as key in its environmental
study are hydrological monitoring and European Habitat
Regulations.  York Potash  The project, known as York Potash, holds the world’s
largest estimated resource of polyhalite, with 2.7 billion
metric tons of the potash material.  Sirius is yet to arrange financing to fund development of
the project. It has sales accords in place with customers.  “Whilst the impact of today’s announcement on the project
timeline is a delay, the impact on our valuation is marginal
given the back-ended nature of project cash flows,” Liberum
Capital Ltd. London-based analyst  Richard Knights  said in a
note. “The new process gives us significantly more clarity and
comfort around the permitting process with the new approach
having been decided on a collaborative basis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  