-- Sohu Jumps as Qihoo Falls on Tencent Investment: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-16T20:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/sohu-jumps-as-qihoo-falls-on-tencent-investment-china-overnight.html
Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  climbed the most in
six months, leading gains in Chinese stocks traded in New York,
after selling a stake of its online search unit to  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700) , Asia’s largest Internet company.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity  Index (HSCEI)  of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. rose 0.4 percent to 102.08 yesterday,
advancing for a second day. Sohu, owner of online video, games
and search businesses, surged 7.5 percent while  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. (QIHU) ,  China ’s second-biggest web search engine, slid
the most in a month after Tencent purchased the stake in Sogou.
Web retailer  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  and online bookseller  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG)  rebounded from one-week lows.  Tencent paid $448 million for a 36.5 percent stake in
Sohu’s Sogou unit with an option to increase its share to 40
percent, the companies said in a joint statement yesterday. The
deal can boost Sohu’s value by $7 per share, 86Research Ltd.
analysts estimated. Sohu Chief Executive Officer Charles Zhang
said that talks with Qihoo have ended and the company won’t seek
additional investors for its search unit in the “near future.”  “The deal is positive to Sohu as Tencent is very strong on
attracting mobile users, which can help Sogou’s growth on mobile
after its merger with Tencent,” Henry Guo, an analyst at ABR
Investment Strategy LLC, said by phone from  San Francisco 
yesterday. “Qihoo fell mainly because its valuation has priced
in a potential purchase of Sogou.”  ETF Advances  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 1 percent to $38.59 in
New York, extending a two-week rally. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index advanced 0.6 percent after  Lawrence Summers  withdrew his
bid to be the next Federal Reserve chairman and tensions over
dealing with Syria’s chemical weapons eased.  Sohu jumped to $69.61 in New York, rising the most since
March 5. Trading volume was 4.9 times the 90-day average, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Qihoo’s American depositary receipts slumped 5.6 percent to
$82.93, the biggest decline since Aug. 15. Baidu Inc., owner of
China’s most-used search engine, slipped less than 0.1 percent
to a four-day low of $142.59.  Tencent and Sogou will jointly develop and integrate their
services in areas including search and data sharing, the
companies said in the statement. Tencent will merge its own
search unit Soso with Sogou. Sohu will remain the controlling
shareholder of Sogou, and the unit’s top products, including
Sogou Pinyin and Sogou Search, will have access to Tencent’s
online and mobile user base, according to the statement.  Vipshop, Dangdang  “It looks like Sohu may have gotten a higher offer for
Sogou from Tencent than Qihoo,” Echo He, a senior analyst at
Maxim Group LLC, said by phone yesterday in New York. “Sohu can
use the cash to grow other services, including video.”  Sogou accounted for 5.5 percent of search-engine queries in
China in the March quarter. Baidu had 82 percent and Qihoo
followed with 9 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Vipshop, an online fashion retailer based in  Guangzhou ,
advanced 3.3 percent to $48.88, rallying the most in a week.
Dangdang, the biggest Internet-based book seller, added 1.8
percent to $9.05.  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG) , a TV and Internet news outlet,
gained 3.4 percent to $10.82 in New York, increasing 197 percent
this year.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index surged 1.6 percent
yesterday to 10,706.63, the highest level since May.  The Shanghai Composite Index retreated 0.2 percent to
2,231.40, after surging 6.6 percent the previous two weeks, the
most since December. A correction this week is possible before
the benchmark index of Chinese equities continues to rise to a
level “much higher” than his last call of 2,323, said Tom DeMark, the developer of market-timing indicators who predicted
the gauge’s rally from a four-year low in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  