-- Soybeans Drop Most in Week as Rain Aids U.S. Crop; Corn Declines
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-16T19:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/soybeans-decline-as-rain-seen-aiding-dry-midwest-corn-retreats.html
Soybeans fell the most in more than
a week on speculation that Midwest rains will halt declining
crop conditions in the U.S., the world’s largest grower. Corn
dropped for a third day, and wheat slid.  Fields from  North Dakota  to Ohio got as much as 1 inch (2.5
centimeters) of rain over the past three days, National Weather
Service  data  show. Showers will reach the southwestern Midwest
through midweek, aiding a third of the soy crop, Commodity
Weather Group said in a report. Crop  conditions  declined for
four straight weeks, with 52 percent rated good or excellent on
Sept. 8, down from 64 percent on Aug. 11, government data show.  “Forecasts for beneficial rain in the U.S. this week
weighed on sentiment,”  Luke Mathews , a commodity strategist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in a note.  Soybean futures for delivery in November lost 2.4 percent
to close at $13.4825 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the  Chicago  Board
of Trade, capping the biggest drop since Sept. 4. Through last
week, the oilseed advanced for six straight weeks as unusually
dry, hot weather across the Midwest raised concern that yields
will be less than forecast.  Global  production  of oilseeds including soybeans, canola
and sunflower seeds will rise 4.8 percent this year to 495.1
million metric tons, boosting global inventories by 17 percent
before next year’s harvest, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said on Sept. 12.  U.S. farmers will  harvest  3.149 billion bushels this year,
down from 3.255 billion estimated in August, the USDA said. Corn
output will jump 28 percent to 13.843 billion from last year’s
drought-reduced harvest, helping send global inventories to a
12-year high, the government said. The USDA will update its
crop-condition report today.  ‘Adequate Supply’  “Global supplies are more than adequate,” Robert Utterback, the chief executive officer of Utterback Marketing
Services in Lafayette,  Indiana , said in a telephone interview.
“The U.S. crop is looking better, and early yields are coming
in above farmer expectations.”  Corn futures for delivery in December slid 0.5 percent to
$4.565 a bushel in Chicago, after falling 2 percent last week.  Wheat futures for delivery in December fell less than 0.1
percent to $6.4125 a bushel on the CBOT. Prices lost 1 percent
last week after rain boosted soil moisture for sowing of winter
grains across the Grain Plains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  