-- Starboard Says Emulex Needs New Board, Strategy
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-09-16T21:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/starboard-says-emulex-needs-new-board-strategy.html
Investment firm Starboard Value LP,
which owns 7.9 percent of  Emulex Corp. (ELX) , said the chipmaker needs
new board members, a new strategy and financial discipline.  Starboard is increasing the pressure on Emulex as it seeks
improvements at a company that hasn’t reported an annual profit
since 2009. Investor concern that spending hasn’t produced
results is hurting the share price, Starboard said.  “We believe that shareholders are skeptical of
management’s ability to properly allocate capital and manage
expenses,” the investment firm said today in a letter to Emulex
management.  Emulex shares rallied as much as 7.8 percent after the
letter was made public. The stock increased 1.6 percent to $7.85
at the close in New York. Jolene Bonina, a spokeswoman for the
copmany, didn’t respond to requests for comment on the letter.  Emulex, based in  Costa Mesa , California, sells chips that
help computer servers and storage networks transfer data. It has
been a target of activist investors including Elliott Management
Corp. Starboard said in July that it had acquired a stake in the
company.  Technology Activism  Emulex joins a number of technology companies that have
been targeted by activist investors. In August, Microsoft Corp.
signed an agreement to cooperate with activist fund manager
ValueAct Capital Partners LP that included giving the
shareholder a seat on its board next year. Data-storage company
 NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , under pressure from Elliott to boost  shareholder
value , said in May it was cutting jobs and returning cash
through stock buybacks and dividends.  While billionaire  Carl Icahn  gave up last week his fight to
scupper  Michael Dell ’s buyout of  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the surrender
followed a months-long campaign to derail the deal and resulted
in a sweetened offer. Icahn also disclosed a “large” stake in
Apple Inc. in August, months after the company boosted its share
repurchases following the urgings of hedge-fund manager  David
Einhorn .  Emulex has made several moves to respond to critics. It
hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to seek potential buyers, two
people with knowledge of the situation said in July. They asked
not to be identified because the process is private.  Emulex also moved former Chief Executive Officer Jim McCluney to the executive chairman role in July, replacing him
with Jeff Benck, who moved up from the chief operating officer
position.  Forward Strategy  In its letter, Starboard said it was disappointed with
Emulex’s fiscal fourth-quarter results and said the company is
“extremely undervalued.” The investor added, “While we
recognize the Company has recently made a management change, it
is unclear at this juncture whether the strategy going forward
will be materially different from the past.”  The chipmaker should also discontinue the practice of
appointing former CEOs to its board, which is a “terrible
habit,” Starboard said.  In 2009, Emulex rejected an $11-a-share bid from  Broadcom
Corp. (BRCM) , saying the offer undervalued the company.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  