-- State Researcher Says China Local Debt May Top 20 Trillion Yuan
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-16T11:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/state-researcher-says-china-local-debt-may-top-20-trillion-yuan.html
China’s audit of local government
debt may find that provincial and municipal authorities owe more
than 20 trillion  yuan  ($3.3 trillion), said  Liu Yuhui , a
researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.  That would be “way higher” than the level of debt at the
end of 2010, Liu said at a briefing in Beijing today to announce
that the academy and China Credit Rating Co. will jointly
develop credit ratings for the country’s local governments.
China’s National Audit Office said in a 2011 report that local
authorities owed 10.7 trillion yuan at the end of 2010.  The State Council, China’s cabinet, ordered a nationwide
audit of local government debt in July on concerns that slowing
economic growth may leave some authorities unable to repay
borrowings. Local Chinese governments have sidestepped rules
barring them from directly taking bank loans and selling bonds
by setting up thousands of companies to do so instead, raising
funds to build roads, bridges and sewage systems.  “Many local governments are under pressure from a capital
shortfall as they need to fund public projects required for
urbanization,” Liu said.  China ’s current system doesn’t meet
their funding needs and as a result, “the issue of local
government debt is in a situation of getting out of control.”  China this year expanded trials that began in 2011 to allow
provinces and cities to directly sell bonds. The eastern
provinces of Jiangsu and Shandong were added to the trial in
July, joining the provinces of Zhejiang and Guangdong and the
cities of Shanghai and Shenzhen.  Credit Ratings  The partnership to develop ratings marks a step forward in
China’s preparation to allow local governments to sell debt,
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Vice President Li Yang said
at the briefing today. China Credit Rating was set up in August
2010 by the National Association of Financial Institutional
Investors, a body under China’s central bank that regulates the
interbank bond market.  In April, Former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng also said
that local Chinese government debt may be more than 20 trillion
yuan. Xiang, who served as finance minister from 1998 to 2003,
said the figure was based on his personal estimates.  Liu today said that his estimate was partly based on
information from a friend at the China Banking Regulatory
Commission. The audit of local debt will be completed this
month, according to Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao .  Lou Jiwei , who was named finance minister in March, said
this month that the scale of local government debt was
controllable and that the pace of borrowing was slowing. In an
interview with state broadcaster China Central Television, Lou
said that while some local governments face “relatively big”
debt problems, the risk of default was “not great.”  “Some local governments are a bit tight but they haven’t
turned into non-performing loans,” Wu Lizhi, deputy director
general for treasury and financial markets at China Development
Bank Corp., said at the briefing today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  