-- Summers’s Withdrawal a Boon to Sberbank: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-09-16T22:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/summers-s-withdrawal-a-boon-to-sberbank-russia-overnight.html
Russia , the emerging stock market
that benefited the most from quantitative easing in the U.S., is
getting a boost as speculation grows the Federal Reserve will
cut stimulus less than investors had anticipated.  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. jumped to the highest level since
May yesterday, led by  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , after former U.S. Treasury
Secretary Lawrence Summers withdrew his bid to become Federal
Reserve chairman. Summers would have tightened Fed policy more
than Janet Yellen, who was his main rival to replace Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll last week.
RTS Index futures expiring December slipped in U.S. hours.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF) , which posted the biggest gain among
emerging-market gauges yesterday after  Turkey , advanced an
average 77 percent during the Fed’s first two rounds of bond
buying, and fell 0.6 percent in periods of no stimulus, the
biggest difference of 46 emerging and developed markets tracked
by Bloomberg. Russian equities also are luring demand with the
 lowest valuations  among 21 emerging countries.  “Demand for riskier assets overall will increase as
investors expect less reduction in stimulus, and demand for
Russian equities will benefit the most because they are the
cheapest,” Mark Rubinstein, head of research at IFC Metropol in
Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “Optimism is back in the
market.”  The Federal Open Market Committee is scheduled to meet
Sept. 17-18 to consider the future of quantitative easing.
Economists expect the Fed to reduce monthly asset purchases to
$75 billion from $85 billion, according to a Sept. 6 Bloomberg
News survey.  Share Offering  American depositary receipts of Sberbank, Russia’s biggest
lender, climbed 3.3 percent to a two-month high of $12.17 in New
York. The Moscow-based lender raised 159.3 billion rubles ($4.9
billion) in September 2012, a few days after the announcement of
the Fed’s third round of asset buying, in the  largest share sale 
by a Russian company since before the global recession.  Sberbank, which accounted for about 45 percent of retail
deposits in Russia as of April 1, said deposits grew 8 percent
in the first eight months of the year, according to a Sept. 6
 statement  on its website. Shares rose 3.4 percent to 99 rubles,
or $3.07, in Moscow yesterday.  Russia’s Micex Index climbed an average 77 percent during
the Fed’s first two courses of so-called quantitative easing.
Since the announcement of QE3 on Sept. 13 to yesterday’s close,
the Micex has slipped less than 0.1 percent, compared with a 2
percent advance in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Ruble Gains  The ruble surged to the strongest level in almost three
months, buoyed by appetite for emerging-market assets.  Russia’s
currency gained 0.6 percent to 32.2775 per dollar yesterday and
strengthened 0.5 percent to 37.1164 against the dollar-euro
basket used by the central bank to manage swings that erode
exporter competitiveness. Ruble futures showed the currency
weakening 0.5 percent to 30.51 per dollar in U.S. hours.  “Sberbank benefits from a stronger ruble because it
improves the value of their ruble bond portfolio and makes it
easier for the central bank to ease rates,” Julian Rimmer, a
trader with CF Global Trading UK Ltd. in  London , said by e-mail
yesterday.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge rose 1.3 percent yesterday to
96.46, the highest since May 8. Futures on the RTS index
expiring in December slipped 0.3 percent to 142,760.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded
fund dedicated to Russian equities, gained 1.6 percent to a six-month high of $28.61. The RTS Volatility Index, which measures
expected swings in the stock futures, fell 2.2 percent to 21.61.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY)  rallied 1.8 percent to $14.47 in New
York yesterday, the highest level since July 23. The ADRs
settled at a 0.7 percent discount to the company’s Moscow-listed
shares, the most since Sept. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  