-- Summers Is Felled by Obama, the Community Organizer
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2013-09-16T23:22:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/summers-is-felled-by-obama-the-community-organizer.html
Community organizers like President
 Barack Obama  make great husbands. They listen before making
decisions, never insist that it’s their way or the highway, and
won’t leave the cap off the toothpaste tube. They consult on the
big life stuff such as where to live, and they rarely draw red
lines. When they do, they agonize over whether sending the
children to bed without dessert sends the right message.  This must make  Michelle Obama  very happy; Americans, less
and less. The president’s community-organizing skills don’t so
much make him lead from behind as they make him lead this way
and that (let’s bomb  Syria ; oh, dear, let’s not). He wants to
please everyone, but in the real world, only one faction can be
satisfied at a time, leaving everyone else very unsatisfied.  It’s well and good to make nice with Congress -- have
members over to watch the  Super Bowl , take them to dinner and
out for a round of golf. But when they won’t play along, you
have to roll over them. Sure, they’re not going to like you,
even members of your own party. Take the heat. Go up, or down,
fighting.  The cost of preemptive compromise is high. Ask  Larry Summers , who just withdrew his non-nomination to be chairman of
the  Federal Reserve . It’s not that the president accepted or
rejected Summers; the problem is that he did neither. Obama’s
way is to float a name, make some offhand noises of support when
the attacks begin, and ditch the person when the whining starts
to get loud.  Losing Altitude  Without a formal announcement that Summers was the nominee,
the White House didn’t crank into action to shore him up,
organize allies in Congress or push back against attacks in the
press. The main foundation for Summers’s putative front-runner
status was White House whispering about how the president really
liked him. Well, he did. The other leading candidate, Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen , has visited the White House only once,
and she wasn’t there to see the president. By contrast, Summers
has been with Obama since the transition as a top economic
adviser. The president likes to play tennis, debate policy and
kid around with Summers (Obama gave him suspenders to hold up
his ever-sagging pants at his 2010 going-away party from the
White House).  The problem with floating trial balloons is that they lose
altitude when opponents weigh in before supporters can prop them
up. This can make the floater feel that their candidate has less
backing than he does. There’s an industry of special-interest
groups that exist -- and thrive -- solely by being against
something. As the right and left nipped at Summers’s heels for
being too soft on the banks or too enamored of  government
spending , all Obama did was tell a closed Senate meeting that
lawmakers shouldn’t believe “everything they read in the
 Huffington Post .”  Some endorsement.  It was going to be an uphill slog for a president who
doesn’t like conflict. The letter of support for Yellen signed
by almost a third of the 54-member Senate Democratic caucus
landed in the vacuum with a thud. With only a two-vote margin in
the Senate Banking Committee and facing the opposition of
Senator  Elizabeth Warren , Obama figured he might not even get
the Summers nomination onto the floor for a vote. Warren said
Summers “wasn’t her first choice” (meaning he probably wasn’t
even her 10th), and her pent-up frustration over how  Wall Street 
had prevailed over Main Street gave her a stomach for the fight
that Obama would have a hard time matching.  The Summers debacle had a dress rehearsal in Obama’s
botched handling of the nonappointment of  Susan Rice  to be
secretary of state. Like Summers, Rice is an Obama friend. She
backed him for president over  Hillary Clinton , for whom she once
worked. Yet when it came time for the president to have her
back, he did the same float and the same backing off. And it was
the same kind of silence that ultimately led Rice to pull the
plug on her own. It’s a lousy situation when you have to bear
all the slings and arrows that come with being a nominee without
ever being nominated.  Collateral Damage  The community organizer’s way was most damaging on Syria
policy. The feeling of relief that we haven’t gotten ourselves
into another Middle East quagmire is no consolation for the
realization of just how badly the president dithered over what
to do after his red line on chemical weapons was crossed. Does
he authorize a military strike? Should he ask Congress for
permission? Should any strike be “unbelievably small” and just
to punish or a bit bigger than a “pinprick” and crush? Or
should he turn over his manhood to Russian President  Vladimir Putin ?  Punting to Putin won out. For his remaining time in office,
Obama might try the simple, old-fashioned way of governing: When
you want someone in a job, nominate that person and fight for
them, or don’t nominate them. Drop the bomb you say you’re going
to drop; don’t just threaten. Obama’s slap-happy decision-making
process always causes collateral damage. Summers didn’t survive
it; neither did Rice. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, however,
may turn out to be a winner. Could there be any better proof
that trying to please everyone is no way to run the country?  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Margaret Carlson  at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 