-- Swiss Stocks Rise to One-Month High as SGS Advances
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-16T08:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/swiss-stocks-rise-to-one-month-high-as-sgs-advances.html
Swiss stocks  advanced to a one-month high as a weekend agreement between the U.S. and Russia
over  Syria ’s chemical weapons eased the threat of military
strikes against President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  SGS SA rose 1.7 percent after Citigroup Inc. advised
investors to buy the shares. Credit Suisse Group AG gained 1.6
percent after WirtschaftsWoche reported that BNP Paribas SA and
Banco Santander SA may bid for its German wealth-management
unit. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA climbed 1.5 percent.  The Swiss Market Index added 0.5 percent to 8,077.83 at
10:04 a.m. in Zurich. The measure has surged 18 percent this
year as central banks around the world pledged to leave interest
rates low for a prolonged period of time. The broader Swiss
Performance Index increased 0.6 percent today.  The deal between  Russia  and the U.S., agreed on Sept. 14,
paves the way for international monitoring of Syria’s chemical
weapons. It calls for initial inspections in Syria by November.  Western intelligence services blame Assad for a chemical
attack on Aug. 21 that the U.S. says killed more than 1,400
people. Russia blames the rebels fighting Assad.  In the U.S., former Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers 
withdrew his nomination for chairman of the Federal Reserve
before a two-day policy meeting starting tomorrow at which the
central bank is forecast to announce a reduction in the quantum
of bond purchases. Summers would tighten Fed policy more than
 Janet Yellen , who was his main rival to replace Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll of investors,
analysts and traders last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  