-- Syrian Conflict: Sept. 16 Digest of Middle Eastern Editorials
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-09-16T10:21:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/syrian-conflict-sept-16-digest-of-middle-eastern-editorials.html
The following is a round-up of
editorial comment from the Middle East as the U.S. and its
allies discuss a plan to eliminate chemical weapons held by the
government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad following its
alleged use of them against civilians last month.  *Saudi Arabia  Arab News   “There is nothing in my vocabulary that can express my
rage over the weak-kneed response from U.S. President  Barack
Obama  to back down from staging a strike against Bashar Assad’s
murderous forces,” columnist Sabria S. Jawhar writes in the
English language, Jeddah-based paper.  “Obama says the use of chemical weapons against civilians
is a red line. When the Syrian government crosses that red line,
Obama dithers about for a bit and then asserts with the mighty
authority of the United States to initiate precision strikes as
punishment.”  “Obama came on strong only to kowtow to  Russia , which has
absolutely no authority to participate in mediating disarmament
of Syria’s stockpile of weapons in the first place. By putting
his initial desire to stage air strikes on the back burner,
Obama has allowed the Syrian Army to gain momentum.”  ----------------------------------------  * Israel   Israel Hayom   “At this point, when Obama has sparse support in the
Washington diplomatic battle and the agreement with Russia
raises more suspicion than hope, his words are interpreted as a
manic effort to cover up his weak handling of Bashar el-Assad,
and not a sure-handed and principled assault against Hassan
Rohani,” Dan Margalit writes in the privately owned Hebrew-language paper.  “In these circumstances, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
is coming into play. It’s been neglected, but not entirely,
because it’s become the oil that greases the wheels of the West
in the region. The result of the agreement with  Syria  --
especially if it develops skin and veins -- will be to increase
pressure on Israel to make gestures to the Palestinians. Not
because the issue is important to them, not even to America. But
it’s almost critical to cooperation between Obama and Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  