-- U.K. Stocks Advance to Five-Week High on Syria Agreement
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-16T08:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/u-k-stocks-advance-to-five-week-high-on-syria-agreement.html
U.K. stocks  advanced to their
highest level in more than five weeks as the U.S. and Russia
struck a deal for Syria to avoid military action by surrendering
its chemical weapons.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  and  International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA (IAG)  increased more than 2 percent as the price of oil declined on
speculation that the threat of imminent military strikes against
Syria has eased.  Fresnillo Plc (FRES)  and Polymetal International Plc,
London-listed silver and gold producers, both plunged more than
6 percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 59.88 points, or 0.9 percent, to
6,643.68 at 9:19 a.m. in London. The equity benchmark climbed
0.6 percent last  week amid better-than-expected economic
reports from China and as U.S. President  Barack Obama  delayed a
decision on taking military action in Syria. The broader FTSE
All-Share Index also advanced 0.9 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index rose 1.1 percent.  “My feeling with Syria is that it’s now an identifiable,
isolated problem which can start and stop with the removal of
chemical weapons,” said Henry Dixon, a London-based fund
manager at Matterley, a unit of Charles Stanley Group Plc.
“That seems to be a palatable outcome to a potentially toxic
situation. Any unwinding of the risk premium in the oil price is
a positive.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the FTSE 100 was 7.2 percent greater than the 30-day average,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Syria Plan  Russia  and the U.S. agreed on Sept. 14 to call for initial
inspections of Syria’s chemical weapons by November. They gave
President Bashar al-Assad a week to provide an inventory of his
arsenal. The United Nations would need to approve any sanctions.
The UN will publish its inspection team’s report on the Aug. 21
chemical-weapons attack in Damascus as early as today. The U.S.
says the weapons killed more than 1,400 people.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  will meet with French
President Francois Hollande and foreign ministers from France
and the U.K. as he tries to build support for the Syria plan.
Kerry may also meet with ministers from Turkey and Saudi Arabia,
which have both backed the rebels seeking to overthrow Bashar
al-Assad.  Former Treasury Secretary  Larry Summers  withdrew his
nomination as Federal Reserve chairman before a two-day policy
meeting starting tomorrow at which the central bank is forecast
to reduce its monthly bond purchases. Summers would have
tightened Fed policy more than Janet Yellen, who was his main
rival to replace Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, according to a
Bloomberg Global Poll of investors, analysts and traders last
week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  