-- U.S. September Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-09-16T13:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/u-s-september-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the Empire
State Manufacturing Index.  The September 2013 Empire State Manufacturing Survey suggests
that conditions for  New York  manufacturers improved modestly for
the fourth straight month. The general business conditions index
edged down two points but, at 6.3, remained in positive
territory. The new orders index inched up two points to 2.4,
while the shipments index jumped nearly fifteen points to 16.4--
its highest level in considerably more than a year. The prices
paid index was little changed at 21.5, while the prices received
index climbed another five points to 8.6. Labor market
conditions were mostly steady; the index for number of employees
retreated three points to 7.5 and the average workweek index
edged down to a neutral reading of 1.1. Indexes for the six-month outlook revealed increasingly widespread optimism about
future business activity. The future general business conditions
index rose for the third straight month, climbing three points
to 40.6, its highest level since the spring of 2012.  In response to a series of supplementary questions,
manufacturers reported that their selling prices had risen by a
little less than 1 percent, on average, over the past year, and
they predicted an increase of 1.5 percent, on average, over the
next twelve months. These increases roughly matched those
reported in last September’s parallel survey. When asked a
separate question about the probability of specified price
changes over the next twelve months, the average respondent
cited a 44 percent chance that selling prices would remain
within 2 percent of current levels and a 43 percent chance that
they would rise by 2 percent or more, but just a 3 percent
chance that they would rise by at least 8 percent. For more
details, see the full supplemental report.  Business Conditions Improve for the Fourth Straight Month  Business conditions strengthened for New York State
manufacturers for a fourth consecutive month. The general
business conditions index stood at 6.3--down almost two points
from August but still at a level indicative of modest expansion.
Slightly more than 25 percent of respondents reported that
conditions had improved over the month, while 20 percent said
conditions had worsened. The new orders index edged up two
points to 2.4, while the shipments index surged fifteen points
to 16.4, indicating that shipments picked up even as orders
remained flat. The unfilled orders index was little changed at -
6.5. The delivery time index slipped to -4.3, but the
inventories index rose nearly six points to 2.2, its first
positive reading in more than a year.  Labor Market Stable  Labor market conditions were generally steady: The index for
number of employees retreated three points to 7.5, and the
average workweek index sustained a similar decline to 1.1. Price
indexes were steady or slightly higher. The prices paid index
was little changed at 21.5, while the prices received index rose
five points to 8.6, suggesting a small acceleration in selling
prices.  Six-Month Outlook Remains Favorable  Indexes for the six-month outlook for the most part conveyed
increasingly widespread optimism about future business
conditions. The future general business conditions index rose
three points to 40.6, its highest level since spring 2012. The
indexes for both expected new orders and expected shipments rose
eight points to about 38; both were up roughly twenty points
since June. The future prices paid index was little changed at
39.8, while the index for future prices received rose more than
five points to 24.7. The index for expected number of employees
slipped four points to 4.3, while the future average workweek
index rose modestly but remained negative at -2.2. The capital
expenditures index slipped nine points to 15.1, after reaching
its highest level in more than a year in August. The technology
spending index jumped seven points to 11.8.  Supplemental Report:  Firms Again Foresee Modest Increases in Selling Prices  In a series of supplementary questions to the September 2013
Empire State Manufacturing Survey, manufacturers were asked how
much their overall selling prices had changed over the past year
and how much they expected their prices to rise or fall in the
future. In addition, they were asked to assess the probability
that prices would rise or fall by certain specified amounts.
Identical questions had been asked in September 2012 and
earlier.  Respondents reported that their selling prices had risen 0.8
percent, on average, during the past twelve months--the same
increase reported in last September’s parallel survey. Looking
ahead to the next twelve months, the average respondent
predicted a 1.5 percent rise in selling prices--also about the
same as projected in last year’s survey. Three in five
respondents said they planned to hike prices by at least 2
percent, compared with just half of the respondents in last
year’s survey. However, none of the respondents in the latest
survey reported plans to hike prices by more than 8 percent.
Just 7 percent of manufacturers reported plans to lower prices,
about the same proportion as in last year’s survey.  When asked a separate question about the probability of
specified price changes over the next twelve months, the average
respondent reported a 44 percent chance that prices would remain
within 2 percent of current levels and a 43 percent chance that
they would rise by 2 percent or more, but just a 3 percent
chance they would rise by at least 8 percent. The chance of a
decline of 2 percent or more was pegged at 13 percent, on
average--up from 8 percent in the 2012 survey but identical to
the probability reported in September 2011.  SOURCE: Federal  Reserve Bank  of New York 