-- NYSE Reviewing Upgrade as Possible Cause of Options Outage
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-09-16T22:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/u-s-options-markets-shut-amid-issue-with-industry-data-feed-1-.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  is looking into
whether a software upgrade at a subsidiary disrupted a price
feed that briefly halted U.S. options exchanges today.  Securities Industry Automation Corp., the NYSE unit that
oversees the quote dissemination service linking U.S. options
markets, is focusing on a programming update that may have led
to today’s halt, said  Rich Adamonis , an NYSE Euronext spokesman.  The interruption came three weeks after  Nasdaq  OMX Group
Inc.’s system for distributing U.S. stock prices failed,
prompting a three-hour halt for thousands of companies. In the
aftermath, securities regulators told exchanges last week to
collaborate on preventing more shutdowns.  “The miscues that have occurred today are eerily similar
to those with Nasdaq,” said Yousef Abbasi, market strategist at
JonesTrading Institutional Services LLC, a Westlake, California-based broker. “You have issues with a price reporting or quote
disseminating system.”  All 12 U.S. options exchanges temporarily shut today, with
firms including  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and Nasdaq OMX blaming an
issue with the Options Price Reporting Authority data feed that
SIAC administers.  Stocks Slip  While  trading  continued without disruption on American
equity markets, stock prices slipped around the time of the
mishap. About 614 million shares had traded on all exchanges
between 1:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. New York time, compared with 499
million in the preceding hour, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell from 1,702 to
below 1,698 between 1:30 and 1:43 p.m.  In a meeting with the heads of U.S. securities markets last
week, Mary Jo White, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, urged the executives to shore up price feeds that
serve investors and traders.  Participants included representatives from the U.S. stock
and options exchanges, the  Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority , Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. and Options
Clearing Corp. They were told to “provide comprehensive action
plans that address the standards necessary to establish highly
resilient and robust systems for the securities information
processors,” the SEC said in a statement. That includes
“testing standards and disclosure protocols,” it said.  Flooded Computers  The gathering occurred three weeks after Nasdaq’s computers
were flooded with data from NYSE Arca, a competing exchange,
revealing a bug in Nasdaq’s securities information processor
that disabled systems that should have prevented the malfunction
from snowballing.  Today’s error “was only a short outage,” Daniel Brady,
president of San Francisco-based trading firm Entropy Capital
LLC, said in a phone interview. “Not that significant,” he
said. “I imagine this is just further fodder for the SEC and
their review.”  “As is our practice, we have been monitoring developments
and discussing them with market participants as appropriate,”
said  John Nester , an SEC spokesman.  The closure is another setback for American exchanges,
which have faced criticism that the complexity of their
electronic infrastructure makes them vulnerable to breakdowns.
In addition to the Nasdaq halt on Aug. 22, options markets were
roiled in August when Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bombarded
exchanges with erroneous orders due to a computer malfunction.  CBOE’s Shutdown  In April, the Chicago Board Options Exchange was down for 3
1/2 hours because of a software error caused by preliminary work
in preparation for a computer system reconfiguration. The outage
prevented investors from trading options based on the VIX gauge
of volatility and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the most
active in the U.S. which CBOE has exclusivity on.  According to OPRA’s  website , each trade that is executed on
an options exchange is reported to OPRA as a message, with quote
message traffic representing the vast majority generated.  “Quotes are generated automatically for individual options
series based on changes in the underlying stock price or index
value,” it said. “In other words, every time a price changes
for a particular equity security, the quotes for all of the
options on that security or an index in which that security is
represented are automatically updated on each exchange that
trades those options.”  Regulators have tightened rules at exchanges to avoid
market disruptions such as the May 2010 errors that briefly sent
the Dow Jones Industrial Average down almost 1,000 points
because of a faulty algorithm in what’s become known as the
flash crash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  