-- Mudslinging Gives Way to Basketball in Boston Mayor Race
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-09-16T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/mudslinging-gives-way-to-basketball-in-boston-mayor-race.html
In Boston, known for politics and
sports that draw blood, the 12 candidates for mayor are doing
the unthinkable: They’re being chummy.  The group ribs one another about stump speeches and weight
lost or gained on the trail. Five shed suit jackets for a
spontaneous game of pickup basketball last month while a sixth
provided color commentary. At least some of the time, they’ll
come to one another’s defense when attacked.  “I’ve talked to some of them about how we should have a
reunion after this is over,” said candidate Bill Walczak, 59.
“I’m going to miss these guys.”  An open mayoral seat down I-95 in  New York  City produced
the mudslinging that voters have come to expect in big-city
elections. There, a fight almost broke out after Democratic
candidate Anthony Weiner, 49, referred to Republican candidate
George McDonald, 69, as “grandpa” during a forum sponsored by
AARP.  In Los Angeles, eight candidates ran in the March primary,
which included sniping about the oil holdings of one candidate
and accusations that the elected officials in the race were
untrustworthy insiders.  Not so in Boston, at least this far.  Same Tune  Thomas Menino, who is retiring after serving longer than
any mayor in the city’s history, described the contest as
subdued in an interview. He predicted the camaraderie would
dissipate after Sept. 24, when voters winnow the field to two
finalists. The general election is Nov. 5.  “It is very difficult to get into a discussion of real
issues with 12 individuals saying the same basic things,” said
Menino, who announced in March that he wouldn’t seek a sixth
term. “It is now more of a popularity show than who is going to
do what for the city in the future.”  The Democratic mayor, who had a 74 percent approval rating
in a March  Boston  Globe poll, repeated his pledge not to make an
endorsement -- unless a candidate “trashes the city” and
forces him to enter the fray and defend his record.  The race is nonpartisan, though all except one are
Democrats, who outnumber Republicans in Boston by 8 to 1. Five
are sitting members of the city council. Six live in the same
Dorchester neighborhood, and most have worked together in some
capacity over the years.  Rockier Past  “Mayoral elections were much more hard-fought in years
past,” said Peter Ubertaccio, chairman of the political science
department at Stonehill College in Easton,  Massachusetts . “This
is an important testament to how the city has changed.”  Boston’s bare-knuckles political reputation dates from the
early 20th century, when James Michael Curley was elected mayor
four times and went to jail twice. It was enhanced in the 1980s
and early 1990s when the president of the state senate, William Bulger, ruled local politics while his older brother, Whitey,
ran Boston’s organized crime.  Bostonians are more educated, wealthier and safer than when
Menino came to office 20 years ago. Those with a bachelor’s
degree jumped to 43 percent in 2010 from 30 percent in 1990,
according to U.S. Census data. Per-capita income rose to $33,158
in 2010 from $27,399 in 1989, adjusted for inflation. The
homicide rate dropped to 10 per 100,000 residents in 2011 from
25 per 100,000 in 1990, according to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.  On the campaign trail, most candidates have similar
backgrounds and views on issues, Ubertaccio said, which further
reduces the opportunities for acrimony. They range in age from
34 to 64. Five are black, one is Hispanic and six are white.  Shooting Hoops  There’s some reason for candidates to forge alliances. Only
two will advance to the general election, and the finalists will
seek endorsements and support from their erstwhile rivals.  Exhibit A of the collegiality craze was the pickup
basketball game. The idea started percolating after Rob Consalvo
-- a 44-year-old contender with a portly figure -- cut a
commercial showing him landing a series of three-point baskets
while outlining his plan for the city, he said in an interview.  Then six candidates found themselves near a basketball
court in the city’s Mattapan neighborhood after a candidate
forum in Almont Park on Aug. 30.  “That was not planned,” said candidate Felix Arroyo, 34,
who played. “We were all at the same event. Somehow we all
ended up on the court.”  Teamwork Exhibited  Staff members recorded the game with their smartphones.
Arroyo posted a clip on his campaign YouTube channel that shows
him dribbling the ball, passing to candidate John Barros, 40,
getting it back and then hitting a three-pointer.  All the while, candidate Charles Clemons, 52, a radio
station owner, yells from the sideline in an announcer’s voice.
“Look at that pass!” he says. “Look at that pass! Man, that
was the game!”  Candidates also can work as a team onstage. On Sept. 9, the
dozen hopefuls appeared for the only televised debate and found
themselves pressed to attack one another by moderator Joe
Battenfeld, a Boston Herald columnist.  He singled out candidate Dan Conley, 55, as the only one in
the field who sends his children to private schools.  “What is wrong with the schools that they aren’t good
enough for your kids?” he asked.  Conley demurred. Battenfeld pressed.  Candidate John Connolly, 40, leaped to the defense of his
competitor.  “I don’t think it is a legitimate question,” Connolly
said, unprompted. “I know if Dan Conley is mayor, he’s going to
do everything he can to make the schools work.”  Candidate Charles Yancey, 64, also chimed in with some
advice for the moderator.  “I think the question needs to be rephrased,” he said.  Some Discord  Some whiffs of discord float in the autumn air. On Sept. 4,
black leaders met to discuss asking some of the six minority
candidates to bow out to prevent black and Hispanic voters from
splitting their support.  “For the first time ever, a black person might become
mayor of Boston, if there is some solidarity,” said William
Murrell, who publishes the website AboutBlackBoston.com. “Of
course, black voters don’t like being told what to do. Who does?
But this is politics.”  The meeting included a top adviser to  Charlotte  Golar
Richie, 54, who is black and the only woman in the race. Asked
about it during the forum, she said she doesn’t want anyone to
feel forced to leave the race and distanced herself from the
supporter who pushed the idea.  “I can win this one on my own,” she said.  In keeping with the theme of the race, none of the other
five minority candidates attacked her directly when asked
whether they were offended.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  