-- Hudson’s Bay Hires Harrods Chief Merchant McKee for Saks
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-09-17T01:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/hudson-s-bay-hires-harrods-chief-merchant-mckee-to-run-saks.html
Hudson’s Bay Co. (HBC) , the Canadian
department store chain that’s acquiring  Saks Inc. (SKS)  for $2.4
billion, hired Marigay McKee, Harrods’ chief merchant, to be
president of the U.S. luxury retailer once the deal is complete.  Stephen Sadove, Saks’s current chief executive officer, and
Ron Frasch, the retailer’s president, will leave when the
transaction is complete, according to a statement from Toronto-based Hudson’s Bay yesterday. The deal is expected to close by
the end of the year. McKee is a 14-year veteran of London-based
Harrods,  Europe ’s largest department store.  Hudson’s Bay Chief Executive Officer  Richard Baker  said
when the acquisition was announced in July that he intended to
run Saks as a separate operation, still based in  New York , and
would retain existing management. The parent company’s three
chains, Hudson’s Bay, Lord & Taylor, and  Saks Fifth Avenue  will
retain their own identities, he said at the time.  Jennifer de Winter, currently executive vice president of
Saks and director of its stores, will become Saks Fifth Avenue’s
chief merchandising officer, and report to McKee, according to
the statement.  Saks was  little changed  at $15.87 at the close in New York
yesterday and has advanced 51 percent this year. Hudson’s Bay
gained 1.7 percent to C$17.44 in Toronto for a 4.3 percent
advance in 2013.  Hudson’s Bay is  Canada ’s largest department store chain,
and the combined company will have 179 full-line department
stores, 72 outlet stores and 69 home stores throughout the U.S.
and Canada, along with three e-commerce sites.  Chairman’s Office  The company also announced yesterday it will create a new
office of the chairman, comprising Baker -- who is CEO and
governor -- and Donald Watros, chief operating officer. The
senior executives of Hudson’s Bay’s retail businesses, as well
as other key executives of the company and heads of some shared
services units, will report to the chairman’s office, the
company said.  It also said that Marc Metrick, executive vice president,
will become chief administrative officer reporting to the
chairman’s office, with the main responsibility of integrating
the Saks business.  Saks has 41 full store locations, including on Fifth Avenue
in  New York City  and Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills,
 California .  Hudson’s Bay plans to expand Saks Fifth Avenue into Canada
and continue to roll out Saks’s outlets across the U.S., the
company has said. The company is evaluating creating a real
estate investment trust with the combined portfolio of the three
main retail nameplates it will now own, it has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren S Murphy in Toronto at 
 lmurphy48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  