-- Lufthansa CEO Franz Quits in Surprise Move to Roche
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2013-09-16T09:09:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/lufthansa-chief-quits-in-surprise-move-to-roche-as-new-chairman.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  announced the
surprise departure of Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz,
who will become chairman at Swiss drugmaker  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,
leaving the German airline in limbo as it works on a turnaround.  Franz, whose term expires on May 31 next year, told
Lufthansa he’s not available for an extension, the Cologne-based
airline said in a statement today. The company didn’t announce a
successor. He will take over from Franz Humer, Basel-based Roche
said in a separate statement.  Franz, who lives in Zurich after leading Lufthansa’s Swiss
subsidiary, took the top job at Lufthansa in 2011 and embarked
on a savings program that included 3,500 job cuts and a renewal
of the fleet with more fuel-efficient models. Humer led Roche
for more than a decade, and his departure coincides with a
change of guard at cross-town rival  Novartis AG (NOVN) , where  Daniel Vasella  handed the chairman reins to Joerg Reinhardt.  “This is the right time for change in leadership,” Franz
said. “Taking the decision was anything but easy after 15 years
at the Lufthansa Group.”  Lufthansa rose as much as 1.7 percent and was trading 1
percent higher at 14.09 euros as of 1:03 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The
stock has declined 1 percent this year, valuing the airline at
6.5 billion euros ($8.7 billion). Roche rose 0.6 percent to
238.30 Swiss francs in Zurich trading, valuing the business at
205 billion francs ($221 billion).  Drug Trials  Franz will inherit a company whose success in developing
and marketing new cancer drugs has been tempered by failures in
other areas of research. Roche abandoned its latest experimental
diabetes drug over safety concerns in July and has said it may
stop trying to develop heart and metabolic drugs altogether.  Roche has said it expects eventually to face competition
from cheaper biosimilar copies of its top-selling Rituxan
leukemia treatment and its Herceptin breast-cancer drug. The
Swiss drugmaker has sought to make newer and better drugs in
each area and won U.S. approval this year for the new breast
tumor drug Kadcyla.  “Franz is well-connected in  Europe , and he speaks the
language and knows the culture,” said Fabian Wenner, a Zurich-based analyst at Kepler Cheuvreux with a buy rating on the
stock. “The question is, what can he bring Roche? Does Roche
need someone who has a deeper knowledge of the pharma business?
Roche is really deeply rooted in the biotech business.”  Lower Pay  Roche is also considering building its portfolio with
takeovers, an area in which Humer, 67, wielded significant
influence. The retiring chairman was CEO in 1999, when Roche
bought a 30 percent stake in U.S. biotechnology company
 Genentech  -- the deal that netted Roche both Herceptin and
Rituxan -- and helped oversee the full takeover of the company
as chairman in 2009.  Humer was paid 8.7 million francs at Roche last year, with
Franz earning 2.6 million euros at Lufthansa. Franz is leaving
half-way through the so-called score program, a plan to lift
operating profit to a record 2.3 billion euros by 2015, which
includes moving many short-haul flights to discount unit
Germanwings.  Lufthansa is preparing to announce as soon as this week its
biggest fleet order ever, with more than $14 billion in
purchases planned from  Boeing Co. (BA) , the world’s biggest
planemaker, and Airbus SAS, people familiar with the plan said.  The departure comes four months after Franz’s predecessor,
 Wolfgang Mayrhuber , withdrew his candidacy to join the
supervisory board over investor opposition only to change his
mind 12 hours later. Among possible successors for Franz is
 Carsten Spohr , who leads the Lufthansa passenger subsidiary, the
company’s largest unit, and is a trained pilot.  “It’s disappointing that one of the key protagonists in
pushing through the score program is departing before its
completion,” said Donal O’Neill, a Dublin-based analyst at
Goodbody with a buy recommendation on the stock. “But I suspect
there are plenty of internal and external candidates who can
take up the role.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  