-- Hungary Mortgages Fixed Only by Recovery, UniCredit Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-09-16T14:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/hungary-mortgages-can-be-fixed-by-recovery-papa-says-correct-.html
Hungary’s government should focus
on strengthening the economy and the forint to help foreign
currency mortgage borrowers, the head of  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s eastern
European division said.  Facing 2014 elections, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has
vowed to “eliminate” mortgages and home-equity loans
denominated mostly in Swiss francs. Amounting to 3.5 trillion
forint ($15.6 billion), they have choked household spending
since the forint weakened against other currencies in 2008.  The government has proposed sticking most of the bill to
banks including market leader OTP Bank Nyrt,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) 
and  KBC Groep NV. (KBC)  That plan has drawn criticism from some
lenders, who lost $1.7 billion during a 2011 program to tackle
the debt and have suffered due to years of economic contractions
since 2008.  “The only thing that could really solve the problem would
be if the Hungarian economy picked up,” Gianni Franco Papa told
journalists on Sept. 13 in Prague. “We need a more stable
situation between the government and the financial side but not
only the financial side” so that “there is confidence coming
back to the country, the economy, and therefore the exchange
rate of the forint will improve. This is the only thing that may
help.”  Constant Chase  The forint has depreciated more than 20 percent against the
euro and 40 percent against the franc from its 2008 peaks. That
has driven up Hungarians’ monthly payments on loans that equal
13 percent of output, according to the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development.  The government will make public its own proposal for
handling the debt after Nov. 1 if commercial banks fail to agree
with clients on converting the loans to forint, Orban said on
state-run MR1 radio on Sept. 6.  Papa said it was unclear to him what exactly the government
wants because it is frequently changing its position due to
political developments.  Hungary ’s banking association, which is
headed by UniCredit’s local chief executive officer, Mihaly Patai, proposed a plan to convert mortgages that seemed
acceptable but was then thrown out by Orban again, he said.  “The discussion with Hungary is ongoing to the point that
almost every day I’m on the phone with our CEO in the country,”
he said. “We don’t understand where we stand. It’s a constant
chase. We find a solution that serves to solve some problems and
immediately after, for political reasons, with the elections
coming up next year, different things pop up.”  Avoid ‘Blitzkrieg’  Orban wants to avoid a repetition of its 2011
“Blitzkrieg” on banks, he said on July 26. Andreas Treichl,
chief executive officer at Vienna-based Erste, said further
moves against Hungary’s financial sector would “not only hurt
the financial system but the country overall.”  The government should avoid converting all foreign currency
loans at once, because that might hurt the forint, Papa said,
adding there was an exposure of 14 billion Swiss francs ($15
billion).  “If they want to do it in one go, this is going to create
problems. If it’s smoothed out over years, it would be
manageable,” he said.  UniCredit, which is among the top 10 banks in Hungary and
is the biggest bank in eastern  Europe , has about 500 million
euros ($668 million) of foreign currency loans itself in
Hungary. That’s less than the large competitors as UniCredit is
focused on corporate clients and therefore remained profitable
in the last five years, Papa said.  UniCredit is focusing its emerging European operations on
the group of countries it deems having the best potential for
profit growth:  Russia ,  Poland ,  Turkey , and the  Czech Republic .
In the last of these, it acquired 29,000 new clients with about
7.4 billion Czech crowns ($383 million) in deposits from  Axa SA (CS) 
after the French insurer closed its banking arm in the country.  UniCredit is also about to complete the merger of its Czech
and Slovak units, which will allow it to reduce costs and use
capital and liquidity more efficiently, Papa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  