-- Munis Extend Biggest Rally Since April on Puerto Rico Purchases
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-16T18:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/munis-extend-biggest-rally-since-april-on-puerto-rico-purchases.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market extended its biggest rally since April, with investors
buying  Puerto Rico , Illinois and California debt ahead of the
 Federal Reserve ’s two-day meeting beginning tomorrow.  Yields on top-rated munis maturing in 10 years declined
0.04 percentage point to 2.99 percent at 1 p.m. in  New York , the
lowest since Aug. 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The tax-exempt interest rate touched a 29-month high of 3.15
percent on Sept. 6 before declining the most in five months.  Dealers today sold bonds from weaker issuers to muni
investors at a faster pace than they’ve bought the securities,
according to Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board data compiled
by Bloomberg. That includes debt from Puerto Rico, which is on
the brink of junk, as well as  Illinois  and California, the two
lowest-rated U.S. states. The MSRB counts all trades over $5
million as $5 million transactions.  Even though Treasuries surrendered some of their earlier
gains today, “the muni market rallied nicely,” said David Manges, muni trading manager at BNY Mellon Capital Markets LLC
in Pittsburgh. “This is likely to be a volatile week.”  The muni market’s rally preceded two days of deliberations
by Fed policy makers on whether the economy is strong enough to
begin tapering $85 billion in monthly bond purchases. The $3.1
billion iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal Bond Fund, known
as  MUB (MUB) , rose $0.58 to $102.52 at 1:33 p.m. in New York, the
biggest jump since July. The price was the highest in a month.  The  yield  on 10-year U.S. Treasuries fell as much as 0.11
percentage point to 2.78 percent today, Bloomberg data show. The
 interest rate  has since jumped to 2.86 percent as of 1:25 p.m.  States and localities are set to sell $4.1 billion in long-term debt this week, the least for a non-holiday week since Aug.
16, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  