-- Uralkali Heads for July High on Belarus Deal Bets: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-09-16T10:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/uralkali-heads-for-july-high-on-belarus-deal-bets-moscow-mover.html
OAO Uralkali headed for the highest
level in almost two months amid speculation the world’s biggest
potash producer will resolve a dispute with Belarus.  Uralkali jumped as much as 7.3 percent and traded up 5.5
percent at 187.60 rubles by 12:29 p.m. in Moscow, the highest
since July 26 on a closing basis. The number of shares traded
was equivalent to about 65 percent of the three-month average.
The stock is down 20 percent this year.  Russian entrepreneur Vladimir Kogan is said to be seeking a
stake in the company, according to people familiar with the
situation. The talks began after Uralkali Chief Executive
Officer Vladislav Baumgertner was arrested in Minsk on Aug. 26,
a month after he pulled out of the Belaruskali trading venture
with Belarus. Belarus is also seeking to arrest billionaire
Suleiman Kerimov, Uralkali’s biggest investor, and four other
Uralkali employees.  “Belarus has been pretty clear about not willing to
negotiate with the current Uralkali owners,” Boris Krasnojenov,
an analyst at Renaissance Capital Ltd., said by phone from
Moscow. “People are hoping that if Kerimov leaves, Uralkali’s
relationship with Belaruskali will be restored.”  Belaruskali won’t renew cooperation with Uralkali unless
the Russian producer changes its strategy or owner, Belaruskali
CEO Valery Kirienko said on Aug. 19. Belarus President  Aleksandr Lukashenko  said last week that he expects  Russia  to approach
Belarus in an effort to restore cooperation in marketing potash.  Price War  “We believe that the new owners will likely restore the
relationship with Belaruskali fairly quickly and get Uralkali
back on its previous strategy of price over volumes, ending the
potential price war on the potash market,” Sberbank CIB
analysts led by Irina Lapshina said in an e-mailed note today.  Potash prices have fallen since Uralkali dropped the
Belarusian venture, with China’s domestic spot price dropping to
$325 per ton from $350 per ton in July before the split, Oleg
Petrov, chief of sales and marketing at Uralkali, said Sept. 10.
Since exiting the joint venture, Uralkali has ramped up to
maximum output, having run at an average 70 percent in 2012.  The potash market “will never be the same,” Elena Sakhnova and Kevin Whyte, analysts at VTB Capital in Moscow,
wrote in an e-mailed note. “The bargaining power is now with
customers, which have felt the weakness on the suppliers’
side.”  Kogan agreed to buy Kerimov’s 22 percent stake for $3.7
billion and has paid the first portion, RIA Novosti reported,
citing an unidentified person with knowledge of the deal.
Baumgertner, who is being held in a KGB prison in Minsk, said
July 30 that Belaruskali was selling the crop nutrient outside
of their accord, eroding potash prices.  Kerimov Stake  Kerimov and his partners, Filaret Galchev and Anatoly Skurov, have a combined 33 percent of Uralkali. They’re also
beneficial owners in Wadge Holdings Ltd., which holds a 12.5
percent stake that underlies exchangeable bonds sold last year
to  China ’s Chengdong Investment Corp. The debt matures in 2014.  Uralkali holds about 12.4 percent of its stock in treasury
after buybacks this year. With those shares canceled, Kerimov,
Galchev and Skurov would hold about 38 percent or, including the
Wadge interest, more than 52 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  