-- Ingrid Weakens to Depression as Humberto Regains Strength
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R o z h n o v
-- 2013-09-16T20:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/hurricane-ingrid-nears-mexico-as-manuel-weakens-to-depression.html
Storm Ingrid weakened from a
hurricane to a tropical depression as it moved into  Mexico  with
heavy rain, killing almost three dozen people, while Humberto
regained tropical-storm strength in the central Atlantic.  Ingrid, along with the remains of Pacific storm Manuel, may
leave 10 to 15 inches (25 to 38 centimeters) of rain in some
areas, with others receiving as much as 25 inches, according to
the  U.S. National Hurricane Center .  “Ingrid and its remnants are expected to produce
torrential rains across eastern and central Mexico for the next
couple of days,” Daniel Brown, a warning coordination
meteorologist at the center in Miami, wrote in a forecast
analysis. “These rains will likely to continue to cause life-threatening flooding and mudslides.”  An estimated 6,000 people were evacuated in the state of
Veracruz, Mexico’s Reforma newspaper reported on Sept. 14. Heavy
rain and landslides caused by Ingrid and Manuel have caused at
least 33 deaths, according to the  Associated Press .  Ingrid was 75 miles (120 kilometers) west of La Pesca,
Mexico, moving west at 6 miles per hour  as of 5 p.m.   New York 
time. Its top sustained winds were 35 mph, down from Category 1
hurricane strength of 75 mph.  Pemex Operations  Over the weekend, Ingrid drifted west across the Bay of
Campeche where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil
company known as Pemex, has its two largest  oil fields . They
produce about 1.25 million barrels a day.  Pemex suspended air and sea operations at its rigs in the
bay, according to a company statement last week. The oil ports
of Cayo Arcas, which processes about 68 percent of Mexico’s
crude exports, and Dos Bocas were closed, the country’s Merchant
Marine said in a weather bulletin dated Sept. 14. The ports have
reopened.  The storm is expected to track across central Mexico and
won’t be a threat to U.S. energy interests in the Gulf of
Mexico. The Gulf is home to about 23 percent of U.S. crude
production, 5.6 percent of gas output, and more than 45 percent
of petroleum refining capacity, according to data from the
Energy Department.  In the central Atlantic,  Tropical Storm Humberto  was about
1,210 miles west-southwest of the Azores with maximum sustained
winds of 45 mph, according to the hurricane center. It’s moving
west-northwest at 6 mph and isn’t an immediate threat to land.  Humberto may regain hurricane status by week’s end, the
center said.  The agency is also tracking a disturbance in the
northwestern Caribbean that is forecast to cross the Yucatan
Peninsula and enter the southwestern  Gulf of Mexico . It has a 20
percent chance of becoming tropical in the next five days, the
center said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Konstantin Rozhnov in London at 
 krozhnov@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  